Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Inc.
First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator instructions.] And I would now like to turn the conference over to Gabrielle Rabinovitch Vice President of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP financial measures and forward looking statements.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon.
This call should be considered in conjunction with the press releases that we issued earlier today.
This call contains non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and our explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful are discussed in our release.
This call also contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which address the financial condition results of operations business initiatives trends guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2015 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings including the most recent 10-K for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our first quarter fiscal 2015 results.
Thank you Gabrielle.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
On the call with me are Julie Whalen our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Connolly our Chief Strategy and Business Development Officer.
We’re pleased to be discussing our first quarter 2015 results with you.
In the first quarter we delivered comp brand revenue growth of 4.6% and EPS of $0.48.
Our first quarter earnings results were better than we expected driven by West Elm and our new businesses as well as strong operational and financial execution across all of our brands.
Our supply chain and inventory teams did an excellent job managing through the logistical complexity created by the West Coast port disruption.
That said we did incur additional cost largely in shipping and fulfillment as well as loss demand especially in our Pottery Barn brands due to lower than normal inventory level.
This short term issue will continue to impact us to a lesser extent in the second quarter as Julie will explain in a few minutes but we are pleased to see sales trends improving as stock levels rebound.
Our growth strategies consistent execution and operational discipline put us on track to deliver another record year.
We believe we’ve a strong line up for the back half with product introductions and innovative collaborations in all of our brands.
We believe that our recently completed supply chain initiative will give us greater flexibility to be more competitive on price and deliver greater value to our customers that our technology initiatives will improve customer order visibility and further differentiate our service levels and that we have significant opportunity to improve our peak season execution this year.
Our strong brands and profitable multichannel strategy create a competitive advantage and we remain focused on executing our long term growth initiatives.
Our mission is to enhance the quality of our customers’ lives at home.
Our customers are at the center of everything we do and all of our initiatives are developed with this service mindset.
One of our key initiatives is inventory optimization.
The West Coast port slowdown has further validated the importance of being in stock.
We are focused not only on improving our inventory stock levels to be well positioned for the back half of the year but also for the long term.
We also remain focused on driving growth through business development initiative.
In 2015 we will extend the reach of our brands globally with more stores in Australia and the launch of our Mexico franchise operations and we continue to be excited about opportunities for our emerging brands Rejuvenation and Mark and Graham.
I would now like to discuss key developments in each of our brands starting with Pottery Barn.
In the first quarter of 2015 Pottery Barn delivered 2.4% comparable brand revenue growth.
While it is hard to quantify exactly the West Coast port disruption materially impacted Pottery Barn.
The good news is that toward the end of the quarter sales and customer service levels improved as delayed shipments were received.
Performance in the quarter was driven by the success of our outdoor furniture and textile collections.
Our proprietary print and pattern designs in both outdoor and indoor pillows were well received.
We’re also seeing strength in our furniture collection.
We are continuing to enhance our interior design services as we believe they represent a significant competitive advantage as our customers look for design assistance.
We are serving more customers with trained design specialist and we are adding new services that we believe are game-changing.
We are building on our foundation of multichannel marketing and featuring and distributing more content to drive customer acquisition connect with our community and increase engagement with Pottery Barn.
Additionally we are excited to launch a new product collaboration strategy in Q2 and we will provide more detail on our next call.
We feel strongly that collaborating with other influential brands and innovative design leaders will expand the reach of the brand.
Lastly I want to tell you about an important organizational change in Pottery Barn.
We have recently promoted Marta Benson to Executive Vice President GMM Pottery Barn Merchandizing.
Marta is a prudent leader who has a passion for product and brings deep detail on e-commerce experience with her to this role.
She has more than 25 years of retail experience and joined Williams-Sonoma Inc.
in 2011 as Senior Vice President Strategy and Business Development.
Marta will have responsibility over the e-commerce and retail merchandising organizations and will report directly to the president of the Pottery Barn brand Sandra Stangl.
We are excited about the year ahead for Pottery Barn.
We have innovative product introductions and our scale allows us to offer our customers exceptional quality at a great price.
Next I would like to discuss the Pottery Barn Kids.
In the first quarter Pottery Barn Kids comparable brand revenue increased 0.8%.
Unfortunately the West Coast port slowdown had a larger effect on Pottery Barn Kids because of the mix of goods that were held up by this disruption.
During the quarter inventory in our textile department was negative to last year.
We also had lower than anticipated inventory levels in bed and furniture and because we didn't receive our normal flow of passion at the beginning of the season we oversold our core inventory.
Now while summer fashion is in and it's selling we are out of stock on key core assortments.
In addition customer participation in Pottery Barn Kids are highly interrelated and when bedding our cribs are out of stock entire orders are more affected and we may lose that demand entirely.
As a result we expect Pottery Barn Kids to be the most impacted brand in the short term until we are able to get back in stock which we expect will occur by the end of the second quarter.
Looking to the second half of the year we are focused on our product strategies including a static diversification customization and collaboration.
We are innovating and expanding our product lines to address our customers' needs as well as introducing more accessible opening price points to attract new customers.
Also we have further developed of back-to-school lineup with a more extensive assortment of desks and desk chairs and we are building on the success of our proprietary prints and patterns with our expanded high quality gear collections.
Finally Pottery Barn Kids recently announced its first product collaboration with Jenni Kayne a fashion designer blogger and mother of two.
The collection will debut in June and includes more than 50 pieces offering a beautiful mix of modern and antique inspired books reflecting Kayne's relax and timeless California influence sensibility.
In PBteen comparable brand revenues increased 3% in the first quarter.
High back orders impacted the brand early in the quarter but we saw an improved flow of the inventory in April and began to realize better net sales recovery.
Collaborations continue to be an important product in marketing strategy for PBteen.
A highlight in the first quarter was the successful launch of PBteens inclusive collaboration with 11 time world surfing champion Kelly Slater.
This capsule collection is the most eco-conscious assortment that PBteen has ever offered and marks Kelly's introduction into the world of home furnishing.
Today media coverage has generated over 88 articles that’s 265 million impressions and our top syndicated Kelly Slater video has generated more than 435 000 views on YouTube.
In the second quarter we have more new product introductions in PBteen from our collaborations and we are launching our new dorm assortment.
We are focused on providing inspirational decorating solutions across our twin teen and dorm life stages.
We are supporting our new product collections with social media strategies to align with influencers and content creators and provide an authentic voice to our twin and teen customers.
Now I would like to discuss Williams-Sonoma.
In the first quarter the Williams-Sonoma brands delivered 2.7% comparable brand revenue growth.
We saw growth across many of our core categories including cookware and coloring.
Also tabletop glassware and dinnerware continue to outperform.
In addition we saw an acceleration in the Williams-Sonoma home business.
Williams-Sonoma branded product growth is a major area of development and innovation.
Proprietary product introductions include nonstick cookware stoneware wood utensils seafood tools and an expanded silicon line.
And we are growing our assortment of exclusive product as a result of collaborations with our key partners.
Another area of growth in Williams-Sonoma brand is Williams-Sonoma home.
We are seeing momentum across core categories including ultra furniture programs.
And this year we are featuring a broader assortment of furniture textiles and decorative accessories.
In addition we are highlighting and integrating more of the Williams-Sonoma home collection in our retail stores.
Lastly we are extending the reach of the Williams-Sonoma brand by providing new ways for customers to experience it across all channels.
We continue to be more involved in the food community.
For example this spring we sponsored the SouthBites dinner at South by Southwest in Austin and later this month we’ve sponsored BottleRock a three day food and music festival in Napa where we’ll be hosting the Williams-Sonoma Culinary Stage.
This month we’re also launching our Chef Collective a Culinary Advisory Board of nine strategically selected chefs to advise on product development and industry trends and to help develop rich content.
Now I’d like to discuss our West Elm brand which saw an increase in comparable brand revenue of 15.3% in Q1 another quarter of double-digit comparable brand revenue growth.
Growth continues to be broad-based across categories with particular success in furniture decorative accessories and lighting.
The diversity of aesthetic and ranges of prices we offer in the West Elm assortment continues to appeal to a broad range of customers helping the brand to appeal to people of all ages and income levels.
West Elm engages its customers across all channels.
Our new stores feel market share growth.
When we enter in market we don’t just pick up the new retail volume we also drive our online business.
In Q1 we opened two stores in Palm Beach Florida and Virginia Beach Virginia as well as one other store in Lancaster Pennsylvania.
Our plan is to open a total of 19 stores this year including expanding our international footprint with two stores in Australia and one in Calgary.
In stores West Elm remains focused on its localization strategy creating diverse assortments that reflects the local consumer and layering on West Elm local collections featuring artists and makers from the store areas.
Our store continue to embrace their role as community centers creating environments and relationships that foster creativity and empower customers.
In the first quarter we hosted a number of successful essay and broader events at our stores and we believe the unique relationships that our stores are developing with our communities are further point of differentiation for the brand.
Finally West Elm is excited to announce the expansion of the brand’s impact sourcing programs and Fair Trade certified product offerings.
Fair Trade at West Elm launched with six rug collections made in India for holiday 2014.
We’ve now expanded Fair Trade into Nepal Pakistan and Vietnam as well as our first furniture factory in India.
This fall the brand will launch 30 collections of Fair Trade certified rugs and 13 textile collections including our most popular bedding collection.
West Elm’s commitment to choice community and consciousness continue to differentiate the brand and feel its growth.
Now I’d like to discuss our emerging businesses.
In 2015 we are continuing to extend the reach of our brands globally.
In Australia we plan to open six additional stores this year.
As we built scale in country we are making operational improvements reducing costs and we are starting to see better margins.
Another key component of our global expansion is our franchise development.
We are very pleased with our current partnerships in the Middle-East and the Philippines and we see great opportunity with our new partner in Mexico.
We also plan to expand in additional geographies with other high quality partners around the world.
I’m now going to talk about Rejuvenation.
We’re excited about the growth and new opportunities in our Rejuvenation brand.
Current results indicate the long term potential for Rejuvenation to be a significant multichannel lifestyle brand.
We are developing aesthetic that is unique in the marketplace and differentiated from our other brands that we are calling internally Northwest modern.
The brand tenants are quality timeless design craftsmanship customization and functionality.
In the first quarter we introduced significantly more lighting and hardware collections and have increased our core functional categories such as mailboxes address numbers and ceiling fans.
We’re also expanding our marketing strategy and investing in catalog circulation and e-marketing.
Additionally we’ve recently launched our new contracts in hospitality business with a boot at the boutique Design West Trade Show in San Diego.
Participation in this event provided us with an opportunity to connect with high value clients and we are pleased to win the distinction of best exhibit at the show.
Lastly performance in our Rejuvenation stores is exceeding our expectations.
We plan to open our sixth store in several months at Palm City market in Downtown Atlanta.
Successful retail expansion in key markets is an important step in developing this brand and we look forward to sharing the results with you.
Our other emerging business is Mark and Graham.
Mark and Graham had a better than expected first quarter.
Our Q1 business was driven by our successful Mother’s Day assortment and improved marketing.
We have seen a strong response to our newness and in 2015 will have product releases each month.
Mark and Graham's classic high-quality aesthetic is relevant and is working.
We are offering our customers a great experience and personalized gifts and in the second quarter we saw that in some of holidays and milestones and we have recently introduced our dads and grads gift assortments.
In closing I would like to reiterate that across our brand portfolio and our channels we see a significant runway for growth.
We see opportunity to strengthen our brand further differentiate our product offerings access new markets drive continuous improvement in our operations and improve our service levels.
And we look forward to updating you next quarter on the progress of our brands and strategies.
I will now turn the call over to Julie to review our financial results in detail.
Thank you Laura and good afternoon everyone.
We are pleased with our first quarter results.
Strong operational execution and financial discipline allowed us to deliver these better than expected results as we absorbed the reduction in revenue and additional cost attributable to the West Coast port slowdown.
Before I review our financial details I would like to give you an update on what we experienced in the first quarter and what we're seeing early in the second quarter as it relates to our inventory positions and the financial effect of the West Coast port slowdown.
As expected in the first quarter we lost sales demand and saw higher back order creation as a result of the port disruption.
We also incurred incremental shipping and fulfillment related costs.
While our inventory flow improved throughout the first quarter we did not see meaningful improvement in our in-stock and available for sale inventory positions until April.
And we have seen our sales trends get better as we improved our in-stock positions particularly in the Pottery Barn brand.
That said lingering effects exist from the port slowdown that are continuing to impact our business in the second quarter.
Particularly due to higher shipping costs for fulfilling out of market demand as we re-balance inventory levels across our distribution centers.
Our view of the financial impact of the West Coast port slowdown has not changed.
In March we estimated the impact of the ports to be a reduction in net revenues of approximately 30 million to 40 million and a reduction in EPS of approximately $0.10 to $0.12 in fiscal year 2015 predominantly impacting the first quarter.
A vast majority of the sales and earnings impact was sustained in first-quarter with some residual impact to be realized in the second quarter.
Though it is difficult to estimate the actual impact we believe the West Coast port slowdown negatively impacted our first quarter revenues by 25 million to 30 million and our earnings by $0.08 to $0.10 per share.
Now I would like to comment further on our first quarter performance.
For the first quarter net revenues increased 5.8% to $1.31 billion with comparable brand revenues increasing 4.6% on top of 10% last year.
In our e-commerce channel net revenues grew 8.4% to 533 million with growth across all brands and represented 52% of total company net revenues for the quarter versus 50% in the first quarter of 2014.
Our retail channel net revenues increased 3.1% to 498 million in the first quarter primarily driven by West Elm and our international franchise operations.
Gross margin for the quarter was 36.8% versus 37.8% last year.
The decline in gross margin resulted from lower selling margins primarily from the increased shipping and fulfillment related cost associated with the West Coast port disruption.
Occupancy costs in the first quarter of 2015 were $151 million or 14.7% of net revenues leveraging 30 basis points.
In the first quarter we generated 40 basis points of SG&amp;A leverage.
SG&amp;A improved to 29.8% of net revenues in 2015 versus 30.2% in 2014 resulting from advertising efficiencies and employment leverage.
Strong expense control and productivity gains from our disciplined approach to marketing effectiveness allowed us to help mitigate the lower selling margins within the gross margins.
This resulted in the remaining net 60 basis point decline in operating margin to 7% which was due to the financial impact of the West Coast port slowdown.
By channel the operating margin in the e-commerce channel was 24% versus 24.7% in 2014.
The operating margin in the retail channel was 5.6% versus 6.3% in 2014.
And corporate unallocated expenses as a rate represented 8.1% of net revenues versus 7.9% in 2014.
In the e-commerce channel the 70 basis point decline in operating margin was driven by lower selling margins from higher shipping costs partially offset by advertising efficiencies as well as the leverage of employment and occupancy costs.
In the retail channel the 70 basis point decline in operating margins resulted from lower selling margins partially offset by the leverage of occupancy expenses.
Corporate unallocated expenses as a percentage of net revenues increased 20 basis points primarily from higher year-over-year employment and employment related costs as well as higher occupancy costs associated with incremental investments in our IT infrastructure to support our strategic long term growth initiatives.
Excluding the estimated impact from the West Coast port disruption corporate unallocated expenses as a percentage of net revenues would be essentially flat to last year.
First quarter 2015 diluted earnings per share including the financial impact of the West Coast port disruption were $0.48.
Moving to the balance sheet cash at the end of the quarter was 79 million versus the 113 million last year.
In the first quarter we returned 85 million to stockholders through share repurchases and dividends comprising 53 million in share repurchases and 32 million in dividends.
Merchandise inventories increased 10.9% to 943 million at the end of the first quarter a substantial portion of this inventory however was in transit and not available for sale as of the end of the quarter.
Excluding our newer businesses and the inventory associated with our global expansion inventory on hand and available for sale was up 1% which includes a year-over-year decrease in both the Pottery Barn and Pottery Barn Kids brands of 3.2% and 0.1% respectively.
Substantial progress has been made since year end and by the end of the second quarter we expect our in stock inventory to not only be replenished but to grow faster than our revenue growth as we are investing in inventory to set us up for the back half of the year.
I would now like to discuss our second quarter and fiscal year 2015 guidance.
As previously mentioned we do expect there to be some residual impact from the West Coast port disruption throughout the second quarter of approximately 5 million to 10 million in reduced revenues and $0.02 to $0.04 in reduced earnings per share which is reflected in our guidance.
For the second quarter of 2015 we expect to grow net revenues to the range of $1.85 billion to $1.105 billion with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 4% to 6%.
We expect our second quarter operating margin to be below last year and we expect diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.53 to $0.57.
For the full year we expect to deliver another record year for our shareholders.
We are reiterating all of our guidance ranges.
We expect to grow net revenues to a range of $4.950 billion to $5.20 billion with comparable brand revenue growth of 4% to 6%.
We expect our operating margin to be in the range of 10.2% to 10.5% and our diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $3.35 to $3.45.
All other financial guidance within the press release remains unchanged from the previous guidance.
This guidance on the year excluding the short term impact from the West Coast port disruption reflects revenue and earnings guidance that is in line with our three year outlook of mid to high single-digit revenue growth and low double-digit to mid-teens EPS growth with revenues growing 8% including comparable brand revenue growth of 5% to 7% and earnings growth of 12% at the high end of the range.
The underlying health of our brands and channels remain strong and we believe our long term growth initiatives remain on track to allow us to more than double our business.
We are also reiterating our commitment to maintaining a balanced capital allocation strategy in fiscal year 2015.
We plan to utilize our operating cash flow to invest in the business in support of our ongoing growth initiatives in the range of 200 million to 220 million and we remain committed to returning cash to our shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends.
We now have 234 million remaining and available for share repurchases on our 750 million multi-year share repurchase authorization and expect to buy back 200 million to 250 million of our shares in fiscal year 2015.
We are also committed to continuing to pay dividends targeted at 35% to 40% of net income and in line with the S&amp;P 500 dividend yield.
In summary we are confident in the year ahead and in the underlying health of our business.
Our competitive advantages have not changed.
We are strong brand that are delivering innovative products and outstanding service a multichannel platform with superior e-commerce capabilities resulting in more than 50% of our business already coming from e-commerce and profitably.
And many opportunities for continued growth and market share gains as well as our commitment to financial discipline and returning capital to shareholders.
These allow us to remain confident in our ability to deliver sustainable long-term profitable growth.
I would now like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Daniel Hofkin with William Blair &amp; Company.
I just wanted to talk a little bit about some of the expanded clienteling/ service offerings in your furniture businesses and then just hear a little bit more about that and then find out kind of how some of the similar initiatives that you're been rolling out over the last year in the Williams-Sonoma brand how that's progressing? And what you are learning there? Hi it's Laura.
We really believe that relevant offers are the most effective.
And so we are so lucky that we have such a robust history of our customer’s purchase behavior and the portfolio of brands that we have allow us to understand what the customers are looking for.
And we use this information to not only target and personalize our offers online but also to better connect with our customers in the stores and so actually our store associates will understand more clearly what the different customers already previously purchased and what they are looking for.
And we really believe in building that one-on-one connection in our stores and using our stores for that really high touch service.
And then of course they go online and they often -- they go to the store they visit the store and then they go online and make a purchase.
And so it's a very effective way to target and give our customers offers that are relevant in a sea of I think a lot of offers out there that are less relevant.
As it relates to our initiatives in Williams-Sonoma we have been working hard over the last several years to really develop much more proprietary products both within our own Williams-Sonoma branded product line but also with our vendor partners who have been amazing with us in developing those lines.
And we have made very good progress as you see by the positive comps we have been running consecutively and we also recognize that there is a lot more that we can do.
And we are testing a lot of new things.
We talked in the last call about our wonderful South Coast Plaza store and the integration of Williams-Sonoma home into that store and we see that as an interesting opportunity.
We are testing a few different things in that space.
It's competitive so I don't want to go too much into it.
But we think that there is something very exciting there about that interaction.
We’ll move next to Peter Benedict with Robert W.
Baird.
I guess one question how are you planning the advertising expense Julie within your full year outlook? I mean it has been - if you look back the last five or six years it's been a nice source of leverage I think it comps like 10% of sales to about seven last year.
I know that's part of the strategy and how you guys play but how much further can you go on that and is that something that you think will continue to be a source of leverage over the next couple of years? We got to let Pat Connolly actually answer that question.
Peter I think we have made improvements if you say over the last couple of years actually over a pretty sustained period of time.
And I think we have made fairly significant investments here over the last 12 months in improving the functionality in our websites which has really helped improve conversion.
Our mobile site sales were almost of 80% year-over-year and a big part of that has been improving our mobile site experience.
We're continuing to make strides in personalization and improving in the post purchase experience for our customers with a focus on order tracking and visibility In the marketing specifically where we make strategic decisions to drive customer acquisition across the entire conversion funnel.
We're spending more on digital particularly in acquiring new customers and we have increased our content syndication and grown our blogger outreach to support the brands.
But I think it really begs the bigger question is how are you able to do that and still be so profitable? And that’s what’s probably the most unique thing about us growing to this size of the 21st largest e-commerce retailer over 50% and yet very-very profitable.
I think we have a 20 year head start.
We’ve a 50 million house-owned customer base that have bought from us but I think fundamentally across the company we understand that e-commerce first and foremost is a retail business.
And it just happens to be conducted online and lastly brands matter and the strength of your brand is re-measured by the trust and customers trust us.
They built that trust over many years in many cases through experiences in our stores and buying through the catalog.
So I think all of those together are going to allow us to continue to drive further efficiencies in our advertising.
We’ll move next to Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
The question I want to ask relates to the impact of the port strike and measuring it financially particularly on the margin side.
If you do the math from the numbers that you gave us with the sales hit and the EPS hit you get essentially implied 50% margin flow through which I’d imagine is pretty close to your merchandise margin your pure merch margin on the sales that you lost.
Is there a way for us to understand the impact to gross margin rate from the extra shipping cost and are there other additional expenses associated with the port strike? Sure Matt this is Julie I’ll take that.
I think the way to think about it obviously we hadn’t quantified it necessarily or disclosed it by line item but the reality is the biggest impact is to gross margin and so when I said in my prepared remarks that our gross margin is effectively down due to lower selling margins primarily from the increased shipping and fulfillment related costs due to the West Coast port disruption it’s primarily due to that.
So that’s one way to quantify it.
I think the other way to think about it is that the pure merchandise margin was down year-over-year.
This was also due to the fact that we had still promotional holiday product that was held up at the port at the end of the year and so we basically didn’t get to recognize that till Q1 which also impacted the margin.
So really the story of the gross margin was almost entirely impacted by the West Coast port.
And then how do you feel about the pure merch margin trajectory which I know started to make headway in Q4 and I know you have some initiatives that are directed at shoring that up do you feel like those initiatives are still on track and that number can ultimately start to flatten out? Absolutely.
So I mean we expect that there’ll be short term shipping pressure of course as we go into Q2 given that there’s still a residual impact from the port that will happen in Q2 but as we move longer term throughout the balance of the year and obviously post this year all of the initiatives that we’ve been working on in particular the insourcing of our foreign agents and the regionalization of our distribution centers lower cost for us.
So I mean the insourcing as you know that was completed last year in June so this is our first full year of that.
And just alone by the fact that we don’t have the overhead structure with a third-party as reduced cost on that line so we do expect longer term to see margin expansion.
And next we have Greg Melich with Evercore.
I think that my question really followed on I think from the last one when you think about that insourcing and how the inventory is growing even though we got the port problems and not been in stock what should we expect a normal merchandise inventory number to be now that once we get the port thing cleared out should we still be growing at say 10% to 12% but that the in stock or the available inventory is now 10% or 12% or how should we think about that? So I mean obviously we do not guide per se inventory levels other than to say which I think what I mentioned on the call that to be in stock this whole West Coast port slowdown is really validated for us the criticality of being in stock.
And so we are going to be focused on improving our in stock inventory levels obviously throughout Q2 but to set us up really for the back half of the year and so we expect that our inventory will not only be replenished by the end of the second quarter but that will grow at faster than our revenue growth as we’re investing in inventory to set us up for the back half of the year and longer term.
So inventory is up 11% year-over-year we should expect it to still be up 11% at the end of the second quarter or third quarter and just that the in stock availability is better? Obviously I'm not going to give you a number.
Your expectation should be higher than that if I'm referencing in-stock inventory it's going to be growing higher than revenue growth because the 10.9% relates to the balance sheet inventory level.
Got it and it payables that haven't been growing I guess should we expect payables to start to grow as you -- as that inventory normalizes so that the working capital cost doesn’t look great? Absolutely.
And next we have Jessica Mace with Nomura Securities.
My question is on West Elm I'm just wondering if you could talk about the strong result that you saw this quarter what initiative have gone into play that are beginning to impact that and maybe some of the timing on some of the other initiatives such as contract or the partnership with Inscape that we should expect throughout the rest of the year? We have talked about choice consciousness community what does that mean; choices in the product offer and that we have great aesthetic choices for our customer mid-centric and the industrial aesthetics continue work well and we are seeing growth across all categories honestly with outsized growth coming from furniture.
We continue to bring in new flows of product and in fact in Q2 we were really excited we had a pre-fall assortment which we never had before that helps us break the monotony of the end of season sale and build the margin up when a lot of other people aren’t on sale.
We also as you think about the other two initiatives we realized that customers don't just want to buy things they want to know where they are from they want -- people to source product sustainability and West Elm has really embraced this idea and has such a big footprint in the area of consciousness because of all the wonderful things that they are doing.
Jim Bratton is keen actually with the number one; people to raise money for the AIDS walk last week in New York which we have a very-very proud of.
It's just one small sample of how involved West Elm is in every single look of community.
And as far as it goes to new initiatives in West Elm workspace is a big one right around the corner we are going to launch at NeoCon on June 15 in Chicago.
For those who don't know NeoCon is the largest commercial interiors show in North America.
It takes place in Chicago and it's the premier platform for connecting learning and doing business in the industry.
And we're going to be opening in conjunction with our permanent 2500 square foot showroom at the Merchandise Mart.
And we are in track to have dealer representation in all key metropolitan areas.
So our West Elm workspace is more than on track and includes more than 75 furniture pieces for offices cross desks benching systems private office and mount spaces.
And we see this area as one that is really undisturbed in the market.
And next we move to Simeon Gutman with Morgan Stanley.
One follow-up to Matt's question and then a separate one.
If you look at the financial impact maybe a slightly different way just in terms of what the EBIT margin would have expanded our math is it's getting to us about 20 basis points Julie and I don't know if there is anything wrong with that math.
And then if that's right is that mostly gross margin driven? I think it would be higher margin but I'm not going to give you that number exactly but it would be higher margin expansion on the bottom and it is largely predominantly gross margin.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just one maybe for Laura can you remind us if you comment on this how big the outdoor furniture category is for you the timeframe that the bulk of sales get done and then any early read on how that business is performing? It is so competitive I'm sorry that I'm not going to give you the number.
I will tell you that it is off to a great start.
Next we'll move to Seth Sigman with Credit Suisse.
Could you guys update on the international business I think you mentioned improving margins there this quarter.
Can you elaborate what's driving that? I realize that you're probably still somewhat in investment mode there but how do you think about the potential to close the margin gap with that business and with your U.S.
business? Okay I'll take it it’s Julie.
Yes we are very excited about this opportunity as you know we believe this could be a huge growth opportunity for us long-term.
And I think if we said to many of you that this is a long-term model to get it to the level where we wanted to be in anywhere from 3 years to 5 years from when we enter the country and so we’re just starting to get to a level of scale that we could start to see some of these benefits but it’s still in the beginning stages and one of the biggest things we did as an example that’s improving the margins is we renegotiated our distribution center deal there and that generate some substantial savings.
And so little things like that one after another that we’re looking at and pulling apart and just becoming more operationally efficient and so as we move through and get more scale we are going to see more of those opportunities.
And move onto Michael Lasser with UBS.
I’m wondering about the competitive landscape.
Presumably since you are bigger and have a little more muscle in the marketplace you were less impacted although you’re still very impacted by the port issues.
You’re probably less impacted maybe some of the smaller players out there and so do you think that as a result some of those smaller players or even medium size players were less promotional because they didn’t have the inventory to promote and so that made the environment a little less tense because it seems like you were less promotional if all of the merchandise margin pressure was related to the West Coast port? I would just say they’re still promotional out there but I wouldn’t read too much into the comparative number of promotions we run.
There are promotions that we didn’t comp obviously and there’s ones that we changed and its part of doing executing our strategy and I wouldn’t say it’s an elevated level per se in the marketplace.
But I think that things that really set us apart in our category is where we compete are first of all we’re vertical.
We create designing contract most of what we saw and if you want to buy our products you have to buy them from us and this model not only gives us exclusivity and pricing power it eliminates layers of cost that we can pass onto the customer in the form of outstanding quality at a great value.
The other major difference is our model obviously.
We really do operate a different model than most of the people that are out there trying to compete with us and it’s really I think beyond multichannel or omni-channel.
I think what we’re creating is a three dimensional experience.
And when you close your eyes when you think of our brands and when you think of our stores and our catalogs they bring our brand to life and in our categories I think that’s the magic.
You can visualize how your home would look how the meal you will serve to your family and friends will look and then you can go to one of our websites and you can quickly order and I think that’s what makes us different and I think that is what is the big part of our continuing success.
That make sense.
That’s helpful.
To the quick follow up on the margin question should we expecting as we’re forecasting the P&amp;L that you should get most of the margin pressure that you saw in the first quarter back in the first quarter of next year? In the first quarter of next year well we’re not providing that yet.
Yes so this is your anniversary there’s nothing that really should be ongoing it’s all kind of one-time-ish correct? Well obviously we have next quarter as well the residual impact that we’re going to be experiencing with higher shipping cost that will hit the gross margin as well.
Yes.
But to the extent we quantify how much is worth the port in that range that is what we expect is worth in the port in Q1 this year.
And we have time for one last question and that will be from David MaGee with Suntrust.
I just have a two part question.
One is can you give us an update in terms of what you expect to do this year in reducing custom furniture delivery times? And at the same time I’m curious what’s happening with regard to your ability to recognize e-commerce visitors and how that’s changing this year as well? Could you repeat your second part of your question? Sure.
Just your ability to recognize unique visitors to your site and as my understanding that that capability has been improving and which has obviously got nice competitive advantage any color there would be helpful.
Thank you.
On the first one when you think about our competitive advantages certainly one is our supply chain and we believe that speed is another really important new currency in the furniture marketplace.
As you know we’ve invested in our own furniture upholstered furniture manufacturing unit and we are making some strategic changes so that we can significantly improve lead times on the furniture which I think is really a game-changer because so many other people who are cropping up they don’t even – they don’t even – it’s not their product in the marketplace model.
And they don’t control the supply chain and we know that we can provide superior service the higher touch service by controlling the whole thing and this opportunity to reduce the wait time substantially it’s one that we’re extremely focused on.
And Pat I think maybe you should take the second question.
Sure.
I think Dave you’re referring to our ability to identify customers when they come to the side and then offer – give them personalized offers based on that and that’s really a function of new technology that we implemented last year and we’ve gone from recognizing 25% of site visitors up to now 60 or 70.
We’re actually recognizing and knowing about 15% to 20% of site visitors who’ve never been to the site before.
And then been able to understanding that give them the right kind of offer and to serve up this personalized content based on their experience with us up to yesterday and do that in less than 20 milliseconds so it’s a big technology enhancement.
And I think we’re still in the early innings and you’ll see throughout this year and in coming years just our ability to personalize virtually every page of the customer.
So we’re pretty excited about not only what we’ve been able to do but what we think we can do in the future.
That concludes our question and answer session for today.
I’ll now turn the conference call back over to Ms.
Alber for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you all for joining us this afternoon.
We appreciate your time and continued support and we look forward to speaking with you again in August.
Thank you everyone and that does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Inc.
First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also this conference is being recorded.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Steve Nelson Vice President of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP measures and forward-looking statements.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
This morning's conference call should be considered in conjunction with the press release that we issued earlier today.
Our press release and this call contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to facilitate meaningful year-over-year comparisons.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and an explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful are discussed in Exhibit 1 of this press release.
Also included in this morning's press release and conference call is a new metric comparable brand revenue growth that includes both retail comparable store revenues and total direct-to-customer revenues.
This metric also incorporates outlet stores within their respective brands.
At the brand level this new metric will replace our existing comparable store sales metrics.
However we will continue to report comparable store sales at the total company level.
Please refer to Exhibit 2 of this morning's press release for a 5-year history of this metric by brand by quarter.
The forward-looking statements included in this morning's call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements address the financial condition results of operations business initiatives guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2011 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our first quarter 2011 results and our fiscal year 2011 outlook.
Thanks Steve.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
With me today are Pat Connolly our Chief Marketing Office; and Sharon Mccollam our Chief Operating and Chief Financial Officer.
The first quarter was another very strong quarter for our company.
Net revenues increased 7% and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 30% to a record $0.30 per share.
Comparable brand revenues increased 9%.
Non-GAAP operating margin increased 110 basis points including the planned impact of incremental SG&amp;A that is being invested in e-commerce international and business development.
What drove these better than expected results were an innovative merchandising assortment supported by compelling price points highly targeted multichannel marketing initiatives and a superior customer experience.
We are particularly pleased to see such strong growth in both channels as direct-to-customer revenues increased 13% and retail comparable store sales increased 7%.
During the quarter we continued to invest in our key growth initiatives including increasing our penetration in e-commerce expanding the reach of the west elm brand and extending our international presence.
In e-commerce net revenues increased 21% to 38% of total company revenue as web traffic reached a new quarterly high.
Several key initiatives drove these strong results including the ongoing optimization of natural search and improved relevance of event-triggered marketing.
In west elm comparable brand revenues increased a record 31%.
In international we added 2 new franchise stores in Saudi Arabia and launched our first international e-commerce site in PBteen.
Our remaining international sites will launch in Q2.
Across all brands and all channels we continued to focus on enhancing the customer experience.
During the quarter we launched a new Professional Chef program we introduced several new online community activities and streamlined website usability.
We also expanded our retail clientele-ing and in-store event programs.
Each of these initiatives is allowing us to attract new customers to our brands and taking our existing customer relationships to a new level.
In our core brands comparable brand revenues increased 7%.
Pottery Barn Kids saw the greatest increase followed by Pottery Barn and Williams-Sonoma.
In our emerging brands including west elm and PBteen comparable brand revenues increased 22%.
In international we are onboarding our new leadership team and are now aggressively exploring opportunities for retail expansion in other regions of the world.
Our 8 franchise stores in Dubai Kuwait and Saudi Arabia continue to exceed expectations and we expect to add 5 additional stores in the back half of the year.
In our supply chain we are continuing to see ongoing customer service and cost reduction benefits from our distribution transportation packaging and upholstered furniture initiatives.
These initiatives include optimizing our inbound and outbound packaging costs streamlining our southeast home furniture delivery operations and leveraging our expanded in-country sourcing operations in Asia.
As we look forward to Q2 our business is on track to deliver another record quarter.
Each of our brands began the year with a strong merchandising and marketing plan.
And despite the ongoing softness in the overall home furnishings category today we are continuing to gain market share.
As such we are reiterating our second quarter non-GAAP EPS guidance of $0.33 to $0.36 per share and increasing our full year guidance for the $0.02 outperformance we delivered in Q1.
This brings our fiscal year 2011 revenue growth to a range of 4% to 6% and our non-GAAP diluted EPS to a range of $2.13 to $2.21 versus $1.95 last year.
I will now turn the call over to Sharon for more details on the first quarter and our guidance.
Thank you Laura.
Good morning everyone.
As Laura just said our first quarter performance did once again exceed our expectations particularly with the home furnishings industry reporting softer than expected growth during the quarter.
Our net revenues increased to better than expected 7% to $771 million including 9% comparable brand growth.
Direct-to-customer revenues increased 13% including e-commerce growth of 21%.
And retail revenues increased 4% including comparable store sales growth of 7%.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 30% to $0.30 per share which was $0.02 better than the high end of our guidance.
Successful planned promotions resulting in highly productive advertising costs and greater than expected benefits from our cost containment initiatives drove these better than expected results.
Non-GAAP gross margin increased by 60 basis points to 38.4%.
This increase was primarily driven by the leverage of fixed occupancy expenses due to increasing net revenues partially offset by an increase in promotional activity including shipping fees and the impact of international franchise operations.
For the quarter non-GAAP occupancy expense dollars were flat to last year at $125 million.
Non-GAAP SG&amp;A expenses decreased by 40 basis points to 31.5%.
This decrease was primarily driven by lower incentive compensation costs and a decrease in other general expenses partially offset by a higher proportion of net revenues being driven by the direct-to-customer channel which incurs advertising costs at a higher rate than the retail channel.
From a segment reporting perspective the Q1 total company non-GAAP EBT margin expanded 110 basis points to 4.2% driven by a 60-basis-point decline in the direct-to-customer segment a 60-basis-point improvement in the retail segment and a 70-basis-point improvement in the non-allocated segment.
If you exclude the impact of inventory-related costs associated with the shutdown of Williams-Sonoma Home in the first quarter of 2010 however the direct-to-customer segment EBT margin was flat to last year and the retail segment actually improved by 10 basis points.
In the direct-to-customer segment increased promotional activity including Williams-Sonoma Reserve and increased investment in SG&amp;A to support the growth of e-commerce was fully offset by sales leverage of fixed occupancy costs and other general expenses.
In the retail segment sales leverage of fixed occupancy costs partially offset by higher traffic-generating promotional activity drove a 10-basis-point improvement in the retail EBT margin.
And in the non-allocated segment lower incentive compensation and other general expenses drove a 70-basis-point year-over-year improvement.
From a balance sheet perspective first quarter highlights were as follows: cash and cash equivalents increased $66 million to $471 million after returning nearly $220 million to shareholders through share repurchase and dividends over the past 12 months.
Merchandise inventories increased $30 million or 6% to $532 million on quarterly revenue growth of 7%.
And accounts payable increased $15 million or 8% to $192 million primarily driven by the timing of merchandise received.
I'd now like to briefly discuss our second quarter and fiscal year 2011 guidance.
As Laura said earlier we are increasing our full year guidance for the outperformance we saw in the first quarter.
For the remaining quarters of the year we are also reiterating our guidance.
In every quarter the current guidance reflects record non-GAAP EPS performance and we don't believe it is operationally prudent to get too far ahead of the consumer at this early date.
It also presumes that we will continue to gain substantial market share in every quarter and we are confident in our ability to do so.
But there are ever present macro issues that are not in our control that we believe we should be cautious about.
Additionally as we outlined in March we plan to fully fund the SG&amp;A necessary to support our e-commerce international and business development growth strategies which have previously been quantified at $25 million.
This equates to approximately $0.15 per diluted share the majority of which will be incurred in the remaining quarters of the year.
As such we're reiterating our second quarter guidance in the range of $805 million to $825 million in revenue and our second quarter non-GAAP EPS guidance in the range of $0.33 to $0.36 per share.
This assumes revenue growth of 4% to 6% comparable brand revenue growth of 7% to 9% and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share growth of 6% to 14%.
As it relates to the individual P&amp;L line items within our Q2 guidance we are reducing gross margin by 30 basis points on both the low end and the high end and correspondingly lowering SG&amp;A to reflect the more promotional cadence but better advertising and employment productivity we saw in Q1.
For the full year net revenues are expected to increase in the range of $3.6 billion to $3.7 billion and our non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to increase in the range of $2.13 to $2.21 versus $1.95 last year.
This assumes revenue growth of 4% to 6% comparable brand revenue growth of 6% to 8% and non-GAAP diluted EPS growth of 9% to 13%.
From the balance sheet perspective we are maintaining our fiscal year and inventory guidance in the range of $540 million to $560 million and holding our annual capital spending guidance in the range of $135 million to $150 million.
We are excited about 2011 and the opportunities that we see for our brands and remain committed to executing against the initiatives that we have just shared with you today.
I would now like to turn the call over to Laura to discuss the performance of the Williams-Sonoma Pottery Barn and west elm brands.
Thank you Sharon.
In the Williams-Sonoma brand net revenues and comparable brand revenues increased 3% in the first quarter.
From a merchandising perspective the key drivers of growth during the quarter were new product introductions particularly in electrics cookware and outdoor and a traffic-generating promotional calendar.
Another driver was the Williams-Sonoma Reserve shipping program which is not only enhancing our competitive positioning against other online retailers but also allowing us to develop stronger relationships with participating customers.
Relationships are also being enhanced through the expansion of our online community including the launch of our monthly newsletter On the Menu and our proprietary blog The Blender.
While both of these programs are in their early stages we believe the customer engagement opportunity they represent is significant as we further differentiate our overall customer experience from the competition.
Looking forward to the second quarter and the balance of the year we are excited about the upcoming summer holidays and the opportunities they represent.
We have a substantial number of new initiatives that we did not have a year ago including Williams-Sonoma Reserve and Professional Chef.
In addition we are continuing initiatives that are driving the business today.
These include introducing new exclusive and innovative products across all channels; enhancing our value proposition; increasing our investment in e-commerce and e-marketing including the launch of our international websites in the second quarter; engaging our most loyal customers through in-store events online community social media and special programs; and expanding the reach of the brand through collaborations with the cooking community.
We expect all of these initiatives to allow us to deliver a superior multichannel experience to our customers while expanding and affirming the brand's authority as the premier destination for high-quality cooking and home entertaining essentials.
I would now like to talk about Pottery Barn.
Pottery Barn delivered another very strong quarter in Q1 as net revenues increased 6% on top of 23% last year and the operating margin reached a new high.
Comparable brand revenues increased 8% with e-commerce continuing to grow as a percentage of the total.
Highly successful online customer acquisition initiative combined with a superior customer experience across all channels drove these better than expected results.
From a merchandising perspective enhanced design services both in-store and online drove higher customer engagement and increased sales.
Decorative accessories textiles and tabletops were top-performing categories.
New product introductions also drove impressive growth.
From an operational perspective during the quarter margin improvement continued to be a top priority and the brand delivered record numbers.
Improved selling margins a successfully executed real estate optimization plan and ongoing benefits from Asian in-country sourcing initiatives drove these better than expected results.
As we look forward to the second quarter and the balance of the year we are continuing to execute against those initiatives that are driving Pottery Barn's performance to new levels including increasing our investment in e-commerce and e-marketing to further strengthen our Internet presence; delivering a cohesive merchandising strategy with an artisanal product assortment; providing a strong competitive value proposition including planned category promotions; and offering superior customer service including authoritative design and clientele-ing services.
We're also continuing to expand the reach of the Pottery Barn brand into new product categories new markets and new geographies including new stores in the Middle East and the launch of our international e-commerce website in the second quarter.
Now I would like to talk about Pottery Barn Kids.
Pottery Barn Kids delivered a very strong first quarter as net revenues increased to better than expected 10% on top of a 21% increase last year.
During the quarter comparable brand revenues increased 11% with particularly strong growth in e-commerce.
From a merchandising perspective all key categories -- including furniture decorative accessories and textiles -- delivered strong results as seasonal product introductions strategically planned promotions and a registry momentum fueled stronger-than-expected sales.
From an operational perspective strategic inventory management and retail profitability continued to be key initiatives as the brand achieved another consecutive year of operating margin expansion.
Improved selling margins and last year's successful execution of the brand's real estate optimization plan drove these better than expected Q1 results.
As we look forward to the second quarter and the balance of the year we are continuing to focus on those initiatives that are driving customer acquisition customer engagement and strong multichannel growth.
These initiatives include: creating inspirational and innovative designs at a great value; further leveraging our multichannel strength to deliver a superior personalized customer experience in all channels; driving Internet growth through improved search functionality increased conversion and enhanced social platform; and expanding into new markets including new stores in the Middle East and the launch of our international websites in the second quarter.
I would now like to talk about the PBteen brand.
Net revenues in comparable brand revenue in PBteen increased 7% on top of 22% last year and the brand delivered its second highest ever Q1 operating margin while at the same time offering to the customer a significantly greater value proposition.
From a merchandising perspective new product introductions primarily in furniture and decorative accessories planned promotions and increased web traffic drove these results.
As we look forward to the second quarter and the balance of the year we are continuing to focus on initiatives that will drive enhanced brand awareness and a greater level of customer engagement including: broadening the merchandise assortment; increasing traffic and conversion in e-commerce through highly targeted marketing; improved site functionality and an expanded social networking presence further positioning the brand as a design resource for teens; and entering new markets including the launch of our international website at the end of the first quarter.
All of these initiatives will allow us to continue to expand our rapidly growing customer base and take the brand to a new level of performance and service.
Finally I'd like to talk about west elm.
West elm delivered another excellent quarter as revenues and operating profitability reached new highs.
During the first quarter net revenues increased 26% and comparable brand revenues increased 31% reflecting the fifth consecutive quarter of sequential revenue acceleration since the re-merchandising of the brand in early 2010.
All key product categories delivered positive growth during the quarter as new product introductions a substantially enhanced value proposition and a highly impactful multichannel marketing strategy drove substantially better than expected results.
Consistent with our strategy to broaden the brand's appeal and promote the frequency of purchase textiles decorative accessories and tabletops were our strongest performing categories in addition to furniture.
We are particularly pleased with the ongoing strength of e-commerce which drove as much year-over-year dollar growth during the quarter as the 35 retail stores combined.
A highly productive e-marketing strategy and continued improvements in the on-site experience drove record traffic and increased conversion.
As we look forward to second quarter and the balance of the year we will profitably grow the west elm brand by engaging with a broader range of customers by continuing to rebalance the product mix and offering the customer greater choices in product price and aesthetic.
We will further expand our product assortment into categories beyond furniture and we will further create a seamless and inspirational store web and catalog experience.
We'll also take advantage of opportunities that arise to expand our retail footprint as retail profitability improves and new milestones are achieved.
I would now like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
This is actually TJ filling in for Budd.
A question I had was to the international expansion to start.
We're going to be rolling out new stores throughout the rest of the year.
Any commentary you want to offer on what brands you might lead with? What the type of acceptance or brand value you hold in those markets is and any color you can provide there? Sure.
It's Laura.
We are very excited that we have just brought in 2 experienced executives that have been in international expansion for their careers.
And they are currently looking at where we go first and how we go.
We want to deliver the same high quality customer experience and multichannel experience as we enter new markets and we are looking at as I said where to go and how to go.
And obviously the websites that we -- the website we just launched in international is giving us early indications of where we have demand.
So in addition to market research and talking to our associates around the world we have the opportunity to really read the results from our current sales as we expand through the summer with the other brands and use that to identify where we may place beacon stores around the globe.
We'll hear next from Colin McGranahan with Sanford Bernstein.
It's Avery filling in for Colin.
I had a question regarding the Williams-Sonoma brand.
Your comparable growth in the brand remains below Pottery Barn and west elm over the past couple of years or said conversely Pottery Barn and west elm are outperforming.
I was wondering if you could comment on the drivers of this performance differential and any potential impact from increasing price transparency influencing the performance of your nonexclusive versus exclusive products.
Absolutely.
Laura would you speak to that please? Sure.
We are very pleased with the performance of Williams-Sonoma and very excited about our current initiatives and how they will further expand the reach of our brand.
And when you look at the numbers we really -- we looked back at a 4-year history to look at our different brands.
And there's nothing about our performance that we are apologetic about in Williams-Sonoma.
In fact we are really excited about what that brand is delivering and particularly the customer experience that they're delivering that is being enhanced each and every day.
We also have brought in more exclusive products.
We are working very closely with our vendors to continue to introduce differentiated exclusive product and artisanal product into our channels.
And the other place that Williams-Sonoma see great opportunity is in e-commerce.
The e-commerce opportunity in Williams-Sonoma we think is quite substantial.
And we are just getting going as I said on community efforts on the website and also increasing our assortment on the website.
Our next question comes from Matt Fassler of Goldman Sachs.
This is actually Mark-Andre filling in for Matt.
Just a quick question on merchandise margin.
Can you talk about your expectations for the trajectory going forward? And in the same line of thought could you also talk about input costs inflation and pass-through? Absolutely.
I'm going to take -- on the promotional cadence going forward as I said as we said prepared remarks we expect that we are going to continue to offer the value through a more promotional cadence throughout the balance of this year.
We believe that that is necessary with the consumer.
We are adding new customers to the brands.
It is attracting new customers to our brands.
And obviously from the P&amp;L as you can see it's highly profitable for us.
The other thing I talked about with that promotional cadence in my prepared remarks is the fact that at the promotions whether it be from a markdown or from a shipping promotion we are also seeing opportunity to highly leverage our advertising costs.
So while you might be looking at the gross margin line you have to look at that in conjunction with the ad cost line to come to a point of view about the corporate benefit of doing that and we see that as very positive.
I'm going to let Laura speak to what is currently happening with our vendors from a cost point of view.
Sure.
We are seeing cost increases.
But as we have said we have initiatives that are unique to Williams-Sonoma that are allowing us to offset them.
These include the rollout of -- the roll-off of double agent commissions from last year the expanded role of our Asia sourcing office and the incorporation of west elm into our total company sourcing program.
Janet Kloppenburg of JJK Research has the next question.
Sharon and Laura I just was wondering about this focus on value.
It seems like you're getting increasingly focused on this.
And I'm wondering Laura or Sharon if you're able to develop programs where your margins are healthy but where you're still offering the company or the customer a perceived value through these promotions.
That is exactly what we're doing.
We put together last year a promotional calendar to attract new customers and delight our current customers.
And we believe that by giving value and allowing someone to buy something at a small discount connects them more deeply to the brand and then they come in and buy other items.
And it is a very important strategy that we think successful retailers will continue to execute against until we see a change in the behavior.
And you can see many articles written about this how all parts of the customer all parts of the demographics are focused on great value.
And there's no tricking them.
It has to be excellent value.
And so as we develop products and price products we look at obviously the costs.
But more importantly we look at what we're delivering to our customers vis-à-vis our competition to make sure that they will shop with us.
And Janet the key is planning the promotional cadence to drive traffic as opposed to just having markdowns.
This is a strategy.
It's planned.
It's well executed.
It's marketed behind in a way that we're trying to attract customers.
So I think that as you think about the value strategy for us you need to think about it as just exactly that a planned traffic-generating promotional strategy.
Oppenheimer's Brian Nagel has our next question.
So not to beat a dead horse here but my question's also around margins.
Just to be clear Sharon I know you've tried to talk about this for a while what you're doing with this promotional product but so I'm understanding is the commentary or I guess let's ask it this way.
In Q1 has this effort intensified? And will it continue to intensify through the balance of 2011 or is it going to stay the course? And I have a follow-up after that.
I think what we're seeing based on our original guidance clearly in Q2 I just moved 30 basis points of margin into SG&amp;A because of the highly productive advertising and employment that we're getting out of the increased revenues.
So we did accelerate some of this the strategic acceleration of it into the second quarter.
And we think it's going to continue into the second quarter.
I'm going to let Laura speak to the strategy behind that because one of the things Brian that you do is when you see something be so highly effective at attracting new customers to the brand it's something that you want to study and you want to be sure that you do more of it.
But I'll let Laura speak to that on the overall brand level.
I think Sharon you covered it and probably my last remark did also but I'll just add one more thing that there is really nothing structurally in the way of improving margins.
But we've decided that strategically we don't believe it's the right strategy to raise prices in the short term and have that be what we do.
Because as a growth company as Sharon said we want to attract new customers and deliver incredible exclusive products priced competitively and deliver the great value that our brands have always stood for.
We'll hear next from Matt McGinley with ISI.
When you look at the sales growth you've had over the past couple of quarters who do you think the incremental buyers of your products are? Are you seeing -- continuing to see strong activation as you were last year? Or do you have the same customers that came back to the brands last year that are building the basket? And then secondly when you reclassified the stores from the Pottery Barn and the Williams-Sonoma brand into the outlet does that change the product mix in the stores at all? Or is it effectively just a sign change on the front of the door? Actually it is not.
I'm going to speak to the outlet and then Pat Connolly is going to speak to the health of our health file and some of the existing things that are happening in the health file right now.
The outlet nothing has changed operationally.
This is only a reporting change.
Historically we have the 18 outlet stores treated like a brand but each of them has its own brand identity.
So when we went from the comparable store sales metrics by brand to the comparable revenue metric you have to include the outlets.
So you can see in the store table in the press release how we just credited out the 18 stores in the outlets and pushed them up into the other brands.
I will also say that with the outlets in or the outlets out of the brand it doesn't make a material difference either today or in any of the prior years because as you all know -- as you know we did give you 5 years of comparable brand revenue history in a new attachment to the press release that we thought might be helpful to you.
And then Pat could you speak to what's happening with the health of the health file? Sure I can Sharon.
I think we're seeing across our catalog mailings consistent performance across all the segments of the file not only among our current customers but also reactivation and new customer acquisition efforts.
On the e-commerce side I think what's notable is that the sales while they were up about 20% the traffic was also up about 20%.
So we're bringing in the same quality of customer across the file.
On the email side while the number of emails delivered in the quarter was only up about 2% our conversion improved 20%.
And that's really a function of our ability to make them more effective and more targeted.
One little highlight we're seeing an increased amount of sales on mobile devices which was in the last quarter about 5%.
So not a large amount but it's growing about 10% month over month which could be significant in the future.
About 80% of that is with the iPad and iPhone.
Our customer base is very Mac-friendly.
We have one of the highest percentage penetrations of Safari as the native browser so we're in a great position to take advantage of that going forward.
We'll move next to Brad Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Just wanted to follow up in terms of the guidance.
Sharon you referenced some potential macro overhangs.
Obviously comps during the quarter very strong and acceleration on a 2- and 3-year rate.
Can you just talk a little bit more about what you saw during the quarter? Is there anything that occurred maybe from a cadence standpoint that's worrisome or just being conservative? And just as a quick follow-up on the $25 million in incremental SG&amp;A for this year could you just remind us what your plans were for timing through the year? I know you referenced the majority of it was coming in remaining quarters but if you could just make sure we're clear on how much of it was incurred in the first quarter relative to your original expectations would be great.
Okay.
Let's first talk about the question associated with the cadence of the quarter.
Like every other retailer Q1 was a very strange quarter because the shift of Easter and then for us remember Mother's Day becomes -- it's a big holiday for us.
So as a result of that of course everyone moves revenue out of March into April so the cadence was fantastic you know what I'm saying? So I think to take a look at the first quarter from a cadence point of view is not helpful.
Where we are right now is we are excited about the consumer response to our summer products offering and we are very optimistic about the ability to continue to capitalize on the initiatives that we have in e-commerce to continue to drive that going forward.
The question as it related to the investment in SG&amp;A we were absolutely on track as it relates to the SG&amp;A investment.
We are not going to quantify it by quarter.
But when you think about what we're doing Brad a fairly large amount of that is the addition of approximately let's call it 100 people for round numbers' sake.
And those people are highly specialized in e-commerce and direct marketing and some of the areas that you would expect to support the growth of our e-commerce business.
Additionally those investments are in the talent and the leadership that we have brought into international all the expenses that go along with putting together a very robust international strategy.
And then of course from a business development standpoint the costs are clear about what it would take to do that too.
When I think about it's going to grow throughout the year.
Hiring these highly talented people takes time so you bring on the first wave.
They seem to come very quickly and then they come in waves after that.
So I expect the cadence to be very heavy in Q2 and Q3.
And then in Q4 we won't be adding that much because you're very focused on executing peak.
So that's how I kind of see it playing out.
Our next question comes from Joe Feldman of Telsey Advisory Group.
Just wanted to follow up did you guys see any impact from the weather or the government stimulus from last year all those comparisons? Because I know you mentioned also getting a little more promotional and was curious if that was to offset some of those pressures or if there was anything you're seeing different in the competitive environment.
As it relates to the government incentives we said last year that we do not believe and we have data to support the fact that the housing incentive did not appear to have any impact that is material on our company.
We believe that is because those incentives went to people who are not in our demographic.
So we can't take any credit or take any detriment from the -- with or without the incentive because we actually don't believe that it had a material impact on us.
From a "weather point of view " I'm going to let Laura speak more holistically to the change in our seasons.
And Laura you want to take that? Yes.
I mean you never know right? But clearly you know when there's a tornado or there's a flood that people are not shopping.
And we had a lot of that and it was awful for our customers and we're very happy the weather is better.
The thing that may be most related is outdoor furniture which started off a little bit slower and it's now accelerated substantially and our current sales are exactly on track to where we thought and our business is very strong.
And just to add as I'm talking about outdoor furniture in Pottery Barn where outdoor furniture is the largest of all of our brands we improved our quality dramatically and our customer is noticing.
So we are very proud of that too.
Our next question comes from Matt Nemer of Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Two quick questions if I could.
One could you just talk to the impact of reserve on the P&amp;L? I understand the strategic value of it but I'm just wondering if in the early days you have sort of the buffet effect where people go up to get a second or third plate and it maybe impacts the profitability in the beginning.
And then secondly could you just comment on your plans in the daily deal or flash sale space? I've noticed that One Kings Lane seems to be having some early success and Gilt Groupe launched a food/cooking-related channel this week.
So I'm just wondering what your plans are in that channel? Okay.
So Matt as it relates to Williams-Sonoma Reserve I say this with the utmost respect.
We believe that information details on Reserve are so competitively advantageous for someone else that we're not going to speak publicly a lot about the metrics.
However we will just blanket it to say that we could not be more pleased with the performance of the Williams-Sonoma Reserve program and we'll not be precluded from thinking about the program in other parts of our business going forward.
On the daily deal over the holiday season we did some one-day deals on our websites and in our stores and they were successful.
And it's again competitive but it's something that we will do periodically.
It's particularly helpful when you are giving gifts.
So you will see us do -- use that strategy as we go forward.
.
Laura Champine of Cowen and Company has our next question.
LLC</strong> I had a question about the international business bringing on some fairly high-level folks to help explore this opportunity.
Does that signal that you would be looking at significant company-owned expansion? And as a follow-on to that would you want the e-commerce business to grow to a certain size before you moved into a country to show that you have a brand there? Or how would you manage that rollout? It's Laura.
As I said we want to launch into these new markets in a very powerful and brand-appropriate way.
And so we may -- or we can we would own it ourselves.
But there are parts of the world where that is not possible and where there are great partners.
And we've had tremendous success with our Alshaya partner and that has given us a lot of confidence to go into new markets with them as well.
As it relates to multichannel retailing we see the opportunity across channels but have -- because we haven't built out a lot of stores globally or any other than in the Middle East we can actually launch with a larger percentage of direct business than some of the people who went earlier with multiple stores.
And so as I said the word we're using is beacon stores that allow the customer to come in touch and feel and experience the brands that then enable our direct business in those markets.
We'll move next to Deutsche Bank's Michael Baker.
Just following up with a promotional question.
It sounds like you said you're attracting more customers.
Is it in retail or direct customer or both? And I guess more importantly do you feel like it's a different customer demographic than you had previously attracted? And so eventually will that customer really always acquire the promotional activity or is it something that you sort of bring in the customer with a promotion activity get them familiar with the brand and then can sort of wean them off it type thing? Pat would you take that? I will Sharon.
Thanks for the question Michael.
We are seeing the same quality of customer come in because the promotions are so targeted.
We're targeting them at the right segment of our prospect base as well as our existing customer base.
And there's an aspect of this I think that's very important to understand and it's sort of a follow-up answer to the question that Matt asked just before.
And that is the difference between what we are doing and what say the flash sale sites are doing is that we have a much broader assortment.
And so in almost every case the sales that accrue from this promotion are on items other than the one we're promoting.
And so it doesn't have nearly the impact that selling a single item only would have.
And that's sort of the beauty of what we are doing here.
We'll move next to Peter Benedict with Robert W.
Baird.
Thinking about it in the gross margin line Sharon can you maybe talk about the outlook for occupancy costs in the second quarter and for the full year? I know they were flat in the first quarter but how should we think about that going forward? And then related in the gross margin can you quantify maybe the impact of the International Franchise business what that had on the gross margin in the first quarter? I would say that from an occupancy perspective we're not going to of course guide individual line items at that level now like occupancy.
But in the second quarter I would not expect substantially different performance.
Maybe slightly you'll see some slightly higher numbers probably in Q2 and that will progress through the year as it always does by the way.
So but I don't think that -- there's no big story that we have to tell in occupancy.
Until we get later in the year and we're going to open a couple of west elm stores and they are going to be great stores.
So we'll have some costs but we're going to have some revenues and some great performance too.
So needless to say again I'm not going to get nailed down on a dollar amount but we continue to feel very good about the real estate initiatives that we've had in place.
As it relates to our franchise operations or the impact of that the only reason we bring that up is just because of the way it gets accounted for.
It's similar to wholesale business and therefore you have revenue and you have costs and you have the margin clearly.
But because of the nature of the transaction having no SG&amp;A your margin is lower but you have no SG&amp;A or less SG&amp;A associated with it.
So it does put impact a little bit of impact on the gross margin.
But then by the time you get to the bottom line of course it's a terrific deal.
So that's why we had to call it out for the first time this quarter because quite frankly our partnership with Alshaya is growing and it's very successful.
[Operator Instructions] You will hear next from Marni Shapiro with The Retail Tracker.
I was kind of curious about -- or if you would talk a little bit to the industry you talked about the competition and pricing issues.
We've heard from some retailers in the off-price space that this has been very strong and people like Target talked about raising prices.
I've walked several of your competitors.
I don't think many of them look very good right now and I just feel like there's a lot of inconsistency out there.
If you could just talk about your broad view on the consumer and industry right now as it relates to you guys and in general.
Sure.
It's clear the customer is very choosy both in what they buy and they expect very high levels of service and they expect the price to be competitive.
And I have high respect for our competition.
People are doing a lot of things.
What they're probably not doing as well is taking service to the next level and being as innovative about how to do that.
And as much as we've made improvements we continue to see even more opportunity to be the best at serving customers in our space and helping them cook entertain and decorate their homes which is not -- these are not easy things to do.
It's very considered purchases and it takes a lot of help to understand our products and also learn how to put them together.
And that is something that we're becoming I think better at than most in all of our channels.
So as an example on our Pottery Barn website you can go and look at our design studio which is a new launch probably not marketed as largely as we could in the future.
But you can go and read a lot of great information from incredible designers who we work with about tips and advice.
And then also we have a room planner that you can use with our products and it's very it's really user-friendly and we think pretty revolutionary in our space.
So we're going to continue to add content to that and new tools to make it easier as I said to decorate and entertain whether it's going into our stores for our classes but also if you want to work on it at home on the weekend or even have our associates in our stores help you with those tools.
So I think those are the things that are important to our customers.
And I get a lot of letters telling to me about how great the service is and how differentiated it is from other people in the mall.
In fact I love hearing from different people.
They always start with "I was just in your store and I just had this most incredible friendly warm experience." And they create relationships that make it about a community store versus a big brand.
And that is so so important to us.
Back to the industry the focus on price is important.
But as I said it needs to be authentic.
Some people it's a constant high-low.
And I think after a while the customer waits and it needs to be pulsed so that that doesn't happen and they're not just trading down all the time and delaying purchases.
Our customers know that oftentimes when you go to buy a specific item whether it be rugs -- rugs could be 15% off but the rug you what may not be there in a month.
So there's an urgency because we're equally focused on our designs and the appeal of our designs and the exclusivity and differentiation from our competition.
And I think it's that powerful combination of exclusive innovative products and then a great price that is allowing us to outperform the industry.
We'll hear next from Scott Ciccarelli of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> This is Austin on for Scott.
My question is on market share.
You mentioned a couple of times in your prepared remarks that you think your taking market share.
And I was hoping you could talk a little bit about where you think you're taking share.
And also going forward if you think there's a better opportunity to take share at the retail channel or online.
Laura you want to talk about how we think about market share? Sure.
It's an interesting question.
What do I think? From every piece of data that I look at I think it's clear that we are taking market share on upholstery as a specific example where we have really changed the game with our own manufacturing.
And we're really a dominant top-of-mind multichannel retailer when it comes to upholstery.
Within each brand I could go through and tell you a similar story about a specific area.
West elm as a brand is poised to really help us gain market share at a slightly different demographic than our other brands which is so exciting because there's actually more people in that demographic.
And I'm so proud of what that team has done with incredible design at such amazing prices.
Every time I go in and look I just continue to be impressed by the innovation in that brand and the quality level that they are able to deliver.
So clearly there's going to be as that brand grows and has a bigger footprint and is more top of mind we're going to grab market share in that demographic.
Whether retail versus direct it's a harder one to comment on.
Our goal is to be the best in both.
And I think our numbers would show you and when you compare them to others that clearly with the economy flat and particularly our segment flat to negative we are gaining market share across both channels.
And Scott when you think about the public retailers that announce and then of course I know you guys are always talking to the private equity people that are holding investments in many of the others clearly our performance versus what's being reported publicly is outstanding in many cases.
And we think the usual suspects are continuing to lose share.
We believe that the biggest competitive advantages we have is our multichannel strategy and our ability to use this incredibly powerful health file to communicate relevantly to the customer.
They're waiting for the customer to show up.
What we believe about how we are gaining market share is that if you are a traditional retailer you may have a website but it's like a second sort of thing in your company.
We believe that we are able to serve them in both channels.
We are not waiting for the customer to show up.
We have the ability to speak to them in a personal and authentic way and help them think about the needs that they probably are going to have.
So that's a big difference.
And I don't know if you saw the Internet retailer numbers that came out a couple of weeks ago but we just moved up again.
We're now -- we just ranked the 25th largest.
And in our category I think I spoke to this at a conference or Pat did in our category in Home Furnishings Specialty Home Furnishings again we are so far ahead of anyone in the game that it's this whole list below us the top 5 add up to our revenue.
So it's really that multichannel ability to address the customers that we think is really giving us a huge competitive advantage.
And that's all the time we have for questions.
Ms.
Alber I'll turn the call back to you for any closing or additional remarks.
Well thank you for your support and we look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
And again that does conclude our conference.
Thank you all for your participation and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Inc.
Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Steve Nelson Vice President of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP measures and forward-looking statements.
Good morning.
This morning's conference call should be considered in conjunction with the press release that we issued earlier today.
Our press release and this call contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to facilitate meaningful year-over-year comparisons.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and an explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful are discussed in Exhibit 1 of the press release.
The forward-looking statements included in this morning's call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements address the financial condition results of operations business initiatives guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2011 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our second quarter 2011 results and our fiscal year 2011 outlook.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
With me today are Pat Connolly our Chief Marketing Officer; and Sharon McCollam our Chief Operating and Chief Financial Officer.
The second quarter was another strong quarter for the company as we continue to leverage our multichannel marketing and operational strengths to gain profitable market share.
During the quarter net revenues increased 5% and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 19% to a second quarter record of $0.37 per share.
Comparable brand revenues increased 6.5% as innovative merchandising targeted marketing and a quality customer experience continue to attract customers to our brands.
Non-GAAP operating margin climbed 80 basis points to 8% as strategically planned promotions drove higher productivity and advertising costs and we saw increased benefits from our ongoing cost containment initiatives.
Throughout the quarter we continued to invest in our key growth initiatives including increasing our penetration in e-commerce expanding the reach of the West Elm brand and extending our international presence.
In e-commerce net revenues increased 18% to 39% of total company revenues.
Several key initiatives drove these strong results including the ongoing optimization of natural search increased paid search and improved relevance of event-triggered marketing.
In West Elm comparable brand revenues increased 29% on top of 19% last year.
And in international DTC we completed the launch of our new international shipping websites across all brands which now allows us to ship from the United States to customers in over 75 countries around the world.
We also launched a new corporate-wide customer service initiative.
The goal of this initiative is to provide our customers with a seamless service experience that is personalized to their needs.
To do so we are removing the obstacles to yes [ph] and through this initiative see great opportunity to further delight our customers.
The organizational response to this program has been very powerful and every one of our leaders is committed to taking it to the next level as we strive to consistently exceed our customers' expectations.
In our core brands comparable brand revenues increased 3.5% on top of 16% last year.
In our emerging brands including West Elm and PBteen comparable brand revenues increased 25% on top of 20% last year.
In international we continue to aggressively explore profitable opportunities for retail expansion in other regions of the world as our 8 franchise stores in Dubai Kuwait and Saudi Arabia continue to introduce new customers to our brands.
In the back half of the year we expect to add 5 additional franchise locations in Saudi Arabia including 2 Pottery Barn and 3 Pottery Barn Kids stores.
In our supply chain we continue to see ongoing customer service and cost reduction benefits from our distribution transportation and packaging initiatives.
These initiatives include optimizing our inbound and outbound packaging costs further in-sourcing our home furniture delivery operations and expanding our company-managed Asian sourcing operations.
We also significantly expanded our North Carolina upholstered furniture operations as the demand for our exclusive assortments continue to grow.
This new facility opened in July is state-of-the-art.
And while we are still filling back orders from the initial move we are already producing record volumes.
As we look forward to Q3 while we are cognizant of the overall macro environment the early consumer response to our fall merchandising and marketing strategy is strong leaving us well positioned to continue to gain market share and deliver another highly profitable quarter.
As such we are reiterating our third quarter non-GAAP EPS guidance of $0.36 to $0.39 per share and increasing our full year guidance for the $0.01 outperformance we delivered in Q2.
This brings our fiscal year 2011 revenue growth to a range of 5% to 6% and our non-GAAP diluted EPS to a range of $2.17 to $2.22 versus $1.95 last year.
I will now turn the call over to Sharon for more details on the second quarter and our guidance.
Thank you Laura.
Good morning everyone.
As Laura said earlier in Q2 net revenues increased 5% to $815 million which was significantly better than the overall growth of the home furnishings industry of approximately 1%.
Comparable brand revenues increased 6.5% driven by comparable store sales growth of 1.4% and direct-to-customer revenue growth of 13% including 18% growth in e-commerce.
From an earnings perspective diluted earnings per share increased 19% on a non-GAAP basis to a second quarter record of $0.37 per share which was $0.01 above the high end of guidance.
Higher productivity of advertising costs combined with greater-than-expected benefits from our ongoing cost containment initiatives drove these better-than-expected results.
Non-GAAP gross margin increased 90 basis points to 37.9%.
This increase was primarily driven by the leverage of fixed occupancy expenses due to increasing net revenue a decrease in occupancy expense dollars and higher year-over-year selling margin.
For the quarter non-GAAP occupancy expense dollars increased $2 million to $123 million -- decreased $2 million.
These improvements were partially offset by the gross margin impact of our international franchise operations.
And non-GAAP SG&amp;A expenses increased 20 basis points to 30%.
This increase was primarily driven by higher employment and general expenses partially offset by lower advertising costs and leverage from our international franchise operations.
The employment increase was reflective of our planned incremental investment in our e-commerce international and business development growth strategies.
The general expense increase was primarily due to a 30-basis-point benefit from a gain on sale of assets last year which did not recur this year.
From a segment reporting perspective the Q2 total company non-GAAP EBT margin expanded 80 basis points to a record 8% driven by a 160-basis-point improvement in the direct-to-customer segment and a 10-basis-point improvement in the retail segment.
These improvements were partially offset though by a 50-basis-point expense increase in the non-allocated segment which was driven by the 30-basis-point nonrecurring gain on sale of assets from last year and the planned incremental SG&amp;A to support our long-term growth strategy.
In the direct-to-customer segment increased productivity of our advertising spend sales leverage of fixed occupancy expenses and ongoing benefits from supply chain partially offset by increased promotional activity and planned incremental expenses in e-commerce drove the 160-basis-point improvement in the direct-to-customer EBT margin.
In the retail segment improved year-over-year selling margins and reduced fixed occupancy costs from closed stores partially offset by higher employment costs drove the 10-basis-point improvement in the retail EBT margin.
From a balance sheet perspective cash and cash equivalents increased $21 million to $425 million after returning nearly $210 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends over the past 12 months.
Merchandise inventories increased $38 million or 7% to $557 million.
Back orders however at the end of the quarter were higher than last year due to strong sales in several runaway categories that we are working aggressively to replenish.
Accounts receivable increased $14 million to $51 million due to the timing of landlord construction and other miscellaneous receivables.
And accounts payable increased $13 million or 7% to $197 million primarily driven by the timing of merchandising receipts.
I would now like to briefly discuss our third quarter and fiscal year 2011 guidance.
As Laura said the early consumer response to our fall merchandising and marketing strategies has been strong across brands.
As such we are increasing our full year guidance for the outperformance we saw in Q2 and are reiterating our guidance for the back half of the year including the incremental investment we have previously discussed to support our long-term growth strategies.
In the third quarter net revenues are expected to be in the range of $845 million to $865 million and non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.36 to $0.39 versus $0.35 last year.
This assumes revenue growth of 4% to 6% comparable brand revenue growth of 5% to 7% and non-GAAP diluted EPS growth of 3% to 11%.
For the full year net revenues are expected to be in the range of $3.67 billion to $3.72 billion and non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $2.17 to $2.22 versus $1.95 last year.
This assumes revenue growth of 5% to 6% comparable brand revenue growth of 6.5% to 7.5% and non-GAAP diluted EPS growth of 11% to 14%.
In both the third and fourth quarters the non-GAAP diluted EPS growth even at the low end represents record operating profitability for the company as we lever our multichannel business model and grow DTC as a percentage of our mix.
At the same time it also includes investing in the next phase of growth for e-commerce exploring new geographies for global expansion and finding white space in the marketplace that a new brand or small acquisition could fill.
From a balance sheet perspective inventory guidance remains flat with previous guidance at $540 million to $560 million and capital spending is expected to be at the high end of our previous range at approximately $150 million.
From a uses of cash perspective our business model continues to generate significant cash flow and we have virtually no debt.
So we are well positioned to invest in growth while at the same time return excess capital to shareholders.
As such in the back half we will continue to do both as we strive to further enhance long-term shareholder value.
I will now turn the call over to Laura to discuss the performance of our Williams-Sonoma Pottery Barn and West Elm brands.
Thank you Sharon.
I would like to begin by discussing the performance of the Williams-Sonoma brand.
Comparable brand revenue for the Williams-Sonoma brand grew 0.7% as planned traffic-generating promotions drove higher selling margins.
From a merchandising perspective during the quarter we continue to see growth in our high-end assortment particularly in electrics and cookware.
These increases were partially offset however by outdoor and dinnerware.
As we look forward to the third quarter and the balance of the year we'll continue to focus on those key initiatives that are driving our business today and several new initiatives that we will be rolling out in the back half.
We'll be introducing new compelling marketing themes and a larger percentage of new and exclusive products.
We're also keenly focused on peak execution and improving our gift strategies.
We will continue to drive increased loyalty through the introduction of a new co-branded Williams-Sonoma VISA card.
Our Williams-Sonoma Reserve shipping program has demonstrated the power of a successful loyalty program and we believe this additional offering will not only introduce new customers to our brand but also increase the level of purchases from our existing customers.
Additionally we will continue to enrich the customer experience in-store and online.
Our stores will offer compelling content around food and more in-store events including exciting new culinary classes demos and cookbook signings.
Online we will continue to expand our reach and deepen our engagement with current customers through functionality enhancements and additional content on our website such as our ever-growing Recipes section.
We are also pushing our content to other websites on the Internet where people gather around food.
We believe that all of these initiatives will continue to enhance the shopping experience for our customers and advance the brand's authority as the premier destination for high-quality cooking accessories gift-giving ideas and home entertaining essentials.
I would now like to talk about Pottery Barn.
In the Pottery Barn brand comparable brand revenues increased 4% on top of 19% last year.
Net revenues including store closures increased 2%.
From a merchandising perspective home furnishings tabletops and decorative accessories were top-performing categories driven by an innovative merchandise assortment a strong value proposition and a strategic promotional calendar.
From an operational perspective during the quarter operating margin reached record levels as DTC approached nearly 50% of brand revenues.
And we further optimized retail occupancy and catalog advertising costs.
As we look forward to the third quarter and the balance of the year we are encouraged by the positive consumer response we are currently seeing to our fall merchandise assortment.
We're also confident in the strategies we have planned for the back half of the year including delivering a cohesive value-sensitive merchandising strategy around exclusive innovative and artisanal products; expanding product categories to fill white space in the marketplace; creating new experiences for our customers to make decorating easy fast fun and affordable through engaging in-store events clienteling and complementary design services; and making our website the broadest expression of the brand by blending commerce and content to deliver a rich and inspirational shopping experience.
We're also expanding our international reach through the opening of 2 additional franchise stores in Saudi Arabia.
All these initiatives are driving new customers to our brand both domestically and internationally and represent a significant opportunity to gain market share.
Now I'd like to talk about Pottery Barn Kids.
Pottery Barn Kids comparable brand revenues increased a better-than-expected 8% on top of 25% last year with particularly strong growth in e-commerce.
Net revenues also increased 8%.
From a merchandising perspective all key categories including textiles decorative accessories and furniture delivered strong growth.
This growth was fueled by a better-than-expected consumer response to our expanded baby offering and a brand-wide focus on product excellence digital display and the customer experience including our clienteling and complementary design services in-store and online.
From an operational perspective planned traffic-driving events and tight inventories drove higher-selling margins and improved profitability across both channels.
As we look forward to the third quarter and the balance of the year we are continuing to focus on those initiatives that are driving customer acquisition customer engagement and strong multichannel growth.
These initiatives include: building and marketing our expanding gifts assortment to develop a top-of-mind recognition as a gift-giving destination; leveraging our multichannel and operational strengths to deliver an effortless and engaging customer experience across all channels; driving e-commerce growth through engaging content improved search increased conversion and enhanced social platform; and expanding our international reach through the opening of 3 additional franchise stores in Saudi Arabia.
I would now like to talk about the PBteen brand.
Comparable brand revenues and net revenues in PBteen increased a better-than-expected 20% on top of 22% last year as the brand delivered its highest-ever Q2 operating margin.
From a merchandising perspective we saw growth across all key categories including furniture textiles and decorative accessories.
Planned promotions expanded assortments and successful e-marketing initiatives drove these strong results.
As we look forward to the third quarter and the balance of the year we're continuing to focus on those initiatives that will drive enhanced brand awareness and a greater level of consumer engagement including: broadening the assortment and further positioning the brand as a design resource for market-leading innovation quality and originality; growing our consumer base through new customer acquisition and expanded presence in social networks; and increasing traffic and conversion in e-commerce through highly targeted marketing and a compelling robust and inspiring customer experience.
All these initiatives will allow us to further engage teens in new ways and continue to drive strong profitable growth.
Lastly I would like to talk about West Elm.
West Elm delivered another record quarter as net revenues and operating profitability reached new highs.
During the second quarter comparable brand revenues increased 29% and net revenues increased 26%.
From a merchandising perspective we continue to make progress on our strategy to drive a higher frequency of purchases through the rebalancing of our product mix as evidenced by our strong growth in textiles decorative accessories and tabletop during the quarter.
New product introductions a significantly enhanced value proposition and new highly impactful multichannel marketing strategies drove these better-than-expected results.
We were particularly pleased with the strength of e-commerce which drove more than half of the brand's dollar growth during the quarter as natural search increased e-marketing and improvements in the on-site experience drove record traffic and conversion.
Retail traffic also reached new levels as we continue to roll out new in-store events and increase our collaborations with emerging artists.
As we look forward to the third quarter and the balance of the year we're encouraged by the momentum we are seeing in our business today and are focused on those new initiatives that we believe can take this business to the next level.
These initiatives include: expanding the breadth of our product assortment; enhancing our gift-giving business at a compelling value; creating a seamless and inspirational multichannel experience; and introducing a new store design with the opening of 2 new stores this fall 1 in LA and 1 in Seattle.
We'll also take advantage of opportunities that arise to expand our retail footprint including additional pop-up stores as premier locations become available.
I would now like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Budd Bugatch of Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Just quickly I think that the gross margin guidance for the year is down 20 basis points from the previous guidance and I think the SG&amp;A guidance is down 40 basis points.
Can you kind of walk through the puts and takes for the year on SG&amp;A guidance and the gross margin guidance and the changes in that 20 to 40 basis points? Sure Budd this is Laura.
I'm going to let Sharon answer it more specifically.
But I want to reiterate what I said earlier which is that we are so fortunate with our operating model to have different levers particularly in this environment where promotions are very competitive.
And as you saw us in Q2 we were able to optimize that cost and reduce advertising expense to allow us to stay very competitive in this environment and we have that same opportunity in Q3.
We believe this is very strategic as it will help us gain profitable market share as others don't have the same percentage of sales in their DTC business.
Sharon do you want to add to that? No it's a direct offset by what we moved out of gross margin.
We have a direct offset in SG&amp;A.
And our next question will come from Joe Feldman of Telsey Advisory Group.
You made a comment about with inventory actually having some back orders.
And I was curious if you could dig a little deeper into that where you are seeing inventories light.
Because overall inventory was up a little faster than sales and always in line with guidance.
But kind of can you talk about where it's heavy where it's light and where the back orders are coming from? Sure.
Last year if you look back at Q2 we had 15% sales growth and only about a 1% inventory growth.
And we said at that time that we were chasing inventory last year and we actually have been chasing it ever since because of the outperformance that we saw last year.
And our -- some of our product categories have very long lead times as we make artisanal products.
The areas that we do have higher than we'd like back orders in is upholstered furniture as we see increased demand in that area.
And we're doing very well with our new production line at Sutter Street but we made the transition this quarter and it took some time to do that of course.
And so we have some items that we have a little bit longer lead times on than we would like and the whole team is working very hard to get those items back in stock.
We also have replenishment in other categories in all -- in each and every one of the brands where we had faster sales than the inventory that was bought.
And so we're working to both replenish core inventories in some categories but also just bestsellers.
Our next question will come from Colin McGranahan of Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Kind of a longer-term strategic question if I could.
Sharon you mentioned as you think about growth opportunities in the future that there can be some opportunities with what you call white space new brand or small acquisition.
Maybe you could talk a little bit more about that because I think about your business and where there is white space you cover a lot of categories.
And historically you've tried others like gardening and storage.
And you cover a pretty wide range of age spectrum from infants through kids through core families all the way to what Williams-Sonoma Home does.
So where are you thinking about white space? And as a follow-up to that with the stock where it is today and nearly $500 million of cash in the balance sheet why wouldn't that cash be better put to use buying back your own stock rather than pursuing acquisitions? It's Laura.
We have successfully grown our business within our company by identifying the needs that our customers have that aren't being served by other retailers.
And we see the same opportunity as we go forward.
Specifically the white space we see is competitive obviously.
So I'm not ready today to talk about specifics on what we're going to try.
But we continue to find areas in each one of our brands and we also are identifying areas outside of our brands where we think the customer is still really struggling to find what they're looking for in the home space.
So more to come on that subject.
We're also investing in our e-commerce future.
We know that we're -- because of our long experience in e-commerce we're further ahead than a lot of people and we need to keep that gap as wide as we can.
So we continue to invest in both talent but also in functionality in e-commerce.
So we'll be continuing to make those investments along with in-store store of the future investments to make sure that our retail stores stay vibrant and up to date with the newest technology.
As far as buyback I'm going to let Sharon address that.
Colin we'll continue to address uses of cash.
We have been returning cash to shareholders.
You know that through our dividend share repurchase each quarter.
We want to first prioritize growth opportunities and we really believe there are some significant growth opportunities out there.
So we'll continue to prioritize it look at it and continue to assess what we believe is a reasonable amount of cash to hold on the balance sheet and what is reasonable to return to shareholders.
But rest assured we're looking at it constantly.
And our next question will come from Matt Nemer of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> I've got 1 question with 2 completely unrelated parts.
The first is could you talk about your decision to lower circ in the third quarter? And does that pose any risk to DTC growth? And then secondly just to follow up on Colin's question you've talked about not wanting to use your credit facility for your seasonal borrowing needs if you don't need to.
But I'm wondering if you might reconsider that this year given that you can borrow at L plus 1 and buy the stock back at 5x EBITDA.
I'll take the question -- This is Pat.
I'll take the question on circulation.
Our circulation is down a little bit in Q3.
A couple of hundred basis points of that is due to our mailing shift.
We moved one of our catalog mailings from the first week in August to last week in July and that was worth about 200 basis points.
We also saw an opportunity based on results from last year to trim some marginal circulation in one of our brands.
And as you can see we're continuing to find new opportunities in e-marketing across a wide variety of programs where we're investing.
And Matt the question on the -- your question about share repurchase the answer is the same that I gave to Colin.
And our next question comes from Matthew Fassler of Goldman Sachs.
Given that your DTC business came in ahead of plan and your retail sales came in a tad below plan presumably you're seeing ongoing channel shift and sales transfer to your direct channel.
Can you talk about how that is differing? To -- rather to what degree do you think you are retaining the customers who are moving off of retail? And also how that might be differing by brand as this evolution continues? It's Laura.
We know that our customers when they make a purchase decision particularly some of the very concerned purchase decisions you make when you decorate a home or a room of your home we know that they go to all of the channels and they look at the products online.
They go sit on the sofas in our stores.
And where they actually make that final purchase decision is less important to us.
What is important to us is the seamless experience that they have across all of our brands.
We are using our marketing history and information to send very targeted e-mails and targeted marketing mailings to our customers based on purchases during their preferences.
And we are also really enriching our store experience with in-store events clienteling.
It's interesting even our in-store clienteling initiatives is driving online sales because unlike other retailers we book those sales actually to direct even if someone in the store is helping them because they're actually transacting online.
In many cases a lot of the products are not even offered in our stores.
They're only offered online.
So online is the biggest channel.
The beginning of this year we started really talking about comparable brand revenues being -- instead of being hyperfocused on comp store sales because we believe that you could make the wrong decision for the customer if you overly focus on comp store sales.
Our strategy is to have incredible stores in the best malls with highly engaged associates serving our customers with quality products and inspiring display and very targeted online marketing to communicate to them when new things come.
In both channels we have our decorating resource -- decorating resources on our home furnishings brand particularly in Pottery Barn and Kids where you can go online and actually have a very robust experience in choosing items for your home and deciding how to decorate it.
You'll see this same sort of content being built for Williams-Sonoma where it's not just that we're selling the pan but also giving recipes to the customer that inspire them to buy the pan.
And you're going to see us do even more of that kind of marketing as we go forward.
So there isn't -- each brand does have its nuance but the overall strategy is the same which is to provide the customer with a seamless shopping experience and to really help them make their purchase decision anywhere anytime they want to shop.
And we'll hear next from Brian Nagel of Oppenheimer.
I want to focus my question on sales.
A commentary you made in your prepared remarks was quite positive about what you're seeing as we shift into the fall season.
So -- but if you look at it the sales did slightly fall below plan if you look at it on a brand sales basis for Q2.
So maybe if can help us understand what the trend in business was for the quarter.
And then the second question on that given all the financial market turbulence lately if you will I mean any type of impact in your business more recently? Trend through the quarter the quarter actually got -- Q2 if you look at it sequentially there was some choppiness but it got stronger in July which may be surprising.
And that's about as much as I think we should talk about in terms of sequential trend.
As we look at August as I said it's early.
But we're confident about what we're seeing right now from our customer.
And we have been building our strategies for the back half of the year with the economic uncertainty in mind.
So we have very relevant marketing themes that are going to be relevant to how people are feeling.
We have exciting new product offers and our operating model allows us flexibility in a more promotional environment.
Our next question will come from Janet Kloppenburg of JJK Research.
I wondered if Laura you could talk a little bit more about the comp trend the in-store trend.
I think that maybe your investment in the direct side of the business has maybe boosted that channel's reach a little bit more than expected.
And I'm wondering if you think the trade-off is ahead of plan that is from stores to that channel and how we should be thinking about store growth particularly in the Williams-Sonoma brand going forward.
And also Sharon if you could talk a little bit about the outdoor and dinnerware categories that you said I don't know there may have been some problems with that in the second quarter.
And lastly if you thought the back order waits at all affected your top line trends in the second quarter.
Back orders definitely affected some of our trends.
And clearly if a customer has to wait you also can see demand fall off.
So that is why we're working hard to remedy the – in some categories but also keep the inventory tight in total.
In terms of the comp I was talking about that earlier in that our customers shop multichannel.
And we have made tremendous investment in our e-commerce channel.
We've also made investments in retail.
And we believe very strongly in the combination of the 2 to help our customers make their purchase decisions.
We have chosen not to favor our comp store sales even though they have been historically what people look at because we're focused on driving highly profitable sales and letting the customer make that decision.
There's not a surprise to us that the highly targeted marketing is working and that given that we have our largest store online we're seeing more rapid growth there.
In terms of our real estate portfolio in the United States we have been very focused on market by market where we should have our stores where we should remodel stores and keeping our fleet fresh and highly profitable.
And so you see us in markets remodel entire stores and in some cases close a store where we have too many stores in the market.
And this is going to be a continuing strategy as we go forward and one that we believe will really strengthen our brands and continue to deliver more profit to our shareholders.
You mentioned the Williams-Sonoma outdoor and dinnerware categories as being slightly softer.
And we did see with the seasonal shift that outdoor was -- it started earlier but then we did not -- the sales actually we brought outdoor in a little bit earlier than we had last year and we saw some nice response early in but then we didn't see the ramp that we would have liked in our outdoor cookware category.
And it was highly promotional.
And frankly we believe that it was more of a -- that we were treating it more of a durable when it was really a consumable and it was something that we probably shouldn't have planned as aggressively.
So that is the comment on outdoor.
And dinnerware we actually have been really working to freshen up our tabletop category.
And if you go into our Williams-Sonoma stores now you'll see the results of that which is a more elevated tabletop higher quality more artisanal and we're very excited about that transition.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question will come from Alan Rifkin of Barclays Capital.
This is Sam Reid filling in for Alan Rifkin.
I just was noting that you guys said that there is now more certainty than in 2Q.
Applying what you guys learned in the last recession if the current environment should continue to slow down what steps would you all be able to take to further rein in expenses? We remember well what happened before.
And when that happened we retooled every single part of our company.
And those initiatives continue to give us cost savings today.
And we have said earlier that our supply chain initiatives continue to perform and we have additional initiatives in the future to save money and also to deliver better customer service to our consumers.
Those specifics are competitive but we have still a lot of runway in improving the quality and service to our customers and our supply chain and also updating our network to do so that will provide us lower costs.
Throughout the company there are other areas where we continue to find leverage points.
We've talked about our ad costs and the increasing understanding of how to use e-marketing programs to optimize profitability.
And our direct-to-customer percentage to total really gives us flexibility that others don't have in their operating models.
I just want to add though that even though we see all of this uncertainty and we of course read the news and watch the stock market we are also really committed to investing in our longer-term growth.
We said this year that we're going to make an investment in e-commerce and in global and in new business acquisition.
And we believe that even these uncertain times give us an opportunity to get further ahead because of our strong financial position.
And our next question will come from Matt McGinley of International Strategy and Investment.
I have a question on your increase in selling margins.
Presumably you're having cost increases that are cycling through the gross margins but you're offsetting this by price.
Are you still receiving price request increases from your vendors at the same rate? And when does that begin to level out? And when do you think those costs headwinds will no longer be a headwind where you can still get through the price but maybe not have the expense? I'd like to say that the worst is behind us with commodities going down.
But the reality is that labor will continue to go up in Asian markets and you're going to see vendors -- they're going to ask for cost increases.
We have been successful in offsetting them through some unique strategies that we have and that -- and we will continue to focus on them.
But we do have in our margins now I hope the worst of it.
With the cotton price spike from last year those goods are now in our pipeline as we speak.
Our next question comes from Chris Horvers of JPMorgan.
Sharon question for you.
Given the slowdown in the core Williams-Sonoma comps in the second quarter and the importance of that brand to 4Q sales is the 20-basis-point gross margin reduction in the back half particularly related to this brand as you see an ability to trade off selling margins versus advertising productivity? And just really bigger picture and we're all trying to figure out what's going on with the high-end consumer that's your core customer.
Maybe you could talk about how you're thinking about the high-end consumer today versus maybe a month or 3 months ago.
Certainly.
We -- in the back half when we look at the margin we actually have been more conservative in every brand with the exception of West Elm which is absolutely positively seeing probably the best year in its history.
So when we look at it what's interesting about this time is that the high-end consumer when you listen to the categories that Laura just spoke to that are actually working in our business the high-end consumer is staying strong and our higher-end assortments are performing well.
So as we think about it there's the mix of our brands the mix within our brands that will affect the margin but there's also the strengths that we see behind the business coming into Q3.
Laura we both said that coming into Q3 the consumer response to our fall merchandising strategies and our product is strong.
So as we look forward while the economy is doing what it's doing here we are seeing the consumer engaged.
So we'll look at that.
We've softened it 20 basis points on the year when you consider the fact that Q3 and Q4 are bigger than the first 2 quarters of the year.
It's a significant cushion and we feel good about it.
Also if we had to go further we also -- as Laura said with the operating model I expect to see the benefit on the advertising side on the SG&amp;A side because if we're more promotional we see that we can use less advertising in order to drive the sales.
And we'll move next to Brad Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Wanted to follow up on some of the commentary around your promotional activity.
I was hoping you'll just speak a little bit more about your level of planned promotions during the second quarter versus the level of markdowns.
And then secondly when we see the retail sales coming a little bit light the share shifting towards DTC does that put incremental pressure on your retail margins? And then lastly as we think about the back half is it fair to think you're stepping things up another level with respect to that planned promotional activity? Brad it's Laura.
Q2 our margins our planned promotional activity and markdowns actually allowed us to drive higher MMU year-over-year.
So it was successful in doing I think even more than others thought it would do.
And at the same time we talked a lot about promotions but our brands are very regular-priced brands.
In fact the percentage at regular prices is quite high.
And so while we talk about it it's a smaller shift than you -- in the numbers than you might expect if I were to go through them.
So as we look at Q3 and Q4 we have our plans in place.
They're competitive.
We also have plans if the economy were to change good or bad to address the change in the competitive environment because it is so important to us that people can buy the best value the best quality the best price at our brands.
Our next question comes from Kate McShane of Citi Investment Research.
I know it was just fully launched in Q2 with your international shipping but I wondered if you can give us a little more color on what you've seen so far and how the response has differed among your brands.
Sure.
We launched with a third party and we did this for 2 reasons.
One we have demand and our customers are asking for us to ship all the time even from our American stores who are overseas who are constantly having that done via containers and different ways and we thought that this would be a much better experience for our customers with a better system to do that.
The other reason we did it was because it helps us know where the bulk of the customers are in advance of opening stores and going into markets with fully integrated e-commerce.
And so we're very pleased to understand and verify where we have business and in what order.
We also -- as we think about our international strategy we've also been talking to all of our store associates in all of our stores about what the top 3 countries are that customers want to ship to and comparing those comments to what we're seeing with our international shipping demand.
And it's very interesting and congruent and it's really going to help us launch very effectively overseas.
And we'll move next to David Magee of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick question more strategic on the Williams-Sonoma brand.
As you look in the future that seems to be the most vulnerable perhaps of your brands relative to online competition.
How do you plan to protect that? And do you get exclusives from vendors increasingly in the future? Or how do you see that developing? We are getting exclusives and we believe that our customer comes to us for not just the product but also because they trust us.
We know them and we are going to stand behind them.
We have increased our customer service initiatives very aggressively so that people come to our stores to gather around food learn how to cook and entertain and then also to go to our websites to search for recipes.
We -- we've increased the Recipe section of our website and the amount of page views are staggering and continues to grow showing the relevance and the top-of-mind awareness of the Williams-Sonoma brand.
Our vendors are very strong partners with us.
They understand the marketplace.
They -- we are the big fish and they want to protect the exclusivity in the relationship.
And so we continue to build new innovative products with them that are not in the market.
And Pat is reminding me here that only -- here's a good -- why don't you give them the stat? We have only 26 of our top 100 SKUs in Williams-Sonoma are even available on Amazon.
So while we have a lot of products that are available there the majority of our bestsellers are exclusive to us and it then really points out the differentiation that we have.
We have very strong DTC business in Williams-Sonoma.
The other thing that's very different about us is our artisanal products and that emporium feeling that you get when you go into our Williams-Sonoma stores online and our ability to bring to the customers things that they would not see in any of their -- in any other online stores or in stores in general.
So that premium positioning will continue focused on as a recap the service levels keeping the quality very high and innovative and exciting new products.
And we'll move next to Peter Benedict of Robert Baird.
Sharon a quick question on the occupancy expenses of $123 million in the quarter.
Help me think about that in the back half of the year.
I think that the plan was for that to start going up.
I wanted to just get an update on that and how you see that...
[Technical Difficulty] I did hear the question you wanted to understand what -- occupancy is going down $2 million in the second quarter to $123 million.
How did we see that for the back half.
That was the first part I heard.
Do you want to finish? Yes just that.
And then also how the international business is impacting the gross margin in the quarter and how you see it impacting it going forward.
Certainly.
Occupancy I think we can think about occupancy for the year virtually flat.
You are going to see some increases coming into the back half.
We're putting a new building in service as part of our e-commerce and our expansion plans.
So that will be coming in in the back half.
But the real estate teams are doing an excellent job in the efforts with our landlords not to mention you would have noticed we have some additional store closures.
So I think that we should be in a great place with occupancy this year and we're continuing to work hard to optimize it.
As it relates to how the international franchise operations affect the P&amp;L basically what they do is they put pressure on the margins because obviously a franchise operation is a wholesale operation.
But then on the SG&amp;A side it levers.
So if you take a look at today's commentary you'll see that in -- where I mentioned in gross margin that international operations had a negative impact it had a more-than-positive impact coming out of the SG&amp;A.
And that's how you're going to think about it.
And as that grows we'll have to continue to call that out because we've got to divorce that from selling margins.
And we'll hear next from Michael Baker of Deutsche Bank.
So I was curious about the strategy to open up pop-up stores in the West Elm brand.
We still only have 35 stores throughout the country.
I guess what's the theory behind doing a pop-up at this point rather than filling out some more permanent locations? Well opportunity.
We are very pleased with our store model and its performance and we are looking for permanent locations.
But we are going to be picky about those.
And because they're longer leases and we want premium space in some cases there isn't locations -- there aren't locations available quite yet.
However we have seen that there are some spaces available earlier and shifted to the holiday season.
And we opened a store in Georgetown that we're very proud of.
It's very creative artistic space very small 3 000 square feet driving profit but also helping us understand that market and what that consumer wants in that market so that when we do put a permanent store there we can be successful and also have the population really get to know us as soon as we can.
So you're going to see us continue to look for the -- it's always a good time particularly as you head towards the holiday season where they make sense.
And I'd invite any of you who are in Washington D.C.
to go visit the store downtown to see what we're talking about.
And we'll move on to Laura Champine of Cowen and Company.
This is Tom Nikic for Laura Champine today.
I just wanted to ask a little bit more about margins.
So you said earlier that you've been more efficient with your ad spending.
Does that mean that you can afford to be a little more promotional in back half than you otherwise would have been and that's what's driving the reduction in the full year gross margin guidance? And is there something else going on? Like were product costs higher than you had expected? Or anything on along those lines? Well Tom the advertising productivity -- when we talk about advertising we're talking about advertising productivity meaning that for every dollar that we are investing in advertising it is more productive than the dollar that we would have spent in a prior time frame.
So we are extremely pleased with what we've done the investments we've made in e-commerce e-marketing what Pat's team is doing the circulation balance between catalog circulation and e-marketing.
All of those are playing into a higher productive ad cost.
To your question yes we believe that in the back half if things became more promotional with the competition that we definitely would be able to move some gross margin dollars and offset them in ad costs and go further than we've already gone in the guidance and would do so if we saw that to be necessary.
At this point based on the initial consumer response to our fall and holiday -- our fall merchandising strategies we're not seeing a need to do that.
But if we did we certainly could.
And our final question will come from Michael Lasser of UBS.
Sharon digging deeper into your sales guidance for the second half have you taken the uncertainties in the broader environment into account? Or have you simply and strictly kept it to a similar method that you used for forecasting the business in the past? We kept it pretty much -- there's no question that we considered it.
I -- obviously we certainly did because if you take a look at the guidance we did take it down in the back half of the year.
For the full year we're down a little bit.
We held it in the same place.
And based on the strength we're seeing right now on the fall assortment we might have potentially projected that out further.
But at this point we have been cautious but not materially.
We see our business performing.
We see the high end performing.
So I wouldn't say it's overly conservative no.
And at this time I'll turn the conference over to Laura Alber for any final comments.
Well thank you all for joining us and we look forward to talking to you next time.
That does conclude today's teleconference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Inc.
Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Steve Nelson Vice President of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP measures and forward-looking statements.
Good morning.
This morning's conference call should be considered in conjunction with the press release that we issued earlier today.
Our press release and this call contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to facilitate meaningful year-over-year comparisons.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and an explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful are discussed in Exhibit 1 of the press release.
The forward-looking statements included in this morning's call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements address the financial condition results of operations business initiatives guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2011 and beyond and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our third quarter 2011 results and our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2011 outlook.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
With me today are Pat Connolly our Chief Marketing Officer; and Sharon McCollam our Chief Operating Chief Financial Officer.
The third quarter was another strong quarter for the company as we continue to gain market share and drive enhanced profitability.
During the quarter comparable brand revenues increased 7% as direct-to-customer revenues increased 10% and retail comp store sales increased 6%.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 17% to a third quarter record of $0.41.
Innovative merchandising personalized and event-triggered marketing and a higher level of customer engagement drove these better-than-expected results as we continue to attract new customers to our brand.
Non-GAAP operating margin climbed 60 basis points to a Q3 record of 7.9% as higher revenues drove increased sales leverage in fixed occupancy and advertising costs.
Throughout the quarter we continued to invest in our key long-term growth initiatives including driving growth in our direct-to-customer channel expanding the reach of West Elm increasing our global presence and executing against our business development strategy.
Within the direct-to-customer channel e-commerce revenues increased 15%.
A continued focus on traffic and conversion drove these results including the ongoing optimization of paid search and natural search improved relevance of targeted marketing and an enhanced online customer experience.
In West Elm comparable brand revenues increased 27% on top of 24% last year as new customer accounts continued to rise.
Also during the quarter we added 5 additional franchise stores in the Middle East.
This brings our total Middle East franchise stores to 13 with plans for expansion in 2012 and beyond.
We're also continuing to work on our long-term global expansion strategy.
In business development we acquired Rejuvenation Inc.
on November 1 which is in our fourth quarter.
Headquartered in Portland Oregon Rejuvenation is a leading manufacturer and multichannel retailer of custom configured and authentic made-to-order lighting in addition to high-end door and cabinet hardware.
An excellent complement to our portfolio of brands Rejuvenation is marketed through e-commerce catalog and 3 stores.
While not currently material to our total revenue or earnings we expect Rejuvenation to become a more meaningful contributor over time as we leverage our multichannel marketing and supply chain logistic capabilities with Rejuvenation's high-quality specialty products.
In our supply chain during the quarter we continue to drive ongoing customer service and cost reduction benefits through our Asian sourcing distribution transportation and packaging initiatives.
We also completed the transition of our North Carolina upholstered furniture operations to our new state-of-the-art facility as our demand for high-quality exclusive upholstered products continues to grow.
As we enter into the fourth quarter the consumer response to our seasonal merchandising assortments has been positive despite volatility in the overall economy.
This response combined with our strong value proposition and a greatly enhanced multichannel shopping experience leaves us well-positioned to continue to gain market share and deliver another highly profitable quarter.
As such we are reiterating our fourth quarter non-GAAP EPS guidance of $1.15 to $1.20 and we are increasing our full year guidance for the $0.02 outperformance we delivered in Q3.
This brings our fiscal year 2011 revenue growth to a range of 5% to 6% and our non-GAAP diluted EPS to a range of $2.21 to $2.26 versus $1.95 last year.
I will now turn the call over to Sharon for more details on the third quarter and our guidance.
Thank you Laura.
Good morning everyone.
As Laura said earlier Q3 was another strong quarter for the company.
Net revenues increased 6% to $867 million significantly better than the industry and comparable brand revenues increased 7.3%.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 17% to a third quarter record of $0.41 per share which was $0.02 above the high end of our guidance.
Incremental revenues higher productivity of advertising costs and benefits from our ongoing occupancy cost reduction initiatives drove these better-than-expected results.
Gross margin increased 10 basis points to 38.3%.
This increase was primarily driven by sales leverage at fixed occupancy expenses and a decrease in occupancy cost partially offset by lower year-over-year selling margins and the margin impact of our international franchise operations.
For the quarter occupancy expense dollars decreased $1 million to $125 million.
In SG&amp;A expenses decreased 50 basis points to 30.4% on a non-GAAP basis.
This decrease was primarily driven by lower advertising costs a reduction in other general expenses and sales leverage from increased net revenues partially offset by higher employment costs.
The employment increase was reflective of our planned incremental investment in our e-commerce global expansion and business development growth strategies.
From a segment reporting perspective the Q3 total company earnings before tax operating margin expanded 60 basis points on a non-GAAP basis to a record 7.9% driven by 140 basis point improvement in the direct-to-customer segment and a 20 basis point improvement in the retail segment.
These improvements were partially offset by a 20 basis point impact in the non-allocated expense segment driven by incremental investments in our longer-term growth initiatives.
In the direct-to-customer segment the 140 basis point improvement in the operating margin was driven by increased productivity and advertising costs sales leverage of fixed occupancy expenses and ongoing benefits from supply chain.
These improvements were partially offset however by the selling margin impact of increased promotional activity and planned incremental investments in e-commerce.
The 20 basis point improvement in the retail segment was driven by sales leverage of fixed occupancy expenses lower occupancy costs due to store closures and sales leverage of fixed SG&amp;A expenses again partially offset by the selling margin impact of increased promotional activity.
From a balance sheet perspective cash and cash equivalents decreased $10 million to $379 million after returning over $205 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends over the past 12 months.
Merchandise inventories increased $40 million or 7% to $627 million.
Back orders at the end of the quarter however continue to be higher than last year due to strong sales in several runaway categories that we are working aggressively to replenish.
And customer deposits increased $11 million to $208 million primarily due to an increase in customer shipments in transit at the end of the quarter.
I'd now like to briefly discuss our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2011 guidance.
As Laura mentioned we are encouraged by the early consumer response to our seasonal and holiday merchandising and marketing strategies.
As such we are increasing our full year guidance for the outperformance we saw in Q3 and are reiterating our top and bottom line guidance for Q4.
In Q4 net revenues are expected to be in the range of $1.24 billion to $1.26 billion and non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $1.15 to $1.20 versus $1.08 last year.
This assumes revenue growth of 4% to 6% comparable brand revenue growth of 5.5% to 7.5% and non-GAAP diluted EPS growth of 6.5% to 11%.
For the full year net revenues are expected to be in the range of $3.69 billion to $3.72 billion and non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $2.21 to $2.26 versus $1.95 last year.
This assumes revenue growth of 5% to 6% comparable brand revenue growth of 6.5% to 7.5% and non-GAAP diluted EPS growth of 13% to 16%.
In both the fourth quarter and the full year our non-GAAP diluted EPS guidance even at the low end represents record profitability for the company as we leverage our multichannel business model and grow DTC as a percentage of our mix.
At the same time it includes our ongoing investment in our next phases of growth including e-commerce global expansion and business development.
From a uses of cash perspective our business model continues to generate significant cash flow and we have virtually no debt.
So we are well-positioned to invest in growth like the Rejuvenation acquisition while at the same time return excess cash to our shareholders.
As such we will continue to do both as we strive to further enhance long-term shareholder value.
I will now turn the call over to Laura to discuss the performance of our Williams-Sonoma Pottery Barn and West Elm brands.
Thank you Sharon.
I would like to begin by discussing the performance of the Williams-Sonoma brand.
Comparable brand revenues in Williams-Sonoma grew 0.1% in the third quarter led by growth in the direct-to-customer channel.
In the retail channel we experienced a more promotional competitive environment but offset it with a greater level of online customer engagement and stronger e-marketing initiatives.
Another initiative during the quarter was the consolidation of the Williams-Sonoma and Williams-Sonoma Home website to create a more engaging and holistic brand experience for our customers.
We also expanded our Williams-Sonoma Home cable chair and kitchen island assortments in our larger Williams-Sonoma stores to provide a more inspiring backdrop to showcase our tabletop and entertaining category.
Also during the quarter we expanded our Williams-Sonoma loyalty initiatives by rolling out our new cobranded Visa signature card.
While it is still early in the launch the consumer response is exceeding our expectations and combined with our reserve shipping program we believe we are entering the fourth quarter with one of the most compelling loyalty offerings in the housewares and home furnishing category.
From a merchandising perspective during the quarter we continue to see growth in the departments where we had the greatest concentration of new product introductions and strong traffic generating promotional calendars including electrics entertaining and linens.
These increases were partially offset however by cook's tools and cookware.
As we enter into the fourth quarter we have a significant number of new merchandising targeted marketing and customer engagement initiatives that we did not have 1 year  ago.
In merchandising the fourth quarter assortment offers a significantly higher percentage of new and exclusive products particularly in seasonal cooking and entertaining electrics and food.
We're also offering our customers a greatly expanded number of gifting options both personalized and preselected which we believe are not only under-penetrated categories but also important customer service offerings.
In marketing we are increasing our in-store and online messaging behind our Williams-Sonoma exclusive product offerings and our enhanced value proposition.
In addition we'll be capitalizing on the new marketing opportunities that the reserve shipping and co-branded Visa loyalty programs offer.
We'll also be driving increased customer engagement in our retail stores by leveraging our just launched clienteling initiative in the Williams-Sonoma brand.
Additionally we are launching our strongest ever in-store event calendar for the holiday season.
We believe that all these initiatives will enhance the multichannel shopping experience for our customers and further advance the brand's authority as the premier destination for high-quality cooking accessories gift-giving ideas and home-entertaining essentials throughout the fourth quarter and beyond.
I would now like to talk about Pottery Barn.
In the Pottery Barn brand comparable brand revenues increased 7% on top of 16% last year with strong results across both channels.
From a merchandising perspective all key categories particularly textiles furniture and tabletop delivered impressive growth during the quarter.
An innovative merchandise assortment relevant to how our customers live decorate and entertain and a strong value proposition drove these better-than-expected results.
From an operational perspective optimized advertising and occupancy expenses and lower supply chain costs combined with strong revenue growth drove one of the highest third quarter operating margins in the brand's history.
As we enter into the fourth quarter we are encouraged by the positive consumer response we are currently seeing to our seasonal and holiday merchandise assortments and confident in the strategies we have planned for the fourth quarter including delivering a cohesive and value-sensitive merchandising strategy around exclusive innovative and artisanal products; creating an engaging in-store experience for our customers through decorating events clienteling and complementary design services; and making our website the broadest expression of our brand by blending commerce content and ease of use to deliver a superior shopping experience across all channels.
All these initiatives are driving new customers to the brand and represent ongoing opportunities to increase market share.
Now I would like to talk about the Pottery Barn Kids brand.
Pottery Barn Kids' comparable brand revenues increased 5% on top of 12% last year as direct-to-customer sales climbed to a record 55% of net revenue.
From a merchandising perspective all key categories delivered positive growth during the quarter with particular strength in furniture textiles and decorative accessories.
Our expanded baby offering and a brand-wide focus on product excellence visual display and the customer experience drove these strong results.
From an operational perspective product sourcing initiatives and a strategic promotional calendar combined with tight inventories and strong expense management offset lower selling margins that resulted from a more promotional competitive environment.
As we enter into the fourth quarter we are encouraged by the positive consumer response we are seeing to our seasonal holiday merchandise assortments and are continuing to focus on initiatives that will drive customer acquisition customer engagement and strong multichannel growth.
These initiatives include: Marketing our expanded gifts assortment to establish Pottery Barn Kids as top-of-mind gift-giving destination for children; leveraging our multichannel and operational strength to deliver a seamless and engaging customer experience across all channels; and driving e-commerce growth through compelling content improved search increased conversion and enhanced social platform.
I would now like to talk about the PBteen brand.
Comparable brand revenues in PBteen increased 6% on top of 17% last year as operating profitability reached new highs and our dorm and back-to-school strategies drove incremental sales and new customers to the brand.
From a merchandising perspective we saw particular strength in decorative accessories and textiles.
As we enter into the fourth quarter we are continuing to focus on those initiatives that are driving enhanced brand awareness and a greater level of customer engagement including: Increasing traffic and conversion in e-commerce through highly targeted marketing campaigns and a strong promotional calendar; expanding our gifting assortment and further positioning the brand as a design resource for innovation quality and unique gifts; broadening our reach through new customer acquisition and an expanded presence in social networks; and testing our first pop-up store which opened to a strong consumer response earlier this month.
All these initiatives will allow us to further engage the teen customer in new ways and continue to drive strong earnings for the brand.
Lastly I would like to talk about West Elm.
The West Elm brand delivered another record quarter as net revenues and operating profitability again reached new highs.
During the third quarter comparable brand revenues increased 27% on top of 24% last year with both channels driving impressive year-over-year growth.
From a merchandising perspective new product introductions an enhanced value proposition and a highly targeted multichannel marketing strategy drove strong results across categories.
Textiles furniture decorative accessories and tabletop were top-performing categories as the rebalance of the product mix continues to drive increased frequency of purchase and engage new customers in the brand.
From a customer engagement perspective our commitment to a seamless cross channel connection with our customers has taken service in the brand to a new level.
To achieve this we provided our customer with great product great design deep product information and expert advice across channels.
Additionally we have introduced a new store design with our Seattle store which opened this quarter and launched the most compelling website redesign in our history of the brand.
Both of these initiatives are providing the customer with a real tangible and vital expression of the brands in every interaction.
As we enter into the fourth quarter we are encouraged by the positive consumer response to our broadened assortment and compelling value proposition.
We believe the brand's vision of offering unique affordable and approachable products that help our customers express their own personal style at home is resonating with our customers.
And we are continuing to focus on those initiatives that are taking the business to the next level.
These initiatives include: diversifying the product assortment and aesthetic to broaden the appeal of the brand; expanding the assortment of textiles gifts and entertaining products at a compelling value; establishing westelm.com as a hub of the online design community through relevant product cutting-edge original content and design inspiration; and continuing to evolve the retail service model by offering a complete brand experience in-store.
We're also aggressively pursuing the expansion of our retail footprint as premier locations become available including today's opening of our new store in Los Angeles.
I would now like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
This is TJ filling in for Bud.
Laura you referenced several times throughout the call the promotional environment and the heightened level of promotion.
Can you give us maybe a little color about how that -- how you think that relates to -- is relative to last year one; and then maybe two how that relates to what you saw -- what you thought you would see 3 months ago? Thank you TJ great question.
The promotional environment continues as we expected from the beginning of the year and including last year we said that we are going to continue to be relevant in a time where customers are looking for value.
But it is not just about value for us.
We're focused on innovative products we're focused on compelling display and presentation across all channels and incredible service.
There's no change in my mind between what we saw 3 months ago and today and we believe that it's very important to continue to be relevant so that you can take market share in this time where we believe there's opportunity to do that.
And we will go next to Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Williams-Sonoma had the lowest brand growth in the quarter and just wondering what leaves you confident that that brand can experience the seasonal ramp that it needs to from Q3 to Q4.
Thank you for the question.
Williams-Sonoma is one of those brands that I believe is absolutely top of mind when you think about getting ready for the holidays both in terms of entertaining and gift-giving.
Our product strategy is to continue to introduce a higher percentage of exclusive goods into our brand which we have done for this fourth quarter.
We're working closely with our vendors and our design team to drive this innovation.
The other place we see opportunity at Williams-Sonoma is e-commerce where we have a lot of initiatives to add content and to build the community around food.
The Recipe section of our website is a great example of that.
In our stores we continue to focus on our rich store experience as I mentioned.
We have more culinary events we're increasing our cooking education and we are recruiting a higher level of talent into our store team to augment what I think is possibly the most high-service retail atmosphere in the malls.
We're also focused this year on seamless shopping.
We've talked a lot about how we've invested in e-commerce.
But I want to make sure that I stress on this call today that that investment in e-commerce is also driving our sales at retail.
And we will go next to Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A question for Sharon.
Sharon on the DTC side you seem to have had a significant increase in the EBIT margins in this quarter which were up 140 basis points despite the fact that revenue growth in the DTC channel at 9.9% was the slowest growth in quite some time.
Have we really crossed that threshold now where we should going forward continue to see incrementally more leverage on the DTC side of the business? And then secondly using PBK where you have 55% penetration on DTC do you think that's a proxy of where the whole company can ultimately get to with respect to the breakdown between retail and DTC? Well we talked about the -- in the DTC segment we had an improvement of 140 basis points and that was driven by really 3 things.
It was the productivity and advertising costs and the sales leverage of fixed occupancy expenses and then of course the ongoing benefit that we're seeing from supply chain.
So now those improvements were partially offset by the more promotional environment and our incremental investment in e-commerce.
So that lays the groundwork for how the quarter came out at the EBT margin.
So as we look forward we are going to continue Alan to invest in the growth of e-commerce and the growth of our total direct channel as well including supply chain.
So as we think about it we believe that the brand has -- the segment has a lot of potential but we're going to continue to invest.
So at this point what we're focused on is driving increased revenues increased profits and we just don't again want to get nailed down on to a 1 metric related to that channel.
So -- and then Laura you want to add to that? I would just say you asked a question about PBK as a proxy.
Each brand has a unique opportunity and as I said earlier we're really using our e-commerce to drive all channels.
And I really see a future where that becomes even bigger part of what we do to further differentiate ourselves from others who have either a very large store base compared to their total DTC sales or conversely only in online play.
And so PBK as one of our newer brands in the cycle has more online.
They also are driving that as a larger percent by new category growth that's offered online not in our stores because our stores are smaller square footage stores.
And each one of our brands has a unique opportunity.
We've said that we are going to take the total company's e-commerce revenues up and we could see depending on the customer channel preference that they go over 50 over time.
But right now the focus is seamless shopping and making easy for our customers to shop wherever they want on multiple screens multiple devices anywhere anytime.
And we will go to our next question from Colin McGranahan with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just on selling margins it looks like you came in kind of maybe down 80 or 90 basis points and I know the international franchise revenue impacts that.
But certainly a fairly significant decline in selling margins and it looks like the gross margin outlook for the year is a little bit lower.
Is that just all the change in the promotional environment and obviously you've inched your guidance down so something turned out a little bit differently than maybe you'd expected there.
We continue to want to help everyone understand the power of our operating model.
With a large percent of our business in direct we have an opportunity to drive increased profit increased revenues versus our competition by reducing selling prices to get the customer to further engage with us.
When we do that we don't need to spend as much in advertising costs and it leverages our SG&amp;A which is what you've continued to see.
And it's been a choice that we've made because we believe it is so important to be cognizant of what's going on with the consumer and to give them great value in a time where they're very careful of how they're spending their money.
Colin this is Pat I just wanted to add.
There are a lot of numbers underneath that direct business I think that we're very excited about.
Visitor growth was up almost 19% in the quarter.
Conversion continues to climb on our website and orders were up over 20% and revenue per visitor remained essentially flat.
So supporting what Laura said we have a number of levers that we can pull to drive sales in the company.
And these investments that we're making especially...
not only on the site but also in e-marketing are driving increased traffic to our retail stores as well.
It's not just the 200 basis point increase that direct had as part of the total.
And next we will hear from Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> So I wondered -- my question I want to focus on sales and include the brand comps.
You outperformed your guidance and showed a nice improvement from the last couple of quarters.
But if we look below that the dynamic between the direct-to-customer sales and the retail sales -- the retail store sales.
It seems as though this quarter we saw somewhat of an acceleration in retail store sales than moderation a bit of a moderation in direct-to-consumer.
So how should we think about that dynamic particularly given the overall focus if Williams-Sonoma were to be pushing more and more online? I'd like you to think about the total growth and the total profit improvements.
Our e-commerce initiatives are driving sales in e-commerce and they're driving sales in our stores.
Our stores have an incredible suite of initiatives to give our customers better service than anyone else in our space.
We just launched an online clienteling program this quarter that is successful and continues to build on the initiative that we talked about last year to give our customers more personalized service to help them decorate and entertain at home.
And so as you think about the future of retail and particularly the business that we're in you're going to see us continue to make investments in places that improve the customer experience.
And while we know that the customers' channel of choice continues to be online and growing faster than anything else we also believe in retail as a key component of our strategy because it's that rich experience that makes you remember brands and really puts them in your mind in a differentiated place than other people who don't have retail stores.
And moving on we have a question from Joe Feldman with Telsey Advisory Group.
I wanted to ask you about West Elm a little bit.
I was wondering if -- as you think about the real estate has your strategy changed at all in terms of where you want to put the stores and I guess the reason I ask is the assortment is a lot broader at this point.
It's a lot more it has tabletop it has gift and it has other things in the store.
It's a lot less urban in some respects? And I know the look and feel might still be somewhat urban but I'm wondering if that trends play out in a mall situation or if you still want to just be Main Street type shops? Thank you for the question Joe.
Absolutely it widens the opportunity for West Elm where you're seeing stores across the country perform very well.
And what remains the same I guess is our pickiness about incredible locations.
So we are aggressively looking for those perfect locations the Seattle store our Los Angeles store are both prime examples of very good real estate where we believe our customer is and architecture within those boxes that really is a great backdrop to the product that we have.
So we see more stores in our future than we would have said several years ago absolutely.
And we will go next to Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to ask you to put your domestic selling margin in a longer-term context just to refresh us on where it stands today versus the ranges that you have seen.
And in addition to the promotional cadence if you could also address the impact of concept mix on that selling margin given that clearly the business is moving a bit towards or at least for the moment moving a bit moving towards Pottery Barn and its offshoots and a bit away from Williams-Sonoma.
Matt this is Sharon.
When you -- the selling margin when you look back over history we are still better than many of the years and let's just take the last 10 years.
However it's not recovering as quickly as we might have expected from the recession.
So the 2008 2009 timeframe we don't look anything like that.
We look very much like our pre-experience but we're still slightly short of that.
You guys have the occupancy numbers.
You know that we still have getting back to our closed-peak margin if we want to call it that.
We've still got 120 130 basis points to get back to our occupancy leverage from those days.
So you can see with the selling margin we've had improvement in that area.
So we have a ways to go and it's an opportunity.
But in this environment we believe again that we want to get also this one particular metric and really focus on what it's doing for us.
We're delivering record profitability in both -- in the DTC channel total company record profitability.
It's driving new customers to our brands.
Pat just gave you a list of numbers and that's what it's doing for us.
So I think it is short-term focused to think that a immediate acceleration of the selling margin is the path to long-term growth for a retailer today in the U.S.
in this economy.
And next we will go to Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
I'd love to shift gears for a little bit.
West Elm is continuing to outperform and I know that you've done 1 pop-up store or 2 Laura.
And I think that's been very successful and I'm wondering if could update us on the prototype changes that you might be making to West Elm and how that might influence your ability to open more stores as we look to the future.
Sure.
I love to talk about West Elm.
We're trying a lot of new things and we believe that we're going to continue to improve the brand through this innovative mindset.
The pop-up stores are performing very well both because they're driving profit but also because they're helping us test new markets and grow our brand awareness in those markets where we haven't been able to secure a long-term lease.
The prototype in Seattle that we just opened has some minor modifications that I think would be -- when you go in you just notice that it looks better and you'd wonder why.
Areas of the store are more differentiated some real artistic moments that stop you and make you just -- they just inspire you as well as I've said category dominance in areas like bedding lighting.
We have design lab part of our store that we continue to improve so that we can service our customers in the store help them choose things to decorate their home in their own personal style with tools at their fingertips in-store and fabric swatches together.
And if you go to the store you can see that.
So it's just better is what I would say on both design of the store itself the fixtures in the store and some moments that are just spectacular.
I wish I could send you a picture.
And moving on we have a question from Greg Melich with ISI.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow on a little bit on the sales trends.
Back in the second quarter you guys mentioned in the press release about the increased ceiling[ph] a certain macro outlook and you didn't put that in this release.
Just curious have you seen something that is sort of changing your business that left it out and then who are the real incremental buyers of your products? Are you seeing your core customers buy more or are you continuing to build the customer base at the same rate? I mean I wouldn't overthink the lack of the macro comment in the press release.
The macro is continuing to be uncertain and that is what I said in my remarks that we're prepared that the holiday season will be one where the customer is very picky about what they want to spend their money on.
And that is the strategy that we're executing against.
It is still choppy it is still uncertain.
We do continue to deliver record earnings in this environment through our strategies.
I'm going to let Pat talk about incremental sales buyers top of the file bottom of the file.
Sure.
Greg I think we're seeing -- we look at the entire customer file when we mail or when we do our e-marketing activity and we're seeing consistent performance from top to bottom.
The other thing is I'd point out in reference to your question about new customers we're seeing very very strong new customer growth.
A couple of our brands had almost 50% new customer growth in Q3 not going to tell you which ones but we're very excited about that.
But every brand had very good new customer growth in that quarter.
And next we will hear from David Magee with Suntrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The question I have has to do with the promotional environment at the Williams-Sonoma brand and I know that the exclusives that you all do is an important way you sort of fight that.
My question has to do with -- can you give us some color about how relevant those -- the exclusives are the distinction of the features that make it perhaps more desirable and less susceptible to price discounting? Sure.
Our focus is on a differentiated product assortment that is well priced.
Our customer wants the best of everything.
We continue to prove that over and over as we try to introduce different types of products.
They want the highest-quality version of the knife that is sold and we need to make sure that we are not overpriced in those categories.
At the same time we -- the power of our brands allows us to introduce products that under the Williams-Sonoma brand that no one else does.
And our food assortment is a good example of that where we continue to innovate and bring new things into our stores that are relevant to how the customer lives.
So our studio is very -- Doll Collection is a good example of that.
We also are focused on how we can use our services to further differentiate the Williams-Sonoma brand from others.
So for example I'm very excited about our ability now to personalize knives.
We can put your name on a knife.
What a great Christmas gift to give someone with her name monogrammed on a beautiful chef's knife.
And that is something our competitors are not doing.
So it's both in the product themselves the service -- the services the personalization service that we offer but also in the trust that our customers have for the brand that they know that we are going to stand behind their purchase and it's going to be high-quality and that we're going to be there for them if anything goes wrong.
And that is a very important part of our value equation I don't know that we've talked about enough.
And next we will go to Anthony Chukumba with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I want to switch gears a little bit talk about the recent acquisition of Rejuvenation.
I know it's quite early but I was just wondering what your initial thoughts were on the brand in terms of potentially opening more stores or increasing your catalog circulation or trying to improve the e-commerce experience.
I was also wondering what your thoughts were in terms of running it just completely standalone as opposed to maybe integrating some of the products into some of your other brands particularly your Pottery Barn brands.
Thank you for the question.
Rejuvenation represents all that we've talked about as we've hinted around about what we're looking for in terms of an acquisition.
We said we wanted a great quality brand with a wonderful founder a culture that is consistent with ours and a clear opportunity for expansion.
They have a product line that is I think is going to be increasingly relevant as people want to custom configure so much of their lives and the authenticity of what they do and the quality.
Everything you know is made in Portland U.S.
manufacturing.
That allows them to have a lot of differentiation in finish and scale.
The team is extremely talented there.
They've been standing on their own feet.
They just -- they didn't have the resources to grow like we can help them grow.
We also know that we can use our platform our hubs [ph]  file our logistics our contracts to not just drive revenue but increase profit.
Our integration is going very well with them and we are cognizant of not trying to go too fast because they are a small company and we want to make sure that we do everything without swamping them without swamping their small boat.
But there is so much opportunity there and we're really enjoying working with that team.
And we will go next to Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Scot Ciccarelli.
I guess the question is you've mentioned the increasingly promotional environment and people have kind of asked questions about this.
But I guess with all the companies in your industry that have basically gone away over the last few years I'm curious specifically where -- who the competitive pressures are coming from.
Just on this promotional thing I think it's important to recognize that our business is very -- it's a very high percent of right price.
So while there's been I think an overemphasis on promotional activities the reality is I think if you compare to our right price selling to anyone it's significantly higher than what you probably expect in our competition and while I can't give you that number I will tell you that it's a very high number.
So I think we need to put the comment the discussion about promotions in context with that fact.
The competition we are -- we recognize that anyone with a cash register is competition both in the home business but also as you go to the holiday season apparel is competition and if you shop in any mall today and you walk the malls you'll see people with family and friends full window of posters advertising family and friends to everyone that walks through the door.
We do not do that.
You see a lot of the apparel retailer with huge percentages of their products on sale.
And so the customer has -- it is strange to think about promotions and expect to have the best value.
And so it's not that there's more people that have entered our space it's that the entire retail market is promotional and the customer it's very important for them to have value as well as quality design and service.
So we have increased what we've done.
We've also reduced the markdowns that are -- deep markdowns.
So the very deep 75% off those markdowns we are seeing less of those which is a good piece of our margin story and those are the most expensive obviously.
The way we're using the promotions is also to help people try new categories.
So you may not really need new towels but because we're offering a discount on them you may buy a few of our towels and then you will realize that they're better than anyone else's towels in the market.
And so the promotions are also driving increased regular price purchases in the future.
And we will go next to Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Following up on kind of the how you think about the financial model around the business.
So is it fair to say your point is that yes we're investing in promotions to drive sales but we're taking advertising dollars down? So you focus on the EBIT margin expansion.
So my questions are is that it and did merchandise margin pressure get fully offset by advertising cost leverage and cost reduction? And then as you think about going forward now that you anniversaried Williams-Sonoma Reserve and considering the way you brand 4Q how does that relationship look in 4Q and then longer-term how far can advertising go down to invest in price? Thanks Chris.
We're focused on driving revenue obviously and profitable growth.
And there are many ways to do that.
The current way we're doing that is exactly what you said which is we are -- our sales our leveraging add costs.
We believe it's important to give value to the customer we are growing both our sales and our bottom line in the percent.
So whether that will remain the same model for the future is yet to be seen and highly competitive there.
You could see a day where the reverse would be true the reality.
So this is where we are now and we will continue to deliver better margins better profits than we have in the past because we have a sophisticated model that allows us to move investments move different parts of the business to drive more profit.
As the result relates to reserves in the 4Q if you just think about reserves if you're a reserve customer you can now send gifts to everyone across the country and not pay shipping.
So it becomes an increasingly important part of the holiday equation.
And our VISA cardholders get a full free year of reserves which is also a really important part of that loyalty program.
And we will go next to Brad Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the expense side of the business.
I know that 2011 has been a year where you made a number of investments to position yourself for international growth.
I was hoping you could just talk about where those expenses are coming in relative to plan and then as we think about 2012 are there incremental investments that you need to make or do you start to lever some of these investments that you've made? Yes.
First of all I'll say this.
I hate waste and so at the same time that we're making the investments we are also looking to do things more efficiently.
So you see us have SG&amp;A down with these investments.
So you're probably thinking how are you doing that? Well we're continually saying to ourselves how do we do things better.
Everywhere across the company we looked under every rock in 2008.
We continue to do the same thing today.
So as much as you see the investment you also see the reductions in some categories or some areas of the company.
International we're just getting started with our development of that team.
So you're going to see increased investment in our international expansion efforts and we're going to be talking more about that when we give guidance for next year.
E-commerce we have done a good job of hiring the people that we said we're going to hire.
And we continue to look for a few key jobs in that area.
IT talent is a very important part of our company and we actually are so focused on being a magnet to attract the best e-commerce talent that we have made investments in things not just the talent but also we have a new building that we have our IT team in that is state-of-the-art workspace for this group that allows them to have more spaces to get together.
They have small huddle rooms they have just a great place for them to work which is we didn't have that before.
We had cramped space for some of these teams and that's a very important part of when we say investments.
What does investment look like? It's new people it's also the best people.
So you're going to see us continue to make those investments into the future and as I said we'll give you more outlook to that when we talk about next year after we finish this quarter.
And next we have Peter Benedict with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess this one's for Sharon.
I'm focused on the fixed portion of the gross margin of the cost of goods.
You mentioned earlier that the occupancy was down about 1% year-over-year in the third quarter.
I think the DNA component of that was down around 5% year-over-year.
How should we be thinking about those trends in the fourth quarter and then as we move into next year? As we -- if you think about fourth quarter clearly we expect to lever occupancy expense again and in the third quarter you've got [indiscernible]  Should expect the ongoing exact story and you can see it in the guidance.
You've got the margin the selling margin impact which we expect to continue into Q4.
You've got that offset by the lever of occupancy expense and you're also going to see levers on the SG&amp;A side because of the advertising the way Laura described the business model.
And I think it's going to play out and the guidance proposes that it plays out very similar to Q3.
And that does conclude the question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like turn the conference back to Laura Alber for final comments.
Well thank you all for joining us today.
Have a wonderful holiday season and we look forward  to talking to you after it.
Thank you.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Inc.
Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings and Fiscal Year 2012 Guidance Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Steve Nelson Vice President of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP measures and forward-looking statements.
Good morning.
This morning's conference call should be considered in conjunction with the press releases that we issued earlier today.
Our press releases and this call contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to facilitate meaningful year-over-year comparisons.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures and an explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful are discussed in Exhibit 1 and elsewhere in the earnings release.
The forward-looking statements included in this morning's call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements address the financial condition results of operations business initiatives guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2012 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Office -- Officer to discuss our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2011 results and our outlook for 2011 -- for 2012.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
With me today are Pat Connolly our Chief Marketing Officer; and Julie Whalen our Acting Chief Financial Officer.
I'll begin by going over our fourth quarter results.
Fourth quarter net revenues increased 6% and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 8% to a record $1.17 per share.
Throughout the quarter the strength of our merchandising strategies and flexibility of our multi-channel operating model drove increased sales and profits despite a more promotional environment during the holiday period.
Post holiday we saw a progressively stronger retail environment and through highly effective marketing and stronger-than-expected operational execution we exceeded our revised January guidance on both the top and bottom lines.
During the quarter comparable brand revenues increased 7% and e-commerce revenues increased a better-than-expected 18%.
Strong product assortments including an increased gift assortment in each of our brands were enhanced by highly targeted promotions and e-marketing initiatives in all channels.
In our home furnishings business total fourth quarter comparable brand revenues increased a robust 12% including 35% growth in West Elm; 11% growth in Pottery Barn; 6% growth in Pottery Barn Kids; and 1% growth in PBteen.
In Williams-Sonoma comparable brand revenues declined 2.3% due in part to a 60 basis point impact from planned SKU reductions in the Williams-Sonoma Home business.
Excluding that impact Williams-Sonoma comparable brand revenues declined 1.7%.
I would now like to review our full year results.
Fiscal 2011 was a year of record earnings for Williams-Sonoma Inc.
It was a year where we saw increases in revenues and profitability and it was a year where we budgeted for and executed key elements of our long-term strategy to be the leading multi-channel retailer of home furnishings and housewares in the world.
Through strong execution and a superior multi-channel strategy we delivered record earnings and profitability in an unusually promotional retail environment never losing sight of our mission to enhance our customers' lives at home.
And as a result we also continue to gain market share in the highly fragmented home furnishing segment.
For the year net revenues increased a better-than-expected 6%.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 15% to a record $2.24 per share and non-GAAP operating margin climbed 50 basis points to a record 10.3%.
We ended the year with $503 million in cash after returning $263 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends and investing more than $25 million in the acquisition of Rejuvenation.
During the year we increased our dividend twice for a total increase of 47% and we announced share repurchases of $350 million.
Comparable brand revenues increased 7% with all brands delivering positive growth for the year including Williams-Sonoma once we exclude the impact of planned SKU reductions in Williams-Sonoma Home.
E-commerce revenues for the year increased a better-than-expected 18% driving direct-to-customer revenues to 44% of total company revenues versus 41% last year.
As we look forward to 2012 we continue to be laser focused on our customers putting them at the center of everything we do so that we can continue to deliver increased revenue and profit while simultaneously investing in our future growth.
Our key initiatives for 2012 are: to grow sales in each of our existing brands through innovative product introductions and compelling marketing; to invest in the competitive strengths of our multi-channel business to serve our customer anywhere anytime and through any device or store; to invest in our supply chain to ensure that we have the highest service levels in the industry; to leverage our customer insights to fill white space by developing new businesses within and outside of our current framework of brands; to answer the worldwide demand for our products by expanding the global presence of our brands; and to invest in the technologies that underlie all these strategies in order to make it easy for our customers to decorate entertain and cook at home.
I will now elaborate on our multi-channel strategy.
Unlike other retailers we already have a large percentage of our business online.
In 2011 we grew direct-to-customer sales to 44% of our total revenues and e-commerce grew from 34% to 38% of total company revenue.
We believe our direct-to-customer percentage will grow to more than 50% over the next 3 years as we become less reliant on retail store expansion to drive increased profitability and long-term growth.
We recognize that although customers may purchase in one channel they shop all channels.
As the e-commerce channel continues to develop with the advent of new technologies and the roles of each channel transform over time we'll continue to evolve our multi-channel strategy so we can increase mindshare and drive customer engagement.
Our retail stores are living billboards for our brands.
The in-store experience is dynamic and multi-sensory drawing customers with food scents [ph]; decorating classes; toys to play with and friendly knowledgeable associates.
In 2012 and beyond we will make the investments necessary to take our one-on-one service and retail store experience to new heights and continually raise the bar for customer experience.
Similarly our catalogs are also billboards for our brands.
They showcase new seasons and new product launches and allow our customers to browse our assortment as they would a magazine inspiring them with cooking decorating entertaining and remodeling ideas.
Our catalogs drive retail and web sales and differentiate us from our competitors.
Catalog mailings will remain an important part of our strategy but the optimization of size and number of catalogs mailed will continue to be a priority as Internet adoption increases and more personalized and productive e-marketing alternatives become available.
Our websites are our largest stores.
They allow our customers to comparison shop and order with ease.
Our digital marketing drives brand awareness traffic to our sites and stores and new customer acquisitions.
We are experiencing success with a wide range of digital marketing programs and see opportunities for significant expansion of these programs.
Our goal remains to optimize all of our marketing efforts in order to continually increase return on our marketing investments.
In 2012 we will enhance customer engagement in all channels by further investing in our holistic online customer experience.
We believe that by providing innovative online design tools easy-to-search databases of rich photography and recipes and easy-to-access communities of like-minded customers we can make it easy and fun to decorate entertain and cook.
To enhance and improve our e-commerce performance in 2012 we are focused on back-end technology investments and leveraging multi-channel customer data to enhance the online shopping experience and simplify shopping for custom configuration and personalized items.
In terms of technology investments our 2012 plans are to develop a new e-commerce platform to enhance our testing capability and improve conversion; to implement a program to deliver automated algorithmically driven product recommendations; to continue to meet the technical requirements of the growing base of customers interacting with our brands through tablet devices smartphones and other new media; and to add video and close-up viewing to our product pages to further assist our online customers.
We will leverage these technology enhancements along with our rich customer data to deliver a personalized web experience that anticipates the needs of our customers elevates the overall online interaction and continuously improves site conversion.
To further improve customer service and enhance profitability in 2012 we are focused on 3 main areas in our supply chain: one the quality of goods we produce; two the service we provide to our customers; and three the cost of our infrastructure.
In global sourcing and manufacturing we will continue to build quality into every phase of the design process and manufacturing process.
And we are committed to further reducing returns and replacements due to damage and defects.
Our new sourcing offices in China Vietnam and Singapore are critical to achieving these goals.
We also commit to engineering value into our products while reducing waste.
We believe that we can partially offset rising raw material and labor cost through improved packaging design engineering and optimized transportation.
This is an important tenet of our commitment to economic social and environmental sustainability.
Our first corporate responsibility report will be released next month and represents the beginning of an ongoing dialogue around the company's responsible business practices.
We believe that increased transparency in our global supply chain and other operations will be important to our success as we expand outside of North America.
And a focus on reducing our overall environment impact will help us to further reduce cost in addition to being the right thing to do for the communities in which we operate.
2012 will be the first full year we'll operate our consolidated East Coast operation on which we have installed a solar array that is the largest in New Jersey providing 80% to 85% of the building's annual electricity needs eliminating approximately 5 million pounds of CO2 emissions per year.
2012 will also be the first full year we operate our new state-of-the-art upholstered furniture manufacturing facility in North Carolina.
This operation which manufactures exclusively for our brands has significantly increased our manufacturing capacity while reducing our total cost per unit.
Additionally in 2012 we will begin investing in the redesign consolidation and modernization of our 29-year-old conveyable direct-to-customer fulfillment operations in Memphis Tennessee.
This consolidation will ultimately combine 4 existing fulfillment operations into 2 highly productive facilities and will represent the largest distribution operations cost-reduction project in the company's history.
This project will incorporate state-of-the-art technologies for maximum efficiency and improved quality.
It is expected to take 5 years and will be implemented in phases as existing building leases expire.
New business development is another important component of our growth strategy.
In 2012 we will continue to identify innovative and exclusive businesses to develop internally or acquire that we believe can expand our reach and drive sustained profitable growth.
Rejuvenation is a great example of our acquisition strategy.
It represents a significant opportunity to leverage our multi-channel and supply chain capabilities with the exclusive high-quality lighting and house parts that Rejuvenation manufactures in Portland Oregon.
Cultivate.com which we announced last month is another example of how we're approaching new business development.
Cultivate.com is our own internally developed web-based initiative that offers inspiration design help and resources for homeowners and design professionals.
We will monetize this traffic through a combination of partnerships lead generation and a unique advertising program that will allow high-end kitchen appliance and home furnishings vendors to reach their target market in an exciting new way.
The largest new opportunity that we see in our future is global expansion.
As we shop the world it is evident there is no one doing what we do and there's considerable demand for our brands.
We currently attract a significant number of foreign nationals to our stores and websites who frequently encourage us to open in their communities.
In 2012 we'll expand our international shipping capability from 75 countries to 99.
We will also continue to expand our franchise presence in the Middle East from 13 stores at the close of 2011 to 18 including the first Williams-Sonoma PBteen and West Elm stores outside of the Americas.
In 2012 we will also begin investing in our multi-channel fully integrated global IT platform.
This is a multiyear project that will foundationally support our broader global strategy which includes owning and operating our own global operations and working with the highest-quality franchise partners where appropriate.
We will introduce new customers to our brands through a combination of beacon stores e-commerce and selective catalog mailings.
Our global IT platform is expected to be fully operational in 2014.
We have built a detailed road map for the work ahead of us with qualitative and quantitative checkpoints along the way.
We are committed to expanding globally with the same inspiring multi-channel experience we offer today to introduce our brands and products to the world and to expand profitably.
Our capital investment in fiscal 2012 including these strategies is expected to be in the range of $200 million to $220 million versus $130 million last year.
This increase will support 5 strategic initiatives: one continued investment in our e-commerce capability; two the multiyear development of our multi-channel multi-brand global IT platform; three the expansion of West Elm including 7 new stores; four the remodel of high-profile stores in our current brands; and last the multiyear replacement of our conveyable direct-to-customer fulfillment operations.
In addition to the increased capital expenditures $15 million to $20 million will also be invested in incremental SG&amp;A in 2012 to support our long-term e-commerce global expansion and business development growth strategies.
While these investments will impact earnings in fiscal '12 we expect them to begin to lever in 2013 and beyond just as our fiscal '11 investments are beginning to provide returns in fiscal '12.
Including all of these investments we expect 2012 to be another record financial year with total revenues increasing 6% to 8% comparable brand revenues increasing 3% to 5% and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increasing 6% to 10%.
Also during fiscal '12 we expect to return more than $240 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
I will now turn the conference call over to Julie for additional details on our 2011 performance and 2012 guidance.
Welcome Julie.
Thank you Laura.
And good morning.
As Laura shared earlier we did reach new milestones in financial performance in the fourth quarter.
Net revenues increased 6% to $1.27 billion with 14% growth in the direct-to-customer channel and 1% comparable store sales growth in the retail channel.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased $0.09 to a record $1.17 versus $1.08 in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Versus January guidance stronger sales trends favorable revenue recognition higher-than-anticipated selling margins and strong expense management drove these better-than-expected results.
Gross margin decreased 100 basis points to 41.3% versus last year.
This decrease was driven by lower selling margins particularly in the Williams-Sonoma brands and a 40 basis point prior-year nonrecurring benefit related to Williams-Sonoma Home inventory cost recoveries partially offset by 80 basis points of occupancy cost leverage.
Non-GAAP occupancy costs in the fourth quarter declined $3 million to $127 million.
Non-GAAP SG&amp;A improved 90 basis points to 25.7% driven by lower incentive compensation costs reductions in other general expenses and greater advertising productivity partially offset by higher employment costs associated with planned growth investments in e-commerce global expansion and business development.
Catalog circulation increased 1% and catalog pages circulated remained flat due to increase versioning.
I would now like to comment on our fourth quarter non-GAAP operating margin in each of our business segments.
At the total company level our non-GAAP operating margin decreased 10 basis points versus last year to 15.6%.
This decline was driven by a 70 basis point decrease in the retail segment to 20.4% a 10 basis point decrease in the direct-to-customer segment to 22% and a 40 basis point improvement in the corporate unallocated segment to 5.4%.
The 70 basis point decline in the retail segment was driven by lower selling margins including a 50 basis point prior-year nonrecurring benefit related to Williams-Sonoma Home inventory cost recoveries and higher employment costs.
These declines were partially offset by occupancy cost leverage and lower other general expenses.
The 10 basis point decline in the direct-to-customer segment was driven by lower selling margins and higher employment costs associated with our e-commerce growth initiatives.
These impacts were partially offset by higher advertising productivity sales leverage of fixed occupancy costs and lower other general expenses.
The 40 basis point improvement in the corporate unallocated segment was primarily driven by lower incentive compensation costs and a reduction in other general expenses partially offset by higher employment costs associated with our planned growth investments.
For the full year 2011 net revenues increased 6% to $3.7 billion with 12% growth in the direct-to-customer channel and 3.5% comparable store sales growth in the retail channel.
Gross margin was unchanged at 39.2% as sales leverage of fixed occupancy costs offset lower selling margins.
On a full year basis non-GAAP occupancy cost declined $6 million to $500 million and leveraged 100 basis points.
Non-GAAP SG&amp;A decreased 50 basis points to 28.9% driven by lower incentive compensation costs greater advertising productivity and reductions in other general expenses.
Catalogs circulated during the year decreased 2% and catalog pages circulated decreased 3% due to increased versioning.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 15% from $1.95 to $2.24.
At the total company level our fiscal 2011 non-GAAP operating margin increased 50 basis points to a record 10.3%.
This increase was driven by a 50 basis point improvement in the direct-to-customer segment and a 10 basis point improvement in the corporate unallocated segment which was offset by a 10 basis point decline in the retail segment.
I would now like to discuss our fiscal 2012 guidance.
Fiscal 2012 is expected to be another record earnings year as we begin leveraging our 2011 strategic growth initiatives while at the same time making new investments for 2012 and beyond.
For the year net revenue is expected to increase in the range of 6% to 8% and diluted earnings per share are expected to increase in the range of 6% to 10% to a record $2.37 to $2.47 per share.
Non-GAAP operating margin is expected to be in the range of 10% to 10.4%.
Included in this guidance are 2 items that are important to quantify and discuss.
The first is the benefit of a 53rd week which we expect will add approximately 2% in year-over-year revenue growth and $0.05 to $0.07 in EPS growth.
The second which more than offsets the benefit of the 53rd week is the $15 million to $20 million or $0.09 to $0.12 per share increase in SG&amp;A to support the strategic growth initiatives that Laura shared with you earlier.
While netted these items are negatively impacting the 2012 operating margin by 30 to 40 basis points and the EPS by $0.04 to $0.05 it is the strength of our underlying business today that is driving this morning's 2012 revenue and EPS guidance to new levels.
To deliver these results comparable brand revenue on a 53-to-53 week basis is expected to increase 3% to 5% including direct-to-customer growth of 8% to 11% and comparable store sales growth of 1% to 3%.
We are also expecting to see ongoing sales leverage in our fixed occupancy costs greater operational efficiencies in our supply chain and a higher percentage of total company revenues generated in the more profitable direct-to-customer channel partially offset by higher stock-based compensation expense due to multiyear growth in the company's stock price higher employee retention rates and increased stock-based grants to retain top talent.
As we sit here today we are encouraged by the momentum we are seeing in our business and are excited about the opportunities in the year ahead.
While we remain cautious in our outlook on the macro environment the strength of our brands and our proven track record of flexing our business in these less-certain economic times provide us with a strong confidence in our ability to deliver the guidance we have discussed today.
I will now turn the call back over to Laura to discuss the Williams-Sonoma Pottery Barn and West Elm brands.
Thank you Julie.
In the Williams-Sonoma brand net revenues for 2011 were $994 million including a comparable brand revenue decline of 0.3%.
In the fourth quarter comparable brand revenues declined 1.7% when we exclude the impact of planned SKU reductions in Williams-Sonoma Home.
During the holiday season the promotional environment was heavier than we anticipated.
We take proactive measures to remain competitive and maintain our market share but it put pressure on both the top and bottom lines.
We saw the most promotional activity on nationally branded products particularly in the retail channel with the greatest initial impact in cookware and cook's tools.
As the season progressed it expanded to other non-exclusive products as well.
Where we had exclusivity on products and categories our business was unquestionably stronger.
In terms of customer engagement our investments in the online customer experience and social media drove increased traffic to the brand.
We also saw a strong performance from our Williams-Sonoma Reserve and co-branded Visa loyalty programs measured by the number of new customers in the programs the frequency of the purchase the average order size and the average annual spend.
The brand's mission to be the leading multi-channel retailer in cooking and entertainment world has not changed.
What has changed and what we want to outline for you today is how we will achieve our mission in 2012 and beyond given an increasingly competitive marketplace.
The 3 areas of transformational change are product innovation marketing and our in-store experience.
Product innovation is at the core of our overall strategy.
Customers shop our brands because we are the trusted authority in cooking.
We recognize however that we cannot rely solely on our heritage to drive our future.
Within product we are intensely focused on 3 areas.
The first is freshness and innovation.
We will leverage trends and customer data to introduce new high-quality products throughout the year that are relevant to our customers' changing lifestyles and inspire them to cook and entertain in new ways.
For 2012 we have a pipeline of products to launch that will illustrate this commitment.
The second is exclusivity on branded products.
Throughout the years we have built our business with key vendors and in many cases we have participated in the development and launch of their products.
In doing so we have helped build some of the most important brands in the industry.
We want to continue to offer the best of these products to our customer but we are making a strategic shift toward carrying exclusive products that we develop in conjunction with our vendors.
And to the extent distribution is not limited in control [ph] we will reassess products and/or vendors as necessary.
The third is Williams-Sonoma-branded products.
To further enhance our exclusive mix we will increase the level of Williams-Sonoma-branded products in our overall assortment.
The quickest to market will be in entertaining and table top but we will also increase and strengthen our offering in core and seasonal food.
Other categories will follow in 2013 and beyond.
To accelerate these new product initiatives we made an exciting and strategic organizational change that we announced this morning.
Monica Bhargava our Head of Design for Pottery Barn will be increasing her responsibility to include Williams-Sonoma product development with a particular focus on new lifestyle trends in cooking food and entertaining.
This change allows us to leverage our expansive innovative and technical design capability with the design sophistication of the existing Williams-Sonoma team.
Marketing is the next critical area of focus to clarify our premium positioning.
We will market our products with a singular voice.
We'll use our digital presentation improve door signage and ongoing customer engagement to tell the unique stories behind our carefully selected products highlighting the value quality origin and history of each one.
Lifestyle merchandising is our competitive advantage and we will communicate the stories we tell from the farm to the kitchen table seamlessly across channels.
We will also leverage our multi-channel advantage more effectively using the catalog to inspire; the Internet becoming our largest store and information resource; and our stores as the face of the brand where customers can experience products first hand.
Retail stores represent a significant competitive advantage and an opportunity to enhance the overall customer experience.
Localized products and marketing and community events including cooking classes and cookbook signings will drive customer engagement beyond the sale.
And new associate training programs and more sophisticated store scheduling tools will elevate products and culinary expertise for all store associates while ensuring that those with the most tenure are on-hand during critical selling periods.
We're also rolling out our in-store clienteling initiative to Williams-Sonoma.
This program strengthens the associate-customer relationship by offering one-on-one service both in store and in home and allowing the associate to anticipate and assist with the customer's future needs through personal interaction and online tools.
The goal of these initiatives is to provide an unparalleled customer experience that ultimately results in a higher average order size and a higher number of transactions per customer per year.
All of these initiatives have been tested and proven in our other brands and are driving strong growth.
And for that reason we believe they represent a significant opportunity for the Williams-Sonoma brand in 2012 and beyond.
We will also continue to optimize our retail portfolio.
In fiscal '11 we permanently closed 11 stores and in fiscal 2012 we expect to close an additional 8 as we continue to attract serve and retain an increasing number of customers online and in other stores and retail markets where stores have been closed.
We will continue to measure the impact of our store closures and then drive increased retail profitability while keeping our store chain vibrant.
We believe that all of these initiatives will allow us to take Williams-Sonoma brand the assortment that it offers and the personal experience it provides to the customer to a new level in 2012 and beyond.
In the Pottery Barn brand net revenues for 2011 were $1.6 billion including a comparable brand revenue increase of 8%.
In the fourth quarter comparable brand revenues increased 11% on top of 14% last year with strong results in both channels.
From a merchandising perspective the brand grew in all key categories with particular strengths in furniture home furnishings and table top.
Innovative and relevant seasonal merchandise assortments and a strategic value proposition delivered these better-than-expected cross-category results.
Of particular highlight was the superior execution of our gift-giving strategy.
For the fourth quarter operating margin reached record levels as the direct-to-customer revenues continue to grow as a percentage of total brand revenues.
Traffic and conversion were key focuses and we achieved very strong results from our highly targeted e-marketing and online promotional initiative.
As we look forward to 2012 we will aim to achieve new levels of sales and profitability by executing against those strategies that are driving results in the brand today.
Specifically we will grow existing and new product categories by consistently introducing authentic and artisanal products at a great value.
For example we will introduce new categories to furnish those rooms in the house that are highly functional such as the laundry room and closet.
Our in-house team of highly talented designers provides us with a competitive advantage that is difficult to match in the marketplace.
We will leverage and grow our capabilities and technology to allow our customers to interact with the brands anytime anywhere and on any device.
We'll also leverage technology to expand our in-store design services making it easier for our customers to design and decorate.
We will enhance our marketing initiatives in each channel driving toward seamless messaging and the deliver of effective data-driven product recommendations to our customers in all channels.
And we will continue to deliver a superior retail experience by elevating our service levels at every customer touch point in stores and at home.
We believe that all these strategies will further establish Pottery Barn as the destination for casual and affordable interior design and the premier specialty home furnishings retailer in the world.
In the Pottery Barn Kids brand net revenues for 2011 was $522 million including a comp brand revenue increase of 7%.
In the fourth quarter Pottery Barn Kids comparable brand revenues increased 6% on top of 10% last year with strong results in both channels.
From a merchandising perspective the brand grew in each major product category with particular strengths in textiles furniture and decorative accessories.
An expanded products assortment a compelling value proposition and an effective traffic-generating promotional calendar drove these better-than-expected results.
As we look forward to 2012 we will continue to focus on those initiatives that drive results today.
Specifically we will introduce inspiring and innovative products at a great value.
We'll attract new customers to the brand through targeted marketing in-store service offerings and strategic partnerships like National Geographic and PBS.
We will drive growth by making our e-commerce website the ultimate design resource for our customer.
And we will deliver world-class service across channels that is engaging personal unique and seamless.
I would now like to talk about the PBteen brand.
In the fourth quarter PBteen comparable brand revenues increased 1% on top of 23% last year.
We saw a strong growth in furniture that was partially offset by decorative accessories and textiles.
For the year comparable brand revenues increased 7% to $212 million on top of 21% last year and the brand delivered a record year in earnings.
PBteen has a unique position in the marketplace as the only home furnishings brand dedicated solely to teens.
As we look forward to 2012 we will continue to build on strategies that we believe will help us to increase sales and profitability of the brand.
We will accelerate proprietary new product offerings with the largest volume occurring in the back half of the year for the important gift-giving season.
We will broaden the aesthetic to engage a wider range of teens.
We will invest in and develop the best online design tools in the teen market.
And we will engage the customer in new and exciting non-traditional retail experiences.
We believe all these initiatives will allow us to take the PBteen brand to a new level of performance.
Finally I would like to talk about West Elm.
West Elm delivered a record fourth quarter.
Comparable brand revenues increased 35% on top of 29% last year and earnings and profitability reached new heights.
The brand grew in all key categories with particular strengths in textiles furniture and decorative accessories.
New product and category introductions a strong seasonal assortment an enhanced value proposition and highly effective multi-channel marketing drove these impressive results in all channels.
We are particularly pleased with the consistency of West Elm's performance through the past year as the brand has become a significant driver of our company-wide growth on both the top and bottom lines.
As we look forward to 2012 our strategy is to profitably grow the West Elm brand by engaging with a broader base of customer and increasing engagement with our current customers.
Products will be inspired by nature global craft and artisanal traditions.
We will diversify our assortments and deliver seasonal freshness and lower-priced pick-up items to promote purchase frequency.
We will maintain our compelling value proposition and we will also expand our DTC assortments in key categories.
From a customer engagement perspective we will deliver a completely integrated truly immersive cross-channel brand experience to create a seamless connection with our customers.
We will also be aggressively looking for more retail expansion opportunities as retail profitability continues to achieve new milestones.
We believe all of these initiatives will improve our competitive positioning and allow us to profitably grow this brand.
The future is bright for West Elm.
In 2011 revenues reached $336 million and we can clearly see a path to $1 billion in revenues over time.
In summary we believe that Williams-Sonoma Inc.
is entering a new phase of growth.
Our financial performance is strong and we have an exceptional leadership team with the right people in the right roles.
We also have a winning strategy to grow our core brands expand and develop new ones and expand globally.
We believe this will allow us to deliver sustained profitable growth well into the future and provide predictable returns to our loyal long-term shareholders.
We look forward to sharing developments with you in the coming quarters and years.
I would now like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions]  Our first question today  will come from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Julie good luck to you on your role.
And first let me just thank Sharon for all of her help over the years and wish her well in her future endeavors as with you.
Just my question really goes to the guidance and the operating margin.
And recognizing that we've got an extra week next year and some of the initiatives going on can you perhaps parse the competitive situation in Williams-Sonoma particularly? Can you kind of give us some feel or color as to how gross margin will look year-over-year and what's incorporated into the guidance? Thank you Budd for the question.
I'm going to let Julie talk about our guidance for next year.
We have as you may have noticed stopped guiding our margin.
We believe that it is competitive to give the specifics on gross margin and SG&amp;A because they signal pricing strategies and advertising intentions.
And we believe we provided you the best metrics for evaluating our businesses and brands including sales by brand now.
We also know that sometimes these small variances to our previous guidance metrics have created a little unwarranted volatility in our stock with no correlation to actual performance.
But I'm happy to have Julie talk to you about how we built our 2012 guidance.
So again I think you alluded to it but on the operating margin in particular.
If you back out the benefit of the 53rd week and the impact of our growth investments the operating margin guidance will actually be going up 30 to 40 basis points.
And if you think about that the -- what that's driven from is the continued sales leverage of our fixed occupancy costs; greater operational efficiencies in our supply chain as Laura previously discussed; and a higher percentage of total company revenues being generated from more profitable direct-to-customer channel.
Our next question will come from Colin McGranahan with Bernstein &amp; Company.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just kind of wanted to go to the elephant in the room here and hope that maybe you could provide a little bit more color on Sharon's departure.
It was relatively abrupt and I think widely unexpected.
So any help you can give us as to what her plans are and what your plans are whether Julie is going to be the acting CFO or whether she's in line to be the permanent CFO and just a little bit more color about the transition here.
Thanks for the question Colin.
It's an important question and I want to be very open about it.
First I want to begin by saying as Budd did that I represent the entire management team in thanking Sharon for her many contributions over the past decade: leadership operational leadership financial leadership.
Sharon has made the decision to retire.
She's taking some time and going to move to new things and we all wish her the very best in her future endeavors.
Our financial organization and leadership team is very strong across the brand and across the board in the financial area and also in the other areas that reported to Sharon.
We have a team that has been with the company mostly over 10 years and each of them can do more.
We also have a company-wide mindset and process that is deeply ingrained to drive operational and financial excellence.
And we are all aligned to pursue our winning strategy.
I'm going to let Julie tell you about herself in a minute.
Julie's been here for a long time and is extremely well-versed as you will learn quickly in our business and also very strategic about how she sees our future earnings being driven.
And in terms of intention for new CFO of course we will do a worldwide search for the best CFO possible and of course Julie is a candidate for that position as well.
Julie do you want to tell everybody a little bit about yourself? Sure.
Thanks Laura.
First of all I'm thrilled to be on the call today.
I couldn't be more excited to be here at Williams-Sonoma at this time to help drive continued strong financial performance and a successful execution of our strategy.
My 10.5 years of experience here at Williams-Sonoma in planning as a controller treasurer give me a comprehensive picture of our financials.
And I'll use all of my skills and experience including my public accounting experience with KPMG my law degree CPA to drive operational excellence in our finances.
I look forward to meeting you.
Our next question will come from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My question relates to the CapEx and the incremental SG&amp;A.
I guess this is the second year in a row that you ramped up SG&amp;A investment kind of in an isolated way.
And your CapEx was higher this year too.
So is this -- are these investments going to be recurring investments? In other words does this investment go away? And similarly what is the long-run run rate for CapEx is it closer to the $130 million that we saw in 2011 or the $220 million that we're seeing in 2012? Sure.
It's Laura.
And I want to say again that we are committed to investing in future growth and supply chain optimization initiatives for at least the next 3 years.
And we believe that they will be within this range and that this year's level of investment will continue.
As I said earlier the investment is in 5 areas: e-commerce the multiyear development of our global IT supply chain in retail networks retail expansion of West Elm remodel of high-profile stores in our current brands and a multiyear replacement of our conveyable mail order distribution fulfillment operations.
Our next question will come from Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I have a question -- more of a philosophical question around the guidance.
Williams-Sonoma is I think known amongst most investors as typically providing conservative or guidance with an air of conservatism in it.
If you will look at today and the multiple announcements you've made obviously with the significant management change the reacceleration in spending.
A 2-part question for me.
One is is there an extra error [ph] of conservatism in the guidance given maybe some of the shifts at Williams-Sonoma and within the business model and the spending? And then second off Sharon who -- how instrumental was she in putting together this guidance? I'm going to let Julie take the first piece about our guidance that we have provided.
We we're confident about the guidance we have provided today.
Our guidance as you know is based on our brand opportunities that Laura spoke to earlier.
And of course takes into consideration the macro environment we see today and there are uncertainties over which we have no control.
But at this point we feel very confident about the guidance we have provided today.
I think the other thing you have to take into consideration throughout as you're looking at this guidance as we said in our prepared remarks is the net impact of the benefit from the 53rd week and our incremental SG&amp;A spend for our planned growth initiatives.
If you take those 2 into consideration our operating margin guidance would actually be 30 to 40 basis points higher and our EPS would be at 8% to 13% growth versus 6% to 10%.
And in regards to Sharon and her role Sharon did a lot of wonderful things for the company.
We have an incredible team of people here who've been here a long time.
I'm hoping to have you all meet some of them over time including Dean Miller who runs our supply chain logistics transportation and who has driven so many of our company's supply chain initiatives and cost reduction programs as well as many others in the brands who are both focused on the creative and innovative part of our business but also highly disciplined financial executives who are very focused on profitability.
We'll move on to Joe Feldman with Telsey Advisory Group.
Congratulations Julie in the new role for now.
The question about -- as you've reduced the stores this year and continue to do so going forward I know in the past you've given us some examples how you've been able to maintain and even expand market share in some markets and I'm just wondering are you still seeing that trend for one? And two with the shift is the operating margin expansion that we have been seeing or should see still because of the shift to Internet? Or is it because more of the cost control efforts that you've done? Or is it because of the leverage on occupancy that you've had? Sure Joe.
The company has a very disciplined approach to our real estate as you know.
We set very high profitability levels for each store and we regularly conduct market-by-market reviews of our fleet.
This has resulted in a very profitable real estate portfolio over the years and it's ongoing process.
As I said earlier this year we plan to permanently close 16 stores and we're going to remodel 13.
And we will continue to conduct these market-by-market reviews to optimize our portfolio as opportunities present themselves.
The second part of the question I just wanted to have you clarify again if you would what you're asking.
I guess just on the margin side of things as you've closed stores.
The -- I know we've seen the occupancy leverage but that's kind of somewhat fleeting right when you get the leverage for the year.
And I guess on an ongoing basis it's there but does it really drive the expansion I guess of the margin that you are shifting to the direct channel? Yes as we said earlier the operating margin improvement assumes continued sales leverage of our fixed occupancy costs so that will continue.
But we also have greater operational efficiencies in our supply chain and the fact that we have a higher percentage of the total company revenues generated in the DTC channel.
So it's all of those combined.
Our next question will come from Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I just feel compelled to also add my thanks to Sharon for the years of partnership with the investment community.
She definitely leaves a legacy of integrity.
So all the best to her and her move towards retirement.
And welcome Julie.
I was wondering a little bit more if we could get some of the puts and takes on some of the key cost components.
I'm particularly interested in gas price levels and what that can mean to fuel surcharges as well as your freight outlook for 2012.
If you could give us a little bit more detail around that that'd be really helpful.
[Technical Difficulty] I'm sorry it's hard to hear in the call.
Steve can you turn the call up? Sure.
I'm sorry to ask you again Neely.
I heard like the cost components -- what? Research Division</strong> It's okay Laura.
Just the key costs we're looking for especially with gas price activity being on in the press these days.
Just wondering what the fuel surcharges might be if that's already been going on just your freight outlook in general for 2012.
All of that is inherent in our guidance.
We'll move on to the next question from Matt McGinley with International Strategy &amp; Investment Group.
Research Division</strong> I have a question about how you manage your brand portfolio and the investments that you make in that.
How do you think about the investment required to support or fix the Williams-Sonoma brand versus the investment you're going to spend in new concepts like West Elm or some of the more mature concepts like Pottery Barn? Where is your investment going forward in 2012 focused on? It's a great question.
We have a mindset to build a strategy have a road map to execute the strategy and then to measure measure measure the whole way through to make sure that we're on the right path.
I think the best example of that was what we did with West Elm.
In the beginning you remember when we were not pleased with our performance that we laid out the strategy and we said we're going to really make sure that we're identifying and diagnosing the right problems and the right solutions before we just go full bore.
We have a very important brand Williams-Sonoma with high customer satisfaction and a very profitable model.
And while we were not pleased with the decline that we saw over the holidays period negative very low digit is not exactly reason for to believe that it's a crisis.
It is a opportunity as we see it to compete even more effectively and grow this brand into the future.
And so similar to the approach that we had on West Elm we have the 3 key areas I talked about: product strategy marketing transformation in-store experience.
And we have been working on this for a while now.
If you go back and listen to previous calls we hinted at some of it.
We didn't lay it out as clearly as we did today.
But because we have been working on it you're going to see the pipeline of these projects -- the pipeline of products and these projects coming through and we will continue to tell you about our progress on each of them.
And based on the results we will fund immediately more investment where we're getting the return.
Our next question will come from Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Helen Pan filling in for Alan Rifkin.
I just wanted to follow up on the West Elm concept and dig a little deeper into why you're planning for the 4 store closures slash remodels for 2012 and if you have any further updates on the unit economics for the concepts as well.
Sure.
We are always looking for the best locations.
So there are some locations where we want to be in the town but we don't want to be in that exact spot.
And we have found opportunities to improve our fleet.
And we are always looking for in-store fixture pack [ph] remodel pack [ph] that drives real results and so that is what we're doing in West Elm.
And West Elm just continues to have momentum beyond what we planned.
Or as I said earlier we see a very bright future for West Elm and we are going to continue to aggressively grow it.
Your next question will come from Christine Rapalje with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
My question is just more general about the current mood that you're seeing with the customer.
A lot in the past year you've emphasized having to maintain a strong value message.
I was just wondering if you're sensing any kind of lift there any increased confidence by the consumer maybe a move upscale et cetera.
Yes I think it's a little early to call that.
There's still a lot of uncertainty out there.
There's good news there's bad news on any given day but the strength of our brands and our proven track record in flexing our business in times that are choppy gives us confidence in our ability to drive our business and deliver the guidance that we provided today.
Our next question will come from Anthony Chukumba with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Somewhat a related question to the last one.
Was just wondering if you could comment at all on the promotional environment.
I know you've said earlier that you're seeing increased promotional activity among some of the big box stores and some of the department stores and I was just wondering what you've seen post holiday and also post fourth quarter.
It's -- I'll answer the question a little bit differently this time to give you guys some more insights on how we think about it.
We're very lucky to have a portfolio of brands.
Each of them has different positioning Williams-Sonoma being more premium and West Elm being a more value-driven brand.
And so our promotional plans for this year are -- it's hard to generalize them because they are different by brand.
And so of course you see the least amount of promotions in Williams-Sonoma and you will continue to see more in West Elm.
And we also believe and are committed to driving traffic and growing our brands through planned promotions that complement our innovative and exclusive product introductions.
And to the extent that the macro environment becomes more promotional we will adjust our strategy.
Our next version will come from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's Scot Ciccarelli.
Can you talk about -- you were -- it was fortunate that we -- you broke out revenue by brand.
Can you talk about how different that mix is particularly for the Williams-Sonoma brand in the fourth quarter? I'm also curious why you broke out the $15 million to $20 million of spending as a separate line item during the year.
Thanks Scot.
We did make the decision after we really listened to everyone in the investment community that it would be helpful for us to give brand revenues and I hope that it is and it's -- it puts everything -- it helps you understand why we're so confident in growing this business dramatically over the next 3 to 5 years.
In terms of going through it by quarter I think that's highly competitive and I'm sorry but I'm not going to go through that now.
We've always when we had a bigger-than-expected investment year tried to make that really clear to you which we did this year so you could look at the strength of our underlying business.
And our next question will come from Brad Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jason sitting in for Brad today.
I was wondering if you can comment a little on the long-term potential of the West Elm brand.
I mean you're rolling unit growth this year double digit.
I was wondering where you see that long-term kind of retail footprint.
Does that approach something like the Pottery Barn or is that going to be more limited? It's a great question.
We believe and can see clearly a path to $1 billion by growing both direct and retail both store expansion and also comp store sales growth.
And as we go into -- when we go to markets with multi-stores we need to understand better how -- the evolving retail opportunity and whether we can have less stores in a market than we did previously and drive more profitable growth online.
And so for me to break it out by channel might be premature because we're continuing to use our data to understand exactly how many we can see and open profitably.
But $1 billion is our sight domestically that is for West Elm.
And I'll say that of all of our brands we believe that West Elm probably has one of the biggest international opportunities because of its aesthetic its value proposition and the small-scale size of its furniture which is very appropriate for a lot of the global markets as you know.
We'll move on then the queue to Peter Benedict with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just first a clarification Laura just the expectation for $15 million to $20 million of additional SG&amp;A this year.
Did I hear you correctly in saying that you should -- we should be expecting something similar in each of the next 3 years and that CapEx should remain above $200 million for the next 3 years? That's just kind of a clarification.
And then my question is the stock-based compensation outlook for this year's up a bunch from last year.
Is there anything in there for Sharon exit costs or anything on those lines and if not are there any costs associated with Sharon's retirement that we should be aware of? Sure let me take all those.
So first the clarification.
I was referring to CapEx when I was talking about expecting it to be within this level not on the SG&amp;A side.
And so we didn't give any -- I didn't give any outlook for that for the next 3 years.
On stock-based compensation Sharon's separation agreement is not in that number that we have announced today.
We have filed an 8-K that you can review.
And that will be non-recurring and non-GAAP.
And our last question today will come from Kate McShane with Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could walk us through just a little bit more on your Williams-Sonoma brand strategy going forward.
And I know you've already given a lot of details for some new initiatives but I wondered if you could quantify a little bit more what the strategy will be for.
How much Williams-Sonoma product will be increasing as a percentage of mix? And also it's with -- in light of the price promotions will there be a new value message as well for the Williams-Sonoma banner being conveyed? Sure I'll take the question.
It's Laura.
And the Williams-Sonoma strategy as I said before is focused on 3 areas: product marketing and in-store experience.
And we have a pipeline of products and marketing strategies and retail store initiatives systems support as well as store of the future initiatives that we will be launching and this you will see [ph] both this year and beyond.
It is a multiyear strategy.
In terms of pricing we are sitting in a very premium position.
We carry the best of everything.
That doesn't mean we're expensive.
It means that we don't carry -- if there's a large range of KitchenAid products we only carry the top of the range; or All-Clads; or any of the branded products.
As it relates to percentages branded exclusive non-exclusive it's highly competitive.
As I said earlier the area that you can affect most quickly is in the private label area and increasing that mix as a percent of total.
And then you'll also see us launch branded products that are exclusive for longer periods of time and indefinitely.
And then you will also see us launching more specifically Williams-Sonoma-branded outside of the table top and entertaining areas throughout the next quarters and coming years.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I'll now turn the conference back over to Ms.
Alber for any additional or closing remarks.
Well I want to thank you all for joining us and for your continued support.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Inc.
First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
I'd now I'd like to turn the call over to Steve Nelson Vice President of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP measures and forward-looking statements.
Good morning.
This morning's conference call should be considered in conjunction with the press release that we issued earlier today.
Our press release and this call contains non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to facilitate meaningful year-over-year comparisons.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and an explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful are discussed in Exhibit 1 and elsewhere in the earnings release.
The forward-looking statements included in this morning's call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements address the financial condition results of operations business initiatives trends guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2012 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press release and SEC filings including our most recent Form 10-K for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our first quarter 2012 results and our outlook for fiscal year 2012.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
With me today are Pat Connolly our chief Marketing Officer; and Julie Whalen our acting Chief Financial Officer.
Today we want to share with you our first quarter 2012 results and our outlook for the second quarter and fiscal year.
In the first quarter we delivered non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.34 our best first quarter earnings ever.
This is a 13% increase over a year ago on revenue growth of 6%.
Pottery Barn and West Elm performed exceptionally well during the quarter and drove our overall profit increase.
These results demonstrate 3 fundamentals in differentiating strengths of our company: our portfolio of brands; the flexibility of our multichannel strategy; and our commitment to strong financial discipline.
We know that each of our businesses will not always trend in the same direction in every quarter as is the case in this first quarter.
Pottery Barn and West Elm exhibited excellent grow during the quarter and drove our overall increase.
Williams-Sonoma Pottery Barn Kids and Pottery Barn Teen however experienced negative comparable brand revenue growth.
During the quarter comparable brand revenues in total increased 5% and e-commerce net revenues increased in total 12%.
We are very pleased with the results we are seeing in Pottery Barn and West Elm and believe that these brands will deliver strong results throughout the year.
While the Williams-Sonoma Pottery Barn Kids and Pottery Barn Teen brands did not perform as well as Pottery Barn and West Elm in terms of comparable brand revenue we did see significant improvement in their merchandise margin performance relative to Q4.
This planned year-over-year improvement on a sequential basis was most pronounced in Williams-Sonoma.
This is an encouraging sign that our strategies are working.
During the quarter we executed against key elements of our long-term mission to be the leading multichannel retailer of home furnishing and housewares in the world.
In addition to driving record earnings in Q1 we invested in 3 key areas: e-commerce; global expansion; and new business development.
I would now like to talk about each of our brands beginning with Williams-Sonoma.
I'm going to start with Q1 results and then move on to update you on the status of our strategic growth initiatives in Williams-Sonoma.
In Williams-Sonoma which represents approximately 27% of our business on an annual basis Q1 comparable brand revenues declined 3.2%.
This excludes 110 basis point impact from the planned SKU reduction in the Williams-Sonoma Home assortment.
A significant factor in the 3.2% decline was our decision not to anniversary a major cookware promotion that we offered in Q1 of last year.
However we did see positive comp increases in electrics tabletop entertaining and better-than-expected results in our newly launched agrarian assortment.
On our last call I shared our plan for Williams-Sonoma to reverse the decline that we saw over the last 2 quarters and achieve sustained profitable growth.
We expect to see gradual improvement in this brand during the year as we execute our strategies and we are making progress towards that plan across a number of initiatives.
We are committed to being a leader in cooking and entertaining.
Our focus is on transformational change in innovative proprietary products in marketing and in customer engagement.
Within our product assortment we are increasing the percentage of exclusive and innovative products.
In the first quarter we saw once again that where we had exclusivity and/or innovative products our categories and our results were stronger.
We saw particular strength in electrics tabletops and from the April 5 launch of our agrarian assortment.
As we discussed in our April press release agrarian is a new category for the brand and extends our authority in the kitchen by advancing the healthy living and farm-to-table trends which appeal to those customers interested in cultivating an awareness of where their food comes from.
The initial response has been strong and we expect to further differentiate our brand in the market with future innovative offerings in this category.
We also increased our assortment of exclusive products in tabletop entertaining and food and we have seen a strong response to these proprietary innovative products which gives us confidence that our product strategy is working.
Marketing is the next critical area of our focus.
Our strategy is to market our products more powerfully across all channels.
The ability to communicate the stories behind our products consistently across multiple channels is a competitive advantage and we are improving our marketing on all fronts.
To lead this effort we recently hired Anna Last formerly Vice President and Editor-in-Chief from Martha Stewart's Everyday Food as Executive Creative Director.
She will begin leading our talented and tenured team later in Q2.
Retail stores represent another significant competitive opportunity to enhance customer engagement and the overall customer experience.
We are increasing our localized product and marketing efforts and in-store community events including cooking classes and cookbook signings to drive customer engagement beyond the sale.
We also believe that associate product knowledge is critical to differentiating Williams-Sonoma from others.
In the first quarter we focused on 2 key training initiatives in our stores.
First we expanded our Associate Product Training Program to elevate products and culinary expertise for all store associates.
Second we launched our in-store clienteling initiative which strengthens the associate customer relationship by offering one-on-one service.
Clienteling allows the associate to assist the customer and anticipate their future needs through personal interaction and online tools both in the store and in the customer's home.
Our goal is to provide an unparalleled customer experience that ultimately result in a higher average order size and higher number of transactions per customer per year.
These programs have been tested and proven in our home furnishing concepts and are driving strong growth in those brands.
Fundamental to the success of our product marketing and customer engagement strategy is the talent in the Williams-Sonoma brand and we have made some high-impact changes to the organization.
Late last year we reorganized our field organization placing the Williams-Sonoma stores under a seasoned leader who has been driving significant growth in our home furnishing brands.
During this quarter we placed product development under the leadership of a very talented product development executive who has had a significant role in establishing a strong growth trajectory for the Pottery Barn brand and earlier I mentioned our recent addition of a new and highly experienced Creative Director.
All of these efforts are aimed at further differentiating the Williams-Sonoma brand and taking its assortment and the customer experience to a new level in 2012 and beyond.
I would now like to talk about Pottery Barn our largest brand which represents approximately 43% of our business on an annual basis.
In Pottery Barn comparable brand revenues increased 9% on top of 8% last year with strong results across all channels another excellent quarter.
From a merchandising perspective all key categories including furniture textiles accessories and tabletop delivered growth during the quarter.
As we enter into the second quarter we are seeing positive customer response to our core and seasonal merchandise assortments and expect these trends to continue.
We are confident in the strategies we have planned for the year which include growing our product categories by consistently delivering exclusive innovative and artisanal products; leveraging our technology capability to allow our customers to interact with our brands anytime anywhere; enhancing our marketing to make decorating and entertaining at home easier and more fun; and delivering a superior customer experience elevating our service levels at every touch point.
We believe that these strategies are what make Pottery Barn the premier specialty retailer in our segment.
Now I would like to talk about Pottery Barn Kids which represents approximately 14% of our business on an annual basis.
In Q1 Pottery Barn Kids comparable brand revenues decreased 0.8% following a 10.9% increase last year.
Although in total we experienced a slight decrease in comparable brand revenue growth our year-over-year trend grew substantially stronger as the quarter progressed.
Revenue was primarily impacted by 2 inventory related factors: stronger-than-planned sales of furniture at the end of Q4 which depleted our inventories going into Q1; and greater-than-expected response to our new bedding introductions our baby business and key furniture collections.
We expect to fill these backorders and are confident that our strategies will drive positive revenue growth for the balance of the year.
As we enter the second quarter we are encouraged by the positive consumer response we are seeing in our core and seasonal assortments.
I would now like to talk about the PBteen brand which represents approximately 6% of our business on an annual basis.
In the first quarter PBteen comparable brand revenues declined 6% following last year's 7.5% increase.
This decline was driven by softer-than-expected furniture sales partially due to inventory that was out of stock during the quarter and softer demand across the furniture category.
In contrast the textile categories delivered double-digit growth in the first quarter as we experienced positive customer response to our spring and summer collections.
In addition as we saw in Pottery Barn Kids business trends improved sequentially during the quarter in key categories.
Lastly I would like to discuss West Elm which represents approximately 9% of our business on an annual basis.
West Elm comparable brand revenues increased 22% on top of 31% last year and the first quarter earnings and profitability reached new highs.
Brand growth was driven across all key categories led by furniture textile and decorative accessories.
In addition to increased offerings across these categories we expanded our assortment to new areas including the kitchen.
Highly effective multichannel marketing propelled strong results across all channels and emphasis on in-store activities and social media accelerated customer acquisition and engagement.
As we look forward to the balance of the year and beyond we will continue to execute on our products and customer engagement strategies.
And with retail profitability hitting new milestones we're aggressively looking for additional stores.
In fact in addition to the Riverhead New York store which we opened in Q1 of this year we are on track to open 6 new West Elm stores during fiscal 2012 in Durham North Carolina; Princeton New Jersey; Scarsdale New York; Vancouver British Columbia; and 2 additional locations that we are unable to disclose at this time.
We believe that West Elm is uniquely positioned to capture additional market share and drive profitable growth for the balance of the year and we are tracking to our plans to build it into a billion dollar brand.
Now I will turn the conference call over to Julie for additional details on our Q1 financial performance and our Q2 and full year 2012 financial guidance.
Thank you Laura and good morning.
For the quarter net revenues increased 6% to $818 million with 9% growth in the direct-to-customer channel and 5% comparable store sales growth in the retail channel.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 13% to $0.34 per share and non-GAAP operating margin equaled last year at 6.9%.
Revenues non-GAAP operating income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were the highest of any first quarter in the history of our company.
We ended the first quarter with $376 million in cash after returning $84 million to shareholders in the quarter through share repurchases and dividend.
Comparable brand revenues increased 5% led by strong performance in Pottery Barn and West Elm which more than offset the negative comparable revenue growth in Williams-Sonoma Pottery Barn Kids and PBteen.
E-commerce revenues for the quarter increased 12% driving direct-to-customer revenues to 46% of total company revenues versus 45% last year.
Gross margin decreased 60 basis points versus last year to 37.8%.
This decrease was driven by lower selling margins including increased shipping offers partially offset by the leverage of fixed occupancy costs.
Non-GAAP SG&amp;A improved 60 basis points versus last year to 30.9% primarily driven by reductions in general expenses demonstrating our continued commitment to maintaining strong financial discipline and expense management throughout the organization.
I would now like to comment on our first quarter non-GAAP operating margin in each of our business segments.
As mentioned earlier total company non-GAAP operating margin remained flat versus last year at 6.9% a 30-basis point increase in the retail segment to 7.8% and a 20-basis point improvement in corporate unallocated expenses to 6.8% was offset by 100-basis point decrease in the direct-to-customer segment to 20.8%.
The 30-basis point increase in the retail segment was driven by fixed occupancy cost leverage and lower general expenses.
The 20-basis point improvement in the corporate unallocated segment was primarily driven by a reduction in general expenses.
The 100-basis point decline in the direct-to-customer segment was driven by lower selling margins partially offset by sales leverage of fixed occupancy cost higher advertising productivity and lower general expenses.
From a balance sheet perspective the first quarter highlights were as follows: cash and cash equivalents decreased $95 million to $376 million after returning more than $300 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends over the past 12 months as part of our balance capital allocation strategy; merchandise inventories increased $54 million or 10% to $586 million.
As you may recall we significantly beat our Q4 2010 and Q1 2011 sales plans and as a result our ending Q1 2011 inventory levels were low.
The increase in Q1 2012 over Q1 2011 reflects that low base.
I would now like to discuss our second quarter and fiscal year 2012 guidance.
Our second quarter guidance for net revenues is estimated to be in the range of $850 million to $870 million and our non-GAAP EPS is estimated to be in the range of $0.38 to $0.41 per share.
This assumes revenue growth of 4% to 7% comparable brand revenue growth of 4% to 6% and non-GAAP operating margin of 7.5% to 8.1%.
We are increasing our full year guidance to reflect the outperformance we saw in the first quarter.
Therefore for the year non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are now expected to be in the range of $2.42 to $2.49 per share which will be the highest diluted earnings per share in the history of the company.
Net revenues are expected to be in the range of $3.9 billion to $4.0 billion and non-GAAP operating margin is expected to be in the range of 10.1% to 10.4%.
For all other fiscal year 2012 guidance please refer to our press release.
In summary our first quarter financial results represent the best first quarter in the company's history and we drove these results while simultaneously investing in our future growth.
As we said in our last conference call we believe that Williams-Sonoma Inc.
is entering a new and exciting phase growing our existing brands extending and developing new ones and expanding globally.
We believe this will allow us to deliver sustained profitable growth well into the future and provide predictable returns to our shareholders.
I would now like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> A couple questions.
Well first just on the strong retail comp can you give us a sense for traffic versus average ticket? And then when we look at the PBteen slowdown and you explained some of that what's the outlook there? I mean you said you thought PB Kids would swing back to positive going forward.
How about PBteens is there a view as to when that could swing back positive? Peter our retail comp was strong and we know that the initiatives that we have in place in our brands drive traffic but also that our digital marketing really drives traffic to our retail stores and we have an incredible store team out there and this clienteling initiative is key to customer engagement and bringing them back and knowing also what they're looking for.
We don't disclose traffic average ticket so apologies for not commenting on that.
In fact we don't measure traffic in most of our brands.
We do have traffic counters in West Elm but we don't have them in our other brands.
For PBteen the PBteen brand inventory issue is one that we're extremely focused on and getting back in stock in the furniture and we've learned a lot by the impact of backorders in PBteen.
You can imagine that when you -- when the customer shops PBteen there are 2 customers it's the mother and the teenager.
And making the decision together about what to buy for their bedroom is often difficult and imagine if by the time you've made the decision you're running -- you go online to place it and you see that the item is delayed.
Very disappointing and so it not only affects the furniture that you were going to order but also the bedding or the other pieces in the room.
And we do have some stock outages that we believe that we will fill by the end of Q2.
But given how important the quality of the furniture -- how important the quality is to us we don't want to rush that delivery because that's key to long-term customer satisfaction.
So everybody is focused on delivering high-quality furniture on time and the big initiative in place but I would say that that does affect and we are seeing it affect PBteen more than some of our other brands.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just one other follow-up.
On the promotional tone kind of in the business versus plan I mean I know your EBIT margins came in better than your plan at basically flat year-over-year.
Can you talk about some -- the promotional tone throughout the quarter how did that flow versus your plan? And were your selling and merchandising margins in line with your plan better worse? How should we think about that? Sure.
It's clear to us that value is still incredibly important to our customers and it's not going away.
Our customer's looking for value matched with quality and we deliver on both of these attributes.
And we have a prepared promotional cadence throughout the year.
We'll continue to be very competitive in the market with the nonexclusive branded goods.
And in the Williams-Sonoma brand where our competitors are breaking MAP we will respond.
The Williams-Sonoma brand is most impacted because of its exposure as you know to nonexclusive branded product.
We intend to be strategic on this front but never at the expense of profitability.
And do you want to comment Julie also on the promotional environment and margins? Sure.
Peter I think one of the most positive things that we saw in Q1 is that when you look at the Q1 year-over-year margins relative to Q4 year-over-year we saw a significant improvement in our margin specifically or especially in Williams-Sonoma but across all brands.
So I think that's one of the -- I think there was some concern about the promotional environment and we want to make sure that you understand that there is some good improvement coming quarter by quarter.
And we'll take our next question from Joe Feldman with Telsey Advisory Group.
I had a couple of quick questions.
One was if you could give us an update on sort of the -- your supply chain initiatives and the DTC.
I don't recall getting too much detail on the prepared remarks today and just wanted to see how things are progressing there.
Sure great.
We continue to make progress against our quality and damage initiative.
And we are as you know running our own offices and furniture overseas which is really contributing to lower damages and quality issues than we had a year ago and that's very important to our customers.
And we're also very focused on on-time delivery.
And while I just talked about furniture that is on backorder I feel very confident because our teams are there working on the ground to give us a clear sense of when things are coming and also to ensure that as I said earlier it wasn't rushed.
As it relates to our initiatives across the supply chain domestically we are continuing to drive productivity across all areas in the supply chain and to prepare for the next step of real modernization of our CMO facilities which will yield great benefit into the future.
Did you also ask Joe about DTC initiatives? I think you mentioned that at the end of your question.
I'm going to let Pat talk about the progress we're making against our DTC investments.
Joe I think in e-commerce in particular in the first quarter we made some very strong progress in 3 areas in relevance and in service and in usability.
I think as you go on the site you will see that we are personalizing the site experience to deliver product content that's relevant to the individual site visitor and what we found is that these personalized product placements are highly effective like 4x greater response than a non-personalized placement.
And so we see significant opportunity here we're really just getting started.
We're also expanding our programs of highly personalized e-mails which are generating up to 10x the average of our regular e-mails.
So we think there's a lot of opportunity in this area.
In the service area we added a feature called click-to-chat which allows our customers to interact with our service associates online.
Our customers are really responding to this very well.
I think additionally what it's allowing us to do is to analyze these conversations and to look for patterns so that we can quickly react to potential issues and continue to improve on service.
And the last thing we did on the e-commerce front was really to our continued mission to improve usability particularly around the area of monogramming where now it's much easier to order a monogrammed item and of course the checkout path making it easier for customers to complete the purchase with less clicks.
And we'll take our next question from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Halley Goodman on behalf of Matt Fassler today.
Our question relates to the impact of shipping deals on gross margin and we were wondering if you could quantify this impact in Q1.
And we were also wondering when does Williams-Sonoma's cycle the biggest increases or is this going to increase an importance and perpetuity? So let me take the first question around the shipping deals in Williams-Sonoma.
Shipping is part of our value equation and we continue to test a variety of shipping promotions in all of our brands and generally they drive more sales response than an equivalent merchandise discount.
And I know that there's always been the question of what would this do to your long-term operating margin if shipping becomes even more promotional in the future.
And I just -- I want to spend a minute on this because we believe it would have much less impact than some people have written because the vast majority of our DTC volume is in home furnishings.
And the customer does not expect that furniture and rugs will be shipped to them for free.
And over the past several years we've been able to reduce the fees we charge on these items continuing to pass on the savings we accrue through optimization of our supply chain.
And since we are larger than our next 4 competitors combined in the home furnishings category the scale we've achieved particularly in large item logistics gives us a real competitive advantage.
And our goal is to provide the finest shipping experience for these items and to do so at a cost to the consumer that they consider reasonable.
And we'll take our next question from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I want to comment that same issue or a part of that same issue.
I think Julie you said that DTC margins were down 100 basis points and you pointed to lower sales margin offset by a number of factors.
I wonder if you could go over that again and perhaps quantify the magnitude of the sales margin and how that impacts.
And then secondly if you could address the SG&amp;A initiatives and I think you told us that it would be $15 million to $20 million on an annual basis.
And I wonder if we could know what was spent in the first quarter on that issue -- those issues.
So from an operating margin perspective especially in the DTC business I think a couple things just to call out here.
First let's remember that the operating margin overall is at and is projected to be at the high end of our guidance at the highest level in the history of the company.
Second our DTC operating margin is significantly higher than our retail operating margin.
It came in at 20.8% and retail is at 7.8% and we have an expectation that our business is going to grow to 50% DTC in the next 3 years.
That said as you pointed out and as I've said in my prepared remarks that the DTC margin this quarter was less than last year and that was by lower selling margins and the fact that we made a decision to be more competitive on shipping.
The other thing is that in Q1 we drove higher demands than we filled so we didn't get the total benefit from those sales to leverage the ad costs.
Lastly as Laura said earlier we know that our digital marketing efforts drive our retail channel business which is also where we saw some improvement.
As far as your SG&amp;A question yes it is $15 million to $20 million for the year.
We're not providing quarterly guidance or results on what we expense but I think Laura would you like to update them on the initiatives and where we are with that? Sure.
We did as I mentioned earlier make the investments that we planned to make across e-commerce global expansion and business development and Pat talked about the progress on the e-commerce front focusing on relevant service and usability.
And as we look at the quarter 2 for e-commerce there's a significant amount of functional enhancements and new features through the balance of this year and in Q2.
But instead of singling out a few of those I prefer to talk about the capabilities that we've built.
We went through a pretty rigorous e-commerce strategy effort almost 2 years ago.
And since then we've ramped our e-commerce teams and their capabilities according to that plan and we've become very efficient at delivering improved website features and functionality on a regular cadence.
We have planned releases every 6 to 8 weeks.
We will launch new capabilities.
And for those of you who have been following the progression of our websites you will notice a steady progression.
And while some releases are bigger than others all of them help us get closer to our ultimate vision of seamlessly serving our customers across channels.
As it relates to global expansion we are continuing to increase our global shipping business.
We've already expanded our international shipping capability from 75 countries to 99 and our results are exceeding our internal plans for this business.
Last week we began shipping the Williams-Sonoma brand to Canada.
And on the franchise front Alshaya is going well.
This summer we're opening our first Williams-Sonoma West Elm and PBteen stores in Kuwait.
Alshaya is very committed to our brands and we will have 18 stores in the region at the end of the year.
In terms of company-owned global expansion we're continuing to make progress against our multichannel fully integrated IT platform which is scheduled to be completed by 2014 and we will update you when we are in a position to make an announcement.
In new business development as we talked about West Elm is performing ahead of our expectations and this is the bulk of our business development investment.
We are also on track with the integration of Rejuve and we've seen real growth in this business year-over-year so it's a real bright spot for us and we're pleased with our marketing strategies today and we are getting the response we expected from leveraging our house file.
And we are excited we're opening a new store for the brand in Berkeley over the summer.
And so in total as we look at everything we talked about and the progress in Q1 and our ability to fund these investments and also deliver record earnings we are very optimistic about the balance of the year and our ability to deliver.
And we will take our next question from Matt McGinley with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Laura you made a comment I think it was during the PBteen comments that you saw or experienced softer furniture demand was that comment specific to PBteen or was that across all segments that you saw furniture demand soften? And as you had -- you talked about increases in demands throughout the course of the quarter.
Did furniture experience that same kind of trend? I was referring just to PBteen when I mentioned softer furniture although in PBK we also saw softer furniture sales related to the inventory outages.
We saw very strong furniture sales in West Elm and Pottery Barn.
Research Division</strong> If I could just one more on that on the increase in deposits you had on the balance sheet it was only up about $7 million or $8 million.
How much of that was related to those inventory backorders you would have on PBteen and PB Kids versus just normal increases in customer deposits? Customer deposits so that pertains to the delivery of furniture.
So basically there are some revenue at the end of the quarter that we were not able to deliver by year-end so it basically raised the balance.
And we'll take our next question from David Magee with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple questions.
One it sounds like you guys are making good headway with the proprietary product push.
Can you just give a little more color on how that process works? Are you near where you want to be with that or do you still have a long runway to go as far as securing proprietary merchandise in the stores? You're referring to Williams-Sonoma I assume? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
We are making good progress.
We've been asked this for a while and so you're going to see us just like we launched agrarian in Q1 at the end of Q1.
That's something that's been in work for over a year something we identified as white space in the market and also a food trend and a lifestyle trend and Williams-Sonoma has always been first to bring in new food trends and chicken coops and beehives are something that people are very interested in doing as they want to know where their food comes from and have a part of growing and harvesting and experiencing the making of products versus just cooking them.
So agrarian represents a launch that was in the work.
We have other launches throughout the balance of this year very proprietary information so I'm sorry not to give you a full outline of what is to come but what we have said is that the areas that we can affect the soonest are tabletop and entertaining and linens because those have shorter lead times and so that's been under work and we're seeing very strong increases in those categories.
In terms of durables it can take up to 2 years to develop durables and electrics can take even longer.
Where we have very innovative electrics right now we're seeing double-digit increases.
And so we know that both innovation and exclusivity are what our customer are looking for from us and that's where we really win.
And you will see us launch more branded products in Williams-Sonoma throughout the balance of this year increasing in the percentage.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Becks with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just focusing on the Williams-Sonoma brand.
Can you speak to what you're seeing there? Is it more just being pressure in retail or DTC? And then also is the emphasis really on driving greater profitability? And then as a follow-up a lot of retailers have spoken of pull-forward demand in the quarter.
It doesn't look like you saw that given comments on Pottery Barn but wanted to confirm and then perhaps any update on current trends in May as it compares to your current guidance.
Sure Mark.
Williams-Sonoma there's really not a comment that I'd make about the channels.
It's very interesting.
There's some categories that are so strong double digit across several categories where we're having -- where we had I should say the biggest issue in Q1 with cookware which is a big percentage of our business.
And in addition to not having anything branded there hasn't been a lot of new technology that's been introduced in cookware.
And that is what the customer is looking for across the board.
And that is what we're focused on for the future is to bring in durables that change the way you cook that no one has seen before.
And so I'm very encouraged to see that we have real bright spots versus the unilateral softness across the brand and profitability is key to us.
We've always focused on the highest level of quality across our stores and with the way we treat our customers and our employees and at the same time incredible financial discipline in the brand and we were able to change the trend of gross margin versus last year relative to Q4 which was important for us to see and we did choose not to do a cookware promotion that we had last year that cost us some revenue comp.
Research Division</strong> Did you call out the -- or did you quantify the impact of the cookware not anniversary-ing the promo? No.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the pull-forward of demand? Could you ask that question again? I want to make sure I understand what you're getting at.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
A lot of retailers have spoken of pull-forward in demand.
It didn't look like you saw that given your comments on Pottery Barn but just wanted to confirm so there's some monthly cadence and then just your current trends as it pertains to your guidance.
We're confident in our guidance as they reflect the current trends and if you're asking whether -- we said we saw a sequential improvement in some of our brands and then we saw a consistent improvement -- consistent performance and I think what you're asking is was it all in the beginning of the quarter.
Actually I said the opposite in some of our brands.
Did that answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes sure does.
And we'll take our next question from Brad Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jason Campbell standing in for Brad.
When we look at your retail comps it seems like over the past 5 quarters or so it's kind of been pretty volatile.
I mean close to 7 and then down to 1 a couple quarters.
And there isn't really a distinguishable trend there.
I was wondering what's really behind the volatility that you're seeing in your retail segment and what you're doing to maybe drive some more sustained improvement in that.
We've said this before and part of our unique -- what makes us unique is that we're multichannel big portion online.
And we're serious when we say we don't care where they shop.
So at any given point we drive retail sales we drive DTC sales and we're looking at the total.
Of course you look at the individual parts to see specific profitability improvements.
But from a customer-facing perspective it's really all those channels working together to both inspire the customer to shop and then to service them and complete the sale.
Research Division</strong> And is it anything that you've -- does it correlate with anything you've done as a company that maybe in those higher quarters you've just focused more on retail or in the lower quarters you've just done more digital marketing or is it kind of just the macro how the consumer's reacting right now? I think if we all think about how we shop there's so many variables that go into play about where you actually purchase something.
Do you have time to go the store would you rather have it online are you buying a gift.
I don't think it relates to anything other than consumer preferences at the time and I expect the channels to have some lumpiness.
And we'll take our next question from Laura Champine with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> My question is a strategic question for you Laura.
With Williams-Sonoma brand seeing a lot of change in management and a few execution issues with the Kids brand I mean how are you thinking about managing the risk that expanding globally becomes a distraction? And along those lines have you pulled back on plans for company-owned stores because of the macroeconomic environment in Europe? Sure.
We actually -- we hired a separate group to lead our global expansion efforts last year.
We brought in 2 seasoned executives to take that on for exactly the reason you mentioned which is the brand presidents we want them to stay very focused on the domestic business but also to be able to train some new executives bring them into the company as we have with other people in the past.
We've had a great success in bringing people in but also keeping our tenured associates and of course the brand presidents will be very involved with our global expansion to ensure that the DNA of the brand is there.
We are not pulling back on our plans for global expansion.
We have not given indication yet of where we're going and when.
We will update you as soon as we are ready to make that announcement but I will say that we're very cognizant of what's happening around the world and the global environment.
And our focus when we go global is to both have stores and websites that are of the same quality as our stores here but also to run them profitably.
And this is a very key part of our strategy.
And we have a plan to open stores and launch the websites and to make money because our plan is not to open a multitude of stores and large stores in high-rent districts but stores as marketing for international e-commerce.
So we'll be giving you more updates on that as we have information to share.
And we'll take our next question from David Gober with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question on West Elm.
For the last few quarters clearly your comps have been very strong and one of the things you guys have pointed to has been the increasing breadth of product and category expansion.
Where would you say you are in that process? And how much longer do you think you have to go in terms of getting to where you want to be on that brand? Great question.
We've successfully densified the stores and online the store is infinite.
So we have been increasing some categories more than others to see where the point of diminishing returns are and we haven't found that yet.
So we have a lot of runway to increase the assortment online.
And just like in our Pottery Barn brands we have the opportunity to distinguish suburban stores from more urban stores and with our product assortments and that gives you another layer of product.
And then as I said earlier we're testing -- we're always testing new categories in each and every one of our brands and we brought in some great kitchen assortments and they've been very successful and you'll see us continue to build on that front.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one follow-up on the Williams-Sonoma brand.
And I know you've touched on this at various times throughout the call but I just wanted to clarify what you're seeing from competitors here and obviously you've taken a number of steps that are progressing.
But are you seeing the same type of intensity from your competitors and in some of the product categories that have seen pressure over the last couple of quarters? It's clear that it is very promotional out there still.
It's not surprising to us.
I think the consumer is forever changed.
They're looking for value they're looking for quality they're looking for innovation they want to be inspired and that's what we're focused on.
You can see a lot of people breaking MAP across the board on branded goods and using shipping as a really promotional tool and we study all these things on a weekly basis and make decisions about what we're going to do whether we're going to compete on price or whether we're going to hold.
And it's highly competitive what some of those decisions look like as well to say that we did make the decision in Q1 not to anniversary the cookware event that we had last year.
And through last year's promotions all the way through Q4 we were able to learn which ones really make a difference and have staying power and bring the customer back and which ones don't.
And so we have a much clearer understanding of which ones actually drive profitability short term and long term and we've built our 2012 promotional strategy based on those 2011 results.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Research Division</strong> This is Chris Weng calling in for Michael Lasser.
I have a couple of questions.
The first is how much room would you say you have to make like I guess the flexibility in making SG&amp;A cuts without having an impact on sales? And I guess -- I was also wondering how many -- how long will you take -- you think it will take for the Williams-Sonoma brand to really turn around? I guess how many quarters ahead do you think it will be? This is Laura Chris.
On Williams-Sonoma it's going to be gradual.
We haven't put out quarterly guidance for Williams-Sonoma specifically.
And I will tell you that every quarter we're going to give you an update.
We're going to say what's working and if we're making any adjustments.
On SG&amp;A I'm going to let Julie handle that.
Yes so from an SG&amp;A perspective I'm not quite sure of your question but basically where we saw the improvement was in general expenses where we managed our expenses.
We did not see a decline in our advertising investments.
So the types of things that we saw the benefit from would not impact sales and I don't know Pat if you want talk about correlation with advertising costs and sales.
Well I think just to answer your question a little more Chris.
We have really a great tool in terms of how we manage our ad cost.
We continue to see improving productivity there.
And we have a very disciplined process by which we evaluate our marketing spend on a monthly basis.
And I can just say while some of what we're doing is very competitive that we've seen a lot of success not only in our core programs but also new ones that we've introduced and tested that have an opportunity to scale significantly.
And this is really in the digital space in terms of search in terms of targeted display in terms of some of the other things that we're doing.
Laura has mentioned several times in her prepared remarks that she sees us at the intersection of lifestyle merchandising and analytics.
And I think we're seeing every quarter here how we're able to use the analytic ability that we've built into our DNA here over the last 20 years to really drive this business.
It's a real competitive advantage.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And another question if I may.
On the decision to reduce I guess the promotion for cookware.
I guess what was sort of the thinking behind that? Were you seeing certain trends going into the quarter? Very competitive question.
I'd rather stay away from going through how we make decisions about pricing because as competitive as it is everyone's looking for what will we do next.
And we'll take our next question from Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question is could you just talk to how much of the improved gross margin trend at Sonoma was due to not repeating the All-Clad promotion? And then we noticed a 20% off cookware promotion launch in the last week or so.
Does that mean that this promo essentially gets shifted into 2Q or are they sort of different in nature? Sure.
We haven't broken out the gross margin related to the not anniversary-ing cookware but it is a focus of ours to improve the Williams-Sonoma gross margin and profitability.
So you're going to continue to see us drive that.
We did launch a cookware promotion over the weekend in response to what's going on competitively out there as we will throughout the year as we see different factors in the marketplace.
And I think it's early for me to comment on the results of that but I will tell you that this is what we know: the customer would rather buy high-end cooking entertaining essentials from Williams-Sonoma than anywhere else.
So they are very responsive to promotions and we use them strategically and we also use them offensively and defensively when we have to to protect the market share and then also to drive repeat purchases.
And we'll take our next question from Marni Shapiro with Retail Tracker.
I had a couple of quick questions.
On PBteen I know you guys have had success with Pinterest with West Elm and the PBteen customers on Pinterest so I was curious if you were thinking about doing that kind of interesting marketing there.
And you saw amazing textile sales there and I know you guys have been working to update the textiles at PBteen and I was curious how far along that product was for spring because I'm assuming there's more to come for fall which is kind of exciting.
And then if you could just -- I don't if you guys can differentiate or track gifting versus self-purchases at Williams-Sonoma.
And if you can can you talk a little bit have you seen a difference in those trends where gifting is holding strong and self is falling off or vice versa or anything to that effect? Pat do you want to take the question on Pinterest? Yes sure.
Marni we've had a lot of -- first of all one of the things we do because we have multiple brands is we share best practices.
And West Elm has had a particular success with Pinterest that we have now really started to emulate and learn from in our other brands.
We actually -- we're down visiting Ben and the team with Pinterest and learned just 3 weeks ago when we were there that we were the first company that had ever met with them and we probably won't be the last.
But it really points to the advantage we have of being right here in the Bay Area and sitting right there with Ben and his coders as they're building the new features.
And I think you'll see some opportunities that we have there for all of our brands.
I can't really talk about it.
And then to the point about textiles as I've said earlier we're seeing nice growth in textiles in PBteen.
And we have widened the aesthetic and so we're pleased with the results that we're seeing there.
And you're going to see us build on some of the new aesthetics that are working into the balance of the year.
So this was just the start? Yes exactly.
As it relates to gifting self-purchase versus gifting really very difficult to know exactly because while we can track how much is shipped to on other address you don't know if I've gone into buy it myself and then give it to someone at a birthday party myself and hands it off.
But Williams-Sonoma we know is our highest gift brand and it's a strategy that we're very focused on both in terms of feature functionality and the website how we market gifts and then also the gifts that we offer and the in-store marketing and the clienteling that goes with that.
Because for example we know online if you purchase every year a wreath for your mother and we can reach out to you and send you an e-mail reminding you to buy the wreath but we can also call you from our stores and make that very easy for you.
So gift giving is an initiative in the Williams-Sonoma brand under our product strategy that we are excited about and that we're very focused on.
And in all of our businesses you've seen us increase our monogramming business and our personalization efforts and both the different fonts and techniques that we offer but also the experience on the Web which is where the business is done.
And as Pat mentioned earlier we really improved that experience so that you can go through that process quite quickly now versus before it was a little bit more cumbersome.
And we'll take our next question from Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
Laura I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about your assumptions for the DTC margins for the year.
Do you think that there'll be selling margin pressure there for the remainder of the year? And I know that you ship primarily furniture and that's not free shipping but have you seen any pressure on the shipping cost the shipping expense that you're allowed to get away with with the consumer? In other words is anyone offering a lower shipping expense that maybe pressuring what you actually are charging for shipping? And secondly on Williams-Sonoma from what I've gathered from the call I think you want us to think that that comp all-channel comp for Williams-Sonoma could be under pressure all year but I'm not sure.
Janet we're deciding to answer your question on several fronts.
I want to talk about the furniture shipping charges and then I'm going to pass it to Pat and then Julie to follow up.
The customer's very smart.
They know what the total price is of a piece of furniture and some retailers in our competitive set put the price of shipping into the price of the product.
Others charge restocking fees cancellation fees.
We don't do either one of those things.
What we do is we have what we believe is fair shipping for white glove delivery and it's separate from the price of the product and that is how we've always done it.
We've actually been able to reduce our shipping income on furniture while maintaining the furniture profitability because of all the great supply chain work where we've cut cost out of the supply chain.
And that's helped us improve our value equation to the customer.
So while there may be others out there that have cheaper shipping charges per se we know based on our competitive analysis across all categories that our shipping -- I mean our furniture is the best value and the best quality in the market.
I'm going to pass it over to Pat to further comment.
And Janet I think the customer's really seeing our ability to vertically integrate especially on the upholstered product has just been terrific.
It's just really the cumulative impact of things we've been working on on that supply chain for 10 years to deliver value to the customer.
And the other point I wanted to make to you is I think that the first quarter DTC growth belies really the underlying strength as it continues in our e-commerce channel.
Our demand in the quarter was actually close to 16% but we had backorders which reduced the shift demand.
And I want to make sure you understood that.
So we're very encouraged by this and as Laura points out we have a lot of levers.
We have the shipping lever and we have the marketing lever that we can use to maximize the opportunity we have especially in the furniture category.
I'll turn it over to Julie.
Yes.
And Janet from an operating margin perspective I think couple things to remember.
We're confident in the guidance that we put out today.
We are if you look at the high end going to beat operating margin both in second quarter and in full year in the history of the company.
And keep in mind that the DTC margin is much higher.
So having a 100-basis point impact on a 20.8% margin versus retail at 7.8% is less pronounced.
And we're continually driving the operating margin in total and keeping in mind that also we're trying to grow the DTC business to 50% over the next 3 years.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I'll now turn the conference back over to Ms.
Alber for any additional or closing remarks.
I want to thank you all for joining us.
We appreciate your support and we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Have a great day.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Inc.
Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
I would like to turn the call over to Steve Nelson Vice President of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP measures and forward-looking statements.
Good afternoon.
This afternoon's call should be considered in conjunction with the press releases that we issued earlier today.
Our earnings press release and this call contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to facilitate meaningful year-over-year comparisons.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and an explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful are discussed in Exhibit 1 and elsewhere in the earnings release.
The forward-looking statements included in this morning -- this afternoon's call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements address the financial condition results of operations business initiatives trends guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2012 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings including the most recent 10-Q for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our second quarter 2012 results and our outlook for Q3 and fiscal year 2012.
Thank you Steve.
Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us at our new time.
On the call today are Pat Connolly our Chief Marketing Officer and Julie Whalen our newly appointed Chief Financial Officer.
I couldn't be more pleased to have Julie in her official role for this call.
It's such an important appointment for us and Julie brings a wealth of internal experience and has been an incredible partner to me.
I know many of you have met her and have sent me very complimentary notes and I look forward to all of you getting to know her better and to many years of success with her as our CFO.
Today we'll be discussing our second quarter 2012 results and our outlook for the third quarter and fiscal year.
During the quarter we delivered strong performance in revenues operating margins and earnings per share.
Diluted earnings per share grew 16% on net revenue growth of 7% with comparable brand revenue growth accelerating from 5.4% in Q1 to 7.4% in Q2.
Also during the quarter e-commerce net revenues increased 14%.
Most importantly we drove this growth in revenue and earnings while simultaneously investing in our long-term growth initiative.
All brands contributed to these results.
Pottery Barn and West Elm again performed very well during the quarter.
Pottery Barn Kids and Pottery Barn Teens both posted year-over-year increases and Williams-Sonoma improved its revenue trend versus the prior quarter.
This performance demonstrates to us that the strategies we are executing in each of our brands are working.
As we outlined in the beginning of year our growth long term is going to come from 3 areas: growing our core brands new brands and global expansion.
Foundational to our growth strategies are e-commerce and supply chain and we continue to make investments in both to improve customer service and quality.
In e-commerce we implemented enhancements that further improve the shopping experience.
We improved site navigation to accommodate our growing product assortment making easier for our customers to find and buy.
Data and algorithmically driven product recommendations which we began implementing last fall are having a measurable impact on increasing revenue per visitor.
In e-marketing our focus on relevance in all of our marketing streams contributed to increases in advertising productivity.
In supply chain we continue to be focused on improving the customer experience while reducing cost and this quarter we made progress against that initiative.
And now let's talk about our core brand.
In the Williams-Sonoma brand comparable brand revenues decreased 0.4%.
We are pleased with the progress we are beginning to see in the Williams-Sonoma brand as we execute the transformational strategies we have previously outlined for you.
In addition to the improvement in revenue trends we also saw substantial improvement in our selling margins on a sequential basis and our product margins were up on a year-over-year.
This is a very encouraging trend.
It demonstrates that we can drive sales while at the same time improving our selling margins in this brand.
On the product front we are meeting our internal targets for increasing our ratio of exclusive products and we're improving our marketing and customer engagement.
In the second quarter in the areas we have -- where we have the highest percent of exclusive products electrics tabletop and agrarian we had strong increases.
As we introduce more innovative and exclusive products across all categories we expect to see gradual and incremental improvement.
One example that we can tell you about today is the new Verismo system by Starbucks the first at-home premium single-cup machine that makes espresso brewed coffee and lattes all in one and meets Starbucks' commitment to taste and quality.
Williams-Sonoma will be the first retailer to launch the platform and we will carry our own exclusive premium model.
We will also be selling Starbucks espresso coffee and milk pods in our stores and online for easy access and replenishment.
The availability of Starbucks Verismo pods combined with this versatile machine will appeal to our customers' desire to create an authentic Starbucks café experience in their home.
This is but one example of the series of product launches that we'll be introducing during the balance of the year and we look forward to sharing these product introductions with you.
In addition to exclusive product debuts we are increasing our seasonal assortment.
For example based on last year's success with Halloween we'll be carrying a 50% increase in Halloween-related SKUs and giving it dominant marketing in stores and online.
On the marketing front in Q2 we made several enhancements to our catalog website and in-store displays executing on our strategy to develop a differentiated and powerful voice across all channels.
We will continue to refine our marketing maximizing the unique potential of each channel to deliver consistent and compelling narratives around our products our categories and our authority as the leader in cooking and entertaining.
In support of our strategic initiative to improve overall customer experience and further differentiate the brand we are focusing at retail on our selling culture and the engagement of our retail associates.
In Q2 we made significant progress in rolling out our clienteling initiative and associate training program designed to elevate products and culinary expertise for all associates.
Our clienteling initiative under way in the Pottery Barn brand is a significant part of our current success.
Overall we believe that clienteling can have a similar impact in the Williams-Sonoma brand and we are just getting started.
We are pleased with the progress in our Williams-Sonoma brand and look forward to updating you on the brand's progress.
I would now like to talk about Pottery Barn.
In the Pottery Barn brand comparable brand revenues increased 12% and accelerated from the first quarter.
The brand continues to deliver a dynamic and comprehensive assortment that inspires customers bringing decorating and entertaining together with great value in new ways.
From a merchandising perspective all key categories including furniture textiles accessories and tabletop delivered strong growth during the quarter.
As we enter the third quarter we are pleased with the response to our fall assortment.
Customers are positively responding to our new rustic looks collection and our furniture business is strong.
In Q3 and beyond we will continue to create new experiences for our customers to make decorating easy fast fun and affordable through engaging in-store events clienteling and complementary in-home design services.
We are also focused on enhancing our website to make it the broadest expression of the brand lending commerce and content to deliver a rich inspirational and motivational shopping experience.
Executing on these commitments will delight existing customers attract new customers to the brand and allow us to capture significant additional market share.
In the Pottery Barn Kids brand comparable brand revenues increased 4% on top of 8% last year with all key categories including furniture textiles and decorative accessories contributing to this performance.
Growth was also driven by strong consumer response to our expanded baby offering and registry which are key initiatives at Pottery Barn Kids this year.
Furniture was the strongest driver of the comparable-brand revenue growth reflecting improved in-stock positions and successful new product introductions.
We are excited about the third quarter and the launch of our fall assortment.
Demand has exceeded expectations for our new back-to-school gear collections which include innovative products designed to support healthy eating for kids at lunchtime.
Customers have also been responding well to our textiles and we expect to see continued growth in baby.
We are confident in our strategies for the remainder of the year.
Next I would like to talk about Pottery Barn Teen.
PBteen comparable brand revenues were a positive 0.8% in the quarter on top of last year's 20% growth and PBteen demand has shown steady improvements from Q1.
We have strong consumer response to our textiles which ran double-digit comps led by our dorm initiative and early response our fall collection.
The furniture category saw improvement in the latter part of the quarter as the brand began to improve its inventory position in key collections.
These positive results in textiles and furniture were partially offset by softness in decorative accessories.
In Q3 we have a series of exciting product launches.
My favorite is our exclusive launch of Burton.
As you probably know Burton is the world's leading snowboard company.
They own this market.
And we worked with Jake Burton to design a line of home furnishings exclusively for PBteen that includes textiles and decorative accessories.
It's a great collection and we believe this collection will attract new customers to the brand and support the growth of our business.
Lastly I'd like to talk about West Elm.
West Elm delivered a 16% comparable brand revenue increase on top of 29% last year driven by double-digit growth in textiles furniture decorative accessories and lighting.
We continue to drive new levels of profitability in this brand.
This quarter we refined our promotional strategy in-store which led to higher margins in our retail channel and we are seeing strong results in the direct channel through expanded assortments and compelling marketing messages.
As we look forward to Q3 and Q4 we are going to expand our product lines and increase engagement with our customers in all of our channels with a particular emphasis on seasonal and gift-giving.
We have been aggressively seeking retail expansion opportunities.
We opened 1 store in the second quarter and we will open additional 5 stores in the third quarter.
Overall we continue to execute on our multi-brand multi-channel model driven by dynamic direct and digital marketing and outstanding customer service that we believe is a superior platform for retailing home furnishing.
This combined with our innovative and proprietary products are all powerful differentiators.
We are focused on elevating our performance in all areas and we are investing in the future to reach our goal of growing this to a $1 billion brand.
Before I pass it to Julie I want to spend a minute updating you on the progress we have made with our development of new brands and our global expansion strategy.
In Rejuvenation we opened an exciting new store in Berkeley California and continue with our integration this brand into our company.
In other new business development we continue to work on new ideas and I'm proud to announce that we will be launching a new DTC brand in early November of this year.
One of the things that differentiates Williams-Sonoma Inc.
is our ability to launch new brands that can grow into substantial businesses.
This is evidenced by Pottery Barn Kids Pottery Barn Teens and West Elm all of which we incubated here in the company and collectively account for over $1 billion in annual revenue.
We will update you with more information on this new brand and the progress we are making on other new business ideas on our next call.
Also this afternoon we announced that we'll be opening our first company-operated stores outside of North America.
We will be opening 4 stores in Sydney Australia a Williams-Sonoma a West Elm a Pottery Barn and a Pottery Barn Kids.
We expect to open these stores in early fiscal 2013.
We are tracking ahead of our original global time line because we are able to identify a compelling strategic retail opportunity.
Also we opened 2 additional stores during the second quarter in Saudi Arabia with our franchise partner.
In addition to these stores we'll be opening the first Williams-Sonoma West Elm and PBteen's store in the Middle East later this year.
Further in our direct business we are shipping internationally to more than 95 countries.
Last but not least I want to tell you about something that I'm particularly proud of.
Our recently opened Pottery Barn Kids store is the first store in Saudi Arabia that is operated by women and has women in management.
This is an example of how we can not only drive earnings and sales but how we can help make changes to improve the communities where we do business.
Now I will turn the conference call over to Julie for additional details on our Q2 financial performance and our Q3 and full year 2012 financial guidance.
Thank you Laura and good afternoon.
For the quarter net revenues increased 7% to $874 million with 13% growth in the direct-to-customer channel and 4% comparable store sales growth in retail channel.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 16% to $0.43 per share and non-GAAP operating margin at 8% matched the highest ever for the second quarter.
As a result our revenues operating income and diluted earnings per share were a record for any non-holiday quarter while we simultaneously invested in our future growth.
Comparable brand revenues increased 7% led by strong performance in Pottery Barn and West Elm.
E-commerce revenues for the quarter increased 14% driving direct-to-customer revenues to 47% of total company revenues versus 45% last year.
Gross margins improved 40 basis points versus last year to 38.3%.
This increase was driven by the leverage of fixed occupancy costs and was partially offset by lower selling margins including increasing our shipping value to our customers.
Selling margins on a sequential basis however increased 90 basis points from the first quarter with the most significant improvement in the Williams-Sonoma brand.
Occupancy expense was $124 million during the quarter versus $123 million last year.
Non-GAAP SG&amp;A increased 20 basis points versus last year to 30.2% primarily driven by increased employment expenses partially offset by greater advertising efficiency.
Included in this increase in SG&amp;A expense were the planned incremental investment to support our e-commerce global expansion and business development growth strategy.
I would now like to comment on our second quarter non-GAAP operating margin in each of our business segments.
As mentioned earlier total company non-GAAP operating margin at 8% matched our highest ever for the second quarter a 30-basis-point increase in the direct-to-customer segment to 23% was offset by a 30-basis-point decrease in the retail segment to 8.4% and a 20-basis-point increase in corporate unallocated expenses to 7.3%.
The 30-basis-point improvement in the direct-to-customer segment was primarily driven by greater advertising efficiencies and sales leverage of fixed occupancy costs partially offset by lower selling margins and higher employment.
At $95 million the direct-to-customer operating income is the highest quarterly segment operating income ever recorded in either segment for a non-holiday quarter.
The 30-basis-point decrease in the retail segment was driven by higher employment partially offset by fixed occupancy cost leverage and improved selling margins.
The 20-basis-point increase in the corporate unallocated segment was primarily driven by the planned incremental investment to support our global expansion in business development for our strategy.
From a balance sheet perspective the second quarter highlights were as follows: cash at the end of the quarter was $337 million versus $425 million last year or a net decrease of $88 million.
Though cash provided by operating activity has actually increased $60 million on a trailing 12-month basis the increase was offset primarily by additional year-over-year spending on share repurchases and dividends as well as additional capital spending to support our growth initiatives.
Merchandise inventories increased $60 million or 11% to $616 million which was consistent with our expectations and was primarily to improve our in-stock inventory position and to drive sales in all of our brands.
I would now like to discuss our third quarter and fiscal year 2012 guidance.
We are very pleased with the progress we have made in the first half of this year and our momentum entering the third quarter remains strong.
Our third quarter guidance for net revenues is estimated to be in the range of $905 million to $925 million and our non-GAAP EPS is estimated to be in the range of $0.43 to $0.46 per share.
This assumes revenue growth of 4% to 7% comparable brand revenue growth of 4% to 6% and a non-GAAP operating margin of 7.5% to 8.1%.
We are again increasing our full year guidance to reflect the outperformance we saw in the second quarter.
Therefore for the year non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are now expected to be in the range of $2.44 to $2.51 per share which would be the highest diluted earnings per share in the history of our company.
Net revenues are now expected to be in the range of $3.98 billion to $4.03 billion.
It's important to note that our fiscal year EPS guidance reflects both a $0.02 negative weighted share effect on the sum of the quarters and a $0.02 impact from the incremental spend associated with the unplanned early fiscal 2013 global expansion of our first retail store in Australia.
Our capital spending guidance remains unchanged however as changes in the scope and timing of certain projects allow us today to absorb the additional construction costs of our 4 new stores in Sydney Australia.
For all other fiscal year 2012 guidance please see today's press release for further details.
In summary we are pleased with our second quarter financial results particularly because we drove these results while simultaneously investing in our future growth and we are encouraged by our momentum entering the third quarter.
Lastly I'd like to say thank you for the warm reception I have received from so many of you as I assumed my new role.
Williams-Sonoma Inc.
is entering a new and exciting period of strategic growth and I'm thrilled to be in this position today to help drive the initiatives that will lead us to this growth.
I'm so proud to be a part of such a strong team that is committed to driving this company to be at new levels of performance and to increasing shareholder value.
I would now like to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My question relates to the shipping dynamic that you discussed.
Where are we I guess in the evolution of free shipping as an offer across your brands? And if you think about the transition presumably offering it to -- a greater array of offers how far along are we towards what you expect the end game to be both in terms of penetration within the business and impact on your margins? Thanks Matt.
We use a variety of different promotions as we've talked about before to introduce the -- our customers to our brands and drive additional purchases.
Free shipping is one of those promotions and we have been running it as we had planned to run it this year.
We do different things in different brands based on the dynamics in those brands and we've seen a particular good response to running threshold shipping in Williams-Sonoma.
It's really helped us increase conversion on branded goods which tells us that when we improve the value they'd rather buy the products from us.
And so we've continued to run that promotion as you probably all know through this year.
And the other thing that we've been able to do is that through the work we've done in supply chain and I know we've talked about this a lot before but all the costs the we've taken out and the improvements in quality and service to our customers we've been able to reduce our costs and pass that along to our customers and reduce the income that we get from shipping.
And so we are going to continue to do that and our goal is to provide the finest shipping experience for our products and do so at a cost to the customer that they'd consider reasonable.
And we will take our next question from Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Nice to see the progress obviously at the Williams-Sonoma concept.
Maybe Laura you can talk about kind of how you envision that playing out over the balance of the year what's kind of implied in the guidance a continued improvement in -- for the comparable brand revenue growth?  And how about the selling margins? Are they envisioned to be actually up in the back half of the year through holiday? In the beginning of this year we shared with you what we believe would be the 3 key strategies to transform this business and to be not just on the defensive but be on the offensive because we know that our customer loves this brand.
And every piece of research that we've done tells us that there's some things we can do but that we fundamentally have still such a powerful brand that really resonates with the customer particularly for gift-giving.
And so we've been executing against those strategies the first thing the product innovation and exclusive products which is the cornerstone of the whole thing.
And specifically each quarter we bring in more and more across categories.
And last quarter we told you that the first area that we could affect would be the tabletop where the lead times are shorter and we're on track as we had predicted with the business there.
And we've also been working with our vendors and you've seen us launch new innovative products in-store that we are launching exclusively and really being right on trend with what is -- what customers are looking for particularly in electrics.
And so through the balance of this year while very competitive to go through each one of them we have substantial launches both in Q3 and Q4 that will continue to position Williams-Sonoma as the leader in cooking and entertaining and across a variety of product categories.
The second piece of the program that we talked about was our marketing and really to help the customers understand better what we do and why the products that they're purchasing offer them a differentiated experience.
And this is hand-in-hand with the training work that we're doing in our stores to better instruct our selling associates about why we were so excited to introduce specific products.
And for example we right now have a Bravo ice cream maker that is the only ice cream maker on the market where you can have your dinner party and the ice cream stays at the right consistency and doesn't cool down.
You don't have to put it in the freezer to make it -- and then it freezes and then you have to serve it it's very difficult.
This one holds the temperature and then if you want it harder or softer it's a push of a button.
The marketing that we're talking about is how do we best explain that to the customer? And also how do we tell the bigger story about the quality of our products?  Because we're using so many artisanal products and our food is so clean and free of so many of the things that aren't good for you.
And we realized we had a big opportunity to better communicate that and so you've seen in our recent catalog our marketing from the farm you see in the store the real focus on healthy living is really resonating with our customers.
And the last thing that we're doing that we talk about a lot is our selling culture and to make sure that good service is selling.
People come in to our stores because they want to buy something and we have such an opportunity to do a better job.
We have great sales associates and we need to give them better tools and better training and that's what we've been focused and using all that we know from our other brands in this brand.
So we're making a lot of progress against these fronts.
I told you earlier this year we'd measure each and every bit of it we do that.
And it sets us up and I think not just for the fourth quarter but beyond.
And that's -- you'll just continue to see gradual and incremental improvement.
And it's of course assumed in our guidance for the balance of the year.
And we'll take our next question from Matt McGinley from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> From ISI Group.
I have 2 questions on the expense you had in the quarter.
You said that there is some additional SG&amp;A expense that you had and you originally guided to $15 million to $20 million of incremental expense in the year did that -- was that more heavily weighted to the second quarter? Or how should we think about that gaining over the remainder of the year? And then on the capital spending you're running pretty far below the original guidance you gave and you maintain the $200 million to $220 million though only spent $70 million so far.
Why are you running so far below plan right now and what does that say about how -- where you could be by the end of the year? Okay great.
I'll take that this is Julie.
First of all let me frame that question strategically in terms of the power of our operating model.
In addition to looking at our business by brand and seeing sequential improvement in our brand I think what -- hopefully everyone's starting to appreciate is the power of our operating model.
So if we continue to grow at a higher percent of our business in the DTC channel we can drive higher profitability while making investments in our business and that is something that is really rare to us.
There's no one else our size that has this kind of balance and flexibility in their model.
So because as you know most retailers do not post 50% of their business in the direct channel.
So through this model we are able to both generate the improvements you're seeing today while investing in our growth strategies to provide financial returns in the future.
This model has allowed us to invest in new brands.
We have a new brand that's going to be launched in early November new lines of business PD Dorm agrarian et cetera with more to come; new product partnerships we just announced Starbucks and Burton; the development of more proprietary products in our Williams-Sonoma business; and finally our global expansion which we just announced earlier today that we have accelerated.
So all of this progress is extremely exciting and again only possible because of the power of our operating model.
So to answer your question what we're trying to strategically do is to double our business.
And there's going to be incremental spend ahead of the revenues to do that.
And the fact that we've been able to fund this while still being profitability at record levels is really exciting for us.
So what we are trying to hope is  that we can get people focused less on the $15 million to $20 million and how that plays out and be more committed to looking at us delivering the full year on the operating margin line as we continue to grow this business and again try to double it in the future in the next 10 years.
As far as capital spending we are tracking to our range of $200 million to $220 million.
As we mentioned we absorbed the additional construction costs associated with Australia.
So it's just the timing of when the actual spend for capital spending will occur but we do believe that we will actually be somewhere towards the high end of that range.
Our next question comes from Joe Feldman with Telsey Advisory.
We wanted to ask what is I guess your biggest limiting factor in getting West Elm rolled out more quickly? I know we've talked about in the past but I just kind of want to get an update of what you're seeing in the real estate front? And if I could sneak one more just sort of housekeeping one in just was curious how much Rejuvenation actually added.
I know you called it out in the press release as helping to drive DTC.
Joe we feel very good about our growth in West Elm.
Last year we told you we are going to be very sure about our retail model before we open stores and so we're just now -- this is the quarter where we opened 5 stores.
We're just going to -- you're going to see us open more now than we had in the beginning of the year and more than we had opened last year.
But we really think it's the prudent thing to do.
I mean you want to really understand how stores perform in multi-store markets and how much more you can drive in direct and how big the assortment can be.
And so we -- there's no real reason to push it and we're growing very fast as we speak.
We feel very good about it and we want to do it with customer in mind do a great job and keep the artistic bent to the brand and not miss a beat.
So there's nothing gating it.
It's -- I think it's -- could we find a few more stores here and there that would add to it? Yes probably.
We are aggressively looking for stores and we have great stores lined up for the balance of this year as I had mentioned and we're going to be able to see how they perform and use that to even more specifically refine the roadmap to more store openings.
The second question about Rejuvenation small.
The point is that you just -- the volume goes into the DTC side but it's a small number.
And our next question comes from Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My question really relates to the guidance for the year and how to think about the mix between gross margin and SG&amp;A given the fact that you are investing in the new -- in the initiatives and the fact that you're also attempting to developing more proprietary products.
So how do we compare -- what do we think about the comparisons of that in the third and the fourth quarter gross margin versus last year where you ran into some issues in the fourth quarter? How should we think about that numerically? And what can you specifically tell us about the way -- what's constructed inside the guidance? Okay I'll take that Budd.
Obviously as you guys know we don't provide guidance on the gross margin SG&amp;A line but there's a couple of things I think you can think about to put it all together.
One gross margin we've been saying has been sequentially improving.
Two I would say that from an SG&amp;A perspective obviously the impact of the investments that we talked to you guys about at the beginning of the year that are flowing through have less of an impact on Q3 and Q4 because our revenues are substantially higher.
So -- and then we told you today that there's a $0.02 impact related to Australia that was completely unplanned.
But we want to make sure everyone's grounded on the fact that we're obviously very confident in the guidance we put out that we're confident in our ability to -- our strategy is to the back of the year but there's still a lot of uncertainties out there.
We've got an election in a couple of months we've got status of the global economy so we don't want to get ahead of ourselves.
So when you add that plus our investments and again the $0.02 weighted share effect in the full year we think we're in the right spot.
And our next question is from David Magee with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question regarding the move into Australia.
I'm curious what you're thinking was behind using company-owned stores versus franchised and how much you go from there to other countries? Sure.
Thanks David.
Australia is -- we're so excited that this is the first place we're going.
We know a lot about Australia through our 51 venture and it ranks very high also on our affinity matrix for evaluating global opportunities.
We know that the cultural attributes are very similar to ours.
It's an entertaining cooking and gift-giving culture.
There are large homes our aesthetic is already popular there.
There's limited competition.
They love to cook and as I said it's the strongest market for our DTC business outside of North America.
And we also -- as we look at the world and where the economics are Australia has the 14th-highest GDP per capita in the world and their economy grew at an average rate of 3.6% for over 15 years.
And so we feel that there's a lot of things that came together very well.
And we found the right location.
We're opening a store across the street from a shopping center that has the second-highest volume of any shopping center in the southern hemisphere.
So it's very exciting that we found the spot and the math works and it meets the same hurdle rates that we have set for ourselves domestically.
It's the same language.
I mean it's -- I would guess that it's probably going be easier for us to do this than even our venture into the Middle East where there were so many changes and we've done that very successfully.
So all added up to makes absolute sense we should do it ourselves.
I made the joke we wouldn't franchise Texas.
And there's a lot of places out there that we can own and operate our own business and make great profits there at the same time.
So we also are just -- we're just thrilled to have this be our first market for all the reasons we talked about and success is going be determined by the customer experience but also the achievement of our financial targets that we've set for ourselves.
And we'll take our next question from Kate McShane Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> I wondered Laura if you could comment at all about the overall pricing environment in the Williams -- for the Williams-Sonoma banner.
Certainly all the company-specific and merchandising changes you are making is making a big difference but wondered if that has gotten any help here? And also wanted to see if you could comment at all on your response to your Halloween mini-catalog because I know you've said in the past that that's always a very good -- the response to it is always a very good indication of how the Christmas holiday season will be.
Yes I would just say you should order the costumes now if you want to get some.
On the overall promotional environment we've been saying all along that it's clear the customers are looking for quality it's clear they're looking for value and the retailers with compelling differentiated assortments are thriving and great in-store experience and better product is what makes the difference and building our brands is the most competitive thing that we can do.
And what makes them come back to us is the product the value and the experience and we believe this is our long-term competitive advantage.
And we have a culture of continuous improvement and we have developed a strategy that's planned it's measured and we're seeing good response and we're going to have promotions.
We learned a lot from the promotions we ran last year.
We're running much more effective promotions both from a customer perspective but also from a profit perspective and you're going to see us execute that this holiday season and we're pleased with where we are.
In terms of -- I think that was the 2 questions.
In terms of what we're seeing in the broader competitive environment I'm going to let Pat say a few words about the broader competitive environment and particularly the online environment.
Well thanks Laura.
And thanks for the question Kate.
I think the question you're really asking is we compete against such a broad range of companies.
How do we think about competition and why do we believe that we will continue to capture market share both in North America and around the world as we start to expand? What we've done is we've come to believe we are at the intersection of lifestyle merchandising and analytics and we'll compete against the commodity players with superior lifestyle merchandising and we'll win against other lifestyle companies with superior analytics.
As we said before year after year when Americans are asked "What one thing says the most about you?" The #1 answer is "The home I live in." And this the consumer that we're marketing to and luckily there a lot of them.
And this consumers aspires to enhance their home as a reflection of who they are.
They want ideas and inspiration they want confidence.
They're not commodity shoppers.
And we attract this customer with our lifestyle merchandising from our edited and original point of view in our products to how they are shown in the stores in our catalogs and online.
And I don't think anyone does it the way we do.
And we combine that with superior analytics and this database built on 30 years of a direct heritage.
We have 50 million households in our database that have purchased from us.
Every month we know the name and address of the retail customers that represent 75% of our sales.
I don't think anyone else has that.
And I think that's why we're gaining market share and why we believe that we are continuing to do so.
And we'll take our next question from Laura Champine with Canaccord.
This is Jason Smith.
I'm on the line for Laura today.
I just want to ask if you could maybe give us a little bit more color about how you view inventory levels for the second half of the year? Sure I'll take that.
This is Julie.
First of all I think it's important to know that we're feeling very good about the health of our inventory.
And we are basically back in stock from our -- the issue we had from last quarter.
But you should know that our largest inventory increases are supporting our biggest growth drivers and we are going to be investing in inventory.
It's the right thing to do.
We're carrying our base inventories way too low and we are preparing our brands to be ready for Q4 in the beginning of 2013.
So the reality is there is -- what we're finding is there is no way to beat the sales unless you buy the merchandise.
So right now given what we're seeing in our underlying business trends in our global expansion we need more inventory and you'll see that to continue to happen throughout the year.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> The question I wanted to ask is on gross margins and I know others have touched on it too.
But if you look at yet a nice gross margin increase here in the second quarter and it showed a pretty significant reversal from what we've seen over the last couple quarters.
You mentioned the exclusive products so I wondering if you could maybe drill down a little further to say the various -- if you could break down for us how should we be thinking about the gross margin gain we saw here in Q2 by components and maybe -- and describe the magnitude of each? Okay this is Julie.
I'll start and then pass it to Laura to follow up on it.
But I think the couple things we want to make sure we get out is that we saw a sequential improvement.
So yes year-over-year the margins are down but we saw a sequential improvement even from year end through Q1 through to Q2 and the biggest improvement was in the Williams-Sonoma brand.
And in fact in Williams-Sonoma our product margin was up year-over-year.
So I think Williams-Sonoma is one of the key drivers and in fact it's across just about every brand.
Laura do you want to add a little more detail on that? Just in the selling margins world there's so many different things that we did to achieve these results.
It's everything from mix to selling through fashion to the way we handle the goods packaging the exclusive products that we developed which has a higher margin versus product that we buy and then a big one is having gone through the promotional environment last year really understanding which promotions drive what and being smarter about how we run promotion.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then if I could just follow up with more of I guess a broad-based question.
But when we look at the environment there's been I think mixed signals out there in the overall consumer environment.
You guys clearly had good results today.
How much -- as you think about the sales acceleration you saw in the second quarter I understand you have a lot going on at your company but how much do you think that reflects an overall improving consumer environment here lately? We're talking about Q2 so there was a lot of mixed consumer results during that quarter and I think we've recently gotten a few better pieces of news out there.
Our focus is on really developing strategies to fuel our growth over the long term and the foundation of that is our operating model our culture of analytics and product innovation.
And we've been at it for a while as we have a very specific plan and we also have the flexibility to change.
We listen to our customers.
We stay hungry we're humble and we're always looking for opportunities.
We always want to have you tell us where we can do something better and improve our customer experience.
And I think when you take all that together both the attitude of the management team here and the people and the financial disciplines we have and then as I said the culture of analytics the product innovation our entrepreneurship which is one of our core competencies it's -- it all adds up to better results than our competition is getting.
And we'll take our next question from Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Laura you mentioned that you'll be the first retailer to launch the Verismo platform.
I was wondering if you could give a little bit more color with respect to that product namely how long will your exclusivity be for? And how many SKUs are we talking about with respect to the machines versus the K-Cups? And I have a follow-up if you don't mind.
Yes I gave you as much information as I can.
We're very excited about the launch.
Starbucks has been a great partner of ours.
And the cup of coffee that it makes is fantastic the milk pods all the convenience of it.
And we're thrilled to be in partnership with them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you also mentioned you're happy with the internal targets that you've met on the Williams-Sonoma side of the business but continuing to develop exclusive and proprietary products.
If those -- if the development continues to hit your plan whatever that may be and I know that in the past you've said that branded product is slightly less than 50% what can we expect in terms of the revenue mix at the Williams-Sonoma division between branded and proprietary product let's say at the end of this year or the end of next year? Well there's a lot of different ways to look at that.
There is how many you offer there's how much you sell.
And the reason we've had an approach that lasts more than a quarter is to really make sure that we are doing what's right and not just doing something for the sake of change because our customer tells us that they're so pleased with the brand.
It's not a brand that has a customer satisfaction issue.
It's one they love and we -- and so we have then measured about what we're changing and I would say that if were to give you an answer today I think it would be -- I think we'd be ahead of ourselves.
We have a lot more to do.
We're introducing and we're happy with what we're seeing in the areas that we've talked about and we will keep you absolutely posted as we go.
We're here because people have watched our success and there's been a lot of competition so we have to play this one a little closer to the vest than we did in the past because we don't want to share our strategies to our competitors.
I hope you can understand that.
And we'll take our next question from Brad Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just follow up on some of the previous questions about margins but maybe step back a little bit and look out over the next few years.
Obviously when we look at this year there's some specific investments that you called out.
The guidance for this year operating margin to be up slightly to down slightly.
As we look at the next few years and recognize there's still a cyclical opportunity but by the same token the company will have some areas it's investing.
How are you thinking about the margin opportunities over the next few years? This is Julie.
Brad obviously the goal is to improve the margin.
I mean I clearly would like to get back to at least last year's level if not improve it further but we do believe that there's sort of a new reality out there with from the promotional environment that we're continuing to perfect.
As Laura mentioned we are getting better and better at that and I think that's one of the key strategies that we're going to have in place relative to our peers.
So the goal is to get back to last year's levels or higher but full well knowing it's going be a harder environment to make that happen.
We'll take our next question from Marni Shapiro.
This will be our last question.
I have a very -- you talked a little bit about being more in stock in inventory and I was curious if that was across the brands or -- I'm noticing as I prowl through the stores and the Internet West Elm seems particularly back-ordered in a lot of spots.
And I'm just curious if it was a little bit more specific to West Elm? And are you taking this point of view specifically at a West Elm or a Williams-Sonoma looking ahead to the holiday season where obviously a backorder is a bigger issue because you might not have the patience to wait given the deadline of a holiday? Marni this is Julie.
I'll take that.
Actually we are investing across all of our brands.
We are really beginning to realize and especially in light of last quarter and the trends we're seeing and the analysis that we've done that being in stock is critical.
And so oftentimes you can not be in stock and it comes later but sometimes you lose a sale.
So it's really critical for us to be in stock across all of our brands so I wouldn't say there's any particular brand that we're investing more in than the others.
Fantastic.
And then if you think about the holiday season have you guys upped the ante on the gifting? I know you've continued to do this over the last years but I wasn't sure if you guys were happy with the mix last holiday or you'll continue to push the pedal on that.
I think there's always opportunity.
And we checked it once checked it twice we check it every week.
We've reviewed these by -- we use every piece of data that we have in our current selling whether it's a Halloween costume or food selling to make adjustments and we're good at flexing the inventory.
You've seen us do it before so we're changing some things.
And we're reviewing photography for the holiday season and we're very pleased with what we're seeing there and then we make our investments and make changes based on what we see and we're setting up our floor sets and so it's a really big focus of all the teams right now.
And we're doing exactly what you are alluding to which is we're getting -- we're all very focused on this gifting opportunity.
And we know that our brands are top of mind for gifts.
And we think we can do an even better job this year than we have in the past.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I'll now turn the conference back over to Ms.
Alber for additional and closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us this afternoon.
We really appreciate your time and interest and continued support and we will speak with you again next quarter.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Incorporated Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Steve Nelson Vice President of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP measures and forward-looking statements.
Good afternoon.
This afternoon's conference call should be considered in conjunction with the press release that we issued earlier today.
Our earnings press release and this call contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to facilitate meaningful year-over-year comparisons.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and an explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful are discussed in Exhibit 1 and elsewhere in the earnings release.
The forward-looking statements included in this afternoon's call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements address the financial condition results of operations business initiatives trends guidance growth plans and prospects for the company in 2012 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings including the most recent 10-Q for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our third quarter 2012 results and our outlook for fiscal -- outlook for Q4 and fiscal year 2012.
Thanks Steve.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
On the call with me today are Pat Connolly our Chief Marketing Officer; and Julie Whalen our Chief Financial Officer.
Today we'll be discussing our third quarter 2012 results and our outlook for the fourth quarter and fiscal year.
But first on behalf of all of us at Williams-Sonoma Inc.
I would like to express my concern for the welfare of those individuals and families impacted by Hurricane Sandy.
The storm created significant hardship for many of our friends families colleagues and customers and we've seen an overwhelming response from associates company-wide in their efforts to provide support to the impacted communities.
And while the recent storms have caused some disruptions to our business our response has been focused on assisting our associates and customers in need.
And now let's discuss our third quarter where we again delivered strong performance across every one of the key metrics in our business: revenues operating margins and earnings per share.
Diluted earnings per share grew 20% on net revenue growth of 9% with comparable brand revenue growth accelerating to 8.5% from 7.4% last quarter.
E-commerce net revenues grew 17% and operating margin exceeded last year's Q3 rate by 50 basis points growing to a third quarter record of 8.4%.
All brands delivered positive comparable brand revenue growth in the third quarter.
The outperformance in Pottery Barn and West Elm continues and comparable brand growth in Pottery Barn Kids accelerated as its inventory position improved.
Pottery Barn Teens and Williams-Sonoma both posted year-over-year increases and improved revenue trends versus the prior quarter.
At the beginning of the year we outlined for you our 3 key strategic initiatives for driving sustainable profitable growth and increasing shareholder value.
They are: growing our existing brands global expansion and launching new businesses.
We believe that our third quarter results demonstrate the continuing opportunity in our existing brands.
And since we last spoke with you we've also made great progress on our global expansion strategies.
With our partner Alshaya we have opened 5 new stores including the first Williams-Sonoma and West Elm stores in Kuwait.
Utilizing our FiftyOne platform we continue to see a very encouraging response from our direct shipments to more than 90 countries around the world.
And in Australia we finalized the design and began construction on our 4 retail stores.
We positioned our supply chain.
We hired key team members in Australia and we've started working with public -- a public relations firm to support our early fiscal 2013 launch.
As we solidify our opening strategy for Australia we are increasingly convinced about the opportunity that global represents for our company as we offer a differentiated high-touch multi-channel shopping experience.
During the quarter we also made progress in launching new businesses.
In late October we announced West Elm Market a brand extension of West Elm that provides an exciting retail setting for an assortment inspired by the commonsense shopkeeping of the classic general store.
Our early results indicate this could be another important growth initiative for us.
And last week we announced the launch of Mark and Graham our newest brand.
Mark and Graham provides the ultimate gift-giving experience.
The brand offers colorful and timeless products personalized with a choice of more than 50 custom monograms and creative type treatments.
Foundational to all of our growth initiatives are supply chain and technology and we continue to make the progress that we had previously outlined for you to take costs out of our supply chain and drive better performance for our customers.
Online we continue to further differentiate ourselves versus our competitors.
And now let's talk about our brands.
In the Williams-Sonoma brand comparable brand revenues increased 1.3%.
We are pleased with the progress we have made as a result of our strategic focus on product innovation marketing and customer engagement.
From a product perspective our goal continues to be to increase our ratio of exclusive products.
The strongest performance continues to be in those categories where we have the highest proportion of new exclusive and innovative products: electrics tabletops and agrarian.
Last quarter we announced the launch the new Verismo System by Starbucks.
And to date our results have exceeded our internal targets.
In the fourth quarter we'll be offering a significantly higher percentage of new and exclusive products particularly in cookware electrics and entertaining.
Yesterday we announced the first in a series of Williams-Sonoma branded products in cookware cook's tools and new technology-driven smart tools.
These product introductions draw on our over 5 decades of culinary experience and represent the next generation of technologically advanced cookware and tools for the home cook or professional chef.
This introduction is an exciting strategic development for our business and it is just the beginning.
Over the next several years we'll be introducing many more differentiated products with the Williams-Sonoma name.
From a marketing perspective we are focused on consistently providing an inspiring visual experience that powerfully communicates the Williams-Sonoma brand across all of our channels.
Our holiday catalog features a new design that delivers a more impactful visual presentation and stronger marketing messages around key products and categories.
We believe our holiday catalogs will inspire our customers with this new imagery content and compelling narrative and we are improving our website with content personalization and functionality to enhance the shopping experience for our customers.
We've made several enhancements to our website.
Most notably more closely integrating product and content into our entertaining ideas increasing personalized product recommendations across the site and enabling access to our customer care associates by phone or by chat.
In the fourth quarter you will see site improvements that will drive conversion of the shopping path such as faceted navigation that will allow customers to quickly find selections through advance sort and filter functions and enhancements to our on-site search functionality.
In a recent study conducted by L2 a digital think tank focused on luxury and specialty retail the Williams-Sonoma website ranked #1.
It is our goal to further separate ourselves from others with these new enhancements.
In retail in our upcoming floor sets you will see a more impactful coordination between floor features and perimeter merchandising and a much stronger presentation of seasonal merchandise in our perimeter fixtures.
In support of our strategy to improve the overall customer experience and to further differentiate the brand we are also focused on our selling culture.
New field leadership is driving the clienteling initiative that has been so successful in our other brands and we are pleased with our progress.
In the fourth quarter we have a schedule of traffic-building events and activities designed to complement the holiday entertaining season.
We believe the Williams-Sonoma brand is well positioned for this upcoming holiday season.
I would now like to discuss the Pottery Barn results.
Comparable brand revenues increased 11% on top of 7% last year with strong results across both channels and all product categories.
The brand continues to deliver a dynamic and comprehensive product assortment that inspires customers bringing decorating and entertaining together with great value in new ways.
Our customers are delighted by our aesthetic and the value proposition that we are providing.
We have expanded our expertise as an authority in design decorating and entertaining and we are sharing these ideas and capabilities with our customers as part of our service offering.
As part of our complimentary design service initiative we have trained over 1 500 design studio specialists that are ready to assist our customers in our stores and in our customers' homes.
The combination of our strong product offering and these services is driving our business.
Our vision is to further develop these services and market them in a more powerful way.
From a merchandising perspective all key categories had strong performance during the quarter led by furniture textiles and decorative accessory.
Strong revenue growth and a focus on operational discipline drove profitability for the brand.
Our Pottery Barn customers love to decorate and entertain and our seasonal businesses continue to be strong.
We always introduce our holiday assortment in our direct channel in advance of the store and early reads are exceeding our expectations.
Our customers are getting their homes ready for the holidays and we are part of their lifestyle through our content online in-store events and elevated service in the home.
Finally in anticipation of the housing recovery we began working over a year ago on an expanded home renovation assortment in conjunction with complimentary design services.
We have seen strength driven by this new category growth and expanded assortment specifically in lighting bathroom consoles hardware fixtures and window treatments.
We are feeling good about the fourth quarter in the Pottery Barn brand.
In the Pottery Barn Kids brand comparable brand revenues increased 10% on top of last year's 5% showing strong results across all channels and all product categories.
Textiles and decorative accessories posted strong growth reflecting a very successful back-to-school season.
Additionally our baby business was very strong led by consumer response to our expanded nursery offerings gift-giving and registry experience.
This initiative will lead to further growth for the brand.
Pottery Barn Kids' initiative to celebrate the holidays and create childhood memories is on track as we saw a great consumer response to our Halloween assortment and Thanksgiving.
We are excited about the fourth quarter for Pottery Barn Kids and the launch of our seasonal and holiday assortments.
We are confident in our strategy for the remainder of the year and we will continue with our efforts to drive customer acquisition customer engagement and strong multi-channel growth.
In PBteen comparable brand revenues increased 2% on top of last year's 6% growth.
This growth was led by the furniture and textiles divisions with great strength coming out of our textiles led by our dorm initiative in the back-to-school time period and our strategic launch of Burton home furnishing.
To date our results in both Burton and dorm have exceeded our internal targets and we are excited about the growth of both initiatives.
PBteen has shown improvement throughout the year but it is still not where it could be with furniture in-stock positions remaining our biggest challenge.
We believe we will be in stock at the end of the fourth quarter.
Decorative accessory also continue to be a soft spot in PBteen driven by room decor.
However the gift-giving season has not yet started and we are introducing a very exciting group of gifts that we believe will drive our fourth quarter decorative accessories business.
In Q4 you will see an enhanced gift assortment with over 500 gifts to give ranging from personalized jewelry and beauty products to monogrammed towels sheets and blankets to great electronic accessories to compliment the teen's digital life.
During the holiday season we will continue our strategy of new customer acquisitions by popping up 5 new PBteen retail locations which will allow us to understand consumer demand in different markets and give the customer a chance to experience the brand in a new way.
We believe our seasonal collections our new product introductions and the integrated marketing and shopping approach will attract new customers to the brand and allow us to further engage the teen customer in new ways in order to drive growth.
Finally I would like to discuss West Elm.
West Elm delivered its 11th quarter of double-digit increases in comparable brand revenue growing 13% on top of 27% last year.
Growth continues to be driven out of all categories led by double-digit comp growth in furniture and textile.
Key seasonal and category promotions drove strong incremental sales and margin and the continued expansion of the assortment into new areas including kitchen contributed to the growth.
As we look forward to the balance of the year and beyond our strategy is to continue to profitably grow the West Elm brand by engaging with a broader base of customers while maintaining a compelling value proposition.
We are executing on an expanded product assortment and customer engagement strategies and we are aggressively looking for retail expansion opportunity.
We opened 5 new stores in the third quarter and have plans to open an additional 4 stores in the fourth quarter.
We are pleased that by the end of the year we will have a total of 47 stores.
As part of both our product and real estate expansion strategies we launched the West Elm Market brand extension with the opening of our first dedicated West Elm Market store in Brooklyn New York in October to great consumer feedback.
Focused on tools for everyday living in kitchen and housewares West Elm Market is a neighborhood store offering exclusive uniquely designed products in an environment that encourages social engagement and a sense of community.
Complementing existing West Elm stores with a shop-in-shop strategy and with a robust online assortment to match West Elm Market will help us to grow and gain relevance with core and new customers.
We will open one additional standalone West Elm Market store in Vancouver this quarter and we will add select assortments in 8 West Elm stores.
We believe all these initiatives will uniquely position West Elm in the marketplace and allow us to capture additional share and drive growth in this brand.
We're excited about our progress on our path towards building this into another $1 billion brand.
And now I will turn the call over to Julie for additional details on our Q3 performance and our Q4 and full year 2012 financial guidance.
Thank you Laura and good afternoon.
For the quarter net revenues increased 9% to $945 million with 15% growth in the direct-to-customer channel and 3% comparable-stores sales growth in the retail channel.
Diluted earnings per share increased 20% to $0.49 per share with an operating margin of 8.4% establishing a new high for any third quarter.
As a result our revenues operating income and diluted earnings per share were again a record for any non-holiday quarter all while simultaneously investing in our future growth.
Comparable brand revenues increased 8.5% with all brands contributing positive comparable brand growth including the Williams-Sonoma brand which achieved both sequential and year-over-year improvement.
This growth was led by continued strong performance in Pottery Barn and West Elm with renewed strength in Pottery Barn Kids.
E-commerce revenues for the quarter increased 17% driving direct-to-customer revenues to 47% of total company revenues versus 45% last year.
Gross margin improved 70 basis points versus last year to 39% and was primarily driven by the leverage of occupancy cost.
Most importantly year-over-year selling margins increased on a sequential basis from the second quarter with improvements in nearly every brand.
Product margins were up year-over-year and have continued to improve from the beginning of the year across all brands.
Occupancy cost leveraged over 60 basis points including an increase in occupancy expense to $130 million during the quarter versus $125 million last year primarily driven by increased store lease obligations and new infrastructure to support our information technology initiatives.
SG&amp;A increased 20 basis points versus last year to 30.6% primarily driven by higher employment and other expenses including the planned incremental investments to support our e-commerce global expansion and business development growth strategies.
I would now like to comment on our third quarter operating margin in each of our business segments.
As mentioned earlier total company operating margin at 8.4% established a new high for the third quarter with a 50 basis point improvement over last year.
A 90 basis point increase in the direct-to-customer segment to 22.5% and a 20 basis point reduction in corporate unallocated expenses to 6.9% were partially offset by a 90 basis point decrease in the retail segment to 8.8%.
The 90 basis point improvement in the direct-to-customer segment was primarily driven by sales leverage of occupancy and employment costs and greater advertising efficiency partially offset by lower selling margins due to shipping reductions.
This speaks again to the power of our operating model allowing us to drive sales by using advertising dollars to give value back to the customer through free shipping.
At $101 million the direct-to-customer operating income is again the highest quarterly segment operating income ever recorded in either segment for a non-holiday quarter.
The 90 basis point decrease in the retail segment was primarily driven by increased employment and other expenses to support service and growth initiatives including new store openings partially offset by occupancy cost leverage and improved selling margins.
The 20 basis point improvement in the corporate unallocated segment was primarily driven by reductions in general expenses and further sales leverage of increased employment expense.
From a balance sheet perspective the third quarter highlights were as follows: Cash at the end of the quarter was $262 million versus $379 million last year for a net decrease of $117 million.
Though cash provided by operating activities actually increased $44 million on a trailing 12-month basis the increase was offset primarily by additional year-over-year spending on share repurchases and dividends and additional capital spending to support our growth initiatives.
Merchandise inventories increased $62 million or 10% to $688 million which was consistent with our expectations and materially in line with our revenue growth.
This inventory level is to improve our in-stock inventory positions and to drive sales.
I would now like to discuss our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2012 guidance.
We are pleased with the progress we have made and are confident in delivering the full year.
Our fourth quarter guidance for net revenues is estimated to be in the range of $1 360 000 000 to $1 400 000 000 and our EPS is estimated to be in the range of $1.21 to $1.28 per share with operating margin of 14.5% to 15.1%.
Our fourth quarter guidance includes the impact from our incremental SG&amp;A spend to support our strategic growth initiatives the impact of the acceleration of our global expansion into Australia in early fiscal 2013 and the estimated impact from Hurricane Sandy.
Turning to our full year guidance while the recent storms have made it harder to forecast our business in the short term we are raising our fiscal year outlook by $0.01 to a non-GAAP EPS range of $2.45 to $2.52 due to our strong results throughout the year.
This now represents fiscal year EPS guidance that is $0.05 over the high end of our original fiscal year guidance and would be the highest diluted earnings per share in the history of our company.
It is important to note this fiscal year EPS guidance also reflects the estimated $0.02 negative weighted share impact on the sum of the quarters.
Additionally fiscal year net revenues are now expected to be in the range of $3 995 000 000 to $4 035 000 000 which would represent record revenues.
For all other fiscal year 2012 guidance please see today's press release.
In conclusion we are particularly pleased with our results this quarter because they demonstrate our ability to consistently deliver against both our near- and longer-term objectives.
Throughout the year we have communicated how energized and excited we are about our future.
This excitement exists from our associates in our stores our care centers and our corporate staff to our supply chain associates around the world.
This quarter also demonstrates the commitment of our executive team to deliver value to our shareholders through consistent and predicable performance while building the foundation to investments in our future that will yield further returns.
While the events of the past 2 weeks may have hampered our ability to forecast the very near term with total accuracy we are confident that the strategy and discipline that have driven our performance in the first 3 quarters of the year are firmly in place to achieve excellent results for our shareholders this year.
Q3 represents another record quarter for Williams-Sonoma Inc.
and illustrates our commitment to profitable growth.
We are committed to delivering our full year guidance.
I would now like to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
You alluded to the challenge in predicting the business or incremental challenge predicting the business in the wake of the storms.
Assuming that there's some volatility in the business you might clarify that a bit.
Is the geographic nature of the location of the volatility suggesting that it is in fact due primarily to the storms because they're happening mostly in the Northeast? Or are you seeing it happen or transpire more broadly across the chain? Thanks for the question Matthew.
We're at 2.5 weeks I think into the quarter.
And of course the storm happened in the first week.
So it's been a very short period of time but we see strength in our business.
And as we get further away from the storm we see improvement.
The whole country doesn't even have power still as you probably know very well because you're there and there's still a lot of people just kind of getting back to normal.
But with that said of course we measure everything affected non-affected areas.
And it's clear to us that we have strong business performance.
And we don't see any difference going into Q4 and our ability to run our business and deliver results than we have throughout the year.
And in fact on a relative basis we feel more prepared going into the fourth quarter than we have any other time this year.
But there is uncertainty out there and we are recovering from one of the biggest storms we've had in recent memory and we love what our associates have done.
If that's any indication of their commitment we know they're going to be there for our customers throughout the quarter.
And I just -- I think on that point so much has been done by our associates during this time that I just -- I'd like to have just a minute for Pat just sort of share some of those stories because it really speaks to the kind of ownership that we have in this company.
Thanks Laura.
Matt our West Elm team had a special event over in Dumbo around their West Elm Market opening and several hundred people came right? Almost right after -- right in the storm and it was a real gathering point for them.
The team did a public service day and went to one of the affected communities and worked.
We had to cancel an artisan market in Williams-Sonoma.
We knew those vendors were counting on that money and so we rescheduled it right away and had it to great success up in our Columbus Circle store and we just -- as I know you've heard from some of your associates there some of our people walked the entire length of Manhattan to get to the stores when they couldn't get gas.
I mean the stories go on and on but we're just so pleased with the commitment of our associates and their commitment to really deliver and serve the customer.
Research Division</strong> Well having had dinner across the street from your Dumbo store on Saturday I'm happy to say it's in good shape but...
Yes it's amazing what -- and Pat didn't mention but we had so little damage because in advance of the storm everybody just spent the whole couple of days before moving product out of low-lying areas.
Some people didn't really think it would hit as hard as it did but everybody just took it on their own to make sure that the product was out of harm's way and Westport of course was hurt but that's it.
We had a store that was being constructed and we boarded it up and we've been very fortunate.
But it really is because our associates care so much and we care about them.
We've been generous with them as well.
Research Division</strong> One quick follow-up question.
Your merchandise margins have kind of come all the way back.
And it's happened quickly relatively quickly given the hit that you took last year.
Your fourth quarter margin compare as you all know is the easiest of the year given the challenges that you had in the fourth quarter of last year.
Within your guidance what's your thought process on the merch margin dynamic? Are you giving yourself some leeway for an unpredictable environment? Do you feel like the trajectory that you're on can continue here? Sure.
In Q3 we saw a competitive environment and we outperformed and we expect to do the same this holiday season.
But it's very promotional out there and it might get more so as we move further into the season.
We said all year long that we are ready to be promotional.
We are confident of our lineup of product and we have a plan to be competitive.
Competitive pricing is a key part of our strategy.
We know the customer expects responds to promotions and we don't think this is going to change.
And we are so pleased in Q3 that we were able to drive higher merchandise margins while executing on these strategies.
And we're going to be competitive this holiday and we're well poised for this fourth quarter.
We'll go next to Daniel Hofkin with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> So if I could just maybe amplify a little bit on the gross margin.
Did I conclude correctly that you saw overall -- not just some of them but overall gross margin improvement in both the retail and direct channel? So in the direct channel we saw that selling margins were actually down but in the retail channel selling margins were up.
But overall I think the big story I think similar to our conversation last quarter is that gross margin in total year-over-year is up primarily due to occupancy.
But when you dig into that the big story is that the selling margins again sequentially are improving across nearly all brands.
And when you look at the product margins they are up year-over-year.
And from the beginning of the year they've improved across all brands.
So we see strong momentum in our margin throughout the company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then within the direct you said selling margin is down.
What was the primary factor there? Yes.
That's again speaking to our favorite words the power of our operating model.
Remember that in the DTC channel that when we give free shipping that hits our gross margin line but we offset that with the efficiencies in our advertising which hits SG&amp;A.
So when you look at that -- when you look at each of those separately you're going to see a disconnect there.
But again when you look at the operating margin in total for the DTC channel it's substantially improved and is one of the highest margins we've had so we feel very strong about that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I could just expand a little bit on Matt's question I recognize the visibility at this early stage is very limited.
If you could just maybe give us some sense for how much incremental conservatism you built in in terms of sales and profits based on Sandy-related impact that might be helpful.
Yes.
We're obviously not quantifying that.
What we have said is that in Q4 there are 3 things that are impacting our number.
The first is as you know we've been talking about all year our incremental SG&amp;A investment to support our strategic growth initiatives.
That's reflected in Q4.
We also have the exciting opportunity regarding our global expansion for Australia.
That's happening in early fiscal 2013 but we're incurring some of those costs.
We've told you before that's $0.02.
That actually is being incurred in 2012 for benefits that are happening in the future and then we have the near-term impact of Hurricane Sandy which obviously as we've said in our prepared remarks is really hard to forecast but that is reflected in our Q4 guidance.
But keep in mind I want to make sure everyone's focus on the bigger picture that at the end of the day when you look at the full year -- and again we're working towards a longer-term vision.
When you look at the full year we are still raising our guidance.
We still have the highest revenue and the highest earnings in the history of the company.
[Operator Instructions] We'll move next to Peter Benedict with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Justin on for Pete.
Julie just regarding the $20 million in incremental expense that you've talked about throughout the year can you just help us understand the timing of how that has flowed through the P&amp;L? Is it fair to assume that the bulk of spend -- or the spend is more heavy here in the fourth quarter versus the other quarters of this year? Yes.
I figured it wouldn't be long before I get that question.
As we have said throughout the year we're not providing you exactly how that spend is flowing through.
But we've said it's relatively ratable.
But as you know as we're growing a business to $10 billion we're going to have to spend some money upfront before future returns.
And so that is just a small piece of a much bigger picture that we're excited about.
We'll take our next question from Laura Champine with Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> Julie so once again we're trying to reconcile the Q4 guidance with what was implied when you gave Q3 guidance which obviously -- how much is the expense or the drag from the Australian stores which I don't think was in that guidance at the time? Yes.
We quantified that for you before it was $0.02 impact.
Research Division</strong> And that $0.02 hits in Q4? Predominantly yes.
Our next question comes from Joe Feldman with Telsey Advisory Group.
I wanted to ask you mentioned that we've seen the inventory issues at the Pottery Barn Teen brand.
Just wondering are there any other areas where you feel you were maybe a little light that you need to get more you would have had higher sales? Or if conversely where you are a little heavy and where you might have to promote for the holiday season? All of the above.
It's always that way in retail.
But the great news is in total our inventory is really well poised for the fourth quarter.
We're clean.
We have -- Halloween was a success and we're in good shape.
We're also in better stock than we were last year.
We learned a lot about how late in the season people shop and how important it is to have the goods when they want them.
And so we think that'll be a real benefit as we get into the high gift-giving time of year.
We'll move on to David Magee with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking some more about the fourth quarter.
I know last year was pretty promotional and you've alluded to the fact that this year might be promotional as well.
I'm just on a relative basis can you compare the 2? And how might you deal with it better this year than last year? Yes.
I mean it was competitive in Q3 and you saw the results there.
Our planned promotional strategy is working.
We also learned from some of the things that didn't work as well last year.
And so we know what was incremental and what wasn't what the customer responds to.
And we have a lot of different ways to market to our customers.
We try different things and we roll them out across different brands based on how they work in one brand and that's a great benefit of having a multi-brand company.
I'd say that it is as promotional as it was last year.
The storm I think caused some short-term gluts in some products that people thought they would clear before Christmas and you're seeing that.
I mean if you go to the mall you can see a lot of events going on in-store and we're prepared for that.
We said we thought that would happen and we have a very very competitive strategy for the rest of the year and it's a state of mind.
We're not going to let people take business from us.
We'll take the next question from Brad Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I want to just focus on the real estate portfolio a little bit.
When we look at the Williams-Sonoma brand and the Pottery Barn brand in both cases did at similar levels to openings as closings.
I was hoping you could just talk a little bit about where those 2 concepts stand in terms of stores that you're pleased with stores that you'd like to remodel stores maybe that you'd like to relocate as we think about the opportunity over the next few years? Sure.
Company-wide we have a very disciplined approach to real estate and we look at it regularly.
We set high profitability levels for each store and we conduct market-by-market reviews of our fleet and it's resulted in a very profitable real estate portfolio.
And we have closed stores that are underperforming or where the rent doesn't make sense relative to our hurdle rate.
And we've opened other stores based on opportunity we see in the market and we'll continue to do that.
And so we have areas stores I should say that we are planning to prune over the next 3 to 5 years.
In Sonoma we have some; and in Kids we have some.
But relative to other retailers we have a very profitable retail fleet.
We don't have unprofitable stores to the extent that other people have because of this high hurdle rate that we've always lived with.
We'll go next to Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> This is Neely Tamminga.
A question for you guys on actually Mark and Graham.
Well I think it is actually fantastic done with respect to launching this in terms of where we are going with personalization.
But when I'm on Mark and Graham I kind of feel like there are logical categories that you guys have not yet maybe launched and so it's a two-part question.
One what's been some of your early learnings? And candidly what's keeping you from kind of doing even more with personalization even beyond monograms whether it be photo uploads from Instagram or even they can do some stationary-type categories what-have-you.
Could you speak a little bit more about what your longer-term vision is for this? Sure.
Great question.
We are so pleased with Mark and Graham's launch as it represents really the entrepreneurial spirit of our company and it really is everybody's mindset to look for white space and to say how do we do a better job? And while we have monogramming in each of our brands many of our brands you think about buying for yourself first.
And I think when you look at the presentation of Mark and Graham and also the website it is really -- it makes you think about gifts and it's such a wonderful experience.
The shopping path to the monogram personalized item is very simple.
The box I don't know if you've ordered anything but when you do send something I think you'll be absolutely delighted by the out-of-box experience and how beautiful it is.
And there's such value in that to the customer.
We have a lot more to go in terms of product expansion.
It's a very edited assortment.
We literally took as much time to identify the right monograms on products so that we had great combinations as we did in identifying the products.
So that nobody can make a mistake and order something that doesn't look good together.
So scale and color combinations were all really carefully chosen as was as I said earlier the packaging and we're going to learn a lot.
It's been in home what 2 days.
Monday was a postal holiday so it just got in home on Tuesday.
We mailed a very select group of customers.
So far; so good.
I can't tell you what the bestseller is because we've kept it a secret even from our associates because we're doing a contest to see who picks it.
But we're very pleased and we believe it will be absolutely incremental to our other brands.
We also like it because it inspires all the brands to think about what else they can do.
And it's an interesting story in Williams-Sonoma we launched Verismo and we wondered what would happen to the rest of our coffee machines.
And the most fascinating thing happened when we launched it which is that espresso sales went up because the launch of Verismo brought attention to the category.
And we think we have the same opportunity with Mark and Graham with our other brands' monogram selection.
We'll take the next question from Christopher Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a flavor of the dialogue with some of the branded manufacturers ahead of the holiday season? It seems like perhaps Le Creuset is no longer at Bloomingdale's.
Curious if that's representative of the mood out there? And related to that you've seen some of the big-box guys come in and say hey you know what we'll match prices on Amazon.
Do you have a policy in that? And how are you thinking about that? We're looking for exclusive products with our vendors and we want the best.
And so we do have things others carry.
What I will tell you is that versus last year there's less of a gap.
We decided to be more competitive and we also reduced our shipping and that's made a big difference because that was in the way of the value equation for some of our customers.
And also Amazon is having to collect tax in more states and that also helps us.
And Greg Melich with ISI Group has the next question.
Research Division</strong> I want to get into the fourth quarter outlook and the 3 things you listed that would pressure EBIT margins.
Can you just confirm that gross margins that you do expect them in the fourth quarter to continue to improve product margins? Or is that also likely to roll over just given the mix and the promotions? Unfortunately we don't provide guidance on the gross margin line level.
But the guidance we provided is at the operating margin level.
And so I don't know if you still have the question about the 3 items that are impacting it but again it's the $0.02 impact from Australia it's our SG&amp;A investments we've been talking about all year and the estimated impact from Hurricane Sandy.
Research Division</strong> Well then maybe on the 3 things that you did list is it -- how do those things match up today versus 3 months ago when you were planning them? I know there was a question before on that a little bit but if you were to say today versus 3 months ago how has the planning changed just given what's worked and what hasn't worked? There isn't any change.
The only thing we didn't obviously know about was the storm that happened a week ago.
But everything else is the same in our guidance.
The next question will come from Dave Gober with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just had a bigger-picture question for the last several years the company's been focused absolutely on what you can control and not on the macro environment.
You mentioned a little bit that you've invested in the home renovation category but I'm just curious if you see any changes as we started to hear some improvement in the broader housing market and we've heard that from a number of different companies.
Are you seeing that in your results? Are you seeing more furniture sales because of that? Or are you expecting to see a change in the mix of the business over the next 6 to 9 months or so because of that dynamic? Yes.
It's a really good question.
We look at a lot of different parts of our business to try to discern what's going on.
I do think there's a positive uptick there because when you move you update a lot of things in your house that are core whether it's bath towels or bath mats.
Curtains are often -- you don't change your curtains unless you move.
And some of those categories are doing better now than they were before.
It's early in the cycle.
We know that a housing recovery would be very good for us obviously and particularly for our Kids and Teen business.
Because oftentimes the reason you move is to have another bedroom for a child and then that bedroom requires furniture and it's fun to redecorate and it's -- I know it too well.
I've been in the same house for a while that you don't change much when you don't move.
You buy decorative accessories.
You buy pillows unless you're doing a room over.
And so I do think that we are seeing the benefit from a slight housing uptick.
And I expect that we're going to see more and we are building strategies to capitalize on it.
Pat? Yes just a little bit to add on to that Dave.
The beauty of that we have here with the e-commerce site is that we can test these categories very quickly online decide which of these of the classifications are working the best before we roll them out to the stores.
And that's what we did in Pottery Barn and if you go to the site and look at the bed and bath renovation area we in anticipation of the housing recovery we started working on that a year ago.
And really we're able to fine tune that and build it up to be a pretty substantial business and then we can extend that out to the stores once we know exactly what is going to be responsive to the customer.
We'll hear next from Michael Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So understanding that you're already planning for a more promotional fourth quarter are you seeing it now be more promotional than you had originally planned? Is that something that's leading to the little bit of a downtick in the fourth quarter guidance versus where it previously was? And does Sandy make it be more promotional because you've lost some sales and you got to win it back? While I have you related to margins and promotion can you tell us the thought process behind eliminating the Williams-Sonoma Reserve? One big question.
Good job.
I am not surprised by the level of promotions and we are well prepared to handle it.
So that's the first thing.
Sandy of course for us the thing that would be impacted is Thanksgiving right? Because elections Sandy you have 1 week left and that's an example of a product category that are we little more promotional on? Yes you could go to our stores and see it then we were.
But we're not -- it's not drastic promotion.
But we're not going to sit on those goods post-Thanksgiving.
We're on it.
So it's -- that’s a time-sensitive holiday.
Obviously that it doesn't surprise you it would be impacted.
I think a lot of people they've had a lot on their minds lately and you're going to see big shopping this weekend big shopping next week as people remember we got to get Thanksgiving together.
So that's the first thing.
Williams-Sonoma Reserve we got more competitive on our shipping.
So we're doing our $49 threshold shipping.
We gave -- go ahead and answer it Pat.
And Michael on the people who were Reserve members we extended a full year of free shipping to them at no charge because.
Because we did go with the $49 and we studied that for quite a while.
And because we’ve continued it and we did it you know what the impact is.
We're very pleased with the results.
And we have time for one last question from Marni Shapiro with The Retail Tracker.
Could we just stick on Williams-Sonoma for 2 more seconds here.
If you can just talk about credit cardholder penetration there? And could you also talk about 2 things I notice you still have the home assortment on there.
Not something you’re moving forward store-wise it sounds like but it looks good online.
It's obviously not doing poorly it's still there and it looks nice.
So if you could just touch on it a little bit.
And if you can also touch on the food because it looks like you guys have really branched out in the food.
For a while you guys led the pack and everyone followed you.
So I guess are you feeling good about your assortment going into the holidays? And are you able to really keep a step ahead of everybody you feeling good about that? Yes thank you for the question.
So on the credit cards we're pleased with the results.
It's a great way for us to build loyalty with our customer and communicate with them through another means.
We haven't given the percentage.
We still have a lot of opportunity with it honestly.
So in sports innings maybe third inning.
Williams-Sonoma home we see it as a strategic opportunity over the long haul because there's still space in the marketplace for higher-end home.
You'll start to see us in the fourth quarter bring in some new great gifts and we are continually testing new things so that we can drive some more sales in Williams-Sonoma home.
We are now -- last year about this time was when we put it on the same site as Williams-Sonoma and so we're full year on that and it makes it easier for us to read the business.
The things we're excited about food yes.
We have an extended assortment of perishable food that's excellent for the fourth quarter and we love our new imagery.
I don't know if you've been able to look through the holiday catalog but the imagery online and in the catalog is really fresh and inspiring.
I don't think the croissants have ever looked better.
We're also -- you didn't ask but I can't help but take advantage of the question on Williams-Sonoma and what else we're looking forward to.
I think you probably saw yesterday the launch of our cookware and our smart tools.
The cookware is just amazing.
We've all been using it.
It heats up 25% faster which is -- than anything in the marketplace by the way which allows you to cook more evenly.
But also when you're done cooking it doesn't overcook because it also then releases the heat more quickly.
And we have so many qualities to the cookware to brag about.
Pat you want to talk about a few of them? Well thanks Laura.
I've using it here for about 6 to 8 months.
I think that the handles in particular you're going to love them.
They're very nice in the hand.
As Laura pointed out the even temperature is a big thing.
The pans like the sauté and frying pans so much thought went into them.
They're each a little bit higher and so it makes a very significant difference.
You don't get as much splatter.
It's just a much better cooking experience.
It's the first of what is going to be a very extensive launch in this area.
The lids are double walled.
No one else uses double-walled lids and so it provides very even temperature keeps the food warm when you take it off the pan.
It's all those little things that both the home chef and the professional chef will enjoy.
And also my favorite product for the holidays I'm going to be giving to a lot of people here is the iPad speaker and stand that we just launched and it's not even in our stores yet.
It's online you can look at it there.
It's also on the Apple Store website and it will be in their stores upcoming.
They were so impressed with the product that they wanted to run it.
And it's the first time we've ever let anyone run one of our products outside of our brands before and we think it's a wonderful opportunity to extend our product to new customers.
And the reason why it's so great first of all it looks great in the kitchen it's simple.
You can look at the screen from close-up and far away.
The quality of sound -- I'm not a big speaker person but you can hear the difference.
It is significant versus what else is on the market even at higher prices which is the other impressive piece about it which is how good the sound quality is on it.
And so that is a great gift for someone so that they can download recipes listen to videos YouTube as they cook in their kitchen.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I'll now turn the conference call back over to Ms.
Alber for any additional or closing remarks.
Well I want to thank you all for joining us again this afternoon.
We appreciate your time very much and your continued support and we'll speak with you again next quarter.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Inc.
Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Steve Nelson Vice President of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP measures and forward-looking statements.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
This call should be considered in conjunction with the press releases that we issued earlier today.
Our earnings press release and this call contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and an explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful are discussed in the earnings release.
This call also contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which addresses the financial condition results of operations business initiatives trends guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2013 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings including the most recent 10-Q for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2012 results and our outlook for Q1 and fiscal year 2013.
Thanks Steve.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
On the call with me today are Julie Whalen our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Connolly our Chief Marketing Officer.
Before we begin I'd like to discuss the leadership change that we announced earlier this afternoon.
Richard Harvery President of the Williams-Sonoma brand has resigned and will be leaving the company.
Over the 18 years that we have worked together Richard has been an exceptional business partner as well as a great friend to me.
Richard has worked at our company for 30 years and leaves an enduring legacy.
We thank him for his service and commitment and we will miss him.
Janet Hayes currently the President of Pottery Barn Kids and Pottery Barn Teen will become the President of the Williams-Sonoma brand and through the end of our fiscal first quarter Richard will work with Janet to ensure a smooth transition.
Sandra Stangl President of Pottery Barn will now lead Pottery Barn Pottery Barn Kids and Pottery Barn Teens.
We congratulate Janet and Sandra on their new roles at our company and look forward to their continued success.
Now I will begin discussing our fiscal year results followed by the highlights of our strategies for 2013 and beyond.
Our results during fiscal 2012 demonstrate the power of our multichannel multibrand operating model.
For the year net revenues exceeded $4 billion for the first time in our history with comparable brand revenues increasing 6%.
Non-GAAP operating margin matched our 2011 fiscal year high of 10.3% and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share grew to a record $2.58.
Our top and bottom line performance exceeded not only our outlook from the beginning of the year but also our expectations as we entered Q4.
E-commerce with top line growth of 15% for the year on a comparable week basis continued to drive our direct-to-customer channel revenue and operating margin which expanded by 40 basis points to 22.4%.
Our direct-to-customer channel now represents 46% of our total company net revenue and we believe the increasing penetration of our direct-to-customer channel will drive further improvements in our operating margin over time.
We continue to be laser-focused on our customers.
They are the center of everything we do.
All of our initiatives revolve around our customer.
This singular focus has allowed us to deliver increased revenue and profit while simultaneously investing in our future growth.
Our continued expense discipline throughout our organization enables this operational flexibility.
At the beginning of 2012 we outlined for you our long-term initiatives to drive sustainable profitable growth and increase shareholder value.
I am pleased to report that we made progress against each of the longer-term initiatives that we communicated to you last year and that they will be the focus of our efforts over the next several years.
These initiatives are: to successfully execute our brand strategies and launch new businesses; to lay the foundation for the expansion of our brand's global presence; to invest in our supply chain to reduce cost and improve service; and to invest in the technologies and infrastructure underlying all these initiatives to enhance our leading multichannel business.
The heritage of our company is one of internally generated growth.
While the Williams-Sonoma brand has grown in size to almost $1 billion 75% of our revenues now come from our other brands that our current team has developed.
In 2012 we broadened the reach and relevance of each of our brands and invested in new businesses.
Through 2013 and beyond we will continue to drive strategies strengthen our current brands while identifying new business opportunities.
In the Williams-Sonoma brand we are executing an exciting vision of innovation that allows us to be less reliant on branded goods.
In all of the Pottery Barn brands we continue to deliver impressive growth over industry averages.
In West Elm our largest growth vehicle is now approaching 11% of our business at $430 million of revenues with a clear growth path to become a $1 billion business.
With this backdrop of the successful entrepreneurial track record we incubated and launched new businesses this year including Mark and Graham West Elm Market and Agrarian.
Mark and Graham which launched in November specializes in high-quality personalized products and gifts.
West Elm Market a brand extension of West Elm expands the brand to category and new settings.
Agrarian a new category extension of the Williams-Sonoma brand celebrates homemade and homegrown.
And 2012 also marks Rejuvenation's first full year as part of our portfolio of brands.
We plan to expand on each of these businesses in 2013.
Global expansion is one of our most important growth prospects for the next 10 years.
As we shop the world we continue to see a significant opportunity.
Our global vision is to serve our customers with the same high service model that we do in the United States with a multichannel strategy focused on e-commerce.
In 2013 we will enter into the Australian market with company-owned retail stores and fully enabled e-commerce and distribution.
Our first 4 stores will open in May and will set the stage for further expansion within Australia as well as other geographies possibly later this year.
Our franchise business continues to grow and in 2012 we saw the opening of an additional 10 stores in the Middle East.
There are now 23 stores open across all of our core brands.
Our supply chain is a competitive advantage.
Focused on our customer our mission is to reduce costs and improve service.
This year we continued our network redesign and we in-sourced additional foreign agent operations with the biggest improvement realized by bringing Vietnam and South China furniture sourcing fully into our system.
Our return rate was the lowest in the history of our company a key metric in measuring customer satisfaction.
Our technology investment supports our initiatives and allow us to elevate our service levels.
In 2012 our investments enabled us to make our IT throughput significantly more scalable and focused on e-commerce capabilities global expansion supply chain and our stores.
We continue to scale our IT capabilities as we know they are critical to our growth.
We are pleased that in a recent survey of highest performing websites our brands were the top performers.
We also know that our customers shop all of our channels and we are further connecting the in-store and e-commerce experience.
Technology will allow us to continue to differentiate our experience and leverage our assets to expand into new markets.
One of my personal objectives is to have the strongest team in retail.
In 2012 we continued to attract top talent across the organization and strengthen our culture.
We are confident we can achieve our goals because of our people our commitment to execution and continued investment in these growth areas.
We also know that we have some differentiating attributes that afford us competitive advantages.
We are one of the nation's leading e-commerce retailers not just in sales volume but also in profitability.
We know of few traditional retailers or e-commerce companies that are able to deliver the profitability metrics that we consistently achieve in our direct business.
Our catalog heritage has created a culture of analytics that has propelled our online growth and contributed to our disciplined history of retail expansion.
We have an excellent balance between physical and online storefronts and we utilize our industry-leading customer intelligence gathered over the past 35 years to drive merchandise decisions.
While we are not immune to the effects the retail disruption we all see around us our brands are at the forefront of specialty retailing with our merchandise categories and each continues to further differentiate itself from its competition.
Creativity and innovation is a key component of our strategy.
And for all these reasons we see a clear path to more than doubling our business over the next decade.
Finally we remain committed to our shareholders and returning excess cash.
In 2012 we returned $243 million in the form of share buybacks and dividends.
As we announced today we demonstrate this commitment by announcing a 41% increase in our dividend to $0.31 quarterly and a $750 million 3-year stock repurchase authorization which combined provided the largest return of excess cash to our shareholders in the history of our company.
Now I will turn the call over to Julie Whalen to discuss our financial results and outlook before I provide more details regarding each brand's performance.
Thank you Laura and good afternoon.
We are very pleased with the fiscal 2012 results we are sharing with you today and the outperformance we saw on both the top and bottom line for fourth quarter and fiscal year 2012.
Before I provide more details on our 2012 results as well as our guidance for fiscal year 2013 I want to remind everyone that 2012 was a 53-week year as compared to 52-week years in both 2011 and 2013.
The financial impact of this additional week was approximately $70 million of revenues and $0.07 of diluted earnings per share.
We will provide our growth rates both with and without the extra week.
Let me begin with our fourth quarter results.
For the fourth quarter net revenues increased 11%.
Excluding the additional week net revenues grew 5% with comparable brand revenues increasing 4%.
E-commerce led this growth at 16%.
Diluted earnings per share increased 15% to $1.34 per share.
Excluding the additional week diluted earnings per share grew 9%.
Gross margin during the quarter was equal to last year at 41.3% with occupancy leverage offset by lower selling margins.
Occupancy leveraged 30 basis points with occupancy costs at $137 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus $127 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
SG&amp;A increased to 26.3% from 25.7% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Of this 50 basis point increase asset impairments primarily in our stores accounted for 40 basis points of this increase.
The remaining increase was from higher employment and other general expenses partially offset by greater advertising efficiency.
As a reminder included in this increase were the planned ongoing incremental investments to support our e-commerce global expansion and business development growth strategies that Laura mentioned earlier.
This resulted in a fourth quarter operating margin of 15.0%.
I would now like to comment briefly on our fiscal year results.
For the fiscal year net revenues increased 9% to $4.04 billion.
Excluding the additional week net revenues grew 7% including 12% growth in the direct-to-customer channel and 2.5% growth in the retail channel.
Comparable brand revenues increased 6% led by our home furnishings brands: Pottery Barn West Elm and Pottery Barn Kids.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 15% to $2.58 per share.
Excluding the additional week non-GAAP diluted earnings per share grew 12%.
Fiscal year gross margin increased 20 basis points to 39.4% from 39.2%.
This improvement was driven by occupancy leverage which was partially offset by lower selling margins.
Occupancy leveraged 60 basis points with occupancy costs at $517 million in 2012 versus $500 million in 2011.
Fiscal year non-GAAP SG&amp;A increased 20 basis points to 29.1% from 28.9% in 2011.
Asset impairments primarily in our stores accounted for this increase as higher employment combined with our planned incremental investments was offset by greater advertising efficiency.
The fiscal 2012 non-GAAP operating margin of 10.3% matched last year's record operating margin.
A 40 basis point improvement in the direct-to-customer channel operating margin to 22.4% was offset by a 70 basis point decrease in the retail channel operating margin to 12.1% and a 10 basis point increase in corporate unallocated expenses.
The 40 basis point improvement in the direct-to-customer channel operating margin to an annual record of 22.4% was primarily driven by greater advertising efficiency and sales leverage of occupancy costs partially offset by lower selling margins.
This speaks again to the power of our operating model allowing us to use advertising efficiencies as well as our supply chain cost reduction initiatives to give value back to the customer while driving sales and operating margin growth.
The 70 basis point decrease in the retail channel operating margin was primarily driven by increased employment costs to support our service and growth initiatives and asset impairments which were partially offset by occupancy leverage.
The 10 basis point increase in corporate unallocated expenses was primarily driven by higher employment costs.
From a balance sheet perspective merchandise inventories increased $87 million or 15.6% to $640 million.
This inventory level reflects our goal to improve our in-stock inventory positions to drive sales and to support our growth initiatives within our global business and our new brands particularly in West Elm.
Cash at the end of the year was $425 million versus $503 million last year.
Over the past year while generating $364 million in operating cash flow we returned $243 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
And as Laura mentioned our commitment is to return excess cash to our shareholders.
To advance that goal today we are happy to have announced our largest share repurchase authorization totaling $750 million and our largest dividend increase of 41%.
I would now like to discuss our first quarter and fiscal year 2013 guidance.
2013 is expected to be another year of record revenues and earnings while at the same time investing in our future growth.
For the first quarter of 2013 we expect to grow net revenues to a range of $850 million to $870 million with comparable revenue growth in the range of 4% to 6%.
We expect our operating margin to be slightly below last year's rate driven by the financial impact on the quarter of our capital investments in 2012 and our SG&amp;A investments in our global expansion including the opening of 4 stores in Australia at the end of the quarter.
Diluted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $0.33 to $0.36 per share.
In 2013 we expect to grow net revenues to a range of $4.20 billion to $4.28 billion with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 4% to 6%.
Operating margin is expected to be in the range of 10.0% to 10.3% and diluted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $2.65 to $2.75 per share which excluding the additional week of earnings in 2012 amounts to 10% diluted earnings per share growth at the high end of the range.
As you can see our disciplined approach to SG&amp;A has allowed us to tightly manage our ongoing expenses so we can invest in our growth opportunities and still deliver this level of earnings growth.
From a capital allocation perspective consistent with 2012 we plan to maintain a minimum cash reserve balance of at least $300 million and return excess cash to our shareholders after investing in our business.
In 2013 in addition to the increased levels of share buybacks and dividends previously mentioned we expect our capital investments to be in the range of $200 million to $220 million as we continue investing in our long-term initiatives we laid out in the beginning of 2012 and as Laura mentioned earlier on the call.
In addition to our required annual investments in our retail fleet and general IT infrastructure we will be investing in our global expansion the construction of new stores for existing and new brands including West Elm in e-commerce and investing capital to support our supply chain initiatives in that order.
We expect the continued investment in these initiatives will provide the best returns for our shareholders.
For all other fiscal year 2013 guidance items please see today's press release.
You will notice in this release that we have continued to shift to more strategic and directional guidance.
We will no longer be reporting comparable store sales growth rates as these sales are already included within our comparable brand revenue growth metric.
As our customers shop across all channels we believe comparable brand revenue growth is a more comprehensive reflection of the performance of our business today.
Finally we will no longer be reporting holiday sales as we believe reporting sales excluding our January results is not an accurate reflection of our true holiday results.
That said as part of this move towards a more strategic view we are now providing a 3-year outlook.
As such over the next 3 years we expect revenue growth to be in the mid- to high single digits with EPS growth in the low double digits to mid-teens.
We expect our capital expenditures to remain within the range of $200 million to $220 million over the next 3 years.
We also expect to target our dividend levels at approximately 35% to 40% of net income and we expect share buybacks to be approximately $250 million per year over the next 3 years.
We are confident that the strength of our brands combined with our strategic long-term growth initiatives will allow us to meet our 3-year outlook and allow us to be well-poised for future growth and shareholder returns.
Now I will turn the call back over to Laura to talk about the performance of our brands.
Thank you Julie.
And now let's talk about our brands starting with Pottery Barn our largest brand.
In Pottery Barn net revenues for 2012 were $1.75 billion driven by comparable brand revenue growth of 8.5%.
For the fourth quarter textiles furniture and decorative accessories were important categories for the brand.
In addition our gift strategies drove traffic transactions and sales.
Our big bets for the season were successful.
As we look forward to this year we are confident in our product lineup.
We have great launches scheduled throughout the year.
We are focused on selling artisanal innovative products at a great value presented in an aspirational way across all of our channels.
Our mantra is to make decorating and entertaining fun easy and affordable and to turn houses into homes.
Our customers love our print and pattern and textiles.
Furniture is the foundation of our brand and we continue to offer an increased assortment of high-quality exclusive well-priced items.
We also see opportunities in the hard-working rooms.
The entryway the bathroom and the laundry room.
We are building deep relationships with our customers through the exceptional complimentary services that we provide.
These services both in-store and in-home are our competitive advantage.
We train our associates as design studio experts and we are expanding the design studio centers within our stores and our design studio offerings.
We have also developed a team of stylists and entertaining consultants that can help with everything from setting the perfect table to decorating your home for Easter.
We're also leveraging technology to make it easier for our customers to imagine their dream home and for our associates to convert sales.
Our recent store remodels and website enhancements are producing returns that we will build on in the coming years.
In the Pottery Barn Kids brand net revenues for 2012 were $558 million with an increase in comparable brand revenue of 5.6%.
The combination of textiles and furniture especially in nursery drove our business as our customers came to us to put together rooms for their children.
We were successful in growing our Baby business and our seasonal holidays.
We'll be expanding both of these areas in the coming years.
For example we just celebrated our first Lunar New Year.
And we are focused on gifting and birthdays.
In Baby we have additional SKUs and new differentiated aesthetics.
We continue to refine our marketing strategy to appeal to lifestages lifestyles and genders.
We're also committed to further developing the relationships our customers have with our brand through service offerings.
We are enriching the design expertise of our associates and equipping them with better technology and tools.
We believe that Pottery Barn Kids' differentiated offering will have wide international appeal leading to growth through global expansion.
We've been extremely pleased with the performance of our stores in the Middle East where Pottery Barn Kids has more stores that any of our other brands and we are opening our first store in Québec later this month and in Australia in May.
In the PBteen teen brand net revenues for 2012 were $220 million representing an increase in comparable brand revenue of 1.7% for the year and 6.4% in the fourth quarter.
Momentum accelerated in our business throughout the year as our in-stock inventory position improved.
Being in stock is especially critical as this is a brand where both the parent and their teen are involved in the purchase decision.
Our in-stock position in furniture hampered our growth in 2012 and is an opportunity in 2013.
When we deliver the basics and the top of bed our customer comes back to us for gifting seasonal assortments and for room accessories.
Textiles drove performance in our business all year.
Burton has been a fantastic launch for us and we are happy and proud to continue this partnership as well as introduce new exciting partnerships in 2013.
In 2013 we are offering great values in our new furniture and textile introductions featuring clean bright and fun assortments.
We will continue to go out to the dorm customer with an expanded lifestyle offering delivering innovative decorating ideas.
Gifting year-round for birthdays and graduations will also be a focus in 2013.
Our teen retail formats are highly productive.
Parents and teens are able to engage with our products which will then ship to their homes from distribution centers.
Our small store base allows us to get closer to our customer and serves as a laboratory for concept development.
We get terrific feedback in our stores as we engage with our customers and our customers engage with our products.
Our franchise partner opened our first PBteen store in the Middle East at the end of 2012 and it is really exceeding our expectations.
It seems that decorating teen rooms is a universal challenge and we are excited to serve this market.
In the Williams-Sonoma brand net revenues for 2012 were $981 million with comparable brand revenues decreasing 1.1%.
Although the promotional environment intensified during the holiday season we made progress on our initiatives to introduce proprietary innovative products that set new standards in the marketplace.
As we expected our strongest performance were in those categories where we have the highest proportion of new exclusive and innovative products specifically electrics entertaining and food.
We anticipated a promotional environment and responded appropriately to protect our brand and our customers.
The story of the Williams-Sonoma brand is really 2 stories.
We enjoy excellent success in the direct channel where the Williams-Sonoma brand had the third highest growth rate any of our brands with a direct channel contribution that ranks second amongst our brands for the year.
This performance tells us that the strength of our brands our marketing and our strategy has increased product exclusivity allows us to compete successfully with anyone online and to do so at operating margins that are a multiple of our competitors.
However the initiatives that we have been working on in the Williams-Sonoma brand are more easily and quickly implemented in the direct channel than at retail.
So we have more work to do in our stores.
We acknowledge that.
New creative direction has made progress with our marketing efforts.
After our initial focus on our website and catalog we are now turning our energies to our retail stores.
We believe that there are significant opportunities to present our products in a more inspiring and compelling way and to make it easier for our customers to find what they want to buy.
Another key part of our Williams-Sonoma strategy is to optimize our retail fleet.
In 2013 we'll opportunistically close 15 stores and open an additional 8 stores to drive retail profitability.
We have been successful in closing underperforming stores and relocating stores to higher-return locations and we expect this to continue over the next 3 years.
We also have a robust schedule of new product introductions the most in our history that will benefit both channels which includes the expansion of our Williams-Sonoma-branded cookware and tools.
We're also excited by our marketing partnership with ABC in a new hit series The Taste which features our exclusive collection of Williams-Sonoma-branded products.
Our Agrarian assortment is expanding and we mailed our first standalone catalog this week.
This concept is bringing new customers to our brand and has enjoyed significant national media attention.
We're also delighted to announce that Williams-Sonoma Home will be mailing a catalog with new collections early next month.
We believe that this segment of the market is underserved and that we can grow a sizable and profitable business in higher-end home goods predominantly in the direct-to-consumer channel.
In summary we are committed to possible growth in Williams-Sonoma and we'll serve our customer through product innovation marketing and channel excellence.
I look forward to updating on the progress we are making against these strategies.
Finally I would like to discuss West Elm.
In the West Elm brand net revenues for 2012 were $430 million representing almost 11% of our total company sales.
Comparable brand revenues grew 17.4% on top of 30.3% in 2011.
Growth continues to be driven by all categories including furniture textiles and decorative accessories.
Key holiday brands and category promotions drove strong incremental sales and margins.
Expanded assortments in new areas including kitchen and seasonal trends contributed to growth.
We've accelerated sales customer acquisition and engagement through integrated multi-channel marketing.
Utilizing e-commerce catalog in-store activities and social media platforms has allowed us to effectively connect with customers.
As we look forward to 2013 and beyond our strategy is to profitably grow the West Elm brand by engaging with a broader base of customers while maintaining a compelling value proposition.
We are executing on an expanded product assortment and customer engagement strategies.
And as retail profitability hits new milestones we're aggressively seeking retail expansion opportunities.
At the start of 2012 we announced plans to open 9 new West Elm stores.
And we are pleased that we ended the year with 12 bringing the total fleet size to 48.
We will continue to expand our retail in 2013 with current plans to end the year with 57 locations including our first Australian store.
We believe that West Elm will be a significant driver of our global expansion.
Our 2 stores in Canada are among the highest performing in the entire company.
Our West Elm store in the Middle East operated by our franchise partner is consistently exceeding expectations and we are actively looking for additional global locations.
In late October we are pleased to launched the West Elm market brand extension.
Focused on tools for everyday living market represents a significant expansion into the kitchen and housewares category.
This expanded assortment is currently offered in 2 standalone stores shop-in shops and many of our existing stores and a robust online and catalog assortment.
We believe all these initiatives differentiate West Elm in the marketplace and drives growth in this brand.
We're excited about our plans for 2013 and our progress on the path towards building this into another $1 billion brand.
In summary we're very proud of our result this year.
While the economic backdrop is more difficult than anticipated we beat our financial metrics and made tremendous progress against our long-term growth strategies.
We have clear strategies for all of our brands and West Elm has moved efficiently from a turnaround to a clear growth vehicle.
Through our strategic work we identified and prioritized areas for new business development and are underway in our execution.
Our global strategy is out of the planning phase and into production and the company is rallied around its success.
We continue to strengthen our team and our culture and we are confident in our future.
I would now like to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll first go to Peter Benedict from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Laura you said earlier in your prepared remarks that you expect further improvement in operating margins over time.
And your 3-year view looks like it suggests that that expansion could start to emerge in 2014.
So my question is how visible are the key drivers of kind of operating margin as you look out over the next 3 years? And then also kind of on the top line I think you're -- it also implies kind of an acceleration on the top line beyond this year.
So just interested in your thoughts on that.
Yes.
I'm going to let Julie answer that question.
Okay.
Thanks Peter.
It's Julie.
We're always focused on expanding our operating margin.
We told you guys over time that each year excluding our investment and our future growth strategies we expect to drive continuous improvement in our business and expand that operating margin but it's going to be gradual and incremental over time.
And it seems that when you look at our 3-year outlook in the guidance that we've given that would imply that our initiatives in years 2 and 3 we'll be beginning to generate the kind of returns that will create operating margin expansion.
And we'll now go to Daniel Hofkin from William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up a little bit on that on specifically the revenues could you maybe just frame up a little bit specifically going from let's say 4 to 6 expected this year to mid- to high-single digit over the next couple of years what do think is going to be the 1 or 2 key things that should contribute to that? Dan it's Julie.
I think there's a couple of things I want to make sure that everyone remembers on the call.
First of all 2012 was a 53rd-week.
So in order to gain an appropriate growth rate from 2012 to 2013 you got to back out the $70 million in revenue that we spoke to and the $0.07 in the bottom line.
So if you do that at the high end of our range for our revenue growth for 2013 is that 8%.
And our 3-year outlook gives guidance at mid- to high-single digits for revenue growth in particular and then obviously low double digits to mid-teens for EPS growth.
So 2013 is in line with our 3-year outlook.
As far as the future years and where we might push to the higher end of that outlook is exactly right once the initiative start to come into play for example global expansion.
This year we're launching in May 4 stores.
Our expectation is every year we'll have additional locations whether it's in Australia or otherwise.
That will continue to advance on top of that to generate more revenues and more earnings.
And we'll now move to Matthew Fassler from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about some of the changes that you made in the Williams-Sonoma catalog and online in the direct business that delivered results for you in the second half of 2012 that you think you can bring to the stores? Just a little more color on what you think will rejuvenate that retail business.
Sure.
This is Laura Matt.
First of all online affords us the ability to have additional SKUs.
So you can try a wider range of products and understand where the customer is responding.
And we are -- we just launched a great new program in our stores called Williams-Sonoma Delivers where we're allowing our store associates to place orders for our customers online.
And so that's a real positive for retail this year.
And we know that so many times our customers don't want to carry it out.
They want to go to the store and look at it but they want it shipped to their home.
And so we've enabled that with our customers in our stores with the Williams-Sonoma Delivers program.
So that's one of a couple key initiatives for this year.
Also online the shopping experience is something that we really focused on particularly in the latter half of the year in highlighting key products and cleaning up the shopping path making it more aspirational giving content where it makes sense simple things like putting videos in line(sic) [online].
And we had great accolades for our Williams-Sonoma site which was rated top website.
So people are noticing and the customer service equation on that has been really good.
So those -- it's really more products visual merchandising and we need to bring that vibrancy into our stores.
We're testing some new store formats.
We're so excited about our Australian store because we're launching it with a cooking school that represents a whole another leg of opportunity for us.
Research Division</strong> And just to make it clear when you talk about more products obviously Williams-Sonoma Delivers so you'll have the ability to I guess order online in store.
But are you talking about broadening the assortment that's actually on the sales floor as we speak? Or is it more about changing out product? Yes.
It's -- there's only so much physical room in the stores.
But it's about what you display more prominently where is the customer shifting to.
And we can understand that better online.
And we'll now go to Laura Champine from Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> Can you just comment on your year-end inventory levels and how comfortable you are with those? And Julie how you expect inventory to trend relative to sales this year? Sure love to Laura.
We feel very good about the health of our inventory.
Remember last year we ended at unsustainably low inventory levels.
And we did it to invest in our inventory to drive our sales.
The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by the home furnishings brands to support this better in stock versus last year.
And we expect inventory to be at this level -- we expect this to be at this level and we also increased the inventory to drive sales particularly in the West Elm brand and because we are opening in Australia and are holding the inventory here at this point.
Long term we'll be shifting the inventory and having it shipped directly into Australia but it's currently in our inventories today.
And then also remember the 53rd week pushes back 1 week later and shipments were rushed out for the Lunar New Year.
And we'll now go to David Gober from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to touch on gross margins for a second.
I guess in the fourth quarter gross margins were about flat year-over-year.
I was just wondering if you could give any further color on kind of gross margins by concept or maybe where you're seeing pressure versus expansion.
Is it maybe a little more pressure in the Williams-Sonoma brand? And also just curious if you're seeing any pressure to move towards free shipping in the home furnishings brands.
Okay.
David this is Julie.
I'll take that.
I think from a gross margin perspective we're actually very very proud of that the fact that we came in flat for the quarter and we actually were up 20 basis points versus last year.
I think as we've been telling you guys every quarter as we've gone through the year what we've seen is that sequentially there's been improvements in both product and selling margins.
And what we saw towards the end of the year was actually substantial improvement in both the retail channel and the Williams-Sonoma brand.
So we've seen this continue to sort of rightsize as we move through the year.
I think it's one thing that we're really proud of and we're able to get these sales whilst still maintaining a strong gross margin.
Laura do you want to take the free ship? I'll just say that free ship is one of many promotions that we run and we're able to study when it's effective and when no to do it.
And we use it carefully like we do all of our promotions.
And we'll now move to David Magee from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The -- how would you characterize the competitive environment since the holidays? Has it eased somewhat sequentially? We said all year that environment has been very competitive.
We expected it to be extremely promotional.
We came out and said that a couple of times.
It's clear to us that value is incredibly important to our customers.
And it's not going to go away.
The customer is clearly looking for value matched with quality.
And this is what we deliver upon.
So we had a promotional cadence throughout the year.
We're very competitive on non-exclusive branded goods.
We've responded as people broke MAP pricing in the Williams-Sonoma brand and we will continue to do so.
We'll now go to Gary Balter from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's Simeon Gutman for Gary.
A 2-part question on West Elm.
Long term can you speak to give us an idea of how many stores you think you can get to? And then second part is given West Elm accelerated in terms of the brand revenues this quarter and Pottery Barn decelerated you mentioned that there's this constant seeking of value but do you think there was anything that accelerated in terms of the consumer being more value-oriented? Or are those 2 events disconnected? We've studied that and are always making sure that that's not happening.
We actually see that when we mail both catalogs at the same time we get a better response to both of them than if we mail separately which is really interesting.
So now we don't -- if you're asking about cannibalization we don't have any evidence of cannibalization.
You have to look at these brands on a multi-year basis.
Pottery Barn has great growth over several years.
West Elm has really been escalating its growth recently.
And we -- in terms of stores versus DTC we're still very small very low market awareness around West Elm which is very exciting for us.
And clearly we can have more stores.
Now we haven't given a specific number because the horizon is changing so rapidly in terms of DTC versus stores and we're testing new formats we're testing West Elm Market stores whether they should be in a store separate online only.
And so there's a lot of unknowns about how many stores exactly.
But we do know that we can put them in suburban areas.
We know that we can put several in the market.
We've learned a lot this year.
We were cautious at first and we've measured against it.
And so the opening plans that we have this year we feel very confident in.
And we'll now go to Janet Kloppenburg from JJK Research.
Just a couple of questions.
On the selling margin I think you said that if it proves that Williams-Sonoma -- the Williams-Sonoma brand and it was up in the retail segment I believe that's for the year.
And I'm wondering if that was because of the influx of proprietary product or what are the contributors to that improvement.
And in thinking about your operating margin guidance for fiscal '13 I'm wondering how I should be thinking about gross margins.
I think you'll be making some investments I think that will be pressuring the SG&amp;A line.
And I'm wondering if we should be thinking that you'll have an overall improvement or you have an objective of improving gross margins in fiscal '13.
Okay so this is Julie.
So the one thing I to make sure we're clear on is the gross margin sequentially improved year-over-year.
Obviously in my prepared remarks I did talk about how we had occupancy leverage that was offset by lower selling margins.
So within the year they were still down.
But they substantially improved versus last year same time.
And that was in the retail channel and within Williams-Sonoma.
As far as giving outlook obviously we don't provide any guidance on the gross margin or SG&amp;A line but we did provide guidance on the operating margin line where we're at the high end.
We're still at 10.3 which is matching our record all while investing.
So there has to be some assumption there that that product margins will improve over the year.
And just one more thing Janet remember that because of our high DTC to total we are able to shift our operating model to be more promotional if the environment requires.
And you've seen us do that before where we leverage at cost.
We're constantly looking for ways to reduce our catalog costs and more -- and to optimize our e-marketing.
And that has allowed us to give value back to our customers and reduce -- for example when we give -- when we run our promotion oftentimes we can reduce our ad cost spend and offset the hit to margin.
And we do this on a very dynamic basis.
We have a series of meetings and processes in place to always be looking at the total picture and not looking at an individual line alone.
We'll now go to Brad Thomas from KeyBanc Markets.
Research Division</strong> When you reported the third quarter you talked a little bit about concerns at the start of this fourth quarter about how the consumer was behaving.
Can you just give us sort of more color about how things played out over the course of the quarter and what you're seeing today? Sure it was a challenging quarter because remember we start off with the hurricane uncertainty around the election and a calendar that pushed Christmas really late.
And so -- and the customer continued to shop later and later and you just watch people wonder about when it's coming and what to do and we knew how promotional it would be.
And yet we were very prepared.
We have gone through a bunch of scenario plans and we had a full team effort to make sure that we were going to deliver great customer service to our customers and we had worked on the product lineup in advance.
So January came in strong that's an important month for us I think versus other businesses that are just gift businesses.
The beginning of the year is always the time when you think about refreshing your home.
And with our large home furnishings brands it's a really nice end to the quarter that we have January.
And this year like last it was very strong.
Research Division</strong> Great and if I could squeeze in a quick point of clarification with respect to the share repurchase are you including that in your 2013 and 3-year guidance for earnings? We are.
.
We'll now go to Neely Tamminga from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I have a question for Laura and/or Pat just really wanting to get a sense for how you guys are prioritizing in your digital strategy.
What are the top maybe one or two key initiatives this year that you really think will drive some revenues higher this year just curious about your prioritization there? Then secondly related to those strict customer file Laura I was just wondering if you could give us some thinking speaking specifically here about Pottery Barn brand alone are you seeing your core shopper the customer who's been with you for years just either being reactivated or shopping more from you with more categories? Or are you seeing a real interesting trend on new to file? Thank you.
One of the biggest differentiators you can have in a company are the people working with you and we have a long heritage of cultivating creative talent and also a heritage of having great direct channel talent.
And we have a deep analytic culture borne out of our catalog business and we married this culture with our merchant expertise.
We were into big data before big data was such a big deal.
And it's given us a nice head start.
I want to let Pat go through some of the great initiatives we have lined up for this year.
Thanks Laura.
We made excellent progress in e-commerce this last year that produced results not just for 2012 but we think we'll produce them well into the future.
And I think perhaps the most important thing is how we did it.
We've built on the foundation that we've laid the year before.
We redesigned the way we work creating what we call this capability tracks and an absolute development technology.
So we really doubled our throughput literally in terms of what our team got done in just 2 years.
Let me give you a few specifics.
We introduced a feature called faceted navigation.
It's a technology that allows customers to more quickly find what they're looking for.
If a customer is say interested in rugs they can easily search by style color or material and then narrow their selection by size or shape.
This is really important because we have a very large assortment with many options for the customer.
And this makes it easier for them to shop for a rug or really for anything else.
And we've implemented this across all of our sites.
This year we redesigned our checkout.
The reason is that many customers don't complete an order even if they put items in their basket.
And we focused on streamlining that process to eliminate any barriers to completing the order and it's working.
We redesigned our homepage with a new mega menu that simplifies navigation and allows our customers to go right to the part of the site they're interested in and with added personalized content.
In Pottery Barn we introduced shop by room.
It's a great example our merchants came up with working with the technology team and designing the shopping experience the way that customer likes to shop.
If I think about next year Neely we're so excited.
We're focused on emerging technology and we're utilizing the latest data methodologies to create a data-driven personalized shopping experience that is optimized for every customer for every device.
Our goal is that every one of the 423 million website visits we had last year that someday we'll have an absolutely personalized experience for that visitor.
So we made a lot of progress; I think that our team over in the e-com technology group things are just getting started.
We have time for one last question from Marnie Shapiro from The Retail Tracker.
I was curious if you can talk a little bit about 3 initiatives that you brought up on the call but didn't give any real insights a little bit more on Rejuvenation a little bit on your first out-of-the-box thoughts about Mark and Graham? And I'm interested about you guys jumping back into Williams-Sonoma Home.
And without giving too much away I'm just curious if you can give a little bit more insights behind these 3.
Absolutely thank you for the question.
We're very focused on our core businesses but we always know that we are good at starting business and nurturing them.
And we see opportunity in the market and we have several brands in their early stages.
We bought Rejuvenation last year.
It's a wonderful high-quality business focused on hardwired lighting customized hardwired lighting.
And we believe that this brand can expand into other categories and build upon its rich heritage of historic lightings.
We internally developed and launched Mark and Graham which is a high-quality personalized gift brand and it features really updated monograms that are both nostalgic and new.
And it elevates the personalized gift-giving.
The packaging is just gorgeous.
And so these are 2 examples of new businesses that we are developing.
Williams-Sonoma Home we're so excited to share with you.
We have a very new collection that's coming out in April in the form of a catalog and then of course online.
And it's really building on what we know is successful but also bringing to market an aesthetic that isn't being served at the high end and really helping the customer put the whole look together in their own unique way.
There are 3 distinct collections that we are going to be presenting and you can also see them if you're in New York in the Columbus Circle store.
I guess what was the impetus behind relaunching the home area? Excuse me I'm sorry I can't -- couldn't hear you well.
I'm sorry.
What was the impetus behind launching the home area because you guys have launched it then you pulled back.
Yes we pulled back on our retail assortment.
And last year was really about rationalizing the SKUs and looking at pockets that would be profitable and that made sense.
And we've been building on that.
And we see a clear opportunity to bring in higher-end goods not as high end as it was before but to serve the market that isn't being served right now with more color and with a lot of beautiful eclectic artismal products.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I'll now turn the conference back over to Ms.
Alber for any additional and closing remarks.
Well thank you for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Inc.
First Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Steve Nelson Vice President of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP measures and forward-looking statements.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
This call should be considered in conjunction with the press releases that we issued earlier today.
Our earnings press release and this call contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and an explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful are discussed in our earnings release.
This call also contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which addresses the financial condition results of operations business initiatives trends guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2013 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings including the most recent 10-K for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our first quarter 2013 results and our outlook for the remainder of fiscal year 2013.
Thank you Steve.
Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us.
With me today are Julie Whalen our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Connolly our Chief Marketing Officer.
In March we reiterated our strategic long-term initiatives to grow our existing brands launch new businesses and expand globally.
We also communicated that we will drive profitability by investing in our supply chain and in the technology supporting all of these initiatives to further enhance our leading multichannel business.
I am happy to report that in the first quarter we made progress against all of these objectives particularly with respect to global expansion.
We are most excited that we opened our first company-owned retail locations and fully transactional e-commerce sites in Australia.
We also continue the expansion of our franchise operations in the Middle East.
Looking forward we will further expand our retail footprint in Australia with an additional West Elm location in Melbourne later this year.
And as announced today we are extending our global footprint into the United Kingdom with the opening of our first West Elm store in London.
As we have discussed we are taking a very disciplined approach to our global expansion.
We know that attractive real estate economics are critical to the profitability levels we are committed to achieving.
Our team has made great progress finding locations that meet our criteria earlier than expected as we had not previously anticipated being able to open stores in Melbourne and London in fiscal 2013.
Last week I was in Australia following our store openings and we have been literally overwhelmed by the initial response to our brands and are pleased with the sales at both our retail stores and our e-commerce sites.
Most importantly the execution of our launch in Australia exemplifies the competitive advantages of our multi-brand multichannel model and the strength of our team.
From our global strategy team to our merchants inventory planners supply chain experts and our information technology team I am so proud of what we have accomplished.
The simultaneous launch of our 4 new retail stores in the Bondi Junction suburbs of Sydney together with our 4 branded e-commerce sites with fulfillment operations in-country is a significant milestone in our global expansion strategy.
Also in the first quarter we achieved our supply chain objective including the further in-sourcing of our foreign agent structure throughout Asia and we are on track with our DC consolidation.
In addition during the first quarter we continued our investments across a number of initiatives that leverage the Internet and our e-commerce platform to enhance the customer experience across all channels.
Specifically we relaunched our Williams-Sonoma registry which features significantly improved usability and integration with the e-commerce site.
We also implemented several enhancements that improved the customer experience and drive increases in revenue per visitor across all of our brands.
And now I would like to provide additional detail on our performance in the first quarter.
We delivered non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.41 a 21% increase over a year ago.
Net revenue growth for the first quarter was 8.6% with comparable brand revenue growth of 7.2%.
The revenue mix by channel was 47% for the direct channel and 53% for the retail channel.
All brands had positive comparable brand revenue growth in the quarter.
We believe that we continue to take market share and are positioned for further growth in our category.
Our primary focus is on our customer and these top and bottom line results demonstrate our ability to successfully operate in a retail environment that continues to be promotional.
I would now like to update you on Pottery Barn our largest brand which represents approximately 43% of our business on an annual basis.
In the first quarter Pottery Barn comparable brand revenues increased 7.6%.
Our mission is to turn our customer's houses into dream homes.
We are focused on product innovation and we saw particular strength in furnitures textiles and tabletops in the first quarter.
Prints and pattern collections are both a core strength and a hallmark of the brand and expanded aesthetic in outdoor contributed to strong performance.
We continue to increase our in-home design services which deepen relationships with our customers.
At we enter the second quarter we are inspired by our fall assortments and the marketing we have planned to support these collections.
We are committed to providing an exceptional customer experience across all channels and we continue to expand our retail experience and our focus on driving increased profits with our upcoming store openings and remodels.
We will continue to offer our customers home furnishings that are exceptional in comfort quality style and value and deliver an unparalleled customer experience and elevate our service levels at every touch point.
Pottery Barn Kids comparable brand revenue grew by 6.9% in the first quarter.
Performance in the brand was driven by a positive merchandise response and a stronger in-stock position.
We are particularly pleased with our furniture nursery and seasonal businesses.
We've also seen a very favorable response to our bedding collections featuring prints and patterns that remain relevant to children as they grow up.
In the second quarter and through the balance of the year we'll continue to focus on those initiatives that are driving customer acquisition customer engagement and strong multichannel growth.
These include delivering an exceptional personalized customer experience in all channels and enhancing our connection with our customers through social media.
In the second quarter we'll launch our biggest ever back-to-school gear assortment with a compelling offering of backpacks and lunch for kids of all ages and stages.
We'll also launch our fall collection for kid and baby with new and exciting bedding furniture and decorating solutions for kid space.
I would now like to talk about PBteen.
PBteen comparable brand revenue increased 16.1% in the first quarter.
We have strengthened our furniture business and our textiles between bright preppy and graphic designs.
As we look forward to the second quarter and the rest of the year we are focused on delivering innovative products that allow teens to express their own unique style.
We are excited about the broadening [indiscernible] and PB Dorm launches.
In addition we'll be expanding our partnership with Burton adding new collections and building on the excellent results we experienced last fall.
Connecting with our customers in new and exciting retail experiences such as design centers and pop-up stores continues to be a key strategy for PBteen and we are thrilled to be opening our Thousand Oaks California pop-up store in early June.
This will bring the total number of stores featuring PBteen merchandise to 12.
I would now like to discuss the Williams-Sonoma brand which represents approximately 24% of total net revenues on an annual basis.
In the first quarter comparable brand revenues increased 1.9% a significant improvement over 2012.
Comparable brand revenues include both Williams-Sonoma and Williams-Sonoma Home of which Williams-Sonoma Home represented 30 basis points of this increase.
Product innovation marketing and customer engagement drove the results in cookware electrics and tabletop in the first quarter.
The first of a series of new product introductions contributed to these results.
We're encouraged as our strategies are taking effect.
We're also continuing to go after new business opportunities in the direct channel.
We took steps this quarter to strengthen our product offering and our lifestyle marketing around Agrarian and Williams-Sonoma Home.
Stand-alone catalogs were mailed for each of these businesses and they received a strong consumer response.
In the retail channel our first store in Australia opened and features a cooking school.
This school has been met with great consumer response and marks the beginning of a new customer engagement program which we believe could be a significant opportunity.
Our vision is to be the preeminent resource for the cooking and entertaining enthusiasts.
We are committed to establishing a distinctive consistent and more relevant voice that speaks to this customer and to continue to introduce new and exclusive product offerings.
We will leverage our authority through our marketing and in-store sales expertise to increase sales to our existing customers and attract new ones.
The promotional landscape persists and we are focused on executing against our initiatives that are driving the business today.
We continue to identify significant execution and marketing opportunities throughout the brand but particularly in the retail channel.
Finally I would like to discuss West Elm.
West Elm delivered record revenue and profitability in the first quarter.
Comparable brand revenues also had a double-digit increase for the 13th quarter in a row growing 11.8% on top of 22.1% last year with total brand revenue growing 18.3%.
Brand growth continues to be driven out of all categories including furniture textiles decorative accessories and lighting.
From products that mixes material to make a statement to simple and sophisticated pieces from whimsical wears found in your local market to rich textiles found in the global souk from multifunctional solutions to everyday basics and from designer collaborations to item color runs West Elm is providing a broad palette of products that reflects our customers' varied tastes.
As we continue to expand these assortments into new areas including West Elm market we see a positive response from both our core customers and new customers.
West Elm Market is currently available online in 2 freestanding locations in New York and Vancouver and in 18 shop-in-shops in West Elm stores across the country.
We also continue to focus on the seamless customer experience aligning promotional activity seasonal instructions and key marketing statements on and off-line through e-commerce catalog and in-store activities.
As mobile engagement increases our additive efforts in social communities continue to be more localized and store specific.
In-store we continue to focus on an engaging customer experience with locally relevant visual display assortment workshops classes and events.
In addition the brand service offering continues to expand.
Customers can now partner with our home stylists on design projects in any of our West Elm locations.
All of these efforts continue to accelerate sales customer acquisition and deepen our relationship with our customers.
As we look forward to the rest of 2013 and beyond our strategy is to continue to profitably grow the West Elm brand by engaging with and attracting a broader base of customers while maintaining a compelling value proposition.
We'll also continue to aggressively seek retail expansion opportunities worldwide.
We have plans to open 11 West Elm stores this year which include our first location in French-speaking Canada in the Griffintown neighborhood of Montreal our Melbourne location and our recently opened Sydney store.
And today we're excited to announce that we recently signed a lease on Tottenham Court Road in London.
The London location will be our first West Elm in the U.K.
marking our continued steps in the brand's global expansion strategy.
It is now expected to open in late 2013.
We believe all of these initiatives will continue to differentiate West Elm in the marketplace and allow us to capture additional wallet share and drive growth in this brand.
We're confident in achieving our goal of building West Elm into a billion-dollar brand.
Another key initiative for the company is new business development.
We're investing in our brand extensions West Elm Market Williams-Sonoma Home Agrarian PB Dorm as well as making improvements in product line and marketing in Rejuvenation and our newest launch Mark and Graham.
While these businesses are small we continue to see growth and long-term opportunity in all of them.
Now I will turn the call over to Julie to discuss our financial results and the outlook for the balance of the year.
Thank you Laura and good afternoon.
We are very pleased with our first quarter results and the outperformance we saw on both the top and bottom line compared to our expectations for the quarter.
Let me begin with our first quarter results.
For the first quarter net revenues increased 8.6% to a first quarter record of $888 million with comparable brand revenues increasing 7.2%.
All brands had positive comparable brand revenue growth including Williams-Sonoma at 1.9%.
Net revenues in our direct-to-customer channel grew 11.9% driven by high-teen growth in e-commerce which represents over 91% of our total direct-to-customer revenues.
And our retail channel revenues increased 5.8%.
Q1 2013 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share grew 21% to $0.41 from $0.34 last year.
Gross margin during the quarter was 37.6% versus 37.8% last year.
This 20-basis-point decrease resulted from lower selling margins partially offset by occupancy leverage.
Occupancy leveraged 30 basis points with occupancy costs at $133 million in Q1 2013 versus $125 million in Q1 2012.
While our gross margin slightly decreased versus last year non-GAAP SG&amp;A improved to 30.1% in Q1 2013 versus 30.9% in Q1 2012 primarily driven by lower advertising costs resulting in a first quarter non-GAAP operating margin of 7.5% which exceeded last year's record operating margin by 60 basis points.
This improvement in operating margin was driven by a 210-basis-point increase in the direct-to-customer channel from 20.8% last year to 22.9% and was partially offset by a 50-basis-point decrease in the retail channel to 7.3% and a 30-basis-point increase in corporate unallocated expenses.
The improvement in the direct-to-customer channel operating margin was across all brands and was primarily driven by greater advertising leverage and improved selling margins.
The decrease in the retail channel operating margin was primarily due to lower selling margins and the upfront investment costs associated with entering into our new global retail locations in Australia that opened at the end of the quarter partially offset by lower employment-related costs.
Increase in corporate unallocated expenses was primarily driven by higher employment-related costs as we invest in top talent to drive growth.
From a balance sheet perspective merchandise inventories increased $75 million or 12.8% to $662 million.
This inventory level reflects our stated goal to improve our in-stock inventory positions to drive sales and to support our growth initiatives.
The largest increase in merchandise inventories was in West Elm.
Cash at the end of the quarter was $253 million versus $376 million last year.
Over the past year while generating $325 million in operating cash flow we returned $222 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends including $63 million in cash to our shareholders this quarter alone through $41 million in share repurchases and $22 million in dividends.
I would now like to discuss our Q2 and fiscal year 2013 guidance.
We are on track for 2013 to be another year of record revenues and earnings while at the same time investing in our future growth.
For Q2 2013 we expect to grow net revenues to a range of $920 million to $940 million with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 4% to 6%.
Diluted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $0.43 to $0.46 and we expect our operating margin to be slightly below last year's rate.
Our Q2 operating margin this year is partially impacted by the timing of expenses related to the 53rd week calendar shift the financial impact on the quarter from our capital investments in 2012 and our investments in our accelerated global expansion associated with our new West Elm locations in Melbourne and London that are not expected to open until late 2013.
For the full year we are raising our revenue and diluted earnings per share as a result of the outperformance we saw in the first quarter.
As a result we now expect to grow net revenues to a range of $4.22 billion to $4.3 billion with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 4% to 6% and we now expect fiscal 2013 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share growth at the high end of the range.
This revised diluted earnings per share guidance raises the range by $0.02 after including the impact of a financial investment in our accelerated global expansion.
From a capital allocation perspective consistent with our March discussion we plan to make capital investments in the range of $200 million to $220 million as we continue to invest in our long-term initiatives.
We will also return capital to shareholders under our 3-year $750 million share repurchase authorization and our recently increased quarterly dividend of $0.31 per share.
We are confident that the strength of our brands combined with our strategic long-term growth initiatives will allow us to meet our long-term commitments to our shareholders for future growth and shareholder returns.
I would now like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from John Marrin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping Laura if you could spend a little more time talking about the Pottery Barn comp.
You had a nice sequential acceleration there both on 1 and 2 year.
I know you gave us some color before.
I was hoping you could tell us like what it was that was driving the strength in furniture and tabletop and why you did so well in outdoor.
Yes I mean the outdoor business is very strong for us and it's particularly encouraging given that I know it hasn't even warmed up in many parts of the country yet.
And so we can see that we're clearly taking share there.
We offered more styles this year and also built new SKUs on additional successful styles in outdoor and our home furnishings outdoor [indiscernible] are really popular this year with our customers.
And in the indoor business we continue to build a lifestyle vision for our customers that allows them to decorate and see their whole room come together.
And the furniture business which is the real foundation of the brand is very strong across both upholstery but also the other rooms of the house.
And we know that customers -- people out there love their homes.
And we're not sure whether there is truly a housing recovery that's going to be sustainable yet but we are seeing that they are spending money to redecorate.
And we are speaking to them in a relevant voice and we're using all of our channels to make it easier for them to come to us and decorate whole rooms including whole houses.
So I'm very encouraged by what we're seeing in our largest brand and that it continues to grow stronger than the home furnishings industry clearly taking share and a very powerful brand.
As we went overseas and I told you I was just in Australia it was just really amazing to hear how much familiarity there was around our brands and in particular Pottery Barn.
And people were so excited to come and touch and feel it and also experience this high service level that we offer that is really not something that they've ever seen before in their country.
So I'm confident in the domestic strategy but I'm also just very excited about the global opportunity for the Pottery Barn brand.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And one quick follow-up for Pat.
Direct had another great quarter and Laura seemed pretty pleased with the direct growth at the Williams-Sonoma brand.
Can you just talk about the factors that are driving sales in that band in particular online and maybe touch a bit on how it's doing relative to that 12% for the total company? The Williams-Sonoma brand just did very well in the first quarter John and we're just executing very well there.
We've made a number of improvements to the site.
Actually we've made a number of improvements to all of the sites I might add and that's what drove the high teen -- that's really what drove the high-teen sales.
I'm just really pleased with our DTC business.
And 23% I think we're -- which is a record I think we're the most profitable e-commerce company in America.
And at the same time we grew from #25 up to #22 in the Internet retailer ranks and had the 19th highest growth rate.
I think Williams-Sonoma and all the other bands have benefited from very efficient e-marketing.
We're very disciplined.
Our vendors that we work with say we're one of the more disciplined or maybe the most disciplined that they work with.
And we made some progress really in improving revenue per visitor.
This is in Williams-Sonoma and in our other brands.
It's a key metric that we look at.
We drive quality traffic to the site.
And then we've made enhancements in 3 areas: one is search the second is content management and the third was shop path enhancements.
And these are investments we started making last year when we talked about our e-commerce investment.
And our web analytics team has been working with the brands and those have come to fruition.
A lot times people talk about basis point increases they're getting from their investments.
We're getting percentage point increases so I'm really proud of that.
And our next question comes from Peter Benedict with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just -- I think Julie you said the second quarter EBIT margin is going to be hurt by the timing of some expenses I guess related to calendar shift with last year's 53rd week.
I'm just curious did the first quarter benefit from that shift? And if so by how much? No it's actually a shift coming out of Q3.
So there'll be expenses moving into Q2 that would have normally been in Q3.
So no Q1 did not benefit from that and we're not quantifying it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's helpful.
And I mean look you guys beat the high end of your range in terms of earnings by about $0.05 and you raised the full year high end by $0.02 so you've got that net of $0.03.
Are we to understand that that $0.03 is that the accelerated global expansion the costs related to that? Or are there other changes kind of to the balance of the year that we need to be aware of? Look we're very pleased with our Q1 results.
But you have to remember that it's only the first quarter and it's very early in the year.
And what we have seen is that the retail environment out there continues to be choppy and we just don't want to get ahead of ourselves.
Additionally we have so many new opportunities ahead of us particularly in global which in the short term put pressure on earnings as you guys know.
So for example we announced today the acceleration of our global expansion where we're entering a new country the United Kingdom and expanding our reach within Australia both of which will not be opening until late 2013.
And there could be more of these opportunities this year.
With that said we do feel confident in our 2013 outlook and therefore have raised the fiscal year guidance by $0.02 which at the high end represents low double-digit EPS growth at 10% consistent with our 3-year outlook.
And given the initial response that Laura spoke to and of all our brands in Australia this really reinforces our belief and the worldwide opportunity we have to double our business and gives us further confidence in our 3-year outlook.
And we just couldn't be more excited.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough totally understand it.
One more if I could just on capital allocation.
If you look at your 3-year plans for buyback and the dividend it does look like you'd probably have to dip into the cash balance and/or go into the revolver.
Can you just talk about your willingness to take down some of the cash balance how low would you be willing to go and then if you would be willing to go into that revolver balance? Sure.
I think -- thanks for the question.
There's a couple of things I want to make sure that everybody gets on the call.
First the thing -- first you'll see that we're actually at $250 million in this quarter and that's where we relatively expected to be.
And we'll continue to dip into the balance throughout the year especially with Q3 is typically our lowest cash level.
Q4 as you guys know is about 50% of our earnings so the cash comes back into Q4.
So we will not be holding around $300 million throughout the year.
It'll be below that.
With that said the $300 million is a target at which anything above that we believe should not be accumulated.
It should be returned to the shareholders.
So the $300 million there's no magic to that number.
It's basically the double where our line of credit effectively is.
And so if we need to be below that if we need to be at $200 million we'll do that.
With that said if we need to use the line of credit we would also use that as well.
But first and foremost we're going to fund the business and we're going to make the right decisions for the business and continue to return cash to our shareholders through share repurchases.
[Operator Instructions] And the next question comes from David Gober with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to touch on gross margins for a second.
I was wondering if you could dig a little bit into either the drivers of the March margin declines or -- I know Pat you've talked in the past about some of the trade-offs between promotions like free shipping that might reduce the March margins but help you save on SG&amp;A costs.
Is that what you're seeing in the business? Is that why advertising costs are down in the quarter? I'm going to let Julie start that and then I'm going to add a few comments about the environment.
Dave it's Julie.
So yes our gross margin as you see is 20 basis points down.
It's primarily due to lower selling margins in the retail channel and that was partially offset by occupancy leverage.
I think one of the key things to know is that in the DTC channel product margins selling margins which also includes shipping and gross margins which also includes occupancy were all improved year-over-year and substantially on a sequential basis from Q4.
But as we want everyone to remember we have and I think we spoke to you about it we have a different model than most retailers.
As a multichannel retailer with a DTC business that's almost 50% this allows us to leverage our SG&amp;A such that for example our slight deleverage in gross margin this quarter was more than offset by our 80-basis-point SG&amp;A leverage resulting in a record Q1 operating margin of 7.5% which was 60 basis points better than last year's record operating margin.
Laura do you want to provide more color on what drove that? Well I just -- I want to comment on the promotional environment out there.
We have continued to say that we are prepared to compete on price and we have set ourselves up to do that well both through our history of having a large direct business but also planning promotions and planning -- and using all of our digital expertise to be able to drive more business online which is the more profitable channel.
But when you go out there there's broad-based discounting both in the specialty retailers who are direct competitors with us and you can see particularly this weekend Memorial Day broad-based discounts and then also of course in the department stores.
And we know that we are positioned to take market share and also to drive really profitable sales.
There are others out there that drive sales but they're not nearly as profitable as ours.
And our -- the strength and the health of our business gives us confidence in our strategy this summer and also into the fall.
We are building on the categories that are working and we're seeing the results happen in each and every one of our brands.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful color.
And Laura just if I could have a follow-up about the environment.
We've heard from a number of different retailers across various different categories that the quarter started off slow improved throughout the quarter and as you noted as the weather warmed up maybe there are some weather-sensitive categories that have benefited.
Are you seeing that as well? And I guess is there anything that would give you pause that the momentum in the business that you're seeing today isn't going to follow through for the rest of the year? [indiscernible] weather.
So I mean I guess we're very lucky that our business isn't as seasonal and you don't wear your house so the weather doesn't affect what you buy for as much.
You generally don't change it seasonally other than buying outdoor furniture in the summer.
So the weather effects is when there's natural disaster but it doesn't affect us -- the heat and the cold doesn't affect us as much.
In terms of cadence through the quarter we don't generally like comment on that.
We try to be as long term as we can.
And we just see -- we see a strong business in our brands and we see a very competitive marketplace externally where there's a lot of people competing on price.
And the retailers who are going to do well are the ones who are going to have innovative products that are well priced and if the service is high touch.
I know that the customer is really responding to all the things that we're doing in our stores and there's a great appetite for experiential retail.
And so in each and every one of our brands we have a different version of that and we think that that is a huge competitive differentiator.
And the next question comes from Laura Champine with Cannacord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Could you comment on the impact on margins of in-sourcing some of that business that you import and then also the impact on margins of shipping promotions? Okay I'll take the agents.
And then Laura you want to take the shipping promotions? So in-sourcing the agents is a huge initiative for us as you know.
It's still probably too early to really see that in the numbers other than the fact that our return rates are now consistently lower than they've been in the past.
But we're going to continue to see benefit from this initiative.
They're only I call it maybe halfway through completing this whole process of in-sourcing all of our agents so there's still more to come.
But I think one of the biggest benefits is going to be the fact that they're going to be in the factories much more regularly.
They're going to be our employees and they're going to be able to do everything from ensuring that we're picking the right raw materials we're negotiating the right price we're making sure that the damages are found early on in the process before it gets all the way shipped back out to us at our DCs.
And so we think this is a huge advantage.
Yes.
And then on shipping the customers are very smart and they're always looking at the total price offered including shipping.
And other retailers sometimes embed the shipping in the retail price.
And generally speaking their product price is higher than ours.
The customers come to us for a complete value and they expect that and they love when they receive great service on furniture deliveries.
And what we have done is we've really spent the last 10 years perfecting our in-home delivery and it's a key advantage to us.
I mean we actually completed over 750 000 over-the-threshold item deliveries last year and we don't think any of our competitors can do this as efficiently as we can.
And the next question comes from Daniel Hofkin with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just I guess following up a little bit on Williams-Sonoma between direct and retail.
Maybe I don't know you touched on it a little bit last quarter but talk about what you see as some the biggest opportunities to particularly improve either service levels or content within the stores.
And a slight follow-on to that as it relates to the online penetration within the Sonoma brand.
As I recall that is below -- maybe noticeably below your corporate average.
Where do you think that could get to over time? Do you see that as an opportunity to increase the online percentage within the Sonoma brand? Thanks for the question Daniel.
We see opportunity both online and in retail and we're confident in the future of this brand.
And you are going to see gradual and incremental improvement.
One of the most exciting highlights of the first quarter was the great response that we got for the new collection of Williams-Sonoma Home goods.
And we brought in 3 new collections that we mailed a larger format catalog to great response which we can measure and see that based on the mailing we did we have more opportunity.
And we -- in fact we just put back on press the same catalog and would be remailing it to a new group of customers this month.
It's really a growth vehicle because high-end home is white space in the marketplace.
And when you think about all of our brands across demographics we have Pottery Barn upper middle we have West Elm more entry.
And there's room for us at the high end.
In the cooking business we've seen strength continue in electrics and tabletop.
But we're particularly pleased to see the strength in cookware this quarter.
And there are other categories where we still have a lot of opportunity so we're working hard on cook's tools and food.
Another online opportunity has been our Agrarian launch.
And bringing new customers to this brand is very important and the Agrarian product is very relevant.
And we sent a stand-alone catalog this season for that and it also exceeded our expectations.
In our stores we mentioned how important we believe experiential retail is.
And the cooking school in Australia represents we think a pretty good opportunity for us both domestic and internationally.
We think we probably really have something there.
The response to it was quite strong.
In fact I just learned today that we had to open up our August classes already because we're sold out in Australia.
And our first expectations were that we'd only fill about 30% of the classes and it would be an experimental lab.
And we've seen just incredible response.
So that is something that -- it's early.
We're talking about how do we bring that to our stores in the United States and whether we test it in a few here.
And then also if we don't do it in full form like we did in Australia with a full cooking school how we can replicate what we're doing there because there's such a huge appetite for it.
In Australia it's interesting.
As many of you know it's a big food culture.
There's a lot of chefs there and a lot of -- there are a lot of other cooking schools.
And so it's not that it's a completely open market it's that what we are doing is so appealing and differentiated.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then if I could just -- if you look in the U.S.
excluding West Elm which is clearly adding footage what do you see for the 2 larger brands in aggregate going forward? I know you're selectively relocating and whatnot but just in aggregate for Sonoma and Pottery Barn.
We see great runway in our core brands domestically and it's not -- we are actually looking at the digital opportunity and realizing how many stores we would have had to build to get the same sales.
And it's just -- we see opportunity both in product lines brand extensions as we've talked about but dimensional extensions size of the furniture aesthetics.
And some of the businesses there are not very well known.
There's opportunity to do a better job to move the customers along life stages better and that's something we're always working on and looking at how do we use our house file and our data analytics to even more specifically target and personalize communication.
And that's one of the key drivers of our digital strategy.
So we don't count it by stores.
We think about the opportunity to furnish people's homes and teach them how to cook and entertain.
And the next question comes from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to ask a quick question sort of related to macro and sales drivers.
I know you get some questions on the economy and the cadence of business.
I guess my question relates to what you saw in terms of ticket and traffic both online and in-store and how the interplay between those factors drove the comp if that interplay was any different from what you've seen in recent quarters? And related to that to what degree you could trace some of the pickup in sales to some of the explicitly housing-sensitive businesses or businesses that tend to do well when the housing market is particularly robust? Sure.
We don't generally comment on ticket and traffic I apologize for that.
On the macro there's a lot of mix reports out there and you can read anything you want.
But consumer confidence is good.
Housing indicators have been favorable.
Employment for the most part is better.
But there's mix reports on other retailers and I was surprised to see how low the government home furnishings numbers were.
I think the real question for us is is the housing recovery going to be sustainable? But as I said before we're focused on taking market share regardless of the economy.
And we're focused on relevant product for renovations and people who move.
We know that you spend more money on your house in the 18 months after you move than any other time.
And so while we don't have a housing recovery baked into our numbers it certainly would be good for us.
We realize also that when you first buy a house you probably don't buy the furniture until you remodel it.
So there's a different life cycle on how it could benefit our business than you could say a Home Depot.
So you'd imagine that you might see a natural lag.
But we are seeing some nice lift in some categories that I believe are based on people being very interested in their homes again.
Whether they're moving or not it's time to get some new stuff in your home after a period when I think people didn't feel comfortable spending money on their homes.
We're going to be right there for them with relevant assortments.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's great.
And a quick follow-up for Julia if I could.
You're actually now seeing I think faster footage growth still modest but faster footage growth than you've had in the business in aggregate for a while such that modeling the productivity of that space is actually going to be a little more important for thinking about the sales trajectory of the business.
As we think about -- and most of that unit growth I guess is coming from West Elm.
So if we think about the productivity of a West Elm store versus the stores that you're closing which are I guess largely Williams-Sonoma how should we think about the relative productivity of those units just for modeling purposes? We obviously don't give out our hurdle rates but I can say they're very high.
As far as your correlation to the increase in square footage that's correct.
I mean it's around 2% this quarter but that's not where we expect to land necessarily at the end of the year.
And that is due to the West Elm brand.
And as we've said many times given the success of that brand that if we can open up more real estate locations we will.
And next will be Brad Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask another follow-up on the international side of things.
The company has obviously been very deliberate with the steps over the last few years that it's taken to lay the groundwork for this international growth and it sounds like you're pleased with the initial results in Sydney.
But could you just remind us what the overall P&amp;L impact is going to be from these investments in international? It seems like that's primarily on the expense side of the equation.
And as we look forward I mean what are the return metrics that you hope to see? You may not give out a rate but what kind of time frame would you hope to start getting a payback on these international investments? This is Julie.
We obviously have decided not to give out the amount of our investments by quarter by year anymore.
We're now a growth company for sure and we're going to be having investments in our base and going forward.
With that said clearly especially with retail global expansion you obviously have costs ahead of the sales.
And so initially as what happened with Australia you have anything from rent which hits gross margins.
You have payroll hiring individuals ahead of time which is SG&amp;A.
You've got advertising et cetera that hits SG&amp;A.
So it sort of hits across the board and then you so to speak turn the lights on and have sales that come through.
So there's a ramp that has to occur as you start to roll out these international locations.
And keep in mind obviously 4 stores isn't going to move the needle on a $4.5 billion company.
So it's incremental.
And over time you'll start to see the results as each and every one of these stores and e-commerce starts to layer on top of one another.
And so that's why we have said within our 3-year outlook especially the outer year that you start to see that momentum.
And next question comes from Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's Simeon Gutman for Gary.
A quick question on SG&amp;A which looked pretty well-managed especially considering some of the international growth.
Can you talk to if that's more a function of some of the positive channel shifts that are happening in the business or there's also some more efficiency on the core business? I would say it's both.
It's certainly the fact that we had more sales on the DTC side.
We get incredible leverage clearly from that but we definitely have lower advertising costs.
And we have strong financial disciplines in place to manage our costs so that's where it's coming through.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up on inventory growth.
When does or when should the inventory growth become in line with sales? Or I guess in other words when should we start to cycle the higher in-stock levels that's been part of the strategic plan? Yes I think one of the key things to make sure that you're aware is yes merchandise inventories are up 12.8%.
But we've got inventory that we're building for global expansion new stores and new businesses.
So actually if you exclude that inventory is in line with sales growth.
And other important piece is that due to the timing of receipts a substantial portion of this inventory increase is currently in transit and therefore will be available to support our future sales growth which we feel great about given we've learned that being in-stock is critical to our sales growth.
So the overall health of our inventory is good.
I would say it's in line with our sales growth and so you may not see it that way at the end because we've got all these additional new businesses and global expansion that we're building up for.
Moving on to David Magee with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I want to ask a question about the international expansion.
When you opened the stores and you opened sort of the DTC effort at the same time I'm curious as you go forward will you be able to have as much intelligence about where to put stores as you have domestically over time where you've had sort of the DTC before the stores opened? It's a great question.
We really believe in going into market with both channels and that is what we did.
The power of going in with all 4 brands in 1 building and the fully integrated e-commerce platform was really something we want to replicate as we go further.
With that said oftentimes you can't find them together.
And so we used a bunch of different qualifiers to identify Australia.
And it was a combination of cultural similarities i.e.
gift giving larger homes food culture entertainers.
And then of course it's easier to do business since it's English-speaking so Australia and U.K.
make sense as primary markets.
And we see a vision of multichannel business with beacon stores and a real opportunity to change the way people think about decorating their homes and entertaining.
And next question is from Joe Feldman with Telsey Advisory Group.
I wanted to go ask another question about international.
I was curious especially like in the London launch that you would go with West Elm to start it off as opposed to say a Pottery Barn or the core William-Sonoma brand.
And I was curious as to maybe what was behind that decision especially given that West Elm has so much more potential here in the U.S.
still.
We want to do all of it.
That particular location we thought was best suited for West Elm but we're actively seeking locations for Pottery Barn and Kids.
And West Elm has a great appeal to urban people and it's a very global brand.
It's doing quite well in Australia.
Despite the fact they knew Pottery Barn better as a brand they love West Elm.
So we think they both have great runway so I wouldn't read too much into that.
Okay got it.
And then just to stay on the real estate theme.
I guess coming off of the big recon event from ICSC any trends that you guys kind of picked up on there? I mean are you seeing rents going up a little? Are you still seeing good availability of space for your concepts and just on the real estate side closure opportunities things like that? We have a very rigorous process of retail real estate review.
The A locations have always been really tight.
There's not a lot of room in them ever and that's where we tend to be.
With that said they love having us there.
We bring good merchandise mix to their malls and so they find great real estate for us.
And they -- in particular they love the fact that we'll take down a lot of space because of our multiple brands and I guess it's leverage.
And then we're always looking at where we should close and prune off stores as they come up for expiration and push the sales into more profitable stores.
And lastly in each of our brands we are always looking for the next format that will drive profitability and we're very careful to test before we roll out.
But there's pieces and parts of each brands that's highly competitive that we've been testing that are very productive and that as we do smaller remodels or larger remodels we'll be putting into the new stores.
And we have time for one last question from Marni Shapiro with Retail Tracker.
It's Mark Friedman subbing for Marni.
Laura Pat I guess I was wondering on the mix between direct and bricks-and-mortar.
With you launching e-commerce in Australia and it sounds like eventually in the U.K.
how should we be thinking about the shift over time both as a total and then your ability to continue to drive it higher in the U.S.
and what impact that has in the stores.
And then I was curious about the catalog trends and what you're doing there in the future to drive business.
Thanks.
That's a good question Mark.
I think we've said and Julie's been pretty clear in her guidance about the fact that we expect DTC to be over 50% in the next 2 years so that's sort of on the domestic side.
And the catalog remains a very powerful vehicle.
It's over half of our advertising spend and it will probably continue to be even though we're continually increasing our e-marketing spend.
What we've seen is that the catalog drives such high revenue per contact.
When we mail a catalog the revenue per book is much higher than virtually anything anyone can do in terms of you marketing with a contact so it's a great way to extract as much lifetime value from that customer.
And the catalog is also a great expression of the brand.
And when we launched in Australia we mailed catalogs and we circulated a lot of catalogs.
And actually the ones we gave out in our stores which I thought would last 6 months we got rid of and -- I mean they were gone in 2 weeks.
So even though the catalog business is not a huge business in Australia we've seen more positive reaction than I would expect and our e-commerce there is stronger as a percent of the total too.
So I think that gives us a lot of promise as we move to other countries in our global expansion.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
I'll now turn the conference call back over to Ms.
Alber for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.
I want to thank you all for your support and for joining us this afternoon.
We appreciate your time and we'll speak with you again next quarter.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Inc.
Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Gabrielle Rabinovitch Director of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP measures and forward-looking statements.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Gwen.
Good afternoon.
This call should be considered in conjunction with the press releases that we issued earlier today.
Our earnings press release and this call contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and our explanation why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful are discussed in our earnings release.
This call also contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which address the financial condition results of operations business initiative trends guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2013 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings including the most recent 10-Q for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our second quarter 2013 results and our outlook for the remainder of fiscal year 2013.
Thank you Gabrielle.
Good morning or good afternoon I should say and thank you all for joining us.
With me today are Julie Whalen our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Connolly our Chief Marketing Officer.
I want to start by addressing the early release of our Q2 2013 earnings information today.
Our press release as many of you know was scheduled to be issued this afternoon at 1:05 p.m.
Pacific Time.
Unfortunately our earnings information was unintentionally disclosed before then.
After reviewing our processes we have determined that the information was obtained from our corporate website.
While we had not provided a link to this report on our website the document could have been accessed if you were able to identify and then entered the very unique web address.
As soon as we learned of the early release of our information we asked the New York Stock Exchange to halt trading briefly until we could formally issue our press release.
Once the press release had been issued we resumed trading.
We are very sorry for the confusion this caused.
Now let's move to our business.
Our second quarter results demonstrate the continuing strong demand for our brands and the profitability of our multichannel multi-brand platform.
We generated a 12% increase in revenue and a 14% increase in diluted earnings per share over last year.
Our home furnishings brands generated a 14% increase in revenue with each delivering double-digit revenue growth.
We believe that our high sales growth is a result of our customer-focused strategy across all of our brands particularly in our home furnishing brands where we are benefiting from exclusive product assortments lifestyle merchandising relevant marketing messages and a well-honed promotional strategy across our multiple channels.
We achieved sales and profit levels that exceeded our expectations while continuing to invest in infrastructure talent and other areas to fuel our growth.
At the beginning of the year we shared with you our strategic initiative to grow our existing brands launch new businesses and expand globally.
We've made meaningful progress against these objectives year-to-date.
Our global expansion is on track and by the end of the year we expect to have 6 company-owned retail locations outside of North America 5 in Australia and 1 in United Kingdom.
Our relationship with M.H.
Alshaya our franchise partner in the Middle East continues to expand and at the end of the second quarter covered 25 stores in 5 countries.
We're also excited about today's announcement of a multi-year franchise agreement with Stores Specialists Inc.
as a franchisee for our brands in the Philippines.
I would like to spend a few minutes discussing our supply chain.
We are driving further efficiencies in our supply chain while enhancing customer service.
In the second quarter we made progress on the transition away from our third-party agent by opening our own sourcing offices and quality control labs in Indonesia.
This will give us better control of costs and quality at the ground level of production.
We're also in the process of opening our own offices in Delhi India and Shanghai China with a goal of making the same transition in those regions of the world over the next 6 months.
Our continued investment in overseas production has resulted in improved quality and reduced defects.
We also further regionalized our retail distribution network which will increase efficiencies and speed to market.
Finally in June we completed our reorganization of our distribution center making improvements to optimize the efficiency of our small package fulfillment operations.
We're already seeing productivity improvements from these improved operations.
I also want to highlight our e-commerce business which is especially strong this quarter.
With e-commerce growing in excess of 20% the direct-to-customer channel represented 49% of total revenue in the second quarter.
We're driving this growth in all brands of our lifestyle merchandising the improvements in our shop path and our e-marketing efforts.
On the talent front over the past several months we have announced a number of leadership changes and additions of talent to our company.
All of us believe that these changes will deliver significant benefits.
Our decision to put all 3 Pottery Barn brands under 1 leader is revealing many opportunities for these brands to be more closely aligned.
In many cases we are marketing to the same customer.
For example more prominent display of the Pottery Barn Kids and Teens site links from the Pottery Barn homepage is yielding increased site traffic to the brands.
We have other initiatives like this one which we believe will yield increased sales and leverage the power of our database to deliver even more relevant marketing messages.
We continue to strengthen our Williams-Sonoma brand teams.
As we have previously announced in addition to appointing a new brand president this quarter we have added individuals and field leadership inventory management additional [ph] merchandising and store operations.
We believe this new talent will augment our existing strong team.
I would like to begin my discussion of our brands by first talking about West Elm our fastest-growing brand.
West Elm recorded revenue growth of 26% in the quarter with comparable brand revenue growth of 16.5% on top of 15.6% last year.
A key factor in West Elm's success has been its use of social media.
We believe that West Elm is at the forefront of a transformational change in retail where consumer preferences are influenced by the opinions of other like-minded consumers and enthusiasts.
West Elm continues to receive high marks for its ability to build awareness authenticity and credibility with a highly-engaged customer base through the effective use of a variety of social media.
From its award-winning blog Front &amp; Main to its pioneering use of Pinterest to collaborations with Etsy West Elm is building its brand and driving profitable sales with a carefully orchestrated infusion of social media into its marketing mix.
Brand growth is being driven by all categories including furniture and textiles decorative accessories and lighting.
West Elm is appealing to the brand's broad customer base with the development of an extensive assortment of products with the mix of design aesthetics and price points.
The West Elm Market assortment attracts and inspires customers with products for everyday living.
Exciting collaborations of artists from around the world contributes to the global aesthetic and broad appeal of the West Elm brand and we are focused on growing our assortment of handmade products which is a key differentiator in the marketplace.
Customers love knowing how and where their products are made.
West Elm expanded into 3 new geographies in the second quarter opening stores in St.
Louis King of Prussia and Montréal our first West Elm store in French-speaking Canada which brings a total number of West Elm stores to 51.
In all markets we are focused on a seamless customer experience aligning promotional activity seasonal introductions and key marketing statements through e-commerce catalog in-store and social activities.
West Elm is driving messaging and community engagement at the local level.
As we look forward to the rest of the fiscal year 2013 and beyond our strategy is to continually profitably grow the West Elm brand by engaging with and attracting a broad base of customers by maintaining a compelling product line and value proposition.
We're aggressively seeking retail expansion opportunities worldwide and are planning to open 7 new stores before the end of the year including 1 store each in Melbourne and London.
West Elm continues to differentiate itself in the marketplace and capture additional wallet share.
With revenues expected to approach $0.5 billion this year we are very confident in its ability to be $1 billion-plus brand in our portfolio.
I would now like to discuss the Williams-Sonoma brand.
We ended the second quarter with a slight decrease in quarterly comp brand revenue of 0.4% negative.
While we are relevant to our customer in the second quarter we experienced success.
Our brand extensions Williams-Sonoma Home and Agrarian fueled incremental growth.
Williams-Sonoma branded cookware continues to gain traction.
Our differentiated strategy to expand our exclusives and proprietary introductions is relevant and working.
Our outdoor assortment including seasonal textiles however was soft.
And across the brand we have been deliberately more competitive on price and are taking an aggressive stance on moving through seasonal inventory.
As we look to the future our primary focus is on product strategy.
We know that our customers come to us for the best quality differentiated product and great value.
This strategy has not changed and we are optimistic about the lineup of new product introductions into next year.
Our fall floor set is inspired by the California Wine Country and the artisan foods tableware and tools that bring home these iconic flavors and styles.
We have strong exclusivity [ph] from our key vendors and are excited about our lineups for the third quarter including our assortments for Halloween and Thanksgiving.
We continue to see a significant variance in performance between the direct and retail channels.
The relative strength in the direct channel has been driven by increased traffic in conjunction with strategic promotions.
We also increased new customer acquisition a key metric that indicates future strength.
The retail channel however has underperformed.
The new leadership team has already identified several opportunities that we are aggressively pursuing first field leadership.
We have placed a seasoned and proven leader over the Williams-Sonoma brand field organization which is already yielding improvement.
Two store level inventory.
We see a significant opportunity to ensure that individual stores have the right quantities of goods.
Marketing.
We are aligning our marketing across channels and increasing the effectiveness of marketing to our customers who buy primarily in our store.
Fourth clear communication of a robust calendar of tasting and demonstrations in our stores.
And last optimized store scheduling staffing and training.
We believe these retail improvements will drive execution and performance in the Williams-Sonoma brand.
Next I'd like to discuss the performance of our Pottery Barn brands.
Collectively as of the end of last year these brands represented more than 60% of our overall revenues on an annual basis.
The Pottery Barn's vision is to be the destination for decorating and entertaining and to enhance our customers' lives at home through every life stage and across every lifestyle and room in the home.
The opportunity is to strengthen our relationships and increase our relevance with our customers across the Pottery Barn brands.
We are focused on aligning our team and integrating the operational elements to create elevated and exceptional customer experiences.
In the second quarter Pottery Barn comparable brand revenues increased 9.9% on top of 11% last year.
A strong outdoor business fueled the brand as our customers came to us to decorate outdoor spaces at a great value.
All key categories performed and our in-home design services assisted our customers in new and innovative ways that differentiated us in a very competitive landscape.
As we move into the third quarter we are featuring a transitional late-summer color palette and expanded bedding and textiles offerings.
In addition this is the first season that we are beginning to offer an expanded size assortment in our upholstery collection.
Dimensional expansion of these collections is a critical part of our product strategy and the early returns of this effort are strong.
By offering a wide range of sizes our customers can pick the style they want and the optimal size for their particular room.
When you combine this with our ability to produce custom orders in 3 weeks or fewer from a selection of more than 75 fabric choices and our dedicated Sutter Street furniture facility we are presenting a very compelling story to our customers.
We have launched our Sutter Street West facility in Southern California and further reduced the shipping time for West Coast customers.
We are now manufacturing more than half of our upholstered furniture ourself and delivering an unparalleled value proposition to consumers and they are responding.
In the Pottery Barn Kids brands comparable brand revenue grew 8.2% in the second quarter.
Strong results across textiles decorative accessories and furniture contributed to this performance.
An enhanced nursery assortment supported by targeted marketing is bringing new customers to Pottery Barn Kids.
In the third quarter we are focused on going back to school with our kids and we are offering an expanded gear collection and a broadened desk chair and task lighting assortment.
We're also celebrating Halloween in the third quarter and are featuring whimsical costumes and accessories at great prices.
Early response to these collections has been excellent.
In PBteen comparable brand revenue increased 16.3% led by strength in furniture and textiles.
The second quarter also featured new launches from our brand extension PB Dorm the extended -- expanded our relevance on campus.
Moving into the third quarter our PBteen customer is responding to the preppy transitional aesthetics that we are featuring.
PBteen is continuing to explore collaborations of fantastic partners.
We'll be expanding our Burton collection this fall which features exclusive products design and partnership with the world's leading snowboard company and we'll also be introducing our newest collaboration with Emily and Meritt the influential Hollywood power stylist duo who have worked with our design teams to develop a home furnishings collection launching in September.
These partnerships are exciting and enhance the PBteen experience.
Online and in-store we are focused on helping our teens create unique spaces that reflect their personalities.
Across all the Pottery Barn brands we see an opportunity in every life stage and every room in the house to capture more market share.
This focus is informing our product development and channel strategies.
Finally I would like to update you on our new businesses.
Our rich heritage of entrepreneurship underlies everything we do and this is reflected in our newest businesses and brand extensions.
We believe the high-end renovation trend is increasing and rejuvenation is perfectly poised to capitalize on this opportunity in quality lighting and hardware.
Mark and Graham is redefining the gifting experience and customer expectations for quality and innovation in personalized merchandise.
We are using our database and marketing expertise to expand the reach of these businesses and acquire new customers.
We see an opportunity to drive further growth across these businesses and our brand extensions.
Now I will turn the call over to Julie Whalen for additional details in our second quarter financial performance and our third quarter and full year 2013 financial guidance.
Thank you Laura and good afternoon.
We are once again pleased with our results and the outperformance we saw on both the top and bottom line compared to our expectations for the quarter.
For the second quarter net revenues increased 12.3% to a second quarter record of $982 million with comparable brand revenues increasing 8.4%.
Net revenues in our direct-to-customer channel grew 15.3% driven by e-commerce which had growth in excess of 20% and represents more than 90% of our total direct-to-customer revenues.
Direct-to-customer net revenues generated 49% of total company net revenues in the second quarter this year compared to 47% last year.
The growth in the direct-to-customer channel was primarily driven by Pottery Barn West Elm PBteen and Pottery Barn Kids.
Net revenues in our retail channel grew 9.7% driven predominantly by Pottery Barn West Elm and our international franchise operations.
This growth was partially offset by a decrease in the Williams-Sonoma brand.
Gross margin during the second quarter was 37.6% versus 38.3% last year.
This 70 basis point decrease resulted from lower selling margins primarily in the retail channel partially offset by occupancy leverage.
Occupancy leveraged 20 basis points with occupancy cost at $138 million in Q2 2013 versus $124 million in Q2 2012.
While our gross margin decreased versus last year SG&amp;A improved to 29.6% in Q2 2013 versus 30.2% in Q2 2012 primarily driven by the leverage of employment and advertising costs resulting in a second quarter operating margin of 8.0% which was equal to last year.
As we have said before different from other retailers our operating model was close to 50% of revenue coming from the direct-to-customer channel allows us to flex between margin and advertising cost to drive revenue growth while maintaining an overall operating margin.
The operating margin was driven by 100 basis point improvement in the direct-to-customer segment to 24% and a 10 basis point improvement in the corporate unallocated segment to 7.2% offset by 150 basis point decrease in the retail segment to 6.9%.
The improvement in the direct-to-customer segment was primarily driven by greater advertising leverage.
The improvement in the corporate unallocated segment was driven by overall expense leverage and ongoing expense discipline.
The decrease in the retail channel operating margin was primarily due to lower selling margins and the upfront investment costs associated with our global expansion partially offset by the leverage of employment-related costs.
Second quarter 2013 diluted earnings per share grew 14% to $0.49 from $0.43 last year.
This is the sixth consecutive quarter where we have delivered better-than-expected earnings.
We are pleased to be delivering this level of record profitability while continuing to invest in our long-term growth.
Merchandise inventories grew 13.4% on a comparable basis which was relatively in line with our revenue growth as well as our stated goals to improve in-stock inventory positions to drive sales and to support our growth initiatives.
From a balance sheet perspective merchandise inventories increased 19.6% to $737 million versus $616 million at the end of Q2 2012.
As part of our expanded Asian sourcing initiatives which include directly procuring our inventory for our global operations through our Asian entity we are taking ownership of our in-transit inventory earlier in the supply chain.
Excluding the impact of this additional in-transit inventory merchandise inventories increased 13.4%.
Cash at the end of the quarter was $205 million versus $337 million last year.
Over the past year while generating $389 million in operating cash flow we returned $289 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends including $120 million in cash to our shareholders this quarter alone through $90 million in share repurchases and $30 million in dividends.
As a reminder consistent with prior years our cash balance will decrease throughout the year and reach its lowest levels in the third quarter as we use our significant free cash flow to fund our investment and working capital in advance of the holiday selling season.
I would now like to discuss our third quarter and fiscal year 2013 guidance.
We are on track for 2013 to be another year of record revenues and earnings while at the same time investing in our future growth.
For the third quarter of 2013 we expect to grow net revenues to a range of $1 020 000 000 to $1 040 000 000 with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 4% to 6%.
Diluted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $0.51 to $0.54 and we expect our operating margin to be slightly below last year's rate.
For the full year as a result of this outperformance in the second quarter we are raising our guidance for revenue by $40 million and we are raising our guidance for diluted earnings per share by $0.02.
As a result we now expect to grow net revenues to a range of $4 260 000 000 to $4 340 000 000 with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 4% to 6%.
And we now expect fiscal 2013 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in the range of $2.69 to $2.79 representing growth of 11% at the high end of the range after adjusting for the 53rd week in 2012.
This guidance for the back half of the year contemplates several factors that I would like to discuss in more detail.
First as a reminder the fourth quarter of 2012 included an incremental 53rd week worth approximately $70 million in revenue and $0.07 of earnings per share.
On a comparable basis due to the 53rd week in 2012 there's a 1-week calendar shift this year between the third and fourth quarter.
This shift results in a high-volume holiday selling week moving from Q4 to Q3.
Second the holiday shopping season during the fourth quarter will be a week shorter due to the date on which Thanksgiving falls.
Third our fiscal year guidance contemplates the closure of significantly more Williams-Sonoma stores in the fourth quarter than in the fourth quarter last year.
We plan to close approximately 15 stores this year versus 8 last year.
These closures represent stores that are underperforming and predominantly at the end of their lease life.
Fourth we expect the upfront costs to accelerate the build-out of our global infrastructure in Australia and the United Kingdom will be higher than originally anticipated and will therefore put pressure on our earnings in the back half of the year.
Fifth as you saw in the second quarter we expect occupancy expenses which include depreciation to increase approximately 10% for the rest of the year as a result of our 2012 capital investments and our investments in our accelerated global expansion.
Finally our capital allocation strategy remains unchanged.
We plan to make capital investments in our business as we continue to invest in our long-term initiatives and we also plan to continue to return capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
In summary we are pleased with both our top and bottom line performance in the second quarter and with the progress we have made year-to-date against our strategic growth initiatives.
We are confident that the strength of our brands combined with our continued execution against our long-term strategic initiatives and our balanced capital allocation plan has us well positioned to deliver on both our near- and longer-term financial goals.
I would now like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Daniel Hofkin with William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just I had a question going back to Williams-Sonoma specifically the brand.
Do you feel like -- was the outdoor isolated to weather or was it the content of the product in your opinion? And I guess just interested in what you think the timeline is for sort of getting the brand to where you want it to be from a merchandising and service standpoint and then I just had a quick housekeeping follow-up.
Sure.
We saw strength as I said in the areas that we're most differentiated and so it's the combination of both newness and newness is very different from what the competition offers and those areas were in home agrarian and cookware.
Outdoor which was a key marketing message spans several categories both the tools but also the rubs and sauces and combination of factors that made it softer than we would have liked.
And the reality is that we needed new flow of outdoor too because we told the same story throughout the entire summer season and the outdoor business is really a cooking trend that's around year-round and so we need to have more flows of it next year and possibly also less as -- less of it as a marketing statement.
There were other great trends that we saw the ice cream trends for example and some of the sweet foods and sweet stories were strong.
And as I said as we move into Q3 we really are optimistic about our product lineup.
We have right now as you know if you've been into our store we have our Wine Country story which spans both food and -- but also how you entertain and it's really back to our heritage and chucks fines [ph] and we're seeing some nice response on that so far.
As we go into the ever important holiday season you'll see us launch Halloween here in stores.
We have some of it online now and we have I think a much stronger and broader assortment in Halloween and then also in Thanksgiving and Christmas.
The entertaining at home theme is one that we are very focused on and you're going to see us introduce a lot of exciting things in the home bar.
We know that custom cocktails are something that everyone really enjoys and we think we can help our customer throw those great parties through the holiday season.
In the back half strong holiday execution is key.
At the same time we've talked to you about testing new ideas.
And our approach is to test and roll ideas versus making precipitous far-reaching changes because the customer has told us through a number of focus groups how much they love the brand.
So we're being very careful and thoughtful about changes we make and we're going to keep you posted along the way as we see different things work or not work well.
And in summary I'd say that Williams-Sonoma story is really a story of innovation and execution and we are making good progress against the initiatives that we outlined.
And we'll go next to Kate McShane with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Julie in drilling down on the guidance in some of your second half commentary that we just heard can you help us reconcile the guidance of keeping operating margins at 10% to 10.3% yet having to spend more on your international expansion? You didn't change the comparable brand revenue outlook but do you expect something different from gross margins in the back half? Yes thanks Kate.
So a couple of things.
First it's important to remember that we plan to drive continued long-term profitable growth by investing in our business both domestically and globally.
It's essential to acknowledge that we are maintaining significant earnings growth while investing in the future to fulfill our vision to double the size of our revenues and these investments will position us for the next phase of growth.
They will strengthen our position as the leader in multi-channel lifestyle brand building in the home furnishing space and it is the power of our multi-channel operating model that allows us to do this.
As far as the factors that I spoke to regarding the guidance I think the one thing you have to remember is that we did roll through the $40 million on revenue on the top end.
And so obviously not all of that beat we believe is going to be going down to the bottom because of the 4 factors that we outlined in the conference call script.
Specifically we did mention that we do have more upfront costs than originally anticipated for the acceleration of our build-out of our global infrastructure and that's going to continue to put pressure on our earnings in the back half.
Also you mentioned gross margin we do see that we're going to have approximately 10% higher gross margin for the rest of the year which remember that with the occupancy -- 10% higher occupancy sorry with occupancy includes depreciation.
So within that number we are absorbing if you will our 2012 capital investments and again our investments in our accelerated global expansion.
From a gross margin perspective in particular obviously we don't guide specifically gross margin but with a continued promotional environment and an increase in these occupancy costs we do believe there'll continue to be pressure on the gross margins.
But as we have said before different from other retailers our operating model with close to 50% of revenue coming from the direct-to-customer channel allows us to flex between margin and advertising cost to drive revenue growth while maintaining our overall operating margin.
And our operating margin remember at the high end is equal to our record operating levels that we've had in the past and our operating income will be the highest it's ever been.
Pat maybe you want to explain further on how we're able to do this with our operating model with the ad cost? Sure.
Kate I think it's so critical that we understand how we're able to flex this between the ad cost and product promotions.
And the reason we're able to do that is really because of our increased marketing effectiveness which is a key component of the profitability.
And just this year we've applied a new layer of sophisticated statistical modeling and the new automated process that's yielding further improvements in our catalog targeting really identifying those people who are most likely to buy and curtailing the mailings to unproductive segments.
In our new brands like Mark and Graham and West Elm Rejuvenation and Williams-Sonoma Home catalog relaunch we've developed a novel modeling strategy to identify more receptive -- the most receptive populations from our massive house file and that's enabled to take these brands to the next level of growth.
But I think as much as we have done and are doing we see significant future opportunity here in the near future.
Early this fall we'll launch a new personalization platform that among other things will allow us to identify and target almost 5x the number of site visitors and deliver personalized content based on what we know about them.
This is a big deal.
And about half of our site visitors and this is true for almost all e-commerce sites are anonymous.
We've never seen them before.
We are actively using data science techniques to characterize and understand the intent of these visitors so that we can deliver relevant content even to people who have never been to our site before and we're making investments in analytics and technologies that are allowing us to identify customers across devices and across brands.
This is very important.
So we know -- we're going to be able to know what someone did on their iPads so when they go to their computer we can deliver them also a very relevant experience.
We're very excited about this and believe that these investments are making -- are really -- are going to allow us to increase our lead in this area.
And we'll go next to Budd Bugatch with Raymond James.
It's actually TJ McConville filling in for Budd.
My question maybe to Julie goes just to the third quarter guidance.
If we take a look at just the comp brand sales guidance for the quarter even contemplating the tougher prior year comp in the third quarter last year still seems like you're looking for some sort of deceleration or moderation.
So question is what are you seeing right now that would cause you to do that and what are the potential upside or downside risks to that outlook? Okay.
I'll take that.
So it's important to remember that we are maintaining significant earnings growth while investing for the future to fulfill our vision to double the size of our revenues.
Our Q3 guidance actually implies a 10% increase in both the top and bottom line while investing in those future growth opportunities.
And remember per our prepared remarks our Q3 guidance reflects both the higher-than-originally-anticipated global upfront costs and increased occupancy costs primarily from depreciation and our ongoing investments.
But with that said we expect our home furnishings brands perform at a high level and that we'll once again deliver record top and bottom line results.
Remember we've put out guidance that we believe we will be able to make there are still questions question marks around the economy today.
We haven't really planned for either an economic downturn nor a housing recovery.
And as far as how that Q3 is looking to date we don't give mid-month mid-quarter guidance.
It's still very early in the quarter.
We're only a few weeks in.
And unfortunately what's going to make it an even harder read all year is that because of the 53rd week the weeks don't actually line up.
But with that said we are confident in our guidance and we are confident in our strategies.
And you just have to keep in mind that the retail environment seems to indicate there's still a lot of uncertainty out there that the promotional environment has not gone away and that the retail environment in general continues to be choppy especially with the recent earnings releases in this global unrest and we just don't want to get ahead of ourselves.
And we'll go next to Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of a very quick two-parter really a single question I think on Williams-Sonoma.
You talked about the outdoor products seasonal product and its impact on the quarter.
How significant was that as it relates to any sales and margin issues you had at Williams-Sonoma? And then just following through that obviously the Williams-Sonoma business hit its stride seasonally in the fourth quarter.
So should we assume that the thought process is that whatever that you saw kind of broadly speaking in those pieces of the businesses that you haven't overhauled might persist in Sonoma through Q4? Sure the outdoor business we don't quantify that specifically.
It contributed.
It wasn't the whole thing though but what's important is that it was the marketing message right? So even though if you took the numbers and I were to give them to you you might say well that's not that big or that wasn't that negative the point is that it's the key thing in marketing isn't as strong as you planned you don't drive as much traffic right? So that was the learning there.
And the truth is in other brands that are performing well we vary the message more frequently than we did.
So we learned from that.
And as we look at the balance of the year we're making sure that we have fresh statements all the time throughout the back half and that we're building on what's working and reducing what's not.
As you know it's very competitive so I -- to go through specific product launches would probably not make good sense for us to do right now but we are optimistic about our fourth quarter for Williams-Sonoma and the product that we are going to be offering and the plans for execution that I discussed particularly at retail.
And we'll go next to John Marrin with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> So Laura just staying with this question about being deliberately more competitive on price.
This might be a fire point but was that something you saw across both channels both retail and direct I mean given the direct margins being so good in the quarter? I'm just curious if there was some pressure there relative within the Williams-Sonoma brand itself.
I think here's the most important thing: we're focused on what the customer wants than being relevant.
And when you ask customers why they buy they'll tell you that it's the product they want and it's the price or the value.
And people love to buy on sale even luxury goods via exclusive family and friends or member-only/sales.
I think the retailers who are going to win are the ones that who are going to embrace this.
I was very pleased that we're able to grow our new customers this quarter and gain market share.
We had as you know revenues of 12.3% up compared to the NICS [ph] data of 3.6% and if you take out Williams-Sonoma's 11.3% versus 3.6%.
So it's clear that we are gaining market share.
And I actually think we may be getting wallet share because people are spending money on their home.
When you buy a new home and you have to furnish the whole new thing if the price is right and the product is right you're going to buy it from us.
And you may not buy the next sweater that you bought last year.
And so the promotional environment is one that we've embraced for a long time.
When we are able to deliver record operating margins because of our unique operating model that we've gone over Julie just went through again and we can offer these promotions highly targeted to our customer particularly more targeted even direct-to-consumer than we can now at retail.
And so we actually believe that our promotional strategy is a key strength of ours in bringing the customer in and getting them to buy more from us than from anyone else with a cash register.
And to answer your question regarding gross margins in particular John it was product margins but it was predominantly in the retail channel so it's less of a DTC conversation it was actually not just Williams-Sonoma it was across Pottery Barn as well.
So further to Laura's point that we're being competitive on promotions and driving market share growth.
We are offering our customers value and driving operating income.
And we'll go next to David Gober with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> As you spend a lot of time focusing on the enormous opportunity for international I'm just wondering if you could give us some of the early takeaways from Australia.
I know it's super super early days but I just wanted to -- I was wondering if you could maybe kind of contextualize the launch relative to what you've seen in the U.S.
for some of those -- for the like-for-like concepts or if there's any details that you can give us in terms of how that's gone and building the confidence that that strategy is going to continue to work long term.
Sure.
We believe global is our greatest opportunity for growth and we said we're looking for additional locations.
Next we're going to really -- we're fill out Australia fill out the United Kingdom.
We're also looking for relevant franchise partners.
And as I've said we're pleased with our relationship with Alshaya.
We're equally excited to be working with Store Specialists in the Philippines.
And while that's a smaller deal we think it's a great way to get our foot into Asia.
The most exciting thing I think to your question specifically is that we are seeing a large percent of our sales online much larger than we expected.
It's incredibly powerful for us and plays directly into our strength as a leader in multi-channel retailing.
We've also learned that our brands in Australia are revered and loved and we also learned the importance of a multi-channel launch the importance of the experiential retail the attraction of our cooking school the power of in-home design services and connecting with our customers and that our customer-centered approach is going to resonate in other countries.
And we'll go next to Laura Champine with Cannacord.
Research Division</strong> Laura I heard your comments about Williams-Sonoma's continued turnaround being about product but what are some of the signposts whether financial or otherwise that we can look to over the next 6 to 12 months to see if your strategy there is working? As we said today we're going to be very direct with you about what parts of the strategy work and don't work just like I told you about outdoor.
Our focus right now is on retail and retail profitability and getting the right team in every -- and the right people in every single job and we've made a lot of progress on that front and those -- that's the first part of any strategy execution of course.
And we'll just -- on every call we'll keep updating you along the lines of product along the lines of different direct-to-consumer and retail operational strategies that work and just be very direct with you.
And we'll go next to Peter Benedict with Baird.
Research Division</strong> It's Matthew Larson on for Peter.
I just wanted to bring the conversation back to the international business.
Just given the robust sales growth there in the first quarter can you quantify what impact that had on the top line in the second quarter? And then just generally speaking what impact this business has on gross and operating margins of the business right now? Sure.
So you will actually see this come out in the Q but the revenue for international this quarter is going to come in about $50 million versus last year at about $31 million or $32 million.
So again like Q1 we've seen about a 55-plus percent increase in revenue which is really exciting for us.
We obviously are not breaking out in detail how that translates down to bottom line.
Obviously we've mentioned to you today that we are incurring little bit higher than anticipated costs but I think what's important to remember there is that we're -- when we go into a country unlike other retailers we're not just going in with a retail store we're actually building out an entire fulfillment center.
So we're actually going into Australia with full e-commerce capability and delivery.
So we've got distribution centers and all the excitement that comes with that including even if you -- if we enter the U.K.
without e-commerce initially you still have to build out the distribution center capability to do deliveries of sofas different than jeans for example.
So there's a lot of costs that are incurred upfront with that but I think the most exciting opportunity is the fact that we have got over 55% growth on the top line.
And we'll go next to Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on the top line.
The gap between net revenues and comp brands revenue really expanded almost 400 bps this quarter.
Was that the calendar shift driving that or is there something else? And I want to follow up on sales again and guidance.
There's a couple of things.
Yes calendar shift is a piece of it because obviously comparable puts it back to the comparable week in the prior year but we also have West Elm that doesn't have stores from last year in the comp base.
We've got other businesses that are new and you've got also global.
And we'll go next to Christopher Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mark Becks on for Chris.
Just had a question on Williams-Sonoma.
Can you give us an update on where you're at with product innovation and exclusive products? I know you've been reluctant to give penetration rates in the past but maybe you could give kind of some year-over-year growth rates.
And then also just in terms of the context of your overall comp brand guidance what your expectations are for the Williams-Sonoma brand in the back half? I'll tell you that the product innovation each quarter is increasing in quantity over last year as we said it would but in terms of percentage it's just so highly competitive and in terms of specific product launches that we haven't brought in yet given how competitive it is I'm sorry I can't give you that now.
I will just say that as you look at Wine Country as a good example you'll see that there's both product innovation on the durables but also we're using lifestyle storytelling more in the Williams-Sonoma brand than we had before.
It's something that we've learned how to do very well in our Pottery Barn brands and our West Elm brand but really wrapping the seasonal layer around a theme that resonates with our customer.
And so that in addition to the product innovation continues to strengthen through the back half of the year.
And we'll take our final question from Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Laura can we talk a little bit about West Elm? I would love to hear from your perspective.
Clearly this brand has been -- continue to exceed expectations.
And it sounds like the social media footprint is obviously exceeding that at square footage footprint at this point in time.
Just wondering how you feel about the ultimate size of this business especially as direct sounds like it's a significant portion of their overall sales maybe relative to some of your other brands.
And just one little follow-up question for Pat.
Would love to hear from you guys as you drive towards customization are you already at the point of being able to do dynamic pricing through targeted promos on the unique user level or you're still batching that out? Thank you.
West Elm is such an exciting growth story.
And across the country we are seeing strong response to the brand's high design its authenticity and the craft that it brings to the customers.
We also have seen success in expansion particularly in our furniture collections you should see this fall the expanded sofa collection and there's opportunities like that in other categories throughout West Elm.
Another strength is our decorator palette which is helping our customers refresh rooms each season with pillows throws decorative accessories and flooring.
As for the ultimate size we said $1 billion.
Could it be bigger? Given the size of Pottery Barn you would say yes.
I think the question remains how many stores can you have in each market and what is the right amount and that's -- we're going to continue to open these stores and measure carefully the impact on where we have multi-store markets and let that show us the way.
But nice growth in both direct and in retail and in comp.
There's still room for margin expansion in that brand and we continue to push as I've said on expansion and category dimensional size and in authentic design.
Pat do you want to answer? Sure.
And Neely thanks.
We're very excited about the customization.
I think the whole area of being able to identify so many of our customers when they come to the site.
And remember we're going to be able to identify customer from 1 of 500 million to 700 million visitors and serve a personalized content to them on the web page in 1/31 000 of a second second.
So technically that's a pretty big achievement.
Not many -- we don't know of any other retailer who -- conventional retailer who's been able to do that.
We don't change the price in the moment based on the customer who happen to come to the site.
I mean we do promotions and we do look at prices across the web on a regular basis and adjust ours to be competitive but we're not looking at them in the moment and saying okay for one customer it's going to be a different price than another if that's what you meant by dynamic pricing.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I'll now turn the call back to Ms.
Alber for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you all for joining us this afternoon.
We really do appreciate your time and your continued support and we will speak to you again next quarter.
Thank you everyone.
That does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Inc.
Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Gabrielle Rabinovitch Director of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP financial measures and forward-looking statements.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Ann.
Good afternoon.
This call should be considered in conjunction with the press release that we issued earlier today.
Our press release and this call contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and our explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful are discussed in our release.
This call also contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which address the financial condition results of operations business initiatives trends guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2013 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings including the most recent 10-Q for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our third quarter 2013 results and our outlook for the remainder of fiscal 2013.
Thank you Gabrielle.
Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us.
With me today are Julie Whalen our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Connolly our Chief Marketing Officer.
Our strong third quarter and our performance year-to-date illustrates the power of our business model and the relevancy of our brands.
We delivered an 11% increase in revenue and EPS growth in excess of 18%.
Importantly we delivered this revenue growth and accompanying operating margin expansion while simultaneously investing in our multifaceted growth initiatives.
We believe we are well positioned headed into the holiday season and will continue to execute our key strategies to deliver an exceptional experience for our customers.
We are focused on generating top line results in conjunction with operational and capital discipline to deliver long-term shareholder value.
In the beginning of the year we outlined to you our key strategic initiatives for delivering sustainable profitable growth and increasing shareholder value.
They are: growing our existing brands launching new businesses and expanding the reach of our brands globally.
We believe that the results we've reported today demonstrate disciplined execution across each of these initiatives.
Our existing brands grew and we made progress in our new businesses and in our global expansion.
At the same time we returned $115 million to our shareholders in the form of stock repurchases and dividends.
All year we have been making investments in our business to drive long-term sustainable growth as well as to prepare us for the fourth quarter.
We believe we are well positioned as the destination for cooking entertaining decorating and furnishing your home this holiday season.
We have a strong holiday product lineup and the widest assortment of personalized goods that we have ever offered.
We've also made substantial investments in our supply chain and our information technology infrastructure 2 of our core competencies to deliver an elevated experience to our customers in whichever channel they choose to shop.
In our supply chain we have made upgrades to better serve our customers.
We opened a new distribution center in New Jersey that is dedicated to retail store fulfillment in the Northeast.
This facility has increased our flexibility in how we service these stores while reducing our inventory replenishment cycle time.
In the past 2 weeks we have completed the in-sourcing of 2 major furniture hubs as we continue to increase our control over and improve the customer experience of furniture home delivery.
In addition the regionalization of our Sutter Street upholstered furniture manufacturing capacity allows us to handle more volume while reducing transportation cost and delivery times.
Another supply chain enhancement we have made is in personalization.
We have invested in additional personalization equipment including a new material handling system that improves throughput.
And we have trained seasonal associates in personalization techniques.
Personalization helps make gifts more meaningful and we are leveraging our state-of-the-art monogramming etching and embossing capabilities this holiday to grow the gift businesses in all of our brands.
Also we have upgraded our information technology infrastructure in advance of our peak selling season.
Finally our multi-year e-commerce investments are also yielding returns.
This year we've launched more than 50 products -- projects with over 400 customer-facing enhancements across all of our websites.
The combination of our open platform agile development processes and an aligned organizational structure is a competitive advantage that allows us to deliver new functionality every 6 weeks.
Here are some examples of key improvements we have made.
We've improved our on-site personalization as we believe relevancy is crucial to driving engagement.
We have substantially enhanced order tracking visibility for our customers.
Our new AB testing platform is allowing us to optimize the customer experience across virtually every section of our site through a robust test versus control and rollout strategy.
Mobile devices are becoming a very important tool for connected customers at every stage of the purchase decision and we are testing enhancements to our mobile sites to be more user-friendly more image-driven easy to search and shop and more useful for finding a local store.
The first site where we have deployed upgrades is Pottery Barn where changes are being met with great response.
And also our e-marketing strategies encompass many different programs which continue to evolve and become more sophisticated with the result that we are driving more revenue from existing customers and acquiring new ones at lower cost.
I would now like to update you on our new business initiatives.
We continue to see opportunity both domestically and internationally to help our customers decorate furnish cook and entertain at home across demographics and life stages.
Our global footprint is expanding and in the third quarter our revenue from foreign operations increased 31% to $51 million.
In addition to the stores in Bondi Junction we opened a West Elm store in Melbourne in September.
In Australia the response to our fully-integrated direct-to-customer business has exceeded our expectations.
We are excited to be opening our first store a West Elm in the United Kingdom next month and we are looking forward to scaling our operations in both Australia and the United Kingdom.
Our franchise operations also continue to grow.
Our partner in the Middle East opened 2 stores in Saudi Arabia this quarter bringing the total number of franchise stores to 27.
I would like to spend a few minutes discussing our newest brands Mark and Graham and Rejuvenation.
Mark and Graham recently celebrated its 1-year anniversary.
Demand is increasing as brand awareness grows.
As an example Mark and Graham's classic leather gloves are being featured this holiday season as one of Oprah's Favorite Things for 2013 and the typographer's napkins were on the O List in the November issue as the lead-in to the entertaining section.
In addition the brand will also have editorial placement in several other national publications in the coming weeks.
The brand's assortment now encompasses 10 discrete categories including personal accessories jewelry apparel tabletop linens and seasonal products.
Mark and Graham has a social media presence that is an excellent expression of the brand and is taking the gift-giving experience to a new level with innovative personalization techniques sophisticated merchandise and beautiful gift packaging.
We acquired Rejuvenation 2 years ago and while the business is still small we continue to see an opportunity to materially grow this brand.
This year we introduced portable lighting which extends the brand's relevance beyond hardwired products.
We have been working on our product strategy to broaden the aesthetic.
The next wave of product introductions will occur in 2014 and will offer more SKU depth to the bath and kitchen.
In addition Rejuvenation is leveraging our sourcing and supply chain for new product development and utilizing our database marketing expertise for targeting and customer acquisition efforts.
Now I'd like to discuss the performance of our 3 Pottery Barn brands.
In all 3 businesses we will drive growth by delivering a synergistic cross-brand experience for our customers.
We are leveraging our channels and extensive customer data to better serve our customers' needs in all of the rooms of their homes.
The e-commerce improvements I mentioned earlier are improving the shopping experience across channels and devices helping our customers shop with ease anywhere at any time.
A comprehensive suite of services complements our innovative and well-priced product offerings.
Our in-home services are differentiating us in the marketplace.
Our team of designers meet with our customers in their homes and make the decorating process fun fast and affordable; and our design services are offered free of charge.
From decorating your trees for the holidays to helping you set up a breathtaking bar for that holiday party we'll do it for you.
And we will also be there to offer a concierge gift service to help our customers tackle their gift list with ease.
In the third quarter Pottery Barn comparable brand revenues increased 8% on top of 11% last year with strong results across channels and all key categories.
From a merchandising perspective performance was led by the dining and leather furniture collections and bedding assortments.
The strength of our outdoor collections continued through the third quarter.
Entering fall our dining chair and upholstery businesses gained momentum.
As our upholstery business grows we are leveraging Sutter Street our in-house manufacturing facility to produce our merchandise faster and at better prices.
And we are returning this value to our customers.
As we enter the fourth quarter we are focused on extending the reach of clienteling to decorate both outside and inside the house for the holidays.
We have broadened our seasonal decorating collections and are featuring both an elevated lodge and a classic nostalgic aesthetic.
We've also expanded our dining and entertaining assortments to help our customers host parties at home.
This holiday we are most excited about our faux fur collection which is the biggest and broadest offering we've ever featured in the plush and luxurious materials.
The collection includes throws pillows bean bags neck rolls duffle bags and more.
Our exclusive ornament assortment features whimsical and nostalgic themes.
And this year we've extended our gift collections across price points and categories.
From jewelry boxes and frames to stocking stuffers we are offering personalized gifts for every price point and every gift recipient.
For the third quarter Pottery Barn Kids' comparable brand revenues increased 4% on top of 10% last year.
In the quarter our seasonal business drove strength in the brand.
Our Baby business brought new customers to Pottery Barn Kids and we saw growth across decorative accessories furniture and textiles.
We've expanded our crib offering across aesthetics functions and finishes and we have introduced additional nursery chair and bedding options.
We are well positioned for holiday with our expanded seasonal decor quilted stockings nursery rockers and irresistible gift collections.
In addition this year our enhanced personalization capabilities continue to expand customization options.
As Pottery Barn Kids has the highest penetration of mobile shoppers among our businesses the improvements we discussed relating to the simplification and optimization of our mobile user experience are particularly significant for this brand.
We're helping our customers celebrate with their families and delight their children.
Creating memories and traditions our holiday assortment is inspirational and authentic and we are pleased with the initial reception of these holiday collections.
In PBteen comparable brand revenue increased 17%.
Performance this year has been driven by strength in furniture and textiles.
In addition our PB Dorm business grew significantly as a result of a broader assortment and improved marketing.
In the third quarter we debuted our Emily &amp; Merritt collaboration which has been met with a strong response.
And we also launched our second collection with Burton and introduced our licensed Manchester United textiles and wall accessories.
Successful collaborations and exclusive designs continue to drive newness and innovation in PBteen.
We are excited about our more comprehensive gift offerings this holiday season for PBteen and we are discovering additional synergies with our Pottery Barn Kids businesses as we focus on life-stage marketing across the Pottery Barn family of brands.
Next I would like to discuss the Williams-Sonoma brand.
In the third quarter comparable brand revenue grew 1.4% which accelerated sequentially from the second quarter and year-over-year.
Our autumnal and Halloween assortments contributed to this growth.
In addition exclusive products from key vendors and our branded products drove positive results.
All year we have been preparing for the fourth quarter and we believe there are 5 areas that will give us a competitive advantage.
First our stores.
Our stores are a competitive advantage and essential part of connecting with our customers.
As a result we have invested in and increased and improved training in key categories and our field teams are better trained and more engaged than ever.
Second we have increased levels of newness in our stores and online.
We have more exclusive and branded product introductions this quarter.
New product introductions include hard-anodized copper core cookware Williams-Sonoma's stemware prep and serve tools roasters and a high-performance rapid boil top.
We've also increased innovation in our foods and perishables business.
This year we are celebrating the 15th anniversary of our nostalgic peppermint bark with an expanded collection and our gifting assortment is stronger and more relevant to a broader customer demographic than in past years.
We have an increased selection of high-quality gifts including relevant gift sets and a new hamper collection that helps make gifting effortless.
And we will inspire our customers and help them prepare for the holidays with our new entertaining and tabletop collections.
Third we have improved in-stock positions on our key holiday items and core assortments to ensure better service levels for our customers.
In fact in the last few weeks our out-of-stock levels at retail on top items have decreased by double digits year-over-year.
Fourth we have made high-impact changes to our visual presentation.
In our catalogs we are featuring strong narratives complete with recipes.
The content imagery and value equation are more compelling.
In our stores we have new visual displays boutique shops and an increased interactive experience.
And online easy-to-find gift shops.
Supporting all of this is the Williams-Sonoma Inc.
foundation of e-commerce and supply chain excellence.
And last Williams-Sonoma Home continues to be an opportunity.
Our sales and assortment continues to grow and we continue to identify more highly responsive segments in our database and are seeing success in the stores offering the Williams-Sonoma Home collection.
Given the fragmented high-end home market we believe Williams-Sonoma Home represents a material opportunity for us particularly online.
Finally I would like to discuss West Elm.
West Elm continues to post record revenue growth with an increase of more than 30% in the quarter.
The brand delivered comparable brand revenue growth of 22% on top of 13% last year.
West Elm opened 4 stores in the third quarter including locations in Melbourne Australia; Tampa Florida; Oak Brook Illinois; and Birmingham Alabama.
We will open an additional 3 stores in Q4 including our company's first location in Europe on Tottenham Court Road in London.
West Elm brand growth was broad-based across categories including furnitures textiles decorative accessories and lighting.
Handcrafted products and limited-edition collections created in collaboration with independent artists continue to be a key differentiator among competitors.
This quarter in support of artisanal communities in the United States and around the world West Elm made a Clinton Global Initiative commitment to action a 2-year $35-million handcrafted purchasing plan and a transparency pledge around the making and sourcing of those products.
The brand's commitment highlights our company's efforts overall to achieve our business goals while improving our social and environmental performance.
West Elm continued its positive partnership with Etsy and announced it would be rolling out local assortments in many of its 50-plus stores investing in crafts in the communities where we do business and abroad.
Test assortments were celebrated in our Brooklyn and Atlanta stores in October.
West Elm continues to be a leader in social media growing awareness and credibility through global and store area communities.
Each West Elm store manages its own Facebook and Instagram pages connecting our customers with our associates in authentic and highly visible ways.
All stores are hosting a regular schedule of classes and events many in partnership with local artists bloggers and influencers.
In-store activities add another dimension to the brand's cross-channel customer experience bringing promotional activities to life.
As we look forward to the fourth quarter and beyond West Elm has an exciting future ahead.
Our strategy remains to profitably grow the brand and attract a broad base of customers by offering choice in our products and services that will help customers express their own individual style and create a home that will connect with their story: community through connections with like-minded strangers our crafters collaborators customers and associates and consciousness in everything we do from handcrafted and local products to supply chain transparency and sustainability.
The successful combination of these 3 factors is differentiating West Elm from its competition.
With revenues expected to exceed $0.5 billion this year we are confident in this brand's ability to be a $1 billion-plus business.
Now I will turn the call over to Julie for additional details on our third quarter financial performance and our fourth quarter and full year 2013 financial guidance.
Thanks Laura and good afternoon everyone.
Our third quarter results exceeded our expectations and demonstrated the advantages of our multichannel multibrand platform as well as our ability to continue to drive market share gains and profitability while simultaneously investing in the business.
For the third quarter net revenues increased 11.3% to $1 052 000 000 with comparable brand revenues increasing 8.2%.
Net revenues in our direct-to-customer channel grew 14.5% to 49% of total company net revenues versus 47% last year.
Net revenues in our retail channel grew 8.5%.
Pottery Barn and West Elm were the most significant contributors to revenue growth.
Total company operating margin for the third quarter was 8.8% a 40 basis point improvement over last year and includes continued investments in our global expansion.
The direct-to-customer channel operating margin increased 40 basis points to 22.9% driven by advertising leverage which was partially offset by lower selling margins.
The retail channel operating margin increased 30 basis points to 9.1% primarily driven by the leverage of employment costs and was partially offset by lower selling margins.
Corporate unallocated expenses increased 10 basis points to 7% of net revenues partially due to the incremental cost to support our growth initiatives.
Gross margin during the third quarter was 38.6% versus 39% last year.
The 40-basis-point decrease in gross margin resulted from lower selling margins from competitive pricing strategies across all of our brands partially offset by occupancy leverage.
Occupancy leveraged 30 basis points with occupancy costs at $142 million in the third quarter of 2013.
SG&amp;A improved 80 basis points to 29.8% in the third quarter of 2013 versus 30.6% in the third quarter last year.
This improvement in SG&amp;A was primarily driven by the leverage of advertising and employment costs.
As we have said before the high penetration of our direct business allows us to flex between margin and advertising cost to deliver revenue and operating profit growth while generating operating margin expansion.
This revenue growth and operating margin expansion drove an 18% increase in third quarter 2013 diluted earnings per share to $0.58 from $0.49 last year.
These results demonstrate our continued focus on generating meaningful shareholder returns while investing in our future growth.
Merchandise inventories grew 18.5% on a comparable basis.
The biggest drivers of the inventory increase are in those brands fueling our growth: Pottery Barn and West Elm.
We also had additional inventory this year that we didn't have last year to support our global expansion and new brands.
Across our brands the inventory increase is in our top-selling core programs.
Additionally inventory in transit on a comparable basis has grown substantially as we are improving our in-stock levels in time for the holidays.
As a reminder as a result of the 53rd week last year our inventory growth is also impacted by the 1-week calendar shift.
Our third quarter ended on November 3 as opposed to October 28 last year causing a higher level of holiday receipts to occur in the third quarter this year as opposed to the fourth quarter of last year.
From a balance sheet perspective merchandise inventories increased 30.5% to $899 million.
As we mentioned last time as part of our expanded Asia sourcing initiatives which include directly procuring our inventory for our global operations through our Asian entity we are taking ownership of our in-transit inventory earlier in the supply chain.
Excluding the impact of this additional in-transit inventory which is not in our prior year numbers merchandise inventories increased 18.5% on a comparable basis.
Cash at the end of the third quarter was $129 million.
Over the past year while generating $450 million in operating cash flow we have returned $351 million to shareholders.
During the quarter we returned $115 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends and invested in the business with $47 million in capital expenditures.
I would now like to discuss our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2013 guidance.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 we expect to grow net revenues to a range of $1 370 000 000 to $1 430 000 000 with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 3% to 6%.
Diluted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $1.30 to $1.37 and we expect our operating margin to be in line with last year's rate.
For the full year as a result of the outperformance in the third quarter we are raising our revenue and earnings per share guidance.
We now expect to grow net revenues to a range of $4 290 000 000 to $4 350 000 000 with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 5% to 7%.
And we now expect fiscal 2013 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in the range of $2.76 to $2.83 representing a year-over-year growth rate in the range of 10% to 13% after adjusting for the 53rd week in 2012.
It is important to note that fiscal year EPS guidance also reflects the estimated $0.02 negative weighted share impact on the sum of the quarters.
Additionally our fourth quarter and full year guidance contemplates several factors.
First the fourth quarter of 2012 included an additional week worth approximately $70 million in revenue and $0.07 of earnings per share.
On a comparable basis due to the 53rd week in 2012 there is a 1-week calendar shift this year between the third and fourth quarter.
This shift resulted in a preholiday selling week moving from Q4 to Q3.
Second the holiday shopping season during the fourth quarter will be a week shorter due to the date on which Thanksgiving falls.
Third our fourth quarter and full year guidance contemplates the closure of significantly more Williams-Sonoma stores in the fourth quarter as compared to last year.
We plan to close approximately 11 stores this fourth quarter versus 8 last year.
These closures represent stores that are underperforming and predominantly at the end of their lease lives.
In summary we are pleased with our results and believe that we are well positioned for this holiday season and beyond.
Our customer is at the center of everything we do and the investments that we are making.
We are confident in our innovative product great value and outstanding services.
We are looking forward to helping you and your family shop this holiday season.
I would now like to open the call for questions.
But before I do I want to wish you and your families a happy holiday season.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Budd Bugatch from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering and I hope you can hear me -- I wonder -- just 2 questions if I can and I'll phrase them together.
One you gave us international revenues this year.
I wonder if you could give us what the comparison was against that for last year.
And maybe a little bit more color on the SG&amp;A leverage between segments or -- you said advertising and I think occupancy -- not occupancy advertising and leverage in payroll.
Can you give us kind of a feeling on how that was between the segments? The international we don't have the growth over the prior year because there wasn't really a substantial amount of growth.
If you go 2 years back we really didn't have as much international operations.
All we would have had was the franchise.
You can look back in the Q or I can get that for you offline.
But as far as the SG&amp;A it really was significantly driven by advertising and employment leverage.
Obviously the more sales we have -- when we have higher sales than we expected that leverages all of the costs.
We'll go next to Daniel Hofkin with William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just -- I guess maybe a follow-up on the Williams-Sonoma evolution.
I would like to know kind of where -- you talked about some of the increased exclusivity where that is right now versus where you think it might be in a couple of years? And then the other question relates to operating margins.
You had a nice kind of balance between the 2 segments this quarter in terms of improvement.
In the fourth quarter it looks like the top end of your guidance assumes flattish margin maybe some decline in margin at the lower end.
Just curious what the dynamic is.
Is it just the holiday-related competitive environment? Or is there something sequentially that would cause the margin to potentially be down a little bit year-over-year in the fourth quarter? Sure.
Thanks Daniel.
It's Laura.
I hate to use a sports analogy but I guess I would say we're in the third inning that we're just getting started.
Janet has been in her role for 6 months.
And while we started evolving our product strategy prior to Janet the durables product development life cycle takes a while.
We also want to make sure that before we change any strategy we want to make sure that we know it's going to work.
And as a result we've been very thoughtful about testing changes in the Williams-Sonoma brand.
As I've told you before our primary focus is on product exclusives and innovation retail execution and exciting visual presentation.
And we believe there's still more growth to be had in every category and we're looking for bigger and more broad-based growth.
We know the brand is widely loved and revered but we want to make it more accessible to more people.
In the future you're going to see us bring in a wider range of products the best quality for what they are but aren't necessarily the most expensive.
We also know that we can work more closely with our key vendor partners to develop more exclusives that will further differentiate us from the competition.
And we're also seeing emerging trends that we'll be building on in new categories like the Williams-Sonoma Home business and we are still in the very early stages of developing that.
And Dan regarding the operating margin a few things going on there.
Definitely this is the first time I think all year that we've had operating margin expansion in the retail channel.
So that's really exciting.
And obviously the higher the revenues we have it leverages all the way through and drops to the bottom line.
So we had the margin expansion this quarter.
For next quarter we've guided to be in line with last year.
And one thing to remember there is that we do lose some leverage from the transition to a 13-week -- transition away from a 14-week to a 13-week and so some of that does impact the bottom line.
But with that said on the year we basically raised the year on the bottom.
It used to be at 10.0% to 10.3%.
It's now 10.1% to 10.3%.
And at 10.3% as you guys know it's equal to the highest rate we've had and will generate the highest level of operating income we've ever had.
So -- all while investing in our strategies for the future.
So we feel very confident about that.
We'll go next to David Magee from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> We're hearing from some retailers about their promotions earlier in the season.
Just generally speaking it seemed to be more severe than expected.
And I'm just curious what you think about sort of the environment here relative to what you may have thought a few months ago.
Yes we continue to recognize the promotional environment.
We've been talking about it for over a year that we embrace it and don't think it's going to change.
We know our customers would rather buy from us than our competition and so we are focused not just on price but also on all the other things that makes you buy something from a retailer.
And we believe we have the competitive advantage in many of those areas.
But on price specifically we have a very exciting line up of great value for the holiday season and we're going to vary it from last year so that we can keep everybody on their toes and drive excitement for the customer.
So you're going to see us have planned promotions as we have all year.
And it's hard to get a read on the macro and consumer sentiment given the multitude of conflicting data points.
I don't know what's going to happen with the macro but I do believe that people are enthusiastic about decorating cooking and entertaining.
And thankfully that is the business that we are in.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
On the Williams-Sonoma brand specifically could you tell us sort of what the proprietary product percentage is this year versus last year? It's higher.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it's meaningfully higher year-to-year? It's higher.
And what I think is most important versus SKU counting is the quality of the exclusives.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And last question the distribution changes that you're making now is that going to be meaningful to next year's EBIT number? Is there a chance to really leverage that nicely into next year? You have to remember that the most important thing about our supply chain enhancements is that we're able to give our customer better service.
And in many cases we have passed along the savings to our customers.
We'll go next to Peter Benedict from Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just curious your business has been pretty consistent across the year here but just the cadence across -- during the quarter was there any choppiness that you saw? Just trying to understand that.
And as it relates to Pottery Barn the complexion of the business I mean is there anything in that -- in the mix there that you are seeing that starts to show you evidence that the remodeling boom is starting? I mean I know the business has been strong we can see that but just trying to pull back the covers a little bit on a category standpoint.
Are you seeing anything that's been changing over the course of this year that can speak to that? Yes.
From a cadence perspective we don't comment on that as it's playing out throughout the quarter.
But I'll let Laura talk about Pottery Barn.
Sure.
It's clear to us that the customer is very focused on their home and that while we can't see a correlation one-for-one with housing starts or anything specifically in the macro we do believe that people feel better about spending money on their home because the value of their homes are no longer dropping.
And so at the same time it's difficult to decorate and we're seeing market share gains we believe because we not only offer a wide array of well-priced products that are high quality but also we help the customer put it together in the home.
And I think it's probably early innings of a housing recovery but we believe that because we are making it easier and offering great assortment to our customers that we're gaining share and we will continue to do so.
And so you'll see us increase newness.
And also we're also seeing uptick because we're offering more dimensional size options for our customers in terms of furniture.
I mean so many times when you go to buy a new sofa not only are you looking for style and the right price but you're also looking for something that fits in your family room.
And so we're very cognizant of where those holes are in our assortment and where we're adding new SKUs to gain more customers in the future.
We'll take our next question from Greg Melich from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Want to talk about the retail margins international how they link.
If I understand it right your international revenue falls into the retail segment.
And if that's right how much of the sales growth is really coming from international? Or what was the trend in retail? And then second is how do we think about the retail margins in terms of -- we had a nice improvement this quarter but clearly the calendar shift helped some there.
How much of the margin improvement there would be driven by that week shift international? Okay.
So from a retail perspective really last time we specifically called out that one of the biggest drivers was international.
This time it was primarily just across the Pottery Barn and West Elm brands not specific to international.
So that wasn't one of the biggest drivers.
With that said the growth there was 31%.
And year-to-date it is 48%.
International is almost 100% in the retail channel.
So when I talk about it it's because of the effective drag on earnings by the fact that we have costs ahead of revenues.
So from a margin -- from a Q3 margin perspective obviously if we didn't have those for example with the U.K.
store and we're incurring costs ahead of it actually opening later in Q4 our margins in the retail operating margin would be higher.
As far as guidance we don't provide guidance by channel but we know that the retail channel does drive sales of course to our direct channel.
So depending on where the customer is shopping at any particular time you'll see fluctuation in our retail operating margin.
And so obviously you're going to see this change.
We're very pleased with the results that we have this quarter and the fact that we did see that operating margin expansion.
But that will fluctuate.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And on inventory I just want to make sure I got that right.
The in-transit when you're thinking about [ph] -- you're up 18%.
How much did the week shift? Is that included in that adjustment? Or would there be another adjustment given that the quarter ended a week later? No.
There would be another adjustment.
The adjustment from the balance sheet to the comparable basis is simply taking out that additional inventory that wasn't in the base last year associated with our Asian sourcing initiatives.
And that would take you to the 18.5%.
And then when we speak about all of these other things that are driving the inventory increase in my prepared remarks that's in particular to the 18.5%.
So there would be an additional adjustment if you backed that out.
Research Division</strong> So how much is it if it wasn't calendar shift? We're not -- it's hard to tell.
We're not quantifying it.
It's really hard to actually come up with the exact amount that's representative of that.
We'll go next to Brian Nagel from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> So my question is on gross margins maybe somewhat of -- I guess maybe a little of a follow-up to the prior question.
But the gross margins in the quarter were still down but the trend was improving particularly if you look kind of on a multiyear basis.
Now we spent a lot of time over the last several quarters talking about the Williams-Sonoma strategy of using select price promotions as an advertising vehicle and then essentially trading SG&amp;A dollars after[ph] cost of sales.
Is there something that -- was there some shift or something to drive sort of say the improving trend in gross margins this quarter that maybe we should expect to continue to happen as we look over the next several quarters? I wouldn't read too much into that.
I think at the end of the day we said in our prepared markets the main driver was lower selling margins which was partially offset by occupancy leverage.
We have said even last quarter that occupancy costs in Q4 could be higher which obviously impacts your gross margin.
But I think the positive here is a few things.
First of all when you take the puts and takes form the gross margin it's actually across all brands and all channels which reflects our competitive pricing strategy across-the-board it's not particular to one brand and the fact to your point that we can offset it with the SG&amp;A improvements and still have operating margin expansion is phenomenal.
So yes we say it again and again but our focus is on operating margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up if I could.
You gave us a lot of color on some of the merchandising initiatives.
I look at my model and it was pretty clear that the Williams-Sonoma brand comps improved here in Q3 again on a kind of a multiyear basis.
Was there something that was shifted there for the pause in the Williams-Sonoma brand? Or is that maybe just a culmination of some of the efforts you've been putting forth lately? As I said in the prepared remarks we saw a great response to our Wine Country theme our autumnal theme.
And that was stronger than our summer themes of outdoor entertaining.
We'll take our next question from Mike Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So I want to focus on the margins as well.
Just on the merchandise margins which looks like it's down about 70 basis points so it's similar to last quarter.
Is there an impact there? Is that just lower pricing? Or is there an impact from more free shipping which I think you include in that selling margin.
That's the first question.
Then the second question is related but more longer term.
How do we think about -- you said you're focused on operating margins.
How do we think about the long-term operating margins? Remind us what's in your 3-year plan? I think [indiscernible] is about 10.3% roughly over the last 3 years.
Will that start to expand or do we just expect more top line growth or flat margins [indiscernible] earnings growth going forward? Okay.
So as far as the gross margin it is -- definitely lower selling margins is what we indicated which to your point does include free shipping.
At the end of the day we were intentionally competitive across all of our brands all channels.
And clearly it worked.
As I said earlier we can afford to do that because our strategies allow us to do that and still have operating margin expansion.
So it's just a choice we make between whether we do a free ship a pricing promotion that hits gross margin and we pull off from doing e-marketing which the benefit hits SG&amp;A to still generate the top line sales and the bottom line growth in the operating margin.
So that's going to continue.
I don't see that changing at all.
We think that's very healthy.
And clearly it's working for our brand.
As far as operating margin expansion for the year on the high end we're at 10.3% and we have said that over our 3-year outlook that we do plan on operating margin expansion.
It goes from low double digits to mid-teens in our 3-year outlook.
Research Division</strong> And so the margin expansion then starts to accelerate at some point in the next couple of years? Yes.
We'll go next to Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Laura I'd love to talk a little bit more about the theme that I heard over and over again.
I haven't counted exactly how many times you said personalization but clearly that is a theme for you guys this holiday.
And I was just wondering if we could get a little bit into what personalization actually means for you.
Is it higher-margin goods? From a financial perspective is it margin accretive? It would seem to me that it would be lower returns and maybe an additional average price point that would be a little bit higher but what sort of penetration are you looking at for Q4 for the holiday season? How do you look at that last year versus this year for personalization? Thanks Neely.
I see personalization as really a key differentiator and a great gift more than anything.
I mean you can give someone a beautiful glass paperweight from Mark and Graham for $35 and it may be the most thoughtful gift they receive during the holiday season.
And I think that's rare these days.
We spent a lot of time talking about what kind of gifts we like to receive and to give and have developed our category that way.
It's great that it happens to be high-margin and oftentimes lower queued [ph] and the -- of course we stand behind any damages we have.
We allow our customers to return if there's damage.
But you're right they don't return if there's no damaged so it is very profitable business.
We have made investments to make sure that we can ship as much as we possibly can ship this year because we expect based on last year's results to see very very strong growth in this category.
It's not an easy thing to execute and so we are very fortunate we've been working on this for many years and making investments every year in how we do this how we bring all this together across multiple categories and multiple techniques.
It's not just embroidery it's so many new techniques this year.
And we do it all ourselves.
Research Division</strong> Do you have a sense of how much of the penetration of your holiday products will be offered with personalization this year? Of course I do and it's been so competitive.
And I'd prefer not to quantify any of the growth numbers or the SKU count increase.
And we have time for one last question which will come from Marni Shapiro with The Retail Tracker analyst.
So my question circles around -- centers around food.
You guys have historically had an outstanding assortment of food at Williams-Sonoma through the year but particularly in the holiday season.
And it looks great this year.
And I see -- as the market has continued to do well and expand I've seen a few food items.
So I guess it begs the question is there an opportunity to expand a little bit more into the food there? And Laura you've talked over and over about whether it's getting closer to the table farm to table or the focus around cooking and entertaining at home and I was curious if you guys have looked into some of these subscription things.
I'm sure you've seen them most of them are coming out of your own backyard where people receive a box to sample things.
And is that something that either through West Elm Market or Williams-Sonoma that would be interesting to you guys? Yes thank you.
It sure is.
So many of the food products that we carry are from local and artisanal food people and we have a lot more continuity programs this year that if you go online you'll see make excellent gifts.
We look for very high quality in our foods as you know.
And I'm very excited personally this year about the expansion of -- particularly our peppermint bark.
We have a lot more this year because it's our 15th year anniversary in peppermint bark.
And when you go into the store there's so much irresistible product in that category.
I saw that by the way.
I thought it looked fantastic this year.
Thank you.
We also spent a lot of time on making packaging changes to our Thanksgiving product that I think is much more appealing.
So while it's the same great quality that it's always been updated the graphic layer and that's being met with good response.
So so far so good.
We're just early here in the fourth quarter but we're seeing a nice response to the food offering that we have.
It's a small business for market but you're right in that we can even be more localized and smaller there because the scale is so much smaller.
So we just are very selective about the great products that we carry and offer differentiated products to the customers who come into our stores.
And would it be okay if I took this all kind of one step further? You said at Williams-Sonoma the Wine Country was a very strong theme for you.
Is it out of the question to think that Williams-Sonoma could be pairing with local vineyards to do some kind of wine I don't know club or offering or something along those lines? Or is that just something you're not going to get involved with? We do have a wine club already online.
Oh I missed that.
Yes.
We do have it.
And so you can look at that and we carry -- and we select all of the line ourselves and taste it here and carry wine from small growers and then some larger ones too.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I'll now turn the conference back over to Ms.
Alber for any additional or closing remarks.
Well I just want to thank all of you for joining us this afternoon.
We appreciate your time and your continued support.
And we'll speak with you again in the new year.
In the meantime I hope you have a wonderful holiday season.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Incorporated fourth quarter and fiscal year 2013 earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Gabrielle Rabinovitch Director of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP financial measures and forward-looking statements.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Ann.
Good afternoon.
This call should be considered in conjunction with the press release that we issued earlier today.
Our earnings press release and this call contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and our explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful are discussed in our release.
This call also contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which address the financial condition results of operations business initiatives trends guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2014 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings including the most recent 10-Q for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our fourth quarter and fiscal 2013 results and our outlook for fiscal 2014.
Thanks Gabrielle.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
On the call with me today are Julie Whalen our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Connolly our Chief Marketing Officer.
I am proud to announce Williams-Sonoma Inc.'s results this afternoon.
William-Sonoma Inc.
outperformed the recent holiday season getting market share and demonstrating the structural advantage of our multi-brand multi-channel business.
Comparable brand revenues grew 10.4% and EPS reached $1.38 for the fourth quarter.
Strengthen our brands across the retail and direct channels with notable growth and our e-commerce business in conjunction with disciplined execution allowed our team to drive record operation results.
We achieved these results against the backdrop of a shortened and challenging holiday shopping season.
Our fourth quarter completed a year of strong performance for Williams-Sonoma Inc.
with record revenue of $4 388 million record non-GAAP operating income of $455 million and record non-GAAP EPS of $2.84.
At the beginning of last year I outlined four key areas of focus.
These priorities were to strengthen our brands to lay the foundation for global expansion and new business development to invest in our supply chain to reduce cost and improve service and to invest in the technologies and infrastructure underlying all these initiatives.
In 2013 we executed well against these four areas of our strategic plan.
Our investments resulted in profitable growth and increased market leadership.
We've kept our focus on our customers the products and services that we offer and the way that we interact with our customers across multiple channels.
As such we have created a differentiated and highly relevant experience.
Highlights of our 2013 achievements include first the growth in our brands.
Comparable brand revenue growth across our businesses in 2013 was 8.8% on top of 6.1% growth in 2012.
Our exclusive products great design lifestyle positioning and accessible price points are allowing us to lead the market.
We love the entertaining cooking home furnishings and the furniture businesses.
Our powerful brands offering exclusive products with high-touch services make decorating and entertaining easy fun and affordable.
We're investing in store and online to provide the best experiences in retail for our customers.
Second our global expansion and new business development.
In addition to our multi-channel mindset and an organizational culture geared to multi-channel success we are at our core entrepreneurs.
Our global expansion and domestic new business opportunities are important growth vehicles.
Our global vision is to serve our customers with the same high service multi-channel model that has differentiated us in the United States.
In 2013 we reached a significant milestone by setting up the global infrastructure for our geographic expansion.
In 2013 we entered Australia and United Kingdom with company-owned retail stores and fully-enabled e-commerce and distribution.
We finished the year with six company on retail stores five in Australia and one in London.
And we look forward to opening an additional eight retail locations in Australia in 2014 and continuing to build our e-commerce business.
We also expanded our business in the Middle East with our franchise partner and secured a new franchise partner in Philippines.
In 2013 the global investments we made included capital expenditures to build out our stores new stores systems capable of handling international currencies and payment types and our new fully-integrated e-commerce platform that will allow us to have native sites in all the countries in which we will operate in-store.
These are both capital and expense-related investments that we are incurring ahead of the revenues that they will generate.
The work we did in 2013 is laying a foundation for future growth.
We are committed to a disciplined approach to global expansion and believe it represents a sizeable opportunity for long-term.
Our new businesses continue to develop and we are bringing new customers to our brands.
Mark and Graham completed its first full year of business in 2013.
We have continued to grow the offering introducing new categories and selling great high quality gifts.
Ranging from the whimsical to the sublime our best sellers are across multiple categories.
And Rejuvenation serves as a general store of functional and beautiful goods for home improvement projects.
In 2014 you will see continued expansion of Rejuvenation's product assortment and increased relevancy of its offerings.
Third the further regionalization of our domestic supply chain.
In 2013 we in-sourced furniture delivery hubs in three geographies and we further regionalized our retail fulfillment capabilities.
We also expanded our U.S.
upholstered furniture manufacturing operations our personalization capabilities and we made progress in taking over our agent sourcing relations.
By the end of this year we expect to be directly sourcing almost all of our foreign purchases.
And fourth we invest in the technology to support our multi-channel business.
This fourth area is something I'd like to spend a little more time on today.
Our technology investments are fundamental to support our topline momentum and create shareholder value for the long-term.
The power of our brands in conjunction with our multi-channel excellence provides us with a competitive advantage.
In 2013 Williams-Sonoma Inc.'s e-commerce revenue was $1 950 million with a three-year compounded annual growth rate approaching 18%.
And overall in 2013 our direct channel represented 48% of net revenues.
Consumers have embraced the convenience and flexibility of shopping online.
And the investments we have made in our brands and our user interface and our fulfillment infrastructure have enabled us to be one of the few retailers in our category to benefit from this shift online.
Offering relevant differentiated products and inspiring my sales experience as well as developing a community is as important online as it is in a store.
Across channels we have focused on innovative personalized highly relevant shopping.
Technology is redefining the customer experience and retailing has evolved and increasingly customers interact across channels.
The investments we are making are allowing us to provide the best level of services to our customer.
As we look to 2014 and beyond we are confident in the future of our company.
All of our strategies are designed with a single-minded focus on our customers.
We offer innovative exclusive products a high-touch service model that helps our customers every step of the process multi-channel excellence and an efficient vertically integrated supply chain.
We believe that our proven execution and financial discipline will allow us to deliver sustainable returns and increased stockholder value.
Now I'd like to spend a few moments discussing our brands.
I'll begin with Williams-Sonoma.
At about this time last year we announced the appointment of Janet Hayes as President of the Williams-Sonoma brand.
We are proud of the progress her team has made in such a short time and are excited about the opportunities ahead of us in 2014.
In the Williams-Sonoma brand for fiscal year 2013 comparable brand revenues increased 1.5%.
For the fourth quarter comparable brand revenues increased 2.3%.
The Williams-Sonoma brand executed its holiday strategy in an intensely competitive and promotional market.
Top-performing categories this holiday season included cutlery bakeware and cookware.
Our inspiring well-designed relevant gift offerings and home-entertaining ideas made us top of mind from Thanksgiving to Christmas.
Everything from our exclusive branded pizza maker to our proprietary holiday foods fueled seasonal sales.
The innovative products and units we introduced in January supported by refreshed floor sets and a wellness-focused early spring catalog were also highlights of the fourth quarter.
Kitchens of real chefs we designed a line of affordable beautiful everyday essentials.
Our Open Kitchen line up with more than a 100 new SKUs features hardworking tableware functional tools and durable cookware.
Open Kitchen is accessible and relevant and early results show that it is driving new customers to the brand.
Excellence in retail execution also contributed to a successful holiday for the Williams-Sonoma brand.
Inspirational visual merchandising and a fresh approach to our store experience coupled with a better prepared and passionate field team drove meaningful improvement.
Our online and catalog marketing drives retail traffic as well as direct sales.
And we saw a continued strength in our direct channel as we provided a high-touch open online store for 24 hours a day during the compressed holiday season to compliment our in-store offering.
We are pleased with our progress in the Williams-Sonoma brand during holiday 2013 and the learnings that we are taking into 2014.
Another key area of growth for the Williams-Sonoma brand in 2013 was the Williams-Sonoma Home Collection.
In 2013 we introduced our new assortment of high-quality home furnishings and furniture and presented these products in an easy-to-shop high-quality catalog format at an expanded assortment online.
Williams-Sonoma Home offers our customers exciting beautiful stylish and differentiated aesthetics and the catalog showed three distinct collections each season last year.
The results of the first year of this new strategy exceeded our expectations and we are building our product line as well as the marketing to support it.
We believe Williams-Sonoma Home represents a meaningful opportunity for the company and we expect to expand the strategy significantly.
Next I'd like to discuss Pottery Barn.
2013 was a very successful year for Pottery Barn as we executed against our strategy to be the leading specialty home furnishings retailer in the world.
Key to this strategy is our accessible approach to decorating and our capabilities in product designs and lifestyle merchandising.
Across all channels our mission is to make decorating easy and fun.
Our in-home service offering are competitive advantage.
In Pottery Barn for fiscal year 2013 comparable brand revenues increased 10.4% on top on an increase of 8.5% for fiscal 2012 and 7.6% for fiscal 2011 for a three year stacked comp of more than 26%.
For the fourth quarter comparable brand revenues increased 14.6%.
The themes for Pottery Barn in the fourth quarter were decorating entertaining and gift-giving.
Key merchandise categories that drove our success were dining furniture lighting holiday decorating and gifting collections.
This season our customers came to us to decorate their homes and to make gift purchases.
Our design and gift concierge services both in-home and in-store made celebrating the holidays easier.
In 2014 we are excited to build on our momentum and the trends we saw in 2013.
We're expanding our categories and our gift assortments.
Refreshing and redecorating continues to be key priorities for our customer and in 2014 we'll take our in-home services to the next level.
We believe that the Pottery Barn design point of view and value proposition has brought appeal and that there is significant runway for growth ahead of us.
We plan to broaden our assortment offer greater aesthetic variation to our customers and make the process of buying furniture and home furnishings easier.
In the Pottery Barn Kids brand comparable brand revenues increased 7.8% in 2013 and for the fourth quarter comparable brand revenues increased 11.2% following an increase of 7.7% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Fourth quarter strength was driven by our seasonal and gifting businesses as well as our furniture offerings.
In addition in Q4 our expanded nursery collections again exceeded our expectations.
For 2014 we're focused on delivering inspirational home furnishings and gifts for our Pottery Barn Kids customers.
And as we look towards 2014 we see opportunity to grow the Pottery Barn Kids brand both specifically in our core business from home furnishings to furniture.
We'll continue to introduce new collections that are high quality and extremely well priced.
We also believe we have a unique ability to create a differentiated customer service experience by offering our customers quicker and more consistent delivery of furniture.
We'll build the product line concentrating on core categories with great quality great design and great prices.
In the PBteen brand comparable brand revenues increased 14.1% in 2013 and for the fourth quarter comparable brand revenues increased 9.6% following an increase of 6.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our holiday season and PBteen was fueled by gift.
Our big seasonal best exceeded our expectations and our textiles and furniture collections also delivered solid performance throughout the fourth quarter.
We're excited about the product line up in 2014 for teen and we will continue to offer high quality trend right products that are exclusive.
Over the past several years we've learned how to effectively use collaborations to drive traffic and sales and we have several new and impactful collaborations planned for 2014.
Finally we'll be extending our gifting programs to carry the momentum we felt coming out of holiday throughout the rest of the year.
Finally I would like to discuss West Elm.
West Elm had a record year with comp brand revenue growth of 17.4% on top of an increase of 17.4% for fiscal 2012 and 30.3% for fiscal 2011 for a three year stacked comp of more than 65%.
West Elm exceeded the $0.5 billion milestone with $531 million in revenue in fiscal 2013.
In the fourth quarter comp brand revenues increased 18.3% following an increase of 19.1% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
West Elm continues its fleet expansion at retail.
In 2013 we opened 10 net new stores with three openings occurring in the fourth quarter.
We are particularly pleased that our new stores are performing to our expectations and are driving new customers across channels.
Growth in the brand was broad-based across categories including furniture textiles decorative accessories and lighting.
We continue to be confident in West Elm's ability to be a $1 billion-plus brand.
With a strong multi-channel strategy that includes catalog stores online and the emerging social channel West Elm is poised for continued growth in 2014 and beyond.
In 2014 West Elm has plans to open 12 new stores in seven new markets.
The brands remains focused on creating a personalized and differentiated experience with three-key priorities choice community and consciousness.
Choice refers to the continued growth and evolution of West Elm's product assortment and menu of services.
From an aesthetic perspective we are seeing key trends in mid-century industrial and decorative looks and we are achieving growth in all categories of business.
Handcrafted products and limited edition collections created in collaboration with independent artist continues to be a key differentiator among competitors.
In 2014 we'll continue to expand our assortment particularly in lighting furniture and textiles.
West Elm's commitment to community remains a priority as the brand continues to create engaging and brand-enriching experiences with classes events and partnerships that bridge beyond in offline world.
Moving into 2014 West Elm is focused on working with partners of scale continuing its successful partnership with Etsy and executing additional collaborations and partnerships as well.
As a leader in social media West Elm met major milestone with its social community in Q4 and is now one of the leading home furnishing brands in this space.
More importantly West Elm fans and followers are engaged with the brand driving content sharing brand participation and sales via the social channels.
Pinterest in particular continues to be the number one organic traffic driver to the West Elm website and Instagram photos from the West Elm community are now featured throughout the West Elm catalogs and on westelm.com.
In 2014 West Elm will continue fulfilling it's commitment to the conscience retail.
Working with artisan groups around the world West Elm is sourcing handcrafted products that differentiate the brand from other home furnishings retailers particularly in their value market.
In 2014 the brand will actively seek out additional ways to support and grow artisan businesses through projects such as adult literacy workshops and improve supply chain management.
In January West Elm successfully introduced its first entirely handcrafted collaboration with New York-based fashion designer Steven Alan.
The collaboration was featured in publications including the Wall Street Journal Eldecor and New York Magazine.
And in 2014 West Elm will make strides towards its Clinton Global Initiative commitment to action.
As we look forward to 2014 and beyond West Elm has an exciting future ahead.
Our strategy remains to profitably grow the brand and attract a broad base of customers by offering choice in our products and services that will help customers express their own individual style and create a home that will connect with their story.
We will build community through connections with likeminded strangers our crafters collaborators customers and associates and consciousness in everything we do from handcrafted and local products to supply chain transparency and sustainability.
The successful combination of these three factors is differentiating West Elm from its competition and we remain confident in this brands ability to be a billion-plus business.
In summary we're proud of the results we achieved in 2013 in all of our brands and across our business initiatives.
We are so fortunate to have a portfolio of brand that provide significant opportunities for growth and market share gains.
We remain committed to customer service as our number one priority and we believe that there continues to be room for improvement.
We believe we have an opportunity to further demystify the decorating experience and help a larger group of customers achieve the home of their dreams.
From cooking to entertaining to furnishing we combine our passions for the businesses that we are in with a focus on execution disciplined decision making and state-of-the-art data analytics.
We are finding increasingly relative ways to market and serve customer both domestically and around the world and we are very excited about the opportunities in the future.
No one loves these categories more than we do but we are not just category lover we're supply chain experts and we are marketing maniacs.
We apply data-driven analytics to drive relevance across all channels and we are extremely disciplined.
We accomplished what we said we are going to accomplish and achieved our objectives growing sales delivering operating margin expansion growing earnings per share and returning excessive cash to stockholders.
We have made progress against our long-term strategic growth initiative across our portfolio of brands both domestically and globally and we continue to prioritize the areas in which we are investing to maximize returns and enhance our competitive positioning.
Foundational to all of this we have built one of the strongest teams in retail.
And I would like to take a moment to congratulate our entire team for another successful year and extend my sincere thanks to all of our customers and stockholders for their continued support.
And with that I will turn the call over to Julie to review our financial results in detail.
Thank you Laura and good afternoon everyone.
Our results for Q4 and fiscal 2013 exceeded our expectations and reinforced the strength of our multi-brand multi-channel model.
Before I walk you through the results in more detail let me remind you that 2013 was a 52-week year as compared to the 2012 which was a 53-week year.
The financial impact in 2013 of the loss of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week was approximately $70 million of revenues and $0.07 diluted earnings per share.
All revenue and earnings per share growth will be discussed excluding this impact from the loss of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week.
For the fourth quarter net revenues grew to $1.466 billion or a year-over-year increase of 10% with comparable brand revenues increasing 10.4%.
Net revenues in our direct-to-customer channel of which approximately 92% came from e-commerce grew 19% to $706 million or 48% of total company net revenues compared to 45% last year a 300 basis point increase.
Net revenues in our retails channel grew 2.7% to $760 million.
Total company operating margin for the fourth quarter was 14.8%.
The 20 basis point decline of a record operating margin last year was due to our continued investment in our global operations and the loss of 53<sup>rd</sup> week.
The operating margin in the direct-to-customer channel increased 180 basis points to a record 24.7% primarily driven by advertising leverage and lower general expenses.
The retail channel operating margin decreased a 170 basis points to 17.2% primarily driven by occupancy deleverage from the loss of 53<sup>rd</sup> week and the impact from our investments in global expansion as well as lower selling margins and employment deleverage including investments in our global initiatives.
Corporate unallocated expenses increased 30 basis points to 6% of net revenues primarily driven by higher employment costs and the deleverage from the loss of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week.
Gross margin for the quarter was 40.6% versus 41.3% last year.
The 70 basis points decline in gross margin resulted from lower selling margins and occupancy deleverage primarily from the loss of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week and the investments in our global expansion.
Occupancy costs were $149 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 versus $137 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
SG&amp;A decreased to 25.8% of revenue from 26.3% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
This 50 basis point improvement was primarily related to reduction and other general expenses including a reduction in year-over-year asset impairment as well as greater advertising efficiency partially offset by higher employment costs including the increased investments in our global expansion.
These results drove diluted earnings per share growth of 8.7% to $1.38 in the fourth quarter.
For the fiscal year net revenues increased to $4.388 billion or 10.5% with comparable brand revenues increasing 8.8%.
By channel net revenues in our direct-to-customer channel grew 15.6% to $2.115 billion or 48% of total company net revenues compared to 46% last year a 200 basis point increase.
Net revenues in our retail channel grew 6.2% to $2.273 billion.
Fiscal 2013 non-GAAP operating income increased 9% to $455 million.
This resulted in a non-GAAP operating margin of 10.4% a 10 basis point expansion versus last year despite the financial impact from our continued investment in our global operations and the loss of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week.
A 130 basis point improvement in the direct-to-customer channel operating margins to 23.7% was partially offset by a 110 basis point decrease in the retail channel operating margin to 11% and a 10 basis point increase in corporate unallocated expenses.
The 130 basis point improvement in the direct-to-customer channel operating margin was predominantly driven by advertising efficiencies.
The 110 basis points decrease in the retail channel operating margin was primarily driven by lower selling margins and occupancy deleverage primarily from the capital investments in our business the investments in our company-owned global expansion and the loss of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week in 2012.
This was partially offset by the leverage of employment costs and lower general expenses.
The 10 basis points increase in corporate unallocated expenses was primarily driven by higher employment costs and the deleverage from the loss of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week.
Gross margin for the year was 38.8% versus 39.4% last year.
Gross margin was primarily driven by lower selling margins.
Fiscal 2013 occupancy costs were $552 million versus $517 million in 2012.
Non-GAAP SG&amp;A decreased 60 basis points to 28.5% of net revenues from 29.1% in 2012.
This 60 basis point improvement was primarily related to greater advertising efficiency.
In fiscal 2013 advertising expenses were $326 million or 7.4% of net revenues versus advertising expenses of $318 million or 7.9% of net revenues in 2012 a 50 basis point reduction.
This once again demonstrates the flexibility of our operating model as we use multiple levers such as advertising efficiency to drive revenue and operating profit growth.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for the fiscal year were $2.84 a 13.1% year-over-year increase.
Overall we are very pleased with both the strength in the topline as well as our ability to drive operating margin expansion and growth in earnings per share while absorbing the impact of our future growth investments and the loss of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Cash at the end of the year was $330 million versus $425 million last year.
Cash provided by operating activities was $454 million an increase of $90 million over last year.
This cash flow allowed us to invest in the business by funding approximately $194 million in capital expenditures and to return more than $350 million to stockholders in the form of share repurchases of $239 million and dividends of $112 million.
We ended the year with $813 million in inventory excluding the impact of the additional inventory in transit due to taking ownership earlier in the supply chain in 2013 versus 2012.
Merchandise inventories increased by $108 million or 16.9%on a comparable basis.
This inventory growth was predominantly in our strongest growing brands Pottery Barn and West Elm as well as to support our growth opportunities.
It was planned at this level to put us in a strong in-stock inventory position as we enter 2014.
Additionally accounts payable increased by $146 million in 2013 versus 2012 due to higher inventory levels as well as the overall timing of payments.
Now I would like to discuss our guidance for Q1 and fiscal year 2014.
We expect 2014 to be another year of record revenues and earnings while at the same time investing in our future growth.
For first quarter of 2014 we expect to grow net revenues to a range of $920 million to $940 million with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 4% to 6%.
Also in Q1 given the financial impact on the quarter of our capital investments in 2013 our continued investments in our global expansion as well as the investments in our supply chain infrastructure including the opening of our new Dallas distribution center in the first half of 2014 we expect that our operating margin will be slightly below last year's operating margin rate and diluted earnings per share will be in the range of $0.41 to $0.44 per share.
On the year we expect to grow net revenues to a range of $4.63 billion to $4.71 billion with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 5% to 7%.
Operating margins are expected to be in the range of 10.2% to 10.4% and diluted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $3.05 to $3.15 per share.
We are also reiterating our three-year outlook for revenue and EPS growth that we discussed last March.
With revenue projected to grow in the mid-to-high single-digits and EPS projected to grow in the low double-digits to mid-teens.
From a capital perspective we are maintaining a balanced capital allocation strategy investing in the business and returning cash to our stockholders through share repurchases and dividends.
We believe this will provide the best returns for our stockholders over time.
As such we expect our 2014 capital investments in the business to be in the range of $200 million to $220 million.
In addition to our required annual investments in our retail fleet and IT infrastructure we will be investing in our global expansion constructing new stores predominantly in West Elm and the Pottery Barn brands supporting our supply chain initiatives and further developing our e-commerce platform.
Last year we announced a $750 million share repurchase program.
We are now in the second year of this program with $511 million remaining.
We expect to repurchase shares throughout this coming year.
In addition today we announced a $0.02 or 6% increase in our quarterly dividend of $0.33 per share.
On a two year basis this represents an increase of over 94%.
This is the ninth dividend increase we have had since the inception of our dividend program in 2006 further demonstrating our commitment to returning excess cash to stockholders.
We believe that our track record of disciplined capital allocation together with our EPS growth of 46% over the past three years demonstrate our ability to deliver returns to our stockholders.
With the strength of our brands our long-term growth initiatives and a culture of financial discipline we remain committed to continuing this performance.
I would now like to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from Daniel Hofkin from William Blair.
Just a couple of questions maybe about the flow of the quarter December versus January and what you're seeing so far in the beginning of this year just from a business flow weather standpoint if you will? And then just a clarification on your three-year plan are you rolling that forward or are you saying that inclusive of what you did this past year as well as what you're expecting for 2014 kind of the three-year EPS growth that you're targeting? So on the Christmas season the holiday season it feels like a long time ago already.
We're already actually working on holiday '14.
We had a strong holiday performance from the beginning of Black Friday Cyber Monday started-off strong gave us insight to what our customers are most focused on and carried through our January our brands all of them in January bringing in new product and they have been well received by our customers.
With that said the weather is certainly real.
I typically don't like talking about the weather because we're in retail and weather is a variable each season but it did it was worse than it was last year.
In February we did have an unusual amount of our stores closed with more than seven times the number of closures this year as last year.
So it affects particularly the bricks-and-mortar channel we're fortunate to have a developed e-commerce channel.
And at this point we don't expect a lasting impact because the weather usually evens out but it certainly is real.
As we look at the whole year we see a lot of opportunities regardless of weather and we are building on the successes we saw last charismas and also the areas where we know we can make improvements.
And I'm going to get Julie might you answer the question on EPS.
As far as the three year outlook yes that's reiterated what we already said for the existing three years it's not rolling it out an additional year.
We'll take our next question from Matthew Fassler from Goldman Sachs.
My primary question relates to the comment you made on social as it relates to West Elm.
I know that this is a business that reaches out to somewhat younger demographic perhaps than your other channels and perhaps that's why you're focusing on it more for social but can you talk about just how commercial/social is for you because if so you're one of the first to really speak about it as a meaningful driver? And also then talk about what kind of potential you might see for the other brands to capitalize on that channel as a revenue generator? I think West Elm has really build social into the fabric as a brand from the very beginning.
And they've won a lot of awards particularly in their Pinterest category.
I think they were awarded one of the top-ten sites on Pinterest but all of the brands really are active there.
In fact Pottery Barn was the first brand ever to meet with Pinterest.
We met with them when they were in a tiny grange in Palo Alto and have been working with them on beta projects from the very beginning.
It's a great source of referral traffic and it helps to expose the brand.
And then we know that those people will come back when they're thinking to buy it.
So the initial conversion may be not as high as say a paid search firm because the customer is really coming to the site to discover the brand and then they come back later when they're in the market.
But it's a very important part of what we do and we have real working council among all the social media heads of the brands.
They get together every month and we share best practices.
So we are advancing a social across all of our brands.
And is it accretive financially as you work on this and whether it can be scaled profitably? We believe it will be yes.
We'll go next to Matt McGinley from ISI Group.
The first question is on the supply chain and the additional inventory that you took on.
Does that normalize as you cycle through the course of the year? You had a big spike in the third quarter or do you continue to take on more categories throughout the course of the year? How should I think about that from free cash flow and a gross margin standpoint? Does that inventory investment ultimately translate that to helping gross margin? Yes so there is a couple of things going on there.
First we have if you're looking at the balance sheet there is sort of an artificial step up because beginning I think it was Q2 of last year.
We started reporting inventory earlier in the ownership process through the supply chain.
We started consolidating all of our inventory purchases with our Singapore entity for our global procurement.
So that then gets sold to third-party entities and to our internal entities around the world.
As a result of that that's just a timing change we're taking ownership of that inventory earlier.
So when we hit Q2 of this year that will be anniversaried.
As far as the level of the inventory that we have on the books outside of that on a comparable basis we believe our inventory levels are strategic.
They obviously help drive our Q4 results.
And they position us well for entering into 2014.
I think you saw that we had a step up in Q3 and look at our Q4 results.
So the biggest drivers of the inventory increase are primarily in our brands fueling our growth which is Pottery Barn and West Elm with 15% and 18% comps in the fourth quarter alone.
And we also have additional inventory this year that we didn't have last year to support our global expansion and new brands and across our core brands inventory increases really in our top-selling programs.
Our inventory trend that has grown substantially and therefore its driving part of this increase but it's going to help to improve in stock levels for our future sales.
So we think it's very strategic and any sort of extra inventory that there is a concern about it's already anticipated within our guidance for our gross margin.
And my second question is on the margin progression you had over the course of this year.
You had a very good year in terms of margin expansion in DTC driven by all the improvements you talked about in the business.
And then it was somewhat challenging in retail based on the promotion international rollout and then I guess likely in that 53<sup>rd</sup> week.
Would you expect 2014 to have such a profound bifurcation in the margin trends based on higher expense or does that margin gap between the two segments narrow in 2014? We don't really provide that kind of guidance by channel.
But we do know as a retail channel it does drive sales to our direct channel.
So depending on where the customer is shopping in a particular time you're going to see fluctuation in our retail operating margin.
And then as you mentioned a significant impact to retail operating margin from the upfront cost associated with our global expansion which will continue into 2014.
With that said we're always after making that retail profitability stronger so we have long-term plans to improve that.
Retail profitability is a complex issue and the retails channels integral to our strategy.
So there is several things we are looking at.
It's very very important to our e-commerce traffic and building brand equity and obviously gets customers comp shopping online.
So some of the factors that are working in our favor are exclusive product design of course our cost advantages from the in-sourcing of our foreign agents and our regionalized supply chain that insures quick fulfillment to our customers and retail stores while mitigating freight cost.
On a flip side what's working against us is a persistent promotional environment in retail.
And the high demand for the desirable Class A mall space and of course the fact that we believe in paying our associates for their performance.
So we do believe that over time we can maintain our operating profitability in our retail channel and keep our stores great is really important to us.
We'll go next to Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
They are all good the divisions but the one that was surprising was the Williams-Sonoma and you talked Laura a little bit about kind of some of the steps you've taken.
Could you go into a bit more detail about how that's turning around so well and bit of your outlook for 2014? It was a successful holiday season perhaps the most successful we've had in five years.
We know that our strategy to bring in more exclusive products and to improve our retail execution and to refine our marketing model is working and that we can build on it.
And also importantly we know now that our results are really a function of our execution and the things we do.
It doesn't mean we can ignore the competition there's a lot of it from the biggest online retailer flash sale entrance traditional department stores and alike.
We know that if we execute our strategies well we're going to grow.
And we have a lot of exclusive products coming through the pipeline across categories very competitive.
So I'm sorry not to share all those exciting things to come with you.
So it's both product but also execution at every level and especially in our retail stores.
I think the last thing I'll say about it is that we've had much more cohesive marketing and that makes a big difference.
We took the approach of testing and rolling ideas and we knew that not every test would work but we have had many of them work and we're building on those areas.
And we are moving forward in a disciplined way and analyzing our results as we progress and it's an exciting time for the Williams-Sonoma brand.
The team is motivated and empowered and we are really excited about the future and believe that we are going to see gradual and sustained growth over time.
We'll take our next question from Brad Thomas from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
I wanted to just follow-up about operating margins in general.
I know as part of the three-year plan that you outlined last year that as you move further back into the plan that there would be an opportunity to generate some leverage and some margin expansion.
I know in the first half of this year there will be some unique investments.
But how are you thinking about margins as we move to this year and as we look out to even 2015? So we've guided our operating margin for the year at the high-end to be in line with last year's new record operating margin and it represents record operating income for our business.
Can it be higher? Sure over time.
Right now we are continuing to invest in the business and it's important to remember that we do plan to drive continued long-term profitable growth by investing in our business both domestically and globally.
So we are maintaining significant earnings growth while investing for the future to fulfill our vision to doubled the size of our revenues.
There is absolutely no structural reason why we can't raise our operating margin as we did in 2013 but we are invested in our business and future growth and we are focused on operating margins dollars which is going to be growth that's gradual and incremental over time.
We're always focused on expanding our operating margin when possible and this will occur which is factored within our three-year outlook.
We'll go next to Aram Rubinson from Wolfe Research.
I've got two if you could answer them both if not then one.
Amazon is making a change to their prime membership where they will be taking prices up by some amount that we don't yet know.
For a company that's historically gotten let's say maybe some flack for charging for shipping as much as you do you think that relieves a lot of the pressure or shifts kind of the marketing message that you'll be offering? And the second question has to do around customer metrics.
For a lot of companies that are in e-commerce they talk about new customer growth cost to acquire a lifetime value I was wondering if there was any way you'd subjectively just give us a range around some of those measures? We watch what everyone does.
Our Mantra on shipping is that it needs to be easy to understand and competitive but also that you can't ignore the difference in our business shipping large scale furniture into peoples homes versus shipping apparel.
And we have never believed that free shipping was a good idea in furniture in particular because when two people to come to deliver that sofa to your door you know that it's not free.
And also the customer is very smart and that they will add up the price of the product plus the shipping and compare it to someone who may embed the shipping into the price and so we look at total prices offered.
And I think as people have to grow into a profit model a lot of the online players we're going to find free shipping on larger items is a very difficult business model.
So it doesn't surprise me.
And at the same time we're very different from the Amazon and that we're offering exclusive products in our brands and across all of them including Williams-Sonoma.
We're continuing to differentiate ourselves further from commoditized product that is offered elsewhere.
And that's probably the best anecdote to this issue of people undercutting prices.
I'm going to let Pat answer the customer metric question.
Aram great question.
I think new customers are absolutely essential to any business and so we're constantly acquiring new customers.
We acquire new customers at a profit.
And I think as you point out some analysts are beginning to write about how e-commerce pure plays are getting away with reporting rapid growth with little or no earnings.
And we actually believe that ultimately the greatest stockholder value will accrue to those companies that can demonstrate both growth and a high rate of earnings.
And we've started six e-commerce businesses here and all of our e-commerce websites have been profitable within a matter of months while growing rapidly.
So we believe you can grow and be profitable at the same time.
And we're one of the few retailers that actually brings out and shows their e-commerce operating contribution on their financial statements.
So we can do both we believe.
We have time for one last question from Joe Feldman with Telsey Advisory Group.
I wanted to ask about the store plans I know it's more focused on West Elm and you mentioned Pottery Barn too.
But how are thinking about it in light of the strong e-commerce sales because my understanding was also that because of the strong e-commerce maybe you wouldn't need as many stores as once thought years ago.
And maybe just can you talk about the balance between the two? We believe our stores are billboards for our brands and that they are the face of our brand and that the great service.
And the in-store experience really supports our e-commerce sales and makes our customer confident in ordering from us because they've been to our stores and they see our stores in their mind as they place the goods online the orders online.
We have said before we have a very disciplined real estate process.
It's a constant process of looking at each market as leases come up to renewal and in come cases we expand remove in other cases we close the store.
And we're constantly testing retail formats in all of our brands.
We're always trying to take the experience to a new level.
So you're going to continue to see us do that and particularly where there is great landlords with exciting new projects we want to be part of them because we believe it's a key to the customer experience.
And then if I could ask another question.
You mentioned on with the Pottery Barn brand expanding the in-home decorating part of the business.
Could you give a little more color on that like what do you guys are thinking and what might be required in terms of staffing and presumably a bit more of people to go into homes or just if you could give a little more color on that? We have been so fortunate to have such a strong field team that has embraced this initiative and they're really driving it.
They are really rolling out more trainings and more people are being certified.
We've brought more technology into the stores to help them serve the customers both in-store and also in the customer's home.
And so we're going to continue to improve the tools we give them both the technology but also swatches you see in some of our stores new design studious that we've put in.
And then we're also doing some pretty competitive things with our one-on-one interactions.
We've always been very focused on the one-on-one interaction.
It's incredibly difficult to do because it's a continuous feedback group really between the database management customer engagement strategy and execution.
And we are really I think ahead of what most people can do because while they may have good intention they don't have the data analytics to know what the customer wants.
To simply put if we know who you are we can market to you better and we know who you are.
A similar kind of question the Williams-Sonoma Home expansion I guess what is giving you the confidence there and maybe you could give more color.
Because I recall few year ago you paired it back as separate stores and I know now it's not really stores but has there been a change or is it the way you're approaching it the way you're marketing it.
What's helping to drive that the increase there? We have a big aesthetic change.
The goods are entirely different high-end goods but a much more casual approach to it.
And really understanding who you're selling to you're selling to a person who is buying a bigger home I'm not someone who's pairing back and that aesthetic is very different than what we offered before.
We're using our knowledge from our other home furnishings brand to choose the products and also to put together compelling catalogs and then also to optimize the website because it's an online business it's easier to maneuver.
And that is the way we have incubated most of our businesses here I think all of them is to start online first and to really build the customer base and test new things before we do anything at retail.
We know the market is there with the higher-end goods and we can see through our response rates and our income per book that the customer is really responding and with every mailing we are able to add more customers to our house file and expand our reach.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I will now turn the conference call back over to Ms.
Alber for any additional or closing remarks.
Sure.
Thank you all for joining us this afternoon.
We really appreciate your time and your continued support.
And we'll speak with you again in May.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Incorporated First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the presentation.
This call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Gabrielle Rabinovitch Vice President of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP financial measures and forward-looking statements.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Dora.
Good afternoon.
This call should be considered in conjunction with the press release that we issued earlier today.
Our earnings press release and this call contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and our explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful are discussed in our release.
This call also contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which address the financial conditions results of operations business initiatives trends guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2014 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings including the most recent 10-K for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our first quarter fiscal 2014 results.
Thanks Gabrielle.
Welcome everyone and thank you for joining us this afternoon.
On the call with me today are Julie Whalen our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Connolly our Chief Marketing Officer.
I am excited to discuss with you our strong performance.
In the first quarter we delivered record net revenues of $974 million with comparable brand revenue growth of 10% driven by broad based strength across each of our brands.
This resulted in a 17% increase in operating income and a 20% increase in diluted earnings per share.
This double-digit revenue increase was accompanied by solid operating profitability.
Innovative high quality products personalized service relevant marketing and strong execution across all brands drove these better than expected results.
With 50% of our revenue in the direct channel this quarter we believe our multi-brand multi-channel platform is driving consistent market share gains and providing us with a competitive advantage.
We are pleased that we are able to deliver these strong earnings against a challenging backdrop.
The term multi-channel has become ubiquitous.
We feel that our model is different and this difference is what is driving our performance.
I thought it would be worth discussing these differences as we see them including the following attribute.
First is scale our direct business is 50% of total revenue.
This gives us significant flexibility and leverage in our marketing spend.
Second we have more than three decades of experience in leveraging synergies between the channels.
We know that our digital spend drives customers to our stores.
We also know that retail is a major source of new customers and that many of them become direct customers as well.
Third we have the catalog which is an important component of our model; nothing can match the productivity of an inspiring catalog delivered to the right customer.
Fourth advanced marketing techniques applied to a very large and well developed house file.
This invaluable asset allows us to market relevantly and efficiently across all three channels and across all of our brands.
And fifth is lifestyle merchandising.
We learned a long time ago that the best way to sell home furnishing is to show them in a home a home that our customer aspires to live in.
We have perfected this technique over decades.
Our first quarter results demonstrate how the investments we began making years ago to establish our best in class multichannel model are paying off.
We are deepening connections with our customers we are bringing innovations to the market in each of our brands through our products and service offerings increasing our relevance in every market in which we operate and we are further distinguishing our brands from the competition.
We are also making progress against the initiatives we recently outlined for you in March.
Our global expansion continues.
Customer demanded is building in both Australia and UK as brand awareness grows.
We are focused on optimizing our inventory position to reflect local taste and seasonality in these markets and we are looking forward to expanding the reach of our global business initiative.
We continue to make improvements to our websites in Australia and we are planning to fill out our Australian footprint with eight new stores this year.
We believe this additional scale will drive brand awareness and help us leverage our in country infrastructure.
In the United Kingdom we'll be expanding our reach.
We are looking for additional retail locations for West Elm and plan to launch Pottery Barn and Pottery Barn Kids fully integrated websites later this year.
In the Middle East our business is growing and we are particularly excited about the strong customer response to West Elm.
In addition our franchise partner in the Philippines anticipates opening a Pottery Barn and Pottery Barn Kids store this summer our first franchise location outside of the Middle East.
We're also seeing progress in our new businesses.
Mark and Graham is growing quickly and acquiring new customers with an expanded spring assortment and deeper catalog mailing.
In Rejuvenation we recently launched a collection of kitchen LED lighting.
Rejuvenation is blended past and present reproducing classic fixtures including designs that are more than 100 years old while using the latest LED technology to maximize energy efficiency.
We're also seeing strong response to Rejuvenation's new bath collection.
Approximately a 1 000 new SKUs in bath hardware lighting and furniture have been introduced and we have seen a pickup in demand across the channel.
We know that our supply chain is key to superior customer service and we continue to invest in ours.
Our Dallas distribution center went live earlier this month.
We will incur some additional expense in this quarter bringing this DC online and implementing the supporting technology.
However in addition to reducing transportation cost over time we expect the cycle times for home furniture deliveries in essential region as well as nationally to materially improve.
And on the e-commerce front we continue to make investments.
We launched enhanced capabilities on our site relating to search and personalization to improve the user experience.
We have also transitioned to rolling out new releases to our site every four weeks instead of every six weeks.
Agile release cycles allow us to continuously deliver improved site functionality and stay ahead.
In e-marketing we have encovered some breakthrough programs to increase new customer acquisition.
We will continue to build on these opportunities that we believe will set us step to the back half.
We also will implement several important IT project this quarter to strengthen our infrastructure and prepare us for peak season.
In summary we are investing in an executing against all of our growth strategies while simultaneously improving our profitability and returning capital to our stockholders.
As we look ahead we're excited as many opportunities that we see our brands are distinctively positioned in the housewares furniture home furnishings market.
I would now like to share a few key developments in each of our brands.
I'd like to begin with Williams-Sonoma.
We're extremely pleased with our comp brand revenue increase of 6% on top of an increase of 1.9% in 2013.
Comparable brand strength resulted from innovative product offerings improved executions strong cross-channel marketing and improved field training and development.
This strong performance was delivered despite the continued promotional marketplace.
We believe our strategies on innovative and exclusive product and our focus on delivering the best service are working.
In the first quarter we saw a strong performance across key categories including electrics cookware and cutlery.
We also saw a great response to our Easter collection and our Williams-Sonoma Home business also exceeded expectations.
We believe Williams-Sonoma Home is establishing a unique market position offering customers a truly differentiated high quality global shake style.
All of these growth categories led to new customer acquisition trends that are very strong.
And we believe we have a great product line up to the second quarter as we welcome the summer entertaining and cooking seasons we are celebrating grilling and outdoor living.
We are focused on delivering inspirational summer marketing coupled with continuing new customer acquisition strategies that we believe position us well for continued growth.
I would now like to update you on Pottery Barn our largest brand.
In the first quarter Pottery Barn comparable brand revenues increased 9.7% on top of the increase of 7.6% in 2013.
From inspiration to installation Pottery Barn helps with customers make their dream home a reality.
We are passionate about making [decorative accessories] accessible and affordable.
Performance in the first quarter was driven by our furniture categories as well as improved in stock positions.
We continue to expand our best selling furniture collection to include smaller and larger sizes as well as additional finishes.
And our extended range of bath consoles and bath furniture with customizable options is capitalizing on the renovation and remodeling trends in the market.
In conjunction with Earth Day we launched an online eco-shop that gathers environmentally and socially responsible products in one play.
Increasingly we are using organic cotton in our textiles recycled and reclaimed materials as well as wood certified by the Forest Stewardship Council.
As we entered the second quarter we’re getting ready for summer living and entertaining and we have expanded our outdoor furniture entertaining collections.
We will also introduce our early fall assortment.
We are focused on providing our customers both personalized and relevant experience across all channels.
Next Pottery Barn Kids.
In the first quarter Pottery Barn Kids comparable brand revenues increased 8.1% on top of an increase of 6.9%.
Pottery Barn Kids believe that creating personal inspirational and functional spaces for kids should be easy and fun.
The brand brings quality safety comfort and style into every family’s home.
Strength in our furniture nursery and seasonal businesses contributed to first quarter results.
The customer response to our new furniture collections as well as our core programs is strong.
And we will be launching a robust schedule of new furniture collections throughout the balance of the year.
In nursery our extended offerings coupled with personalized marketing are driving this business.
In PB Kids our customers love to celebrate the holidays and while Easter came later this year it was a success.
And in the first quarter we also introduced our new beach and outdoor service.
As we transition to our summer season we’re excited about the new statics we are featuring in our furniture collections.
And beautiful new prints and fresh color palette and our textile furnace and the launch of our high quality back to school collection.
Moving PBTeen.
Comparable brand revenues increased 12% in PBTeen in the first quarter on top of an increase of 16.1% in 2013.
PBTeen brings quality and value to teens bedrooms study areas and lounge spaces.
First quarter strengthened furniture and textiles was driven by strong demand and improved in-stock positions.
PBTeen has broaden its appeal by featuring a wider range of influences and designs PBTeen is focused on furnishing the whole room extending the depth and breadth of its assortment our new blog Stylehouse helps teens gather fresh ideas for their space their style and their life.
In the coming weeks we expect to launch our collaboration with Zio Ziegler an internationally recognized artist known for his oversized murals and bold graphic lines.
The Zio Ziegler for PBTeen exclusive collection designed by Zio makes the best of his signature style and reimagines it and (inaudible) backpacks and more.
So teen can bring his larger than life free style (inaudible).
Our new PB Dorm collection which builds on last year’s success launched earlier this month.
In addition graduate giving is an opportunity this quarter and we have further developed the gift category.
We are also excited by the new collaborations we will be introducing in the brands throughout the second quarter.
Finally I would like to discuss West Elm.
The West Elm brand continues to post outstanding results comparable brand revenues increased 18.8% on top of 11.8% last year of two year comp of over 30.
Growth continue to be broad based across categories with success in furniture textiles decorative accessories in lighting.
In the first quarter we saw a strong response to our color palette and to our core and seasonal assortment across all channels.
In the second quarter we are excited to launch our new opening price point assortments.
This special collection is designed in a modern wintrical and useful style that stands alone on mix as well with the core West Elm assortment offering our customers high design at compelling value prices and attracting new customers.
While this modern static can live in any type of home we have also designed a number of pieces for smallest spaces that will appeal to our urban apartment volume customers.
The collection includes a wide array of setting wrecks and pillow as well as upholstered and bedroom furniture.
This new assortment will be available through our catalogs and our websites as well as in direct retail stores and will be supported with an impactful marketing campaign.
With a focus on consciousness and everything the brand does West Elm continues to differentiate itself from its competitors through commitments to handcrafted and local products supply chain transparency and sustainability.
West Elm is on plan to exceed its 2013 Clinton Global Initiative commitment to action with more than 35 million invested in handcrafted and artisan products.
The brand is now working with more than 30 artisan groups in 16 countries to bring unique products to its customers including sourcing partnership in emerging markets such as Central and South America.
In an effort to improve the lives of artisan they are doing business with West Elm recently launched an adult literacy program steady in partnership with the Clinton Foundation.
West Elm is also focused on supporting artists makers and the growing micro entrepreneur economy in the United States through West Elm local the initiative that will bring regional assortments to more than half of West Elm stores in 2014 giving stores a stronger sense of place in connection to their community.
West Elm local brings in to the ties that have artisan [build] through in-store events and partnerships.
West Elm will continue to offer choice in our products and services that will help customers express their own individual style and create a home that will connect with their story.
We will build community through connection with likeminded strangers our crafters collaborators customers and associates and promote consciousness in everything we do.
The successful combination of these three factors we believe is differentiating West Elm from its competition.
And based on the West Elm's current growth trend and early acceptance of the brand in global markets we remain confident in this brand’s ability to be 1 billion plus business.
In summary our strong results this quarter reflect our multiple engines of growth supported by distinctive products presented across our portfolio of brands a superior multi-channel platform with analytic marketing to capture the synergies and the advantages of each channel and a sophisticated supply chain engineer to address the complexity of our merchandise category.
We are confident in our ability to meet our fiscal 2014 and longer term growth target.
I will now turn the call over to Julie to review our financial results in detail.
Thank you Laura and good afternoon everyone.
We are very pleased with our strong start to 2014.
For the first quarter net revenues increased 9.7% to $974 million with comparable brand revenues increasing 10% on top of 7.2% in Q1 2013.
All of our brands experienced strong year-over-year growth in comparable brand revenue with Williams-Sonoma up 6% Pottery Barn up 9.7% Pottery Barn Kids up 8.1% Pottery Barn Teen up 12% and West Elm up 18.8%.
Net revenues in our direct-to-customer channel grew 17.2% including e-commerce growth of almost 20%.
Our direct to customer channel generated 50.4% of total company net revenues for the quarter crossing the 50% threshold for the first time in the company's history a 320 basis point increase over last year.
Our retail channel revenues also increased 3.1% to $483 million with West Elm and Pottery Barn the most significant contributors to the growth.
Gross margin for the first quarter was 37.8% versus 37.6% last year.
This 20 basis point increase resulted primarily from higher selling margins as occupancy costs in the first quarter of 2014 as a rate were essentially flat at 15% of net revenues or $146 million in comparison to 15% of net revenues or a $133 million in the first quarter of 2013.
On a GAAP basis SG&amp;A in the first quarter improved 30 basis points to 30.2% versus 30.5% in 2013.
On a non-GAAP basis excluding the 40 basis point impact in 2013 SG&amp;A increased 10 basis points to 30.2% versus 30.1% in 2013 primarily driven by higher employment cost related to divesting of long-term incentive compensation partially offset by advertising leverage.
GAAP operating income in the first quarter increased 16.5% to $74 million resulting in an operating margin of 7.6% compared to 7.2% last year.
On a non-GAAP basis last year’s operating margin was 7.5%.
The improvement in non-GAAP operating margin was driven by a 180 basis point increase in the direct-to-customer channel operating margin from 22.9% last year to 24.7% this year and was partially offset by a 100 basis point decrease in the retail channel to 6.3% as well as an 80 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenues in corporate unallocated expenses.
The improvement in the direct-to-customer channel operating margin was primarily driven by greater advertising leverage and the leverage of employment cost partially offset by lower selling margins.
The decrease in the retail channel operating margin was primarily due to the deleverage of occupancy and employment cost and was partially offset by improved selling margins.
This retail operating margin also includes the impact of our investments in our global business.
On a non-GAAP basis corporate unallocated expenses as a percentage of net revenues increased 80 basis points to 7.9% primarily due to increased employment cost related to divesting of long-term incentive compensation.
As a result first quarter 2014 GAAP diluted earnings per share grew 20% to $0.48 from $0.40 last year.
And on a non-GAAP basis diluted earnings per share grew 17.1%.
Overall we are very pleased with the strength in the top-line and our ability to grow operating income and earnings per share while absorbing the financial impact of our future growth initiatives.
Moving to the balance sheet cash at the end of the quarter was $113 million versus $253 million last year.
Over the past year while generating $443 million in operating cash flow we returned $374 million to stockholders through share repurchases and dividends including $86 million in cash to our stockholders this quarter alone through $53 million in share repurchases and $33 million in dividend.
Merchandise inventories were $850 million at the end of the first quarter.
Excluding the impact of additional inventory and transit due to taking ownership of our inventory earlier in the supply chain merchandise inventories increased 17.2% on a comparable basis.
This increase in inventory was predominantly to support our fastest growing brands and global growth initiatives.
I would now like to discuss our Q2 and fiscal year 2014 guidance.
We are confident in our strategies and look forward to delivering another record year for our stockholders.
For the second quarter of 2014 we expect to grow net revenues to a range of 1.020 billion and 1.040 billion with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 4% to 6%.
We expect our second quarter operating margin to be in line with last year.
We are guiding diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.49 to $0.52.
Our guidance includes the impact of a number of investments we are making to position up for the back half of the year as for our future growth.
For the full year as a result of our performance in the first quarter and our outlook for the remainder of the year we are raising our guidance range.
We now expect to grow net revenues to a range of $4.645 billion to $4.725 billion with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 5% to 7%.
And we now expect fiscal 2014 diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $3.07 to $3.17.
From a cash allocation perspective there are no changes to our plans.
We plan to make capital investments in the range of $200 million to $220 million as we continue to invest in our strategic growth initiatives.
We also plan to continue to return capital to our stockholders by paying dividends and repurchasing shares under our existing share repurchase authorization.
Given the strength of our brands and our superior e-commerce capabilities combined with our long term growth initiative a commitment to financial discipline and a commitment to returning capital to our stockholders we remained confident in our ability to deliver sustainable long term profitable growth.
I would now like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And we will go first to Kate McShane with Citi.
Thanks good afternoon and congratulations.
Thanks Kate.
Julie I know you don’t give guidance around gross margins but I can’t help but get a little excited about what we saw in Q1.
So I was wondering if you could help us understand how you are viewing gross margins for the year.
And if you could maybe give a little bit more detail on how the promotional environment shaped up in Q1 and what you expect for the rest of the year? Sure.
We're actually really excited about the gross margin to your point it's been a little while since we’ve seen the gross margins are up and really the reason is solely due to higher selling margins as we mentioned occupancy is essentially flat year-over-year.
And so what we're seeing I think what's important for everyone to hear is that the true the pure sort of MMU product margin is what is up and it's across both channels and across many of the brands.
So we think that's a really good sign.
There are various factors for that one of which we believe is our supply chain initiative that we're focused on we've been talking about for a while such as the in-sourcing of our foreign agent and the regionalization of our distribution centers as well as the manufacturing of our own upholstered goods all of that is starting to slowly but surely come to fruition within the margins.
We think that is a great opportunity to see those margins continue to rise.
However with the continued promotional environment and especially during Q2 for example with the summer sale and an increase in occupancy costs including depreciation from our ongoing capital investments in the business there is going to be continued pressure on the gross margin.
But as we always like to tell you guys we have to remember that with the 50-50 business 50 e-commerce and 50 retail that we tend to manage to the operating margin line because we have different levers that we can pull throughout P&amp;L.
But we're really happy with our results on the gross margin line.
And then promotional environment Laura would you want to take the call? Sure yes.
We continue to see that the market is promotional which is why we're working so hard as Julie said to take costs out of our supply chain and to develop inspiring and appealing products for our customer.
We think one of the reasons we continue to win is that we have exclusive and innovative products.
And we also have aesthetic diversification across all of our brands which allows our customers to develop their own unique individual style but also gives them confidence to come back.
It is a tremendous advantage because if you think about it a customer’s previous purchase really weighs heavily on their future purchases.
And this further isolates us from competitors we believe that are using heavier promotions.
You are simply not going to buy something for your house that doesn't go with the rest of it just because it’s cheaper.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Matthew Fassler from Goldman Sachs.
Thanks a lot good afternoon.
I hate to use my one question and what might be kind of been out topic.
But if you could sort of talk a little bit more Julie to the investments that both you and Laura cited talk about their cadence as they worked their way through the year only because in the context of the numbers you just put up and it is your comparison the guidance for second quarter margin seems a bit on the conservative side I'm sure you have some drivers there any color would be great? Sure.
We're really excited that we're seeing opportunities particularly in e-commerce that we're going to build on.
The customer trends are strong and it is driven by our marketing strategies and through testing over the past few quarters we've uncovered several breakthrough developments.
And so this Q2 earnings guidance reflects the fact that we see opportunities to invest more in the second quarter in these initiatives which will set us up for the back half.
Also in Q2 we're investing in our supply chain with our new Dallas distribution center as well as the IP infrastructure to support the supply chain and we're putting several major IT projects into service in Q2 and of course we always have our continuing investments in global.
I think the disconnect is obviously we didn't guide Q2 those have always been our numbers for Q2 and so it’s just a delta between what you're seeing but that has always been an investment in Q2 and the reality is when you look to the year we actually raise the year and added two pennies on the year which is exactly in line with our three year outlook.
Great thank you so much.
And we’ll go next to John Marrin with Jefferies.
Hey guys congrats on a great quarter.
Thank you John.
Hey John thanks.
So first I’d like to hear about how sales trends worked through the quarter and maybe a comment on current sales trends if you can.
And also just what you’re looking at over the reminder of the year relative to what you were seeing a few months ago? Yes.
We don’t provide the cadence of our sales trends throughout the quarter.
Obviously at the end of the day Q1 was a strong quarter and we mentioned that Easter was strong for us.
And we’re only three weeks into this quarter so it’s really too early to call the card on that.
Okay.
And just this incredible performance to direct I understand that you just instituted some changes there that probably drove performance just wondering if maybe you can talk about how that looked across the brand portfolio? And what the growth outlook is for the rest of the year? Thanks.
So John I think if you know me you know that I’d love to get under the hood and tell you exactly what we’re doing in terms of these breakthroughs in e-marketing but clearly it’s very competitive for us.
And e-commerce is so foundational to our ongoing success and our ability to harness the information we have and utilize it effectively it’s just core to the way we do business.
These capabilities which we’re most excited about relate to our e-mail and our e-marketing programs and they span a number of areas including technology new ways to utilize our data our processes and the way we manage our programs.
And these build over time but remember we’re starting from a base of over 2 billion in ecommerce.
That said we laid out our plan in March and this has been in our plan we’re very excited about what we see coming down the road here.
Thanks guys.
(Operator Instructions).
We will go next to Chris Horvers with JP Morgan.
Thanks and good evening.
I also want to follow up on the 2Q guide obviously a fantastic quarter against the fantastic fourth quarter and really differentiated versus what’s going on in so much of retail at this point.
So your comparison on the brand comps not really harder but your maybe 100 basis points that you are guiding to a pretty sharp deceleration so would love to get your thoughts on that.
Yes I mean the reality is we are off to a great start but it’s still early in the year and one quarter doesn’t really give us enough certainty about the trend for the rest of the year.
And you have to remember in particular with the revenue.
We are up against tough compares in Q2 with an 8.4% comp last year.
And so and obviously we just mentioned the investments from an earnings perspective again those were in our numbers so obviously you guys didn’t have visibility to that.
But I think with all that said the fact that we raised guidance on the full year and that is exactly in line with our three year outlook we’re feeling very good about this guidance.
Okay.
And then on the inventory growth is also going back to let’s say 4Q ‘12 it started to pick up a lot of that seem to be on the global growth side.
But you mentioned for a couple of the brands that in stocks have improved and they’ve contributed to sales.
So is there a way to think about how much of that inventory growth has contributed to sales or how much of that relates to domestic? And how do you think about inventory growth through the balance for the year? Thanks.
Sure yes we are really excited about the inventory levels given the fact that it certainly has been one of the main drivers for driving the outperformance that we have seen obviously everything else factored into that as well.
You have to have the right product the right marketing and all of that.
But the reality is having an in stock position has been strategic for us.
And I think everyone needs to know that even though the inventory levels seems high they are in the brands that are fueling our growth so it’s in Pottery Barn it’s West Elm with a 10 and 19 comp in just this quarter alone.
And we do have that additional inventory that you mentioned comping but the reality is for global for example we are adding eight new stores this year so we have to build inventory for those that aren’t comparable.
So there is lot of things the new businesses brand extensions that are growing you’ve got more inventory this year than you had as a base last year.
So it sort of looks huge from a growth perspective but all investments in good things.
So we think this inventory levels is somewhat sustainable for period of time.
We think it’s strategic.
With that said we obviously see opportunity to reduce slow movers.
We have very strong disciplines across company; we’re always focused on slow movers and also getting back in stock.
So we are aggressively going after the slow movers while at the same time aggressively going after the best sellers.
As you know there is a [delta] relationship between service levels and inventory and all this inventories are supporting 2014 guidance so we think it’s very strategic.
And our next question comes from Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
This is actually Andrew on for Gary.
Congrats on very strong Q1.
Got a quick question on Williams-Sonoma.
We are just wondering if you could delve into little more details on what is happening at the brand is it all internally driven or do you think it’s just you are seeing smart industry tailwind? And then finally where do you think ceiling is on on this improvement? For example do you think you could outcomp the core business in the second half easy compare? Thank you for the questions.
We have been talking about our strategies in the Williams-Sonoma brand for some time and we have been working very hard to bring back more exclusive products and also to improve our execution and to have more relevancy to the customers.
And we have made some nice progress.
We still have a lot more work to do but we are happy with the consumer response clearly a 6 comp is strong number.
And we have a lot of new products in the pipeline for the second quarter that builds on what we're seeing I know if you've been in lately but we have a great collaboration with [Tacolicious] right now.
It's really innovative and uses market fresh sustainable ingredients in every products.
And together we’ve developed sauces and braising basis that are inspired by world class restaurants in Mexico City.
So it's an example of new products that something I'm excited about.
And we're also seeing that some of our new categories like Open Kitchen are bringing new customers to the brand.
And new customer growth is an exciting trend and integral to the long term health of the brand.
And so it really has been another piece of what we’re doing is to bring accessible price points back in.
And lastly the work we've done to give our great field teams better tools and training to support these great product launches is paying off.
So I guess I’d summarize by saying teams have been working very hard to get where we are and we still have a lot more opportunity ahead of us.
And we'll go next to Daniel Hofkin with William Blair &amp; Company.
Hi good afternoon.
I apologize if this issue was addressed.
I just wanted to get a little bit more color on what you feel at the Williams-Sonoma brand itself? What are the main things that are contributing to kind of a firming of trends in that business is it more on the merchandise side or is it highlighting some of the -- what you feel or differentiated services like cooking classes? If you could just shed some additional light on that in particular I would appreciate it.
Thank you.
Daniel I can't resist I just answered that question but I'm happy to do it again because I'm so excited about it.
We have really been focused on our innovative product pipeline and we brought in some key lines that are working well and we're building on them.
We are focused on execution at the retail level and really we've given our great field team better tools and better training which is really helping them to service our customers more effectively than we have before.
We have better in stock position than we have before and we're really focused on relevant food trends.
So we're not just selling the tool but we're starting the whole idea.
And if you go into stores you’ll see us doing more tastings and more events to really provide that education to our customers.
And your next question comes from Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
I've got a question on the merchandising side.
You all have introduced a number of design collaborations with outside brands like Bert and FC and others.
And I’m just wondering what are broader aspirations for that in some of the brands that we haven't seen that in yet? Is that something that could expand significantly from here? Yes thank you.
We are always looking for great designs and incredibly talented artists and designers out there and we love working with them to bring new things to market.
And these collaborations have really extended the esthetic diversification in each brand.
And I can't wait for you to see what we've done with Ziegler this upcoming I think is just a great example of what can be done together and it really also inspires our teams here to see a new way to approach the home product.
If I could just sneak in one more with is any early thought that FedEx going to dim weight shipping if we see some general shipping inflation how do you think that could impact your business? Thanks so much.
A great deal of our products that we ship would not be impacted as we have a lot of heavy weight product the reality is the UPS has not followed suit with FedEx at this point.
We have long-term agreement in place with the UPS.
So we don’t expect it to impact us.
And we’ll go next to Michael Lasser with UBS Investment Bank.
All right Good afternoon.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
Two quick ones.
Number one can you discuss the connection between Williams-Sonoma’s performance and the company’s overall profitability.
It seems like this is the best for income from that segment in quite some time and it maybe was coincidental that the overall entity also had -- it’s really stellar profitability performance but it seems like perhaps there is some connection there.
And then the second quick question is on the level of in-stock perhaps you can give us some sense of where in-stock levels are now versus where they were a year ago and where do you see that just leveling out over time? Thank you so much I appreciate it.
Sure it’s Laura.
The Williams-Sonoma brand represents about 25% of our total business.
Q1 is not a big quarter for Williams-Sonoma and we’re thrilled with the trends we’re seeing but really it would impact profitability much more in the latter half of the year.
As it relates to in-stocks we haven’t given our fill rate but I will tell you that they’re materially higher than they were last year and not only does that drive better customer satisfaction also reduces our cost if we can ship it once versus shipping a back order.
Julie do you want to add anything to what I said about Williams-Sonoma.
Yes.
I mean other than I would say that we did see a lot of whether it’s Williams-Sonoma or not the total company outperformance did drop down to the bottom line if that’s we are headed with our question obviously we had guided from an operating margin perspective to be below last year and we came in above last year with 17% income growth and 4% above the high end of our guidance from an EPS perspective and that’s while absorbing all of our investments and also some incremental spend for Q1 related to investing of some long-term expense competition.
We feel really great about how much of the earnings drops to the bottom.
And our next question comes from Peter Benedict with Robert W.
Baird.
Hi guys.
Hi Peter.
I have got a question unrelated but I will sneak it in.
First is Williams-Sonoma Home big enough to have any impact on what you just did in Williams-Sonoma in [total with] CBR just trying to understand if that brand is starting to show up in the broader numbers? And then secondly just on the rent and occupancy trends looks like they accelerated here in the first quarter is that (inaudible) with the Dallas CC or is there something else that we should be thinking about as we try to model that out forward? Thank you.
Sure yes Williams-Sonoma Home is obviously a part of the Williams-Sonoma brand in total but it does have a piece of obviously the growth on it but it’s still so small but it’s not meaningful relative to the total six comps that we saw in the Williams-Sonoma brand.
So I wouldn’t read too much into that.
From an occupancy perspective there is we’ve got investments that we are making from a capital perspective but as those continued last couple of years we’ve had sort of stepped up capital investments and those layer on top of each other from a depreciation perspective and that rolls into occupancy.
So that’s a lot of the reason you are seeing higher occupancy but you do see it obviously of course due to rent from the Dallas distribution center as one key player of that but it’s also all of our store leases and all of that put together.
But I would say the biggest piece is from the continue investments in our business.
I’d like to share one more thing on Williams-Sonoma Home.
While it is not material now we have set some very ambitious goals for ourselves and we believe that this could be a very large brand in the future.
And our next question comes from Matt McGinley with ISI Group.
Thanks my question is on the unallocated expense and how that trended in the quarter.
Last year you had a lot of investment in talent and I think it was higher into some extent this year.
You caught out longer term comp on long term comp vesting is being increased.
Is that $12 million step up you experienced in the quarter is that kind of the new run rate or is it that just kind of one-off thing where it would be that high? And my second question is on the international revenues or the franchise revenues what drove that decrease in revenues? Okay sure.
Julie I will take that.
From the corporate operating margin perspective that is something that is relatively unusual.
As we said in our prepared remarks that we basically deleverage 80 basis points and it’s primarily due to the vesting of long term incentive compensation.
And really what that is is that we incurred some additional compensation expense and investing in [four] equity awards from lower employee departures and higher payroll taxes on the compensation amount associated with those equities that’s vesting due to higher stock price.
So that is -- we had large four year cliff that came in that was granted back in 2010 and hit this quarter and so it had sort of a disproportionate impact given this is our smallest quarter of the year.
So I would not assume that trend going forward at all.
From an international franchise perspective I’m assuming that’s what you’re alluding to.
Basically I wouldn’t read much into that either.
Last year the franchise partners somewhat accelerated more of their purchases into Q1 which they had then evened out throughout the rest of the year so it’s more of a year-over-year timing that makes it not comparable for this quarter.
We actually have plans to open four more stores with our franchise partner and our relationship is very strong.
And we'll go next to Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi.
Congratulations on a nice quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
So I want to ask a question on gross margins as well maybe more from a bigger picture [first half] standpoint.
But we saw for the first time in a while a positive gross margin.
I think in response to some of other questions you talked about some of the dynamics but the question I have is just given kind of the focus the company which has been driving market share to the extent that now some of your investments are paying off and helping to drive margins if you look at the margin going forward would you be more inclined to reinvest that to drive more market share or we should expect that as investments continue pay off margins will have to stay higher? It's really nice to have the flexibility as you can imagine.
And what we're doing is really working hard to be very efficient.
We have a culture of high performance and continuous improvement.
And we believe we still have some things we can do to take more cost out of the product lifecycle.
And that will give us the opportunity if we want to invest more or if the market demands it to be more promotional.
So it's hard to predict but what I want to talk about again is the power of our operating models that allows us to be flexible which I think is key in this retail environment.
And we'll now go next to Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
This is actually Carol in for Aram.
You guys just have enormous amount of data on all of your customers that you've used quite well to extend your brand across customer segments.
Have you guys considered any category extensions beyond kind of the furnishing realm? We are very focused on the home and its area of expertise.
With that said our Mark and Graham business has introduced us to some new categories and we have in that business a disproportionate amount of accessories and jewelry very well so I said under the heading of gift and monogram personalized gifts.
So that has been our first [story] into anything other than home and we're very pleased with the early results and how it complements what we do in the home.
And we'll go next to Laura Champine from Canaccord.
Good afternoon.
My question Julie is for you.
So with the full year guidance not raised as much as you beat by on sales and earnings in Q1.
Does that indicate a shift and timing of store launches or any shift in your investments internationally or is there anything more than just kind of targeting your three year plan in that guidance? No I wouldn't read anything more into that.
It’s really that we're just -- it's early in the year.
And you know we had a great Q1 but that doesn't necessarily assume that we're going to have that kind of outperformance every single quarter.
So we’re going to continue our trends and we'll adjust as necessary.
But with that said we did raise 15 million on the top in revenue and $0.02 on the bottom and that's put up right we want to be with our three year outlook.
And from Piper Jaffray we'll go next to Neely Tamminga.
Great good afternoon.
Fantastic to have guys.
Thank you.
I just I wanted to drill a little bit on West Elm.
I appreciate the focus on Williams-Sonoma but it is potentially going to be $1 billion dollar business up here at West Elm too.
Could you remind Laura in terms of how you’re thinking about the $1 billion market? Is it just kind of the U.S.
North America or is that kind of your whole global vision? Do you think you it’s just kind of still tasting the waters globally? And then the other kind of more strategic question I have is it just seems like West Elm can really do no wrong right now.
And so the question is what can’t they do and I am just wondering at what point do you guys just revaluate the footprint around what you can offer [explorers] in store especially looking at community? You did really good job for social media community to be expanded into in-store community.
Thank you for the question.
We have used the $1 billion mark to represent both domestic and global but there you could make a case will that that’s maybe modest at this point given how large our Pottery Barn brand and the appeal of West Elm and in particular globally.
So we are trust me as I said earlier we have very big plans for this brand and we are testing so many things and learning from them.
And we are careful to open the right amount of stores and to keep measuring the ROI of our store investments and we are also very focused on building our direct business to West Elm that is growing very quickly.
We’re trying some really some new marketing techniques in West Elm that we’ve learned a lot from and are now rolling to other brands.
And we are continuing to push the diversification of products and to work hard to make sure that as we get bigger it stays very relevant to the customer and it differs as you can imagine from Miami to Denver and how they would expect to see they’re West Elm.
So we’re being very careful as we grow to stay very relevant and personalized in our expressions.
And we have time for one last question we’ll go to Anthony Chukumba with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Thank you.
And let me also add my congratulations on a great quarter.
So I just -- just a real quick question I mean you touched on the franchisees internationally and sort of what drove the revenue decline there.
But I guess I was just wondering if you could give us a little bit of color maybe didn’t move the needle.
I am sorry did we lose you? Anthony we have lost you.
I am sorry Anthony; we think we have lost you.
So we can’t hear you bad connection so we are going to move to one final question from someone else.
And certainly there are no questions remaining in the queue.
That does conclude the Q&amp;A session for today.
Ms.
Alber I will turn the call back to you.
Well thank you all for joining us.
We really appreciate your support and we look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
That does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Gabrielle Rabinovitch.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kevin.
Good afternoon.
This call should be considered in conjunction with the press release that we issued earlier today.
Our earnings press release and this call may contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
A reconciliation of any of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and our explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures may be useful are discussed in our release.
This call also contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which address the financial condition results of operations business initiatives trends guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2014 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings including the most recent 10-K and 10-Q for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our third quarter fiscal 2014 results.
Thank you Gabrielle.
Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us today.
On the call with me today are Julie Whalen our Chief Financial Officer and Pat Connolly our Chief Strategy and Business Development Officer.
We are pleased to be discussing our third quarter with you.
Solid performance across our brands allowed us to deliver these results with revenue growth of 8.7% operating margin expansion and earnings per share growth of 17.2%.
These achievements reflect our product leadership lifestyle merchandising iconic brands and strong execution.
We also believe that this third quarter further demonstrates that our multi-channel model with more than 51% of revenue now coming from the ecommerce channel represents a distinct competitive advantage.
We continue to focus on serving our customers and investing for sustainable long-term growth.
This holiday season we believe we have a strong line-up of beautiful gifts entertaining and decorating collections across all of our brands.
And most importantly we are ready to provide the best service to our customers with the launch of the new functionality and programs that will be discussed this afternoon.
Just at the beginning of the year we have been preparing our supply chain for the holiday peak season with operations consolidation projects and the zero handling improvements in our distribution center.
We have worked diligently on upgrading our distribution and delivery networks that we will be able to meet and exceed our customers' expectations.
Our supply chain is a competitive differentiator and we continue to make investments to increase agility and flexibility allow for greater throughput and reduce delivery time.
Our new Dallas distribution center opened in May is allowing us to add capacity and shorten delivery times during peak.
The productivity of the Dallas facility has exceeded our expectations.
In addition we are enabling next day service on all but large key orders.
Sutter Street our manufacturing division is also growing customers demand for handcrafted high-quality made-to-order upholstered furniture.
We will be adding approximately 500 full-time positions for skilled craft people and distribution support personnel in our facilities in the United States.
We plan to fill the new positions by early 2015.
We believe we have one of the largest personalization capabilities in the country offering our customers many unique personalization techniques.
To meet our increasing demand we have increased our overall capacity with the addition of a new material handling system.
We have also added some great new items to our assortments.
We believe a personalized gift at the holiday is one of the best gifts you can give.
In addition to investing in our supply chain infrastructure to improve service levels our technology investments are centered on enhancing the customer experience.
We believe these innovations will drive traffic and increase customer engagement and loyalty.
The integration of convenient mobile functionality is important and this fall we have introduced Where Is My Order interface for customers on smartphone.
Recently we have also improved our customer order visibility online and we are extending the functionality of our onsite purchase and product recommendations features optimizing them for gift giving this holiday season.
I'd now like to take a moment to discuss our community engagement this holiday season.
Our corporate mission is to enhance our customers' life at home.
And this mission guides not only our business decisions but our giving and community strategy.
Our commitment to making a difference comes to life through a number of initiatives that reflect the passion of our associates.
And one key holiday effort has been on behalf of St.
Jude's Research Hospital which is the leading – is leading the way the world understands treatment of childhood cancer and other life threatening diseases.
Williams-Sonoma Inc.
is celebrating its 10-year milestone of participating in the St.
Jude Thanks and Giving holiday campaign.
And since 2005 our customers and associates have helped raise more than $26 million to help St.
Jude provide cutting-edge treatment and pursue visionary research.
This year all of our branch are participating in the Thanks and Giving campaign offering products especially designed for the St.
Jude's program.
We donate a portion of purchase price of each of these items directly to St.
Jude's Children Research Hospital.
And starting this week and running as long as our supplies last our customers can support St.
Jude anywhere they shop.
Now I would like to update you on the progress we have made across key initiatives to expand the reach of our brands globally launch new businesses and grow our existing brands.
We believe the successful execution of these strategies will deliver sustainable profitable growth and increased shareholder value over the long-term.
I would like to start with global.
We remain optimistic that global expansion will be a significant growth driver.
In the third quarter we made progress on several global expansion initiatives.
We announced a franchise agreement with Distribuidora Liverpool Mexico's leading department store chain and expect the first store to open in 2015.
Liverpool's market expertise and extensive supply chain will allow us to deliver the same high-quality of service that we provide in United States and around the world.
For those of you unfamiliar with Liverpool I would like to provide a brief overview of its business so you can fully appreciate the strategic rationale.
Liverpool has been in business since 1847.
It has 100 department stores across 56 cities and 5 duty-free stores in Mexico.
Liverpool's real estate division operates 24 shopping centers and welcomes more than 100 million shoppers every year.
And Liverpool is the largest non-bank credit card issuer in Mexico.
We are excited about this development and look forward to providing updates as we hit our milestone.
We also opened four new company-owned stores in Australia in suburban Sydney in August.
And just yesterday we opened four new company-owned stores in Melbourne.
We now have 13 stores in Australia and believe that we are developing strong brand awareness that will allow us to scale this business effectively.
We are also excited about the newest brands in our portfolio.
In Rejuvenation we are seeing nice momentum.
Performance has been driven by the introduction of new categories and updated aesthetic reflecting a differentiated point of view in a greater range of price points to bring new customers to the brand.
We have already launched more than 3x as many SKUs in 2014 as we did in 2013.
Our new collections in conjunction with refinements to our marketing strategy have resulted in higher levels of brand engagements.
This fall we are also excited about our new design collaboration that feature handcrafted lighting ceramics and accessories.
Each product combines the designers' aesthetics with Rejuvenation's high quality industrial look to serve as the perfect gift during the holidays.
These artisanal partnerships extend Rejuvenation's commitment to fostering local makers and supporting products made in United States.
In addition to seeing good growth online we are seeing strong comp store growth in our four locations.
As we refine our retail model and produce sustainable results we believe there maybe additional growth opportunities for Rejuvenation including opening more stores.
We're excited to be opening our fifth store next month in Palo Alto California.
The design of this location is a new prototype and as a result this store's productivity will be another key indicator for Rejuvenation's potential.
Mark and Graham recently celebrated its two year anniversary.
We continue to see strong sales growth and the brand's exclusive assortment of high-quality unique gift continues to grow.
Mark and Graham incorporates great design explicit typography and state-of-the-art technology.
It truly represents next generation personalization.
And for the holiday season we've introduced luxurious and accessible gift ideas across personal accessories and housewares.
Addition a key differentiator is our complimentary gift wrap.
This signature gift wrap is beautifully constructed and mirrors the modern sensibility and clean design of the brand.
This fall we also piloted our Trunk Show program in Mark and Graham a new marketing channel for us which is driving incremental sales and building brand awareness.
We are excited about the opportunities this brand continues to identify.
Now I would like to discuss our larger brands in more detail.
I'm going to start with the Williams-Sonoma brand.
In the third quarter comparable brand revenue increased 4.3% on top of 1.4% last year.
The Williams-Sonoma brand is now posted five consecutive quarters of comparable brand revenue growth and the third quarter brand comp is the highest Q3 comp since 2005.
We're pleased with the progress of the Williams-Sonoma brand year-to-date.
In the third quarter we saw solid performance across tools cutlery entertaining and tabletop.
Proprietary and exclusive product introductions also contributed to the Williams-Sonoma's brand success.
The Williams-Sonoma home business also continued to deliver strong results with a broader assortment and notable performance in furniture and textiles.
Also in the third quarter we were proud to reopen our original Williams-Sonoma store in Sonoma California on October 2nd which is our Founder Chuck Williams' 99th birthday.
This historic store design center and cooking school at the site of the original Williams-Sonoma store and our founder's former residence is a landmark.
The store captures the character of our location's earlier era exhibiting many of the iconic kitchenwares originally sold.
The store also celebrates Chuck's earlier discoveries by offering our latest and most popular products.
Williams-Sonoma is ready for the fourth quarter with inspiring and unique product and experiences and the highest level of customer service.
Begin with in the fourth quarter Williams-Sonoma is proud to be the exclusive bookseller for the Ina Garten Make It Ahead book tour.
The author of eight best-selling cookbooks and host of the Food Network's Barefoot Contessa Back to Basics show winner of both Emmy and James Beard award is celebrating the release of her eagerly anticipated ninth book Make It Ahead: A Barefoot Contessa Cookbook.
We couldn't be more pleased to be hosting these exclusive events with her offering our customers a chance to purchase a much coveted signed copy of this cookbook.
Copies of this book Make It Ahead are also available for purchase in all Williams-Sonoma stores and online at williams-sonoma.com.
Williams-Sonoma continues to make great chef partnerships and celebrate their success across the industry.
This holiday season we are offering our customers high-quality innovative products for entertaining and decorating.
We're also featuring stunning seasonal gift ideas at great values.
We are introducing layers of newness across electric cookware and tools.
And I'm most excited about our holiday foods in particular our new Williams-Sonoma's sweet tins and our standard Peppermint Bark collection.
We also broadened our savory offering to include time-saving seasoning starters and mixes that make preparing a holiday meal easy.
Finally we believe a great customer experience will be a key to success this holiday season.
We've invested in training and online customer order visibility so this holiday season we will reach the highest level of service in the industry.
We are thrilled to be offering Williams-Sonoma Express in all Williams-Sonoma stores this holiday after piloting a successful program last year.
Williams-Sonoma Express allows the customers to call ahead to our stores; we'll bring it wrap it and have it ready for you for pick-up.
This service enables an exceptionally convenient customer experience and will drive customer loyalty and we are so excited to be offering this value-added service.
Now I would like to discuss the Pottery Barn brand.
In the third quarter Pottery Barn comparable brand revenues increased 7% on top of 8.4% last year.
Performance is driven by strength across our proprietary upholstery collections made in our Sutter Street facility and unique bedroom furniture collections.
Our seasonal table-top and decorative accessories businesses improved sequentially relative to the second quarter as our customers responded to our new color palette an in-house design patterns and prints we featured this fall.
This fall we also launched our Curiosities collection with unique and innovative decorative accessories for every room of the house.
In the third quarter we saw our online business which is the broadest expression of our brand accelerate by delivering our product expansion strategy across numerous categories aesthetics and price points.
And we continue to perfect and expand our store customer services including our free interior design and installation services in the comfort of our customers' home which we believe our competitive advantage.
As we enter the fourth quarter we are committed to helping our customers get ready for the holidays.
Our mission is to help make our customers houses into their dream home.
From setting the table to stocking the bar to decorating the mantle we will help our customers get ready for guests parties and special occasions.
And we are particularly excited about our nostalgic and coastal holiday stories.
We are also featuring a broader assortment of gifts and gift services with gifts ranging from cozy robes to glitter mercury and unique ornaments.
And we are ready for our customers this holiday season.
Our gift concierge program will help our customers find perfect presents for everyone's on their list.
In their home and in our stores our teams will help every detail to make shopping and decorating for the holiday personal easy and fun.
And this holiday for the first year in a row Pottery Barn will offer products through our Give A Little campaign that would give back to 24 homeless shelters operating across North America.
Our campaign helps provide the critical funding needed to keep those homeless shelters operating on a daily basis.
Now I would like to discuss Pottery Barn Kid.
For the third quarter Pottery Barn kids comparable brand revenues increased 8.6% on top of 3.9% last year.
Our nursery and furniture businesses were especially strong in the third quarter.
The nursery has been a key area of strategic growth in kids and we have expanded our offering to a reach broader audience through aesthetic diversification and increased custom upholstery option.
Our free interior design services have also fueled the growth of our nursery business as we help expecting and new parents decorate that very special room for the very first time.
We had an execellent back-to-school season featuring printed and personalized backpack and waste-free lunch solutions plus an expanded assortment of desk and accessories for toddlers to school age kids.
Our seasonal businesses continued to be a key area of growth innovation starting with Halloween and continuing into our holiday offering in the fourth quarter this holiday season our assortment is celebrating kids love.
From decorating to gift giving we are helping our customers share traditions and celebrations with family and friends.
We are bringing this season alive by creating as best at home by delights of beautifully crafted gifts handmade ornaments and personalized stocking.
We are also focused on making the holiday gift giving season easy with enhanced store services and inspired gift vignettes.
In PBteen comparable brand revenues increased to 11.7% on top of last year's 16.7% growth.
The PBteen business delivers solid results across furniture textiles and decorative accessories.
Our collaboration strategy for PBteen continues to pay dividend by opening doors and attracting new customers to the brand.
Our newest collaboration is with the Junk Gypsy a two-sister designed team from Round Top Texas who have a one-hour show on the Great American country channel.
Junk Gypsy has dedicated an entire episode in this season for collaboration with PBteen.
Also in the third quarter we are pleased to see significant improvements in our inventory positions relative to the supply outage we experienced earlier in the year.
This holiday season PBteen will be offering teens an expanded selection of innovative gifts as long as new furniture textiles and decorative accessories to create the ultimate teen lounge and sleepover space.
We have broadened our gift collections across decorative and personalized accessories with a focus on beauty jewelry fur and sleepover.
And we are also introducing new lounge and game chair seating.
Technology-enabled gifts continue to be important theme as well.
We are featuring gifting options with accessible opening price points in addition to a selection of wild gifts that include pool and football table.
We are also excited we opened a new store in our backyard Mill Valley California.
We opened a few weeks ago and this store is allowing us to refine our retail model in PBteen and accelerate our mission to be local relevant and social.
Finally this past quarter across all Pottery Barn brands including Pottery Barn kids and PBteen we launched a strategy to engage not only to customers in a more relevant way but also with media and influencers around key seasons such as back-to-school and Halloween.
Our goal is to be the destination for decorating entertaining gift giving for all seasonal holidays and in turn create a ground swell of social sharing.
We focused our efforts in three places.
First high touch events with media influencers and celebrities second product seeding through our influencer program and third two-way social sharing compelling our customers to further share our content.
Next I would like to discuss West Elm.
We are pleased with our West Elm results which continued to demonstrate that West Elm has significant growth ahead.
We believe our strong performance relates directly to our key differentiating initiatives of choice community and consciousness.
In the third quarter comparable brand revenue increased by 17.4% on top of 22.2% last year.
Growth continued to be broad-based to get across categories.
And in the third quarter West Elm successfully opened nine new stores in Oklahoma City Kansas City Tulsa Pittsburgh Birmingham Michigan El Paso Washington DC Alpharetta Georgia and at Chadwick Chase in Sydney Australia.
Targeted public relations outreach and social activations resulted in more than a 100 million media and social impressions around the new stores.
In October the brand launched the best of local assortments bringing some of the most popular products and makers from regionally specific store assortments to a national customer and westelm.com.
And yesterday West Elm announced and celebrated the winner of the West Elm local small business brand.
Tennessee-based Little Seed Farm which makes organic soap and skin care from goats' milk and herbs and won the public voting with support from the campaign that invited their social stands to vote for goats.
West Elm currently offers local assortments in 24 stores that plans to roll assortment out to all stores next year.
This holiday season West Elm is offering a strong assortment of décor entertaining and gift for the home much of the brand assortment of trim and décor are handcrafted including felt and knit ornament from Nepal and in tabletop West Elm and choose the collection of dinnerware and accessories with feed projects to benefit Americans in need.
We continue to build on what is working and this can be seen in our popular mid-centric collections which is grown beyond the bedroom to include dining office and storage.
And in late December West Elm will introduced a collaboration with Kate Spade Saturday design to embody the playful easy-going style and spontaneous weekend spirits Kate Spade Saturday is known for.
This collection includes furniture setting rugs and home accessories to brighten up every room of the house and it will be available on all of our U.S.
and Canadian stores and supported with cross-channel marketing events and social activations.
West Elm is also focused on expanding choices for customers beyond residential home.
The brand recently launched West Elm contract the boutique designed New York trade show.
West Elm contract is a capital collection of contract grade furniture and accessories graded with hotels co-working spaces offices and cafes in mind.
The collection includes through West Elm most popular design reengineered with style strength and soul for high-traffic use and commercial grade requirements.
And finally in the consciousness focused area West Elm celebrated the graduation of the first class of students the West Elm sponsored literacy program and Caribbean craft in Haiti.
This six month program taught basic reading and writing skills to 35 artisans who make West Elm's popular paper-mache products.
West Elm is looking into opportunities for additional literacy programs and Haiti and the Philippines.
West Elm's commitment to choice community and consciousness continue to differentiate the brand from its competition.
And we remain confident in this brands ability to a $1 billion plus business.
I would like to turn the call over Julie to review our financial results in detail.
Thank you Laura and good afternoon everyone.
We are pleased with results we are reporting today with top line revenue growth of 9% and bottom line EPS growth of 17% including 40 basis points of operating margin expansion.
We believe this result demonstrates the power of our multi-channel business and our ability to successfully execute against our initiatives.
Our performance year-to-date gives us confidence in our ability to deliver sustained long-term growth.
In the third quarter net revenue exceeded our expectations increasing 8.7% to $1.143 billion with comparable brand revenues increasing 8.7% on top of 8.2% in the third quarter of 2013.
Net revenues in our ecommerce channel have once again generated double-digit growth growing 14.7% to $587 million and represented 51.3% of total company net revenues for the quarter a 250 basis point increase over last year.
And in the retail channel net revenues grew 3.1% to $556 million.
Gross margin for the third quarter was 37.7% versus 38.6% last year with occupancy cost as a percentage of net revenues flat year-over-year at 13.5% of net revenues for $154 million the 90 basis point decrease was primarily driven by lower selling margins in the ecommerce channel.
Selling margins in the retail channel were essentially flat year-over-year and sequentially total company merchandise margins improved.
Our disciplined approach to marketing effectiveness continues to result in productivity gains.
We are relentless about acquiring new customers profitably and increasing the lifetime value of our customers.
Our strategic levers again provided us with the flexibility to offer more value to our customers and at the same time drive operating margin expansion.
In the third quarter we offset our reduced selling margins within gross margin with greater advertising efficiency within SG&amp;A.
SG&amp;A in the third quarter improved 120 basis points to 28.6% versus 29.8% in 2013.
The improvement in SG&amp;A was primarily driven by advertising efficiency as well as lower general expenses and the leverage of employment cost.
Strong operational execution and financial discipline drove these improvements.
This resulted in operating margin for the third quarter of 2014 that was 9.2% 40 basis points higher than the operating margin of third quarter of 2013.
Higher revenues in the ecommerce channel which consistently operates at a much higher margin drove this operating margin expansion.
By channel the operating margin in the ecommerce channel in the third quarter of 2014 was 23.3% versus 22.9% in the third quarter of 2013.
In the retail channel the operating margin was 9% versus 9.1% in 2013 and corporate and allocated operating expense as a rate represented 7.2% of net revenues versus 7% of net revenues in 2013.
In the ecommerce channel the 40 basis points of operating margin expansion was driven by advertising efficiency and the leverage of both employment cost and general expenses.
In the retail channel the 10 basis points of operating margin deleverage was primarily driven by occupancy and employment cost deleverage related to our global initiatives and 17 new store openings in the quarter.
This was partially offset by lower general expenses resulting from strong financial and operational discipline.
In corporate and allocated the 20 basis point to deleverage was primarily related to higher occupancy cost associated with incremental investments in our IT infrastructure to support our strategic long-term growth initiative.
This was also partially offset by lower general expenses from strong expense control.
This top line revenue and bottom line operating margin outperformance drove a 17.2% increase in our third quarter 2014 diluted earnings per share resulting in earnings that were $0.68 per share versus $0.58 per share last year.
Moving to the balance sheet cash at the end of the quarter was $108 million given the seasonality of our business our cash levels reached their lowest point at this time of the year as we fund our business ahead of the holiday selling season.
In addition year-to-date we have returned $290 million in cash to our shareholders consisting of $195 million in share repurchases and $95 million in dividends.
Merchandise inventories at the end of the third quarter of 2014 increased 9% to $980 million from $899 million at the end of the third quarter of 2013.
Strong inventory execution as resulted in inventory levels that are now back in line for the revenue growth.
Inventory optimization is strategic.
We are always focused on both improving our in-stock position ad reducing our over stocks.
And we continue to make progress against these initiatives.
We believe we are well-positioned as we enter this holiday season.
I would now like to discuss our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2014 guidance.
We expect to deliver another year of record results for our shareholders and remain on track to deliver our three year outlook.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 we expect to grow net revenues to range of $1.525 billion to $1.575 billion with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 4% to 6%.
We expect our fourth quarter operating margin to be relatively in line with last year and we are guiding dilutive earnings per share to be in the range of $1.42 to $1.50.
For the full year as a result of our Q3 outperformance we are raising our guidance.
We now expect to grow net revenues to a range of $4.680 billion to $4.730 billion with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 5% to 7%.
We expect our operating margin to be in the range of 10.2% to 10.4% and we are increasing our fiscal year 2014 diluted earnings per share to now be in the range of $3.11 to $3.19 all other financial guidance within the press release remain unchanged from the previous guidance.
Our capital allocation guidance also remains unchanged.
In order to support our long-term strategic growth initiatives we are on track to make annual capital investments in the business in the range of $200 million to $220 million this year.
And we remain committed to returning cash to our shareholders by paying dividends and repurchasing shares under our existing share repurchase authorization.
In support of this ongoing commitment we are also pleased to announce these successful amendment of our unsecured revolving line of credit which increases the facility to $500 million and extended the maturity date to November 2019 in light of the growth of our business our efficient use of cash and our long-term commitment we believe increase and extending our line of credit stay is appropriate.
In closing we are very pleased with our strong results and operational execution.
We believe we are well-positioned for this holiday season and beyond.
With the customer as a center of everything we do we are confident in our competitive advantages including our great brands with their innovative products and outstanding service as well as our multi-channel platform with more 50% of our business coming from ecommerce.
These advantages plus our many opportunities for growth and our commitment to financial discipline continue to allows to remain confident in our ability to deliver sustainable long-term profitable growth.
I would now like to open the call for questions.
But before that I would like to wish all of you a very happy holidays and we look forward to helping you and your family shop this holiday season.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Daniel Hofkin with William Blair &amp; Company.
Good afternoon.
Can you hear me? Yes.
We can.
Hi Dan.
Hi Dan.
Hi.
Nice results.
Just quick question first on the guidance for the fourth quarter if my math is right it looks like pretty similar revenue guidance as what was implied before but maybe a little bit moderated on the EPS side.
Just wondering is that correct and if so what are the factors behind that.
And then I just had a follow-up question on kind of the Williams-Sonoma brand itself and where you think you are in the nine inning game both in terms of merchandising and in terms of kind of upping your service level game? Great.
I will take the first part Dan.
We feel great about our Q3 in year-to-date results and obviously the guidance we now have provided for Q4 fiscal year which will put us at another record year of revenue and earnings but still early in the quarter.
And this is one of our biggest quarters.
So you have to remember that.
For Q4 another thing to remember is that our guidance is up against the tough year-over-year compare.
And yet at the high-end of our range for comp brand revenue we are guiding a 6 comp on top of the 10 last year.
And for EPS we are guiding 9% growth after absorbing all of our investments.
And on a year we are guiding comp brand revenue growth at the high end to be almost 7 on top of 9 last year and we raised our EPS guidance.
So we think this guidance is strong and really we are focused on the long-term growth of our company on our way to doubling our revenues over time and this guidance is consistent with our three-year outlook.
Dan its Laura.
To your question on Williams-Sonoma we are very pleased with the performance that the Williams-Sonoma has posted year-to-date.
Couple of years ago we outlined the plan for you to reimagine the brand bringing more proprietary exclusive and innovative products and making the retail stores more exciting.
And we've made a lot of progress across both of those.
We have also continued to invest in our online capabilities in Williams-Sonoma brand.
We spent a lot of time on the onsite search and reorganizing the site so that it is easily shoppable both on a desktop and also mobily.
And we are seeing great results from all that.
In terms of innings we continue to see a lot of opportunity honestly.
We are pleased with what we have seen but we have a lot more work to do and we see this is one of the pre-eminent iconic brand out there.
And we believe they can have a much bigger presence globally than it has today.
And then also there is new categories that we can expand into in the future.
Great.
Nice results again best of luck.
Thanks Daniel.
We will go next to Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good evening.
Good evening.
Hi Chris.
Can you talk about the – I think there is a lot of debate out there about the promotional environment.
Can you talk about what you are seeing online and in the mall and how that's evolving as we head into the holidays? And also we are getting closer to the Thanksgiving so any thoughts you could share on what you are seeing around the Williams-Sonoma brand will do really great? Thanks.
Sure.
There is no question the holiday season will be even more competitive than last year.
But I also believe ecommerce will set new sales record and with over 50% of our revenue in ecommerce I believe we have a competitive advantage.
Our marketing drives traffic to all of our channels and our in-store experiences and services give our customers the confidence to order online.
Another competitive advantage that we have is our innovative proprietary product and the holidays are time when a customer wants to give a gift from a great brand and we believe we are really well-positioned with all of our brands this holiday season.
Okay.
So it doesn't sound like you are naturally worried -- directionally about how the promotional environment setting up in November and into Thanksgiving and Christmas? When we say we are going to be competitive this holiday it's far more than just price.
We believe that our in-store and our online services will continue to lead the industry –our proprietary product line is outstanding.
We've also worked all year and you've heard me say this to ensure that our offers are compelling.
And we believe that combination continues to allow us to gain market share.
Understood.
And then just one quick last one can you talk about the in-stock levels at Pottery Barn and Pottery Barn Teen and how that's improved over the quarter and how much you think it would still catch upon? Thanks.
So we feel really good about our inventory levels.
As we said on the call strong inventory execution resulted in inventory levels that now are back in line with revenue growth.
We are focused on inventory optimization and on both improving our in-stock position as well as reducing our over stocks.
And we continue to make progress against these initiatives.
We feel very good about the level of inventory if you are referencing a particular Pottery Barn Teen from last time obviously we have that but outage back in Q2 and we are predominantly back in with that inventory as of at this point.
Thank you.
And as a reminder we would like to ask everyone to please limit your questions to one initial question.
Again please limit yourselves to one question.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our next question from Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
Hi.
I wanted to talk a little bit more about the inventory particularly the gross margin dynamic and customer service.
It sounds like we are normal now how do you guys think about inventory turns or days on hand is at a more normal level? Have you made the adjustments for the port slowdown? And when we will start to see the benefit of the inventory changes showing up in gross margin? Hi.
Greg its Julie.
I will take that.
So as I was just saying before we feel really good about our inventory levels obviously there is always a delicate relationship between service levels and inventory especially the more that our sales are coming from the ecommerce sale.
The more important it is to be in stock.
We feel really good that we are back now in line with revenue growth.
So we have strong inventory discipline in place across the company.
And we believe we are well-positioned as we enter the holiday season with the right level of inventory to support the business and guidance we are providing today.
The bigger concern is obviously if this West Coast port slowdown continues or deteriorates we do have strategies in place to help mitigate the potential impact and of course our teams have been watching the slowdown and planning for it since the labor contract actually even expired.
And although we are 100% confident and our teams ability to navigate this to help minimize its impact on our inventory we are hopeful that there will be a solution soon because given the volume of goods that pass through the West Coast port longer term which isn't good for anybody.
From a margin perspective and some of our long-term initiatives the growth margin you'll start to see some of those benefits as we enter 2015 and some of those benefits I think you are referring to is the insourcing of our foreign agents that was completed mid of second quarter and all of that gets costed into the inventory and sold through starting really in 2015 so you'll start to see some benefit there.
And then the regionalization of our distribution centers you'll start to see the full benefit of that as we enter 2015.
But with that said obviously being a competitive from a promotion standpoint is important and if that's what the customer wants then the difference between us and other retailers is we're able to offset that with advertising efficiency with an SG&amp;A like we did in this quarter and still have 40 basis points of operating margin expansion.
We'll go next to Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks so much and good afternoon.
Hi Matt.
Hi Matt.
I want to focus if I could on the selling margin in ecommerce can you talk about to the degree to which that related to merchandising pricing and promotions and how much of it related to shipping? Sure.
As we said in our prepared remarks that it was – the decrease in gross margin was primarily driven by lower selling margin ecommerce channel and not in the retail channel was essentially flat.
But we did say that it's sequentially as the merchandise margins improved.
So there are a lot of things that are going in gross margin as you guys know I try to make it as least complicated as possible and probably in the end make it more complicated.
But this quarter particular we incurred some incremental cost to support our increased to poultry volumes the ramping up of our Dallas distribution center as well as other cost ahead of the holiday selling season.
For example to support our growing personalization business all of which put additional pressure on the Q3 selling margins but bottom-line even though these margins were down year-over-year we were able to still deliver the 40 basis points of operating margin expansion.
So that was more of some of those one-off factors than any change in the backdrop shipping or pricing-wise? Yes.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Jessica Mace with Nomura Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon and congrats on the nice quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
It seems like it's another example of you've been able to flex the gross margin SG&amp;A that delivered operating margin as you said.
And my question is on kind of going forward where we can expect to see further SG&amp;A savings especially in light of some of the investments and ramped up services that you talked about? From an SG&amp;A standpoint I think you'd probably seen every quarter that we have been able to leverage year-over-year and we don't expect that to change anytime soon.
Obviously the biggest factor that allows us to leverage is the advertising efficiency.
And so what we consistently say is that every quarter we make the call whether to spend that next dollar in advertising or to spend it from a promotion standpoint and unfortunately that has different lines.
And so depending on where the promotional activity is and what is happening in the market from a competitive standpoint you will continue to see that SG&amp;A leverage.
Also the more that we drive our revenues which is consistently happening to the ecommerce channel you will see a lot of our costs continue to leverage I don't expect that to change anytime soon.
We'll go next to Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Oh great.
Good afternoon.
Congrats on the quarter and congrats to Laura on the Fortune Businessperson of the Year list that was fantastic.
Thank you Neely.
Yes.
So question here on West Elm new store growth trajectory at what point do we start to think about maybe doubling the store growth? Admittedly we get it that the ecommerce sales are very very important but obviously store growth also grows ecommerce.
And I think if we recall back to the early days of PB it's right about now when I think PB was starting to maybe to open like 2X the amount of doors that West Elm's opening.
So could you help us think through that time line? And just a real quick housekeeping question for you Julie.
ecommerce the name change totally agree with the decision where there any financial statement reclassifications or organizational changes behind that name or was it just simply renaming on the P&amp;L? Thanks.
Go ahead Julie.
Okay.
So I'll take that last question there.
No you should read anything more into that I mean the reality is ecommerce has been over 90% of that channel for a while now we finally just made a decision to rename it nothing else has changed.
Okay.
In terms of West Elm growth we're really pleased with what we are seeing in the new stores.
As you heard the list we've opened in some different types of markets and all those stores give us confidence in our future plans for West Elm and we are looking for great stores and great centers that makes sense.
And we could possibly open more but we aren't looking to have races on this because sometimes you have to wait to get the best real estate.
And we also really want to make sure that we really understand the multi-store market dynamic in every one of our brands we've seen and learned different things when we open second third stores in the market.
So we're just hitting that part of the growth cycle now and we're really optimistic with what we are seeing about the future of this brand our retail expansion strategy and also our ability to really build the business online.
I think you also heard me talk about other legs of growth to West Elm today that we really think are exciting on including the contract furniture.
Thank you.
Best wishes.
We'll go next to Michael Lasser with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Good evening.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
Are consumers responding to any different types of promotions that you're finding more successful than before – so take kind of a broadbase 20% 25% off versus a more targeted promotion on a select item.
And is that driving incremental expense? It's interesting.
I'd say the thing that I'm really noticing is that people have been ready for Christmas earlier this year.
And we've seen really nice response to our guests already.
And I think it's proprietary innovative product first you want to give a wonderful thoughtful gift to people it's greater if you can get a great price on it but customers are pretty smart they shop around they know where the price fits and it's a very efficient market.
So I don't think it's any trip per se other than high-quality innovative proprietary product priced fairly.
And my follow-up question along those lines.
Where do you think is the minimum level of catalog distribution and how far do you think you are from reaching that point? It's different by brand and we test versions page counts sizes it's very complicated and here you're always finding new opportunities.
We're so lucky to have such a developed house file and a lot of different data points to draw from that's really I think a competitive advantage of ours.
Awesome.
Thank you so much.
Good luck with the holiday.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Seth Sigman with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thank very much.
I was wondering if you could give a little more color on the international business and specifically some of the investments you've been making in Australia.
How those stores are performing and when we should expect to see some of the leverage from those investments show up? Seth its Laura.
We're really early on our journey overseas I was in Australia and got to see our beautiful stores and you'd be so proud about how they're executing over there and of course like anything else you need to build scale.
So we're really focused on getting these stores open well getting the right services and getting the right inventory in line for our customers over there because there are different selling periods selling patterns I'm sorry and selling period that we need to adjust for.
We're pleased with the amount of business that's coming on line and how when we open a new store we see the online business also grow in that market.
Okay thanks.
And just one quick follow-up on a separate topic last quarter you discussed some fashion issues that may have impacted you.
Can you discuss what changed and whether you feel like you're fully through that at this point or is there still a toe and head? I think we're trying to we've been thought about I mentioned that I thought that the color pallet could have been brighter and more fun to the summer season and it follows a very different time period.
So you move quickly out of that and while the pillows are a huge percent of our business that sort of window dressing and – sofas and so we tend to be very self critical and always looking for merchandising improvements and operational improvements and as you heard me say we saw much stronger response to the fashion textiles this fall.
Thanks very much.
Thanks.
And we will take our next question from Simeon Gutman with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
And congratulations on the quarter and happy holidays.
Thanks.
And wish you too.
I have a couple of questions I will ask them upfront so I don't get that cut-off.
First Williams-Sonoma was so strong in terms of growth.
I don't think you will answer but I'm going to ask can you talk to the traffic in the store versus the business online? And then the second question follow-up on the expense leverage given how solid it was it looks the point per comp or leverage per point in comp the flow through was even better than previous quarters.
I think you would agree so beyond the leverage that you are getting from the comp but actually looks like something is getting better and either how the cost are controlled et cetera? And Julie just to clarify did you say that fourth quarter EBIT margins should be inline with last year's margin? Relatively inline yes.
Okay.
I will take the SG&amp;A one first.
So I think yes we are getting better leverage than you probably obtained but that's a function of several different things as I mentioned this expense control.
But its also the fact that we are very efficient with the advertising so that will ebb and flow depending on the quarter and what are operational decisions are by quarter.
In terms of traffic I think we don't have traffic counters in our stores.
And we have a big outreach program in each and every stores.
We are actually building that to a large extent right now in Williams-Sonoma something we started in Pottery Barn within home design services and we see a similar opportunity where we can go your house and redo your kitchen.
And we are just getting going on that.
So traffic is of course really important to us in the mall and we are really encouraging the mall owners to really do things to drive traffic.
But we are also making traffic happen in our stores with all of our great smells and decorating classes.
And of courses reaching out to our customers employing them in and going in to their own home.
In terms of the interplay between ecommerce and our stores.
We really believe that when you go have a great experience in one of our stores you are going to be more confident shopping online.
And that something that people who don't have stores – don't have the same advantage particularly during the gift giving time of the year when you want to be sure that you are really buying that that thoughtful gift for the people on your list.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our final question today will come from David Magee with SunTrust.
Yes.
Hi.
It's David Magee.
Good afternoon and congrats on your quarter.
Hi David.
Thanks.
Thank you David.
I just wanted to ask about the comments that you made earlier about the promotional environment for holidays you think might more intense than last year.
And it just strikes me that given your customer demographic who has had I'd think a pretty decent year I'm surprised that that would be the case.
Is it just sort of a mind set that we have to deal this for the new-new or is there some sort of new competitive dynamic at play? No.
I don't think there is any change.
I think this is somewhat sort of the new-new.
There is no question for this holiday season will be competitive.
We prepare for this all year along.
We are ready online in our stores and everyone of our brands we have an outstanding assortment of gifts and we are in it to win it and gain market share.
And because of our ecommerce scale and knowledge of our retail customers we can deliver a highly relevant offers digitally or through email that are highly impactful.
So we believe we are well-positioned for this holiday season to continue to provide our customers what they need for the gifts giving season to outperform our competition and to continue to take market share.
We don't believe anything has changed.
Thank you.
And at this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to your presenters for any additional and/or closing remarks.
Well thank you all for joining us today.
And we really appreciate your support and I want to echo with Julie that which is thank you for shopping with us this holiday season.
We hope to provide you and your family and friends outstanding service.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Inc.
fourth quarter and fiscal year 2014 earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.] And I would now like to turn the conference over to Gabrielle Rabinovitch vice president investor relations to discuss non-GAAP financial measures and forward looking statements.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon.
This call should be considered in conjunction with the press releases that we issued earlier today.
Our earnings press release and this call may contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
A reconciliation of any of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and our explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures may be useful are discussed in our release.
IN the fourth quarter of 2014 we recognized non-GAAP income associated with the Visa Mastercard antitrust litigation settlement.
This income was recognized as corporate unallocated income and did not impact the ecommerce and retail reportable segments.
Additionally as a reminder when we discuss our fiscal year numbers we recognized non-GAAP expense of $0.02 in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 which was also recognized in corporate unallocated.
The remainder of the discussion today will relate to results excluding these non-GAAP items.
This call also contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which address the financial condition results of operations business initiatives trends guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2014 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings including the most recent 10-K and 10-Q for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our president and chief executive officer to discuss our results.
Thank you Gabrielle.
Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us today.
On the call with me are Julie Whalen our chief financial officer and Pat Connolly our chief strategy and business development officer.
I’m pleased to report today on our strong brand performance for the fourth quarter and the year and share our opportunities for the future.
In 2014 we delivered EPS of $3.20 on top of $2.84 last year exceeding guidance that we had raised twice during the year.
We experienced growth in all of our brands and across our channel highlighted by our highly profitable ecommerce business which grew to over 50% of total revenue.
We achieved these results while also continuing to invest in our strong brands and multichannel platform.
We implemented technology enhancements to improve customer service and advance the flexibility and capacity of our ecommerce platform.
We completed the insourcing of our foreign buying offices which will not only reduce cost but improve quality and strengthen our supplier relationships.
And we continue to refine our domestic supply chain by insourcing more of our furniture delivery operations.
We also made significant progress in automating aspects of our personalization capability.
In the fourth quarter we exceeded the high end of our expectations despite challenges relating to the West Coast port disruption.
The prolonged slowdown negatively impacted our results and will continue to impact us to an even greater degree in the beginning of this year.
Mitigating this situation is a key priority and we are intently focused on the strategies and tactics to ensure the availability of merchandise in our stores and on our websites.
Julie will talk in more detail about the impact of the port disruption on our business later in the call.
Before I go through our holiday performance by brand I want to tell you what our mindset was going into the holiday season.
We knew it was going to be promotional and it was even more so than expected.
We had strong performance because of our innovative exclusive products and our high service multichannel model.
Serving our customer is the foundation of our operating strategy.
In the fourth quarter this meant expediting product that arrived late to ensure it reached our customers in time for the holidays.
We also stepped up our retail execution this holiday season.
Our in store experiences further differentiated our brands.
I’d like to give you some highlights of our brands’ performance during the quarter.
The Williams-Sonoma brand posted its sixth consecutive quarter of comparable brand revenue growth for the 2.8% comp.
We are seeing momentum in the brand.
The strategies that we have outlined are working and allowing us to gain market share.
Our cookware food and entertaining categories were strong performers.
Also in the fourth quarter we opened a new Costa Mesa store that represents a fresh experience at retail for the brand.
The results of this store have exceeded our expectations and we see opportunity to improve productivity at retail based on learnings from this model.
Across our Pottery Barn brand customer demand growth in the quarter was more than twice net revenue growth as delays in receipts created lost demand and increased back orders that were not filled during the quarter.
Pottery Barn comp brand net revenues increased 2.9%.
Our nostalgic decorative accessories textiles and tabletop collections were met with a strong customer response.
Throughout the quarter we also saw significant demand for furniture across our upholstery and leather businesses.
Pottery Barn Kids Q4 comparable brand net revenues increased 2.7%.
Our strategy to own seasonal decorating for children contributed to our performance and brought new customers to the brand.
In PBteen comparable brand net revenues grew 3%.
Highlights from the PBteen business were our seasonal bedding assortments and textile assortments including our girls and guys sleepover and gear collections.
And in West Elm we once again delivered exceptional performance in the quarter with 19.6% comparable brand net revenue growth on top of 18.3% last year.
West Elm began to increase inventory levels during the summer and early fall to support new store openings and as a result while still impacted by the port disruption net revenues were closer to demand.
The brand drove positive results in both the core assortment as well as notable newness with the biggest category growth coming from furniture including line extensions and expanded aesthetics.
By flying in a pre-spring assortment in late December West Elm took advantage of continued high traffic during the holiday season giving customers another reason to shop the brand.
I will now turn the call over to Julie to review our financial results in detail and provide our guidance for 2015.
I will then come back and outline the strategies we are implementing to achieve our objectives.
Thank you Laura and good afternoon everyone.
Before I walk you through our results in more detail I would like to begin with a few financial highlights for the year.
For the full year comparable brand revenues grew 7.1% with 12.1% growth in our ecommerce business.
This year for the first time ecommerce revenues surpassed 50% of our revenue and Pottery Barn passed the $2 billion threshold for brand net revenues.
Williams-Sonoma delivered 3.8% comparable brand revenue growth the highest it has been since 2010 and more than double last year.
And West Elm delivered comparable brand revenue growth of 18.2% the fifth year of double digit increases.
Operating margin reached a record 10.5%.
The strength of our operating model gives us the ability to deliver this year over year operating margin expansion while continuing to invest in our infrastructure develop new brands and expand the reach of our brands globally.
And our EPS for the full year grew 12.7% consistent with our longer term outlook.
We also returned approximately $350 million to stockholders while investing in the long term growth of our business.
Now I would like to comment further on our fourth quarter performance.
For the fourth quarter net revenues grew to $1.542 billion or a year over year increase of 5.2% with comparable brand revenues increasing 5.1%.
Net revenues in our ecommerce channel represented 49.9% of total company net revenues a mix increase of 170 basis points over last year and grew 9% to $770 million.
Net revenues in our retail channel grew 1.6% to $772 million.
Gross margin for the fourth quarter was 40.1% versus 40.6% last year including occupancy costs of $155 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 versus $149 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
We are pleased with our gross margin performance in Q4.
We had a very carefully planned promotional strategy and we saw benefits from the insourcing of our foreign agents.
The pressure we saw in gross margin was substantially related to increased fulfilment costs as a result of actions we took to mitigate port disruptions to fulfil our customer demand.
SG&amp;A decreased to 25.2% of revenues from 25.8% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
This 60 basis point improvement were primarily related to employment leverage and advertising efficiency.
Operating margin for the fourth quarter was 14.9% a 10 basis point improvement from the fourth quarter of last year.
By channel the operating margin in the ecommerce channel in the fourth quarter of 2014 was 23.6% versus 24.7% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The 110 basis point decline was primarily driven by lower selling margins which were significantly impacted by increased fulfilment costs as a result of our commitment to get our customers’ holiday gifts to them in time especially in light of the later peak in holiday demand as well as the incremental cost of our port mitigation actions.
This was partially offset by greater advertising efficiencies.
In the retail channel the operating margin was 17% versus 17.2% in 2013.
An improvement in gross margin primarily due to higher selling margin was offset by employment cost to leverage related to our global initiatives and new store openings particularly in the West Elm brand.
Corporate and unallocated operating expenses represented 5.4% of net revenues versus 6% of net revenues in 2013.
The 60 basis point improvement was primarily driven by employment leverage.
These results generated $230 million in operating income and 10.1% growth in diluted earnings per share to $1.52 in the fourth quarter.
For the fiscal year net revenues increased to $4.699 billion or 7.1% with comparable brand revenues increasing 7.1%.
By channel net revenues in our ecommerce channel grew 12.1% to $2.371 billion reaching a major milestone of representing over half of our annual revenues for the first time.
Net revenues in our retail channel grew 2.4% to $2.328 billion.
Gross margin for the year was 38.3% versus 38.8% last year.
Gross margin was primarily driven by lower selling margins.
Fiscal 2014 occupancy costs were $603 million versus $562 million in 2013.
SG&amp;A decreased 70 basis points to 27.8% of net revenues from 28.5% in 2013.
The 70 basis point improvement resulted from advertising efficiencies the leverage of employment expenses and lower general expenses from strong financial and operational discipline throughout the year.
In fiscal 2014 advertising expenses increased $4.4 million to $330 million from $326 million in 2013 resulting in 40 basis points of leverage and contributed to a $311 million increase in revenue in 2014.
Our business generated $495 million in operating income in 2014 increasing 9% from 2013.
Operating margin was 10.5% a 10 basis point increase from 2013.
Strong operating results allowed us to invest in our growth initiatives while still generating year over year operating margin expansion.
By channel the operating margin in the ecommerce channel for 2014 was 23.6% versus 23.7% in 2013.
The 10 basis point difference resulted primarily from lower selling margins which were almost completely offset by advertising efficiencies allowing us to deliver another year of record operating income in the ecommerce channel.
In the retail channel 2014 operating margin was 10.7% versus 11% in 2013.
Higher selling margins and lower general expenses were offset by employment cost deleverage related to our global initiatives and new store openings particularly in the West Elm brand as well as higher occupancy costs related to our company owned global expansion.
Corporate and unallocated operating expenses represented 6.7% of net revenues flat to 2013 with occupancy deleverage associated with our ongoing IT investments offset by the leverage of employment and general expenses.
Diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2014 were $3.20 a 12.7% increase over 2013.
Our business continues to generate strong financial returns and excellent cash flows.
Cash at the end of the year was $223 million.
Cash provided by operating activities of $462 million allowed us to invest in the business with $205 million in capital expenditures and to return $350 million to stockholders in the form of share repurchases of $224 million and dividends of $126 million.
Merchandise inventories at the end of the year increased 9.2% to $888 million of which a significant portion of this inventory was in transit and not available for sale.
Our inventory available for sale in total only grew 3% year over year.
These lower inventory levels were particularly evident across the PB portfolio of brands.
In the PB brand our largest brand inventory on hand and available for sale was 9% lower than last year and their year over year inventory levels available for sale have continued to deteriorate into 2015 from the ongoing impact of the West Coast port disruption.
We began implementing strategies earlier last summer to prioritize receipts and divert shipments to other ports on both the east and west coasts but given the size of our business and the type of merchandise we sell there are limited options for mitigation.
With our import levels amounting to approximately 30 000 containers each year and with about 50% of these typically moving through the West coast ports alone we are one of the 25 largest container volume importers in the United States.
Every day we are continuing to assess all options to get merchandise to our customers more quickly.
Our number one priority has always been to serve our customer.
To this end we shipped merchandise across the country to our West Coast DC and incurred substantial incremental shipping expense to ensure that our customers’ orders would arrive in time.
Through the fourth quarter we were able to offset missed sales and incremental costs with other operating efficiencies.
However the situation at the West Coast ports deteriorated in February causing a material disruption in 2015 that is ongoing.
While an agreement has been reached the slowdown has created a significant backlog and the reality is we are still waiting for many containers to be unloaded at the port.
As such we have provided an estimate reflecting our best assessment of the short term impact that the port disruption will have on our business which includes the earnings impact of delayed receipts on back order fill and lost customer demand as well as increased fulfilment expenses.
We are estimating the impact of the West Coast port slowdown to be approximately $30 million to $40 million in lost sales and $0.10 to $0.12 in reduced EPS in fiscal 2015 which predominantly affects the first quarter.
The underlying health of our brands and channels remains strong and our long term growth initiatives remain on track to allow us to more than double our business.
Our guidance on the year excluding the short term impact from the West Coast port disruption reflects revenue and earnings guidance that is in line with our three-year outlook of mid to high single digit revenue growth and low double-digit to mid-teens EPS growth with revenues growing 8% including comparable brand revenue growth of 5% to 7% and earnings growing 12% at the high end of the range.
With this in consideration I would now like to discuss our outlook for 2015 which includes the impact of the West Coast port disruption.
For the year we expect to grow net revenues to a range of $4.950 billion to $5.020 billion with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 4% to 6%.
Operating margin is expected to be in the range of 10.2% to 10.5%.
Diluted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $3.35 to $3.45 per share.
For the first quarter of 2015 we expect to grow net revenues to a range of $990 million to $1.01 billion with comparable brand revenue growth of 2% to 4%.
We expect operating margin to be below last year’s operating margin rate and diluted earnings per share will be in the range of $0.40 to $0.45 per share.
In fiscal year 2015 there also no changes to our capital allocation policy.
We remain committed to our longer term outlook of maintaining a balanced capital allocation strategy.
We plan to utilize our operating cash flow to invest in the business to support our ongoing growth initiatives and to return cash to shareholders.
In fiscal year 2015 consistent with our three-year outlook we are planning capital spending in a range of $200 million to $220 million.
In addition to our required annual investments in our retail fleet and IT infrastructure we will be investing in those areas where we see sustainable long term returns for our shareholders.
First we’ll be making investments in our ecommerce platform which continues to demonstrate double digit revenue growth year over year at an operating margin of 24%.
Second we’ll be making investments in our supply chain initiatives that continue to materially reduce cost throughout our network as well as provide value and service to our customers.
Third we’ll be making investments in new stores particularly in the West Elm brand which has delivered profitable three year revenue growth of 99% and comp growth of 53%.
And finally we will be making investments in our longer term growth initiatives including our newer businesses and global expansion supporting our long term growth targets to more than double the business.
We also remain committed to returning cash to our shareholders.
In 2013 we announced a $750 million share repurchase authorization.
We have $287 million remaining on the program and available for share repurchases during 2015.
We also announced in 2013 a commitment to pay dividends targeted at 35% to 40% of net income and in line with the S&amp;P 500 dividend yield.
Today in support of this commitment we announced a 6% increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.35 per share.
This is the ninth dividend increase we have had since its inception in 2006 and represents a dividend increase of more than 100% over the last three years alone.
These dividends and share repurchases combined will have us returning more than a billion dollars to our shareholders over a three year period.
In summary we are confident in our ability to achieve these results and we have a team motivated to deliver on our long term objectives.
Looking ahead we see many opportunities for continued growth and we believe we are well-positioned to deliver on all of our long term strategic growth initiatives.
I would now like to turn the call back to Laura to discuss our strategies in play to support these long term initiatives.
Thank you Julie.
Before we move to Q&amp;A I’d like to discuss our key initiatives and objectives.
Back in early October I was in Sonoma California and we were reopening a Williams-Sonoma store in the original location of Chuck Williams’ first store opened in 1956.
We went to great lengths to replicate the original store including much of the merchandise assortment.
The look and feel and the customer experience was surprisingly relevant.
The next morning we cooked breakfast inviting the entire town of Sonoma to join us in the plaza.
About 2 000 people showed up to show their appreciation of us returning to our roots and of course to eat the pancakes.
This experience made me realize once again how far this company has come in its 58 year life and in the 20 years I’ve been with it.
How fortunate we’ve been to attract such outstanding associates and supplier partners that have accepted the responsibility of stewardship of a great brand while constantly seeking ways to be relevant to the needs and desires of today’s consumer.
The importance and rewards of staying true to your values.
Of course today we’re a strong portfolio of brands.
We have eight brands seven of which we have developed ourselves and in each brand we have passionate stewards that are constantly responding to the customer’s needs and desires for products and services that meet those needs.
Our mission is to enhance our customers’ lives at home and our associates always put the customer first.
They also deliver daily results while staying focused on the long term goal of being the leading home furnishings and housewares retailer in the world and we believe that the growth opportunities we see ahead of us are greater than any in our history.
You may be asking what makes us think that and why do we believe that we will continue to produce growth in revenue and earnings while delivering greater value to our customers in an increasingly competitive and rapidly changing retail environment.
The results that we have delivered over the past years are but one factor in giving us this confidence.
We have big plans for the future but we are equally committed to delivering exceptional results along the way.
Our brand strategies are the foundation for growth and in each of our brands we believe we can take market share.
Our portfolio of brands and our strength in brand development is a differentiator.
I’d now like to provide more detail about our 2015 brand specific initiatives.
In the Williams-Sonoma brand our strategies for the brand are further setting the brand apart as the destination for cooking and entertaining.
While we still have work to do our team has made great progress against their strategic initiatives and the brand performance was the best in the last four years with growth beating industry averages.
We’ve refreshed the brand image and made significant progress attracting new customer demographics to the brand.
We have a renewed presence in the food community with chefs and food and cooking enthusiasts.
We’ve also delivered exclusive inspiring products with increased penetration of Williams-Sonoma branded product.
Our team has turned this brand into a vertical design center allowing us to lead again in exclusive design.
As an example of our product strategy this spring we are offering an Asian inspired assortment with a new tabletop collection sauces and spices to quickly bring meals to life and innovative tools to make cooking easier.
We are expanding our open kitchen assortment of cookware cook’s tools and dinnerware which has been an important source of new customers to the brand.
We’re excited to celebrate Easter and Passover with our customers with new and exclusive entertaining and décor assortments.
We’ll also be building on the success of Williams-Sonoma Home in 2015 by giving our customers a broader offering.
Williams-Sonoma Home represents a sizable opportunity and we will extend its reach throughout the year and beyond.
I would now like to update you on our strategies for the Pottery Barn brand.
Together the Pottery Barn brands approach $3 billion in revenue having grown at approximately a 16% compounded aggregate growth rate over the past 20 years and we believe we are just getting going.
We continue to see white space areas that we believe are opportunities in each of the Pottery Barn brands.
Product development has always made us a leader in design and sets us apart.
We are expanding categories expanding aesthetics.
We are further regionalizing assortments.
We are introducing exciting new collaborations.
We are offering additional pricing tiers.
We are increasing our speed to market and we are building on our personalization capabilities.
Our biggest opportunity over the next several years may be our One Home strategy which pulls our customer across every life stage lifestyle and life size.
We placed all three brands under a leader who has worked on all three brands for more than 20 years and the majority of our PB Kids customers are also PB customers and the majority of our new PBteen customers were once PB Kids customers.
We’ve given each brand greater visibility on all three websites and this has increased cross brand referral traffic by 25%.
Our personalized clienteling and in home interior design services are becoming more integrated and are a key competitive advantage in the market.
In the short term our biggest opportunity across all three Pottery Barn brands is to improve our in-stock positions.
We know that being in stock is critical.
Out of stock situations not only create back orders but increase lost demand and increased cost.
A Pottery Barn Kids customer who wants to buy a crib may choose not to if the mattress and bedding for that crib are not available and this is why we are so intently focused on resolving the receipt of our delayed shipments and increasing our in stock position through the remainder of the year.
In the Pottery Barn brand specifically we believe we have a strong product lineup for 2015.
We have extensive new outdoor collections and new collaborations that we’ll be introducing through the balance of the year.
We’re also continuing to build on our success with free in home design services.
In 2015 we’ll expand the reach of our brand through social media.
We have vast amounts of content that we will syndicate to generate earned media and attract new customers to the brands.
We’ve already introduced a like to buy it shoppable Instagram feature and we are also working more with our other user-generated content and we’re testing ways to optimize our use of Pinterest.
In Pottery Barn Kids we had strong new customer growth in 2014 and for a brand serving the children’s market the ability to attract new customers profitably is especially important and we attracted almost 1 million new customers to the brand and we are planning on building this momentum.
We’re excited about our spring collections featuring a preppy and fresh color palette and vibrant patterns.
Our looks combine core classics with designer inspired accents and we continue to improve our quality while staying competitive on price.
In 2015 we also expect to expand on our free interior design services across our kids’ retail in our direct business.
In PBteen we’ll be introducing newness throughout the year in our trending categories at new and compelling opening price points.
The brand has been especially successful in developing collaborations with key influencers in the teen market.
Examples include Burton Snowboards Emily and Meritt and most recently the Junk Gypsies.
PBteen recently announced an exclusive collaboration with Kelly Slater the 11-time world surfing champion.
Inspired by Slater’s genuine passion and commitment to global conservation this home furnishings collection available in April is made with sustainable materials and recycled fabrics.
Now I would like to talk about West Elm.
Over the past five years the West Elm brand has grown at a compounded annual growth rate of 26% and the customer response to our aesthetic and category introductions has been strong.
This growth has been driven by exceptional performance in retail and ecommerce.
In 2014 we opened 11 stores all of which exceed our pro forma expectations for revenue and profitability.
We plan to open 19 stores in 2015 and look forward to updating you on these exciting developments.
Online West Elm is also delivering strong results with new marketing initiatives testing new models for conversion and acquisition and remaining highly focused on the mobile customer experience.
West Elm remains focused on its differentiated product strategy including filling out underserved categories and creating diverse assortments that reflect the local customer as well as layering on West Elm local collections featuring artists and makers from the store areas.
West Elm Local will roll out to all stores this year supporting more than 500 artists and designers.
West Elm stores continue to embrace their role as community hubs creating environments and relationships that foster creativity and empower customers to express their personal style.
The brand continues to actively seek out new opportunities for growth and brand extension an example of which is West Elm Contract.
West Elm announced a new contract division in Q3.
In Q4 the brand announced a strategic partnership with Inscape a leader in creating workspace solutions that make life at work better.
Last month the two companies gave dealers an exclusive preview of West Elm Workspace a collection of more than 50 office products designed by West Elm’s in house team and available exclusively with Inscape.
West Elm Workspace will offer office systems private office products lounge seating and accessories and will be featured in June at NeoCon the commercial interior industry’s largest design exposition.
Like Pottery Barn’s white space strategy West Elm Workspace will fill an identified need in the market.
Workspace together with other initiatives currently under development gives us great confidence in the future growth of West Elm.
Also today we have two standalone brands that we would categorize as emerging brands: Rejuvenation and Mark and Graham.
Both have excellent growth prospects and are both profitable today.
We leveraged William-Sonoma Inc.’s core competencies to drive business and practices in each of these brands.
Together Rejuvenation and Mark and Graham grew 30% last year.
Both brands are examples of how we can leverage our extensive data analytics capabilities to identify prospective customers and build profitable brands quickly.
In Rejuvenation our product strategy is yielding great results.
We are expanding categories by bringing the elements of our beautiful and utilitarian lighting and hardware to other rooms of the home.
We’re also introducing new aesthetics to grow our business within existing categories.
This year we are focused on aggressive customer acquisition leveraging our database and prospecting models with digital marketing and emails while using social media.
We will also look for additional retail opportunities where we have strong direct sales to drive brand awareness and results.
Mark and Graham completed its second full year as a brand and offers an edited and timeless assortment of high quality thoughtful personalized gift items.
The collections are innovative creative and nostalgic.
Personal accessories [unintelligible] apparel as well as bar and entertaining categories continue to drive results.
Spring is off to a strong start with a new preppy inspired assortment focused on wellness and travel.
Our marketing messages will celebrate milestones and holidays with an emphasis on engagement through social media as well as strategic catalog mailings.
Finally I would like to discuss expanding the reach of our brands around the world.
Our global expansion strategy consists of franchises and company owned businesses.
We will employ these alternatives based on market potential operational ease and franchise partner strength in each country.
We have great franchise partners and currently they operate 28 stores in the Middle East and two stores in the Philippines.
We have signed a definitive franchise agreement with Liverpool a 100 year old department store company in Mexico and we believe that Mexico is a great market for our brands.
We are also pursuing other franchise partners in a number of key regions and we are finding significant interest from high quality partners.
Our first major entry with company owned stores has been in Australia.
We’ve opened 13 stores to date and we plan to open six more this year.
We are very pleased with the overall presentation of our brands our in store experiences our teams and our real estate.
We’re also focused on profitability and as we gain scale we should see leverage against the operations.
Our strategy with company owned stores is to complement them with a strong ecommerce presence.
Our goal is that we would have the same percentage of ecommerce in these markets as we do in the United States.
In closing I would like to thank our associates for delivering a year in which we produced great results while continuing to invest in our future.
As we look ahead we see so many opportunities that our portfolio of brands and our unique multichannel platform provide and we are committed to execution.
And with that I would like to thank all of you for your support and open the call for questions.
[Operator instructions.] At this time we will take a question from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
The question I want to focus on today is the impact that the port strike had on the fourth quarter.
You sized the impact fairly precisely for the first half of the year.
You alluded directionally to some pressure on revenues and also just on the gross margin as you work to expedite shipments that were otherwise delayed.
So can you take a shot at the different line items of impact that you saw in Q4? So first of all I want to make sure we’re all grounded on the fact this West Coast port disruption has impacted all retailers all with varying impacts depending on the size of their container volume the types of goods they sell and their levels of in stock and available for sale inventory in particular just prior to the disruption and during the disruption.
Managing the flow of goods has been and still is our number one operational priority and early on we began redirecting shipments and prioritizing receipts and expediting etc.
to service our customers.
And this is more expensive unfortunately in the short term but it’s the right thing to do for our customers.
No one expected including us that the West Coast port disruption would last as long as it did.
And as we started moving through the fourth quarter those brands with the lowest inventory on hand growth primarily across the portfolio of PB brands were the most impacted.
As evidenced in Q4 by demand comps that Laura alluded to across the Pottery Barn brands that were more than double the net comps.
Pottery Barn our largest brand of course ended the year down 9% year over year on inventory on hand and unfortunately [unintelligible] is currently down approximately 14.5% year over year inventory on hand.
However to your question of the impact on the fourth quarter given the size of the fourth quarter as compared to say the first quarter or the first half of 2015 and the mix of sales including a higher mix of Williams-Sonoma sales which gets the majority of their inventory from domestic vendors and were less impacted the Q4 impact of the West Coast port slowdown was much less severe on the quarter.
Also given that Q4 includes the holiday time period with as we all know a lot of moving parts it is much harder to disentangle with 100% accuracy how much was a direct result of the West Coast port slowdown.
With that said here’s what we do know.
One across the Pottery Barn brand we saw the lowest levels of inventory on hand growth and in the Pottery Barn brand as I just mentioned we had the negative 9% year over year growth of the inventory on hand which has since deteriorated.
Second across the Pottery Barn brand the underlying health of the business is strong with demand comps more than double the net comps.
And third we incurred incremental shipping costs to get our product wherever it was sitting to our customers to try to meet strong customer demand.
We were however able to offset this with strong sales in Williams-Sonoma and West Elm that were less impacted by the ports during Q4 and with various operational efficiencies and still meet or beat our guidance and on the year.
We drove comp brand revenue growth of 7.1% which is well above the industry average.
We drove operating margin expansion while investing in our future and we drove 12.7% growth in EPS to $3.20 all in line with our longer term outlook.
So just by way of quick follow up and I promise on the same topic acknowledging that you guys did everything you said you would do despite this do you feel like the numbers would have been measurably better without the port strike? They would have been better for sure yeah.
At this time we’ll move to Peter Benedict with Robert W.
Baird &amp; Company.
I guess my question is on the store growth or the store outlooks that you’re giving in West Elm and for Williams-Sonoma.
And West Elm the acceleration with the 19 openings glad to see that.
Is that an opportunistic increase or something that we think should continue as we look beyond this year and could it accelerate even further? And similarly on Williams-Sonoma the closures net five closures over the last couple of years.
This next year looks like you’re going to be closing eight net.
Is that a new level that we should be thinking about? You know we’ve always had a very disciplined approach to retail but we’ve also been innovators at retail.
Our West Elm stores this year were very carefully chosen and we were thrilled to see the results higher than we even had expected.
When we started putting together our roadmap for retail openings we had a long list of areas we should be.
And sometimes the amount of stores that you get in a given year is dependent on landlord availability.
We’re so lucky to have such strong partners with very very creative forward thinking landlords and we have 19 wonderful stores opening this year.
And beyond that we do have other stores that we’re working on.
Obviously this is a particularly large number for this year and we think it’s a huge opportunity to continue to increase the awareness of the West Elm brand which while it’s done so well so many people still don’t know the brand.
And when they see a store come to their market it really improves their perception and then they also buy more online.
So that is a great opportunity for us.
In terms of Williams-Sonoma we’ve been closing in markets where we are either too heavy in the market with stores or where there is a better locations.
So we have [closed open] in some areas and then in other areas we’ve decided to let the sales go to a store in the area.
With that said we see also a new era of growth for retail productivity in the Williams-Sonoma brand.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks we opened a store at South Coast Plaza.
Tried a lot of new things that we had carefully really discussed and we’re seeing so many of those things work.
And it’s not that we’ll open a bunch of stores that look like South Coast Plaza necessarily but there are pieces and parts of that model that we can roll out to a larger amount.
And some of it is not fixture and remodel but simply merchandising ideas.
So we’re very excited about this new era for Williams-Sonoma at retail and like West Elm we have some very exciting projects going on this year that you’ll see us really push the interactivity at the store level in the brand and also bring new merchandising ideas to the floor.
We’ll take a question from Daniel Hofkin with William Blair &amp; Company.
Just I guess putting the port issue to some degree aside and with regard to what you feel like you can control in that part of the business or just merchandising marketing etc.
anything that you would call out in terms of you feel like executionally you could have done better during the period? And then I guess I had a question about the potential margin benefit from the insourcing.
How much do you think that could benefit margins how much do you think you might reinvest let’s say in traffic or transaction driving initiatives if you will.
On the second question on gross margins I think that is actually one of the exciting moments that we’re starting to see.
We’re starting to see it a little bit in Q3.
We definitely saw it in Q4.
We did have lower selling margins by 50 basis points which was technically an improvement over the prior year which was down 70.
But the lower selling margins this time the pure product margin was essentially flat which in a very promotional time period we know is pretty tricky to do.
And so clearly it highly demonstrates both that we had carefully planned promotions but we also were starting to see the benefits from the insourcing of our foreign agents that are helping to offset that.
And so as we continue to roll out through the year we should expect to see those improvements continue to come through so it’s nice to see these investments that we speak to you guys about in the past that we’ve invested in these things that are starting to come to fruition.
And your first question which is a great one what could we have done better you know we always have a mindset of continuous improvement.
And we are in the midst of a major multiyear technology transformation which is focused largely on our supply chain.
We know that our customer wants increased visibility of where their order is and we also know that there’s a great opportunity to regionalize our assortments.
We have put together our big as we call them rock projects for the year.
And all of these help us remove blind spots in the supply chain if you will.
We have many of them focused on reducing cost and improving service whether it’s scheduling routing systems communications delivery states.
We’re focused on long term inventory optimization as a key strategic initiative as we know how important staying in stock avoiding getting overstocked is to our business.
And we’re thrilled.
We started this project last year and we’re kicking it off now.
There’s a lot of great participation throughout the company similar to what we did with insourcing our Asian operations.
I believe this is one of the biggest things we’re going to do over the next couple of years.
Of course we’re investing in ecommerce.
You can always make it more intuitive for the customer to shop.
I think actually Pat could you comment a little bit on some of the exciting things that we’re working on to improve the customer response? Sure Dan great question.
I think what’s exciting to me is really the investments we’re continuing to make to enhance the platform.
And it will allow us to continue to grow our revenues while maintaining our high ecommerce profitability and at the same time enriching the customer experience.
We’re focused on mobile.
Our mobile sales were up 100% year over year last year and a big part of that was the improvements we made in the site experience.
We’re making great strides in site personalization built in customer recognition and then delivering personalized content and also improving the post-purchase experience.
In marketing we’ve made and you’ll see more of it this year strategic decisions to drive customer acquisition across the entire conversion funnel.
We’re shifting more of our marketing spend toward digital as we’re implementing the results of all of this marketing effectiveness work that we’ve talked to you about before and increasing marketing messages.
You know we’re really just continuing to strengthen the technology foundation and respond to the ways that customers now want to interact with us and without ever compromising the site experience that really enhances the lifestyle that we project with each of our brands.
So it’s pretty exciting.
And we’ll move to Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
I wanted to follow up on a couple of prior questions.
So is it fair to say that PB given the mix-up in Sonoma is say a third of revenues and if comps were cut in half that means you had had an incremental point of comp brand revenue at the enterprise level? And then also you mentioned selling margins were down 50.
Is it also fair to say that that decline was wholly related to the port issue? We don’t disclose how the exact breakout is for the quarter from a revenue perspective but I think I’ll reiterate the point that Williams-Sonoma is a significant piece of the operations during the holiday time period.
And clearly having demand comps that were more than double that did convert into net had a substantial impact on our top line.
Regarding the gross margin the reality is what I was saying was it was lower selling margins particularly in ecommerce that drove that decline.
The pure product margin was healthy.
The lower selling margins were almost solely due to higher shipping costs but there’s’ two reasons for that.
One is because we made a decision as a company to make sure to meet our customer demand and get them their product in time for the holidays.
Nothing is more important to us than making sure to keep our customers happy.
And so we made the decision as the customer continues to order later and later in the peak to ship things to them in whatever way possible to get it to them in time for the holidays.
That’s one.
The second thing is yes the West Coast port slowdown where unfortunately again to meet our customers’ demand we had to get product from the East Coast to in some cases customers on the West Coast.
And so when you’re shipping things like furniture obviously that’s much more expensive.
And then would you care to break it down between those two factors? We have not disclosed that.
Jessica Mace with Nomura Securities has the next question.
My question is on the 2015 operating margin guidance and I was wondering if you could help us think about if you put aside the port issue and also the foreign insourcing which you’ve already discussed can you talk about some of the other moving pieces that should impact the operating margin and specifically what kind of assumptions you have for the promotional and competitive environment? Okay so from the operating margin perspective first from a guidance perspective we’re really pleased to be able at the high end to once again match our new record operating margin level of 10.5%.
And that includes the impact from the West Coast port disruption at the beginning of the year.
But it also includes our investments.
And some of them as we mentioned earlier on the insourcing of our foreign agents are starting to leverage and others will take longer to do that.
For example as we’ve said before some of our global initiatives particularly in company owned global where it’s going to take about three to five years to get to scale to start to leverage that infrastructure is something that keeps the operating margin not expanding as high as we’d like it to at this point.
Excluding global our operating margin expansion is strong with our domestic business.
And any assumptions on the promotional or competitive environment that go into that outlook? We’ve said all along that we know that it will be promotional.
Our goal is always to offer a very competitive price but more importantly exclusive innovative product with a very high touch service model.
So we don’t think there’s anything different from last year from that perspective.
Next we’ll move to Seth Sigman with Credit Suisse.
I wanted to follow up on the 2015 margin question.
Specifically focused on advertising you guys have done a great job of improving the efficiency there.
Can you just elaborate on what’s been changing there the future opportunity? What do you view as kind of the optimal level for advertising? And in that margin outlook would you assume further benefits from advertising efficiency? We are constantly evaluating that.
Every quarter that’s a decision that we make from an advertising efficiency perspective whether we do an extra promotion that hits at gross margin or whether we send more emails or send out more catalogs which shifts SG&amp;A.
That’s something that’s ongoing.
It’s not something that comes to sort of a bottom if you will that we then no longer can have that opportunity to do it.
It’s always something that we take a look at and make the operational decision on a daily basis as to what the right move is.
Obviously any of that is already factored into the guidance within our operating margin at this time.
We’ll take a question from Simeon Gutman with Morgan Stanley.
One quick follow up on EBIT margin.
Not to belabor this.
And then a strategic question.
On operating margin Julie you mentioned that even with some of the port issues you’re still able to match the EBIT margin.
I guess you said it’s hard to disentangle the fourth quarter but there was probably some drag and if you remove the first quarter drag I guess what would have been had we not even had any port issues the midpoint or so of EBIT margin year over year increase embedded in the guidance? And then my follow up or the strategic question was you mentioned the life cycles in terms of thinking about the customer through different stages of your businesses.
Can you shed some light on the profitability of the customer where that customer is most profitable to you at what stage? As far as the operating margin question we’re not disclosing based on our earlier response the Q4 impact to that.
I guess my advice would be to take from the West Coast port impact perspective for 2015 the amount that we’ve quantified from the EPS and back it out.
So you’d be able to calculate what that gross margin on the high end would be excluding that.
And you know it’s an interesting question which customer is most valuable.
I think it depends on what they’re doing.
We know that our best customers shop multiple brands and typically when they’re beginning to set up a home or they’re moving you see an initial spike.
But you have the cooking enthusiasts that are very specific to cooking or baking and they can spend a lot of money frequently and may not shop other brands.
So the best customers if you’re asking me that question are the ones that cross over all brands and all channels.
And at this time we’ll take a question from Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Julie just a point of clarification on this West Coast port situation.
Obviously there’s a revenue impact because of how you guys count revenue and if you don’t have product to ship then that could be delayed.
Are you seeing order cancellations? It sounded like your demand comps are actually quite strong.
So you’re not actually seeing cancellations.
So should we see like a snap back up in revenue in Q2? How should we be thinking about that? We are.
It’s small but we are seeing some order cancellations.
The bigger issue is what is the lost customer demand that they never actually pushed the button to get it because when they went through the chain they were able to see that the back order is going to be longer than what they wanted and/or there’s something in the category that they’re buying one item is back ordered they decided to not buy the whole category.
And so we’re starting to see some of those.
I think from a Q2 perspective we’re not going to be in stock 100% until the end of Q2.
And so even if we have back orders that could roll in that are assumed in our guidance for Q1 and they get filled you’ve got the new back orders that are created by inventory that’s going to come subsequently and get filled so it’s going to take a period of time to really see some of that come through.
At this time we’ll go to David MaGee with Suntrust Robinson Humphrey.
A couple of questions about the promotional environment.
And I’m just sort of curious which brands may be most impacted there? Is it more of an online phenomenon? Or is it more in the stores or both? And do you think it’s a longer term issue from a structural headwind now that we had that has to be alleviated by some capacity being taken out at some point in time? Just any thoughts there would be helpful.
There’s no question all retail is still very promotional and we don’t believe it’s going to change.
So we have built some structural savings into our supply chain to offset it that make us more competitive the first being the insourcing of our foreign agents which is a big deal to us and allows us to both reduce cost but also where we need to step up the competitive pricing to gain market share.
So it is across all brands.
We’re also working on in Williams-Sonoma as you know the shift from a higher percentage of nonbranded products to the Williams-Sonoma branded products which because of their vertical design sourcing are higher margin de facto.
So while we tend to be very aware of the promotional cadence we have worked on things to offset it that give us a competitive edge versus others I think who may think it’s going to change in the short term.
Is it more being caused by online players do you think at this point? I think it’s widespread.
When you walked the malls over Black Friday or the last week it’s the new norm to see the signs.
But where we win is when we give our customers exclusive innovative product at a great price with great service.
That’s what we have been focused on.
That’s what we are focused on.
And when those things come together and the customer buys from the retailer that has the best product at the end of the day and they want the price to be fair.
We’re lucky to be in the business that we’re in.
I mean buying for your home is a considered purchase.
It’s very important.
There’s really nowhere to hide on quality.
And our customers there’s some great facts in the economy that I think will allow them to continue to spend more on their homes.
It’s always been very important to them but our particular customer base I think there’s some real benefits that are going to happen this year because of the strong economy.
And that concludes our question and answer session for today.
I’ll now turn the conference back over to Ms.
Alber for any additional or closing remarks.
Just want to thank you all and we look forward to updating you again next quarter.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Inc.
Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Gabrielle Rabinovitch Vice President of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP financial measures and forward-looking statements.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Angela.
Good afternoon.
This call should be considered in conjunction with the press release that we issued earlier today.
Our earnings press release and this call may contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
A reconciliation of any of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and our explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures may be useful are discussed in our release.
This call also contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which address the financial condition results of operations business initiatives trends guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2014 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings including the most recent 10-K and 10-Q for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect the events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn this conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our second quarter fiscal 2014 results.
Thank you Gabrielle.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
On the call with me today are Julie Whalen our Chief Financial Officer; and Pat Connolly our Chief Strategy and Business Development Officer.
Before we start I'd like to comment on the executive changes we made last month.
As many of you know we announced several strategic executive promotions as well as the appointment of a Senior Vice President for Global.
Collectively these organizational changes establish a new leadership structure that better positions Williams-Sonoma Inc.
for long-term growth.
And I am pleased to have Pat with us today in his new role.
The changes we have made reflect the strength of our talented and tenured management team and our ability to leverage this talent to continue to grow our business.
Now I'd like to discuss our results.
Our second quarter reflects our ability to continue to deliver revenue and earnings growth along with operating margin expansion in a more promotional environment.
Solid revenue growth in our brands in conjunction with operational discipline allowed us to deliver these results while continuing to make significant investments in our growth initiatives.
Our priorities are clear for the back half of the year and we believe we are making important progress on our objectives that will support long-term profitable growth.
In the second quarter we delivered record net revenues of $1 039 000 000 with comp brand revenue growth of 5.7%.
We generated $85 million in operating income resulting in 20 basis points of operating margin expansion and record second quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.53.
We are pleased that we were able to deliver these results against a more promotional backdrop.
Our team's skill in balancing near-term market realities with the commitment to our strategic vision is a defining characteristic of the organization.
We believe our multi-brand multichannel platform with over 50% of our revenue generated from our direct channel is a sustainable competitive advantage and will allow us to continue to drive market share gains.
We believe our model provides us with the operating flexibility to generate consistent returns.
In the second quarter we also made important progress on our long-term growth initiatives.
Our global expansion continues and tomorrow we'll be opening 4 new company-owned stores in Australia at Chatswood Chase a premier shopping center in suburban Sydney.
A Pottery Barn a Pottery Barn Kids Williams-Sonoma and West Elm store will be opening at the same time.
The opening of additional stores in Australia is critical to building scale and leveraging our in-country infrastructure in this market.
In July our franchise partner in the Philippines opened a Pottery Barn and a Pottery Barn Kids store our first franchise locations outside of the Middle East.
These stores are off to a great start and we are excited about growing brand awareness in Southeast Asia.
Our new businesses are also reaching important milestones.
In Mark and Graham we continue to see the business accelerating.
We're most excited about the new customer growth and our growth potential.
Given the momentum we have seen in Mark and Graham we believe we'll be able to drive strong growth in the back half of the year when gift-giving is a high priority for our customers.
We continue to attract new customers and grow the brand with new categories.
Based on our strong results we believe Mark and Graham will become a meaningful contributor over time.
In Rejuvenation during the second quarter we had successful new product introductions.
This season we updated our product aesthetic and our marketing.
We're also excited to announce that we're opening a new store this quarter in a great location on University Avenue in Palo Alto California.
We believe that Rejuvenation has a unique place in the market and has the opportunity to grow significantly.
In addition to new business development supply chain enhancements are an important component of our growth strategy.
We believe that speed to market cost abatement and quality are key to our future.
Our teams are diligent and persistent in identifying opportunities to improve our processes and infrastructure.
In the second quarter we completed the successful transition from working with external overseas agents to managing our vendor relationships directly.
This transition is an exciting milestone for our business.
As we continue to expand globally we are positioned to deliver the best possible product to our customers along with outstanding quality and service.
We are now managing approximately 95% of our direct import business.
By directly managing this critical part of our business we believe we will gain a greater understanding of all aspects of our supply chain from product design to pricing.
We believe we'll be able to respond faster to changing circumstances and gain enhanced supply chain visibility.
In the second quarter we also opened our Dallas distribution center and are already ahead of our initial timetable for full [ph] utilization.
We also simultaneously launched our Texas upholstery manufacturing operation in the same 4 walls.
In the third quarter our new Dallas DC will in-source and consolidate all third-party delivery hubs in North Texas and Oklahoma into our new and more efficient facility.
Home and store deliveries will be made directly from our DC and will reduce delivery times and handling for customers in stores in Texas and Oklahoma.
In addition to investing in our supply chain continued investments in our infrastructure technology user experience customer service and marketing are critical to the success of our multichannel platform.
During the second quarter we launched major enhancements to our on-site search experience making improvements to the relevance of search results as well as the search typeahead functionality.
We also made site personalization improvements tailored to customer preferences and shopping habits.
We launched a West Elm gift registry program with a comprehensive cross-channel experience that includes a mobile registry screening app -- excuse me scanning app.
On the West Elm website we also introduced new content enhancements that are already driving higher levels of engagement on the site.
In addition in the second quarter we launched major improvements to the communications we send to our customers after they placed an order.
Customers are now receiving communications with delivery estimates for every product in their order as well as a clear presentation of manufacturing shipping and delivery status.
We believe this significantly improves our customer service levels.
Now let me give you a deep -- more detail on each of our brands.
I'd like to begin with the Williams-Sonoma brand.
Comp brand revenue increased 3.4% in the second quarter making this the fourth consecutive quarter of positive comps for the Williams-Sonoma brand.
Our proprietary and exclusive product strategy field leadership better visuals and cohesive marketing strategies are driving the improved results.
In the second quarter performance was strong in the following categories: cutlery tabletop electrics cookware and food.
We are thrilled to see increased new customer accounts in the Williams-Sonoma brand.
Open Kitchen a new proprietary collection of beautiful affordable everyday essentials is just one of the drivers bringing new customers to the brand.
Additionally Williams-Sonoma Home continues to outperform our expectations.
We have an aggressive plan for its future.
Looking forward to the third quarter we have a strong lineup of exclusive products such as the new TK line by All-Clad designed by Thomas Keller.
It is a mixed materials line that allows home cooks to use the right pans for every technique or dish that they are creating.
Under our own Williams-Sonoma brand early reads on 2 important launches of cooks' tools and cutlery are also strong.
Also we feel good about our autumn assortment and Halloween as we help our customers decorate and entertain the fall.
While we continue to focus on the future we are also celebrating the history of the Williams-Sonoma brand.
We are honored to be reopening Chuck Williams' original store in Sonoma California on his 99th birthday this October and we are excited to be celebrating this important milestone with Chuck.
Next I'd like to discuss the Pottery Barn brand.
In the second quarter Pottery Barn comparable brand revenues grew 4.4% on top of 9.9% in 2013 driven by strong performance in furniture.
We had our strongest outdoor furniture season to date which complements our expanded decorating services for both indoor and outdoor spaces.
Also upholstered furniture exceeded all of our expectations.
We will continue to leverage Sutter Street our company-owned upholstery manufacturing operations to serve our customers with great quality great value and speed.
Areas that were softer included seasonal decorating pillows and tabletop.
We believe we have a strong lineup for the third quarter particularly in furniture fashion textiles seasonal decorating and gifting for the holidays.
We have newness across all key categories including leather furniture textiles and decorative accessories.
Our fall textile collections are performing well and are highly differentiated in the marketplace.
We already have some runaways and are chasing bestsellers.
Based on the trends we are seeing we believe our holiday decorating and gifting season from Halloween to Thanksgiving to Christmas will be successful.
We are prepared to offer our customers the best quality design and price in our category and continue to work diligently on operational improvements that will further differentiate us from the competition.
Next Pottery Barn Kids.
Pottery Barn Kids delivers inspiring design with the highest levels of quality and safety.
In the second quarter Pottery Barn Kids' comparable brand revenue increased 5.6% on top of 8.2% in 2013.
The introduction of new furniture collections was a key contributor to growth in the quarter.
In upholstered furniture an expanded assortment of silhouettes and new fabrics are giving our customers more options and ways to customize their perfect nursery chair or bed.
Across our furniture assortment we have broadened the materials and finishes offered.
Our back-to-school collection launched during the quarter with a focus on backpacks waste-free lunch solutions and an expanded assortment of desks and accessories.
We are pleased with initial response we have seen as our customers start planning for the school year ahead.
We're also encouraged with early results of our new fall collection which marks the continued evolution of the brand's aesthetic.
As we look forward to the balance of the year we are confident that our fall and holiday assortments will deliver the innovation and delight that has led to a strong first half.
Now I'd like to discuss Pottery Barn Teen.
Comparable brand revenue decreased 1% on top of 16.3% increase in 2013.
Furniture demand remained strong throughout the quarter.
However the brand's net revenues were impacted by increased back orders in furniture due to issues in Vietnam where a number of our vendor's factories were affected by the dispute over the South China Sea.
We are working hard to get back in stock and expect to catch up late in the third quarter.
Also in the quarter versus our expectations we saw softness in our door and gear business.
While both have comped positively they did not meet our expectations.
A highlight of the second quarter was the strong response we have seen to the second collection in which we've collaborated with Emily &amp; Merritt.
This assortment continues to exceed our expectations.
Early fall results indicate that our Pottery Barn Teen customer is responding to our new textiles featuring a bright transitional palette and artistic detail.
Our collaborations continue to bring new customers to PBteen and are an important part of our growth strategy for the brand.
In addition to Emily &amp; Merritt a new Burton collection launched last week and we're also enthusiastic about our new collaboration with Junk Gypsy featuring an eclectic assortment of home furnishings decor and decorative accessories inspired by the funky and fun-loving attitude of Amie and Jolie Sikes of Junk Gypsy.
In addition this fall we are looking forward to celebrating the holidays with a great lineup of innovative and unique gifts for our teens supported by a strategic promotional calendar and targeted marketing campaigns.
Now I'd like to update you on West Elm.
West Elm once again posted strong results.
Comparable brand revenue increased 16.7% on top of 16.5% last year with broad-based growth across categories.
West Elm continues to focus on 3 key initiatives: choice community and consciousness.
As part of the brand's choice initiative in the second quarter West Elm saw success with a new opening price assortment adding incremental volume across all categories.
In addition a new expanded lighting assortment performed well with customers at retail and DTC.
In the second quarter West Elm also opened one store in New Orleans as well as a temporary pop-up in Water Mill New York.
In the third quarter the brand is scheduled to open an additional 9 stores.
To further its community initiatives in August West Elm expanded its commitment to supporting U.S.-based emerging artists and small businesses by launching the West Elm Local Small Business Grant.
The small business grant will award $25 000 and ongoing business support to one winner voted on by the public through an online voting system.
And by the end of 2014 we expect that West Elm will offer local product assortments in more stores across the country.
In the brand's own backyard West Elm received significant attention at the end of July when it was chosen by the current New York City mayor to redesign the official residence of the First Family Gracie Mansion.
This partnership earned West Elm more than 1 billion media impressions and publications from The New York Times to London Telegraph.
And finally West Elm continues to lead with a focus on consciousness.
In June the team was thrilled to host President Clinton at the West Elm office in Brooklyn and announced that it will be the first home retailer in the world to offer Fair Trade Certified rugs handcrafted in India and available to customers this holiday season.
During the visit he viewed West Elm's work to support artisans around the world and heard directly from artists and vendors the impact that the brand's collaborations are having in Haiti India the Philippines Guatemala Peru and in the United States.
More and more customers want to know that their dollars are making a difference.
In this environment West Elm's commitment to choice community and consciousness are differentiating the brand from its competition and we remain confident in this brand's ability to be $1 billion-plus business.
In summary we are pleased with our year-to-date results and believe we are well prepared to execute in the third and fourth quarters.
I will now turn the call over to Julie to review our financial results in detail.
Thank you Laura and good afternoon everyone.
We are once again pleased with the results we are reporting today.
Despite a more promotional environment we delivered solid top line growth and improved our operating profitability while at the same time continuing to invest in our long-term strategic initiatives.
For the second quarter net revenues increased 5.8% to $1 039 000 000 with comparable brand revenues increasing 5.7% on top of 8.4% in the second quarter 2013 or 14.1% on a 2-year basis and in line with our expectations.
Net revenues in our direct-to-customer channel grew 9.4% to $523 million.
The direct-to-customer channel generated 50.3% of total company net revenues for the quarter a 170-basis-point increase over last year.
And our retail channel revenues increased 2.4% to $517 million.
Gross margin for the second quarter was 36.8% versus 37.6% last year.
This 80-basis-point decrease was driven by lower selling margins from a highly promotional environment as well as occupancy deleverage primarily related to our global initiatives.
Occupancy costs in the second quarter of 2014 were $148 million or 14.3% of net revenues in comparison to $138 million or 14.1% of net revenues in the second quarter of 2013.
SG&amp;A in the second quarter improved 100 basis points 28.6% versus 29.6% in 2013 more than offsetting the decline in gross margin.
The improvement in SG&amp;A was primarily driven by lower general expenses and continued advertising efficiency.
Once again the flexibility of our operating model with advertising spend that is substantial due to our sizable direct-to-customer business allowed us to make operational decisions between selling margins and advertising spend.
Each season we are able to determine our least effective ad spend.
And while it may still be profitable it may not be as effective as a targeted promotion.
This quarter and similar to prior quarters we elected to reduce our least effective ad spend in favor of increased promotions.
This had the net result of reducing selling margins within gross margin which was offset by reduced ad spend within SG&amp;A.
As a result second quarter 2014 operating income grew 9.3% to $85 million with an operating margin of 8.2% a 20-basis-point expansion versus the second quarter of 2013.
Higher revenues in the direct-to-customer channel which consistently operates at a much higher margin drove this operating margin expansion.
The direct-to-customer segment operating margin was 23.1% versus 24% in the second quarter of 2013.
The retail segment operating margin was 7.2% versus 6.9% in the second quarter of 2013.
And the corporate unallocated segment was 7% versus 7.2% in the second quarter of 2013.
The 90-basis-point decrease in the direct-to-customer segment was driven by lower selling margins and occupancy deleverage partially offset by advertising efficiency.
The occupancy deleverage was primarily driven by our incremental investments from the regionalization of our distribution centers and our global distribution operations.
The 30 basis points of retail segment operating margin expansion was driven by lower general expenses partially offset by higher occupancy costs and employment deleverage.
The increase in occupancy in the retail segment is primarily related to our global initiatives.
The improvement in the corporate unallocated segment was driven by lower general expenses and employment leverage.
Our second quarter income tax rate increased from 37.5% in 2013 to 40.5% this year driven by an unfavorable state income tax matter.
As a result second quarter 2014 diluted earnings per share grew 8.2% to $0.53 from $0.49 last year.
Overall we are pleased with our results.
We delivered revenue growth earnings growth and operating margin expansion in a highly competitive environment while absorbing the financial impact our future growth initiatives.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Cash at the end of the quarter was $71 million.
Year-to-date we have returned $176 million to shareholders consisting of $112 million in share repurchases and $64 million in dividends.
Merchandise inventories at the end of the second quarter 2014 increased 21.4% to $895 million from $737 million at the end of the second quarter 2013.
Towards the end of the second quarter 2013 we began taking ownership of our inventory earlier in the supply chain.
Excluding the impact of this additional year-over-year inventory in transit second quarter 2014 merchandise inventories increased 17% on a comparable basis.
This increase in inventory was predominantly to support our fastest-growing brands and our growth initiatives.
I would now like to discuss our third quarter and fiscal year 2014 guidance.
We expect to deliver another record year for our shareholders and are on track to achieve our 3-year outlook.
For the third quarter of 2014 we expect to grow net revenues to a range of $1 100 000 000 to $1 130 000 000 with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 4% to 6%.
We expect our third quarter operating margin to be relatively in line with last year and we are guiding diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.58 to $0.63.
For the full year we are reiterating all of our guidance ranges except for the guidance range associated with our estimated full year income tax rate which we have raised 30 basis points and now expect will be in the range of 38.3% to 38.8%.
We expect to grow net revenues to a range of $4 645 000 000 to $4 725 000 000 with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 5% to 7%.
We expect our operating margin to be in the range of 10.2% to 10.4% and we expect fiscal 2014 diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $3.07 to $3.17.
Our guidance considers the competitive landscape as well as the investments we are making to deliver on our strategic long-term objectives.
Inclusive of these investments this fiscal year guidance at the high end of the range assumes revenue growth of 8% and diluted earnings per share growth of 12% consistent with our 3-year outlook.
Moving to our capital guidance.
There are no changes to our capital allocation plans.
We expect to make capital investments in the business in the range of $200 million to $220 million to support our strategic growth initiatives.
We also expect to continue to return cash to our shareholders by paying dividends and repurchasing shares under our existing share repurchase authorization.
In closing we delivered another quarter of strong results and were able to make progress on our long-term initiatives.
Our competitive advantages including our iconic brands our exciting proprietary product pipeline our multichannel excellence and our opportunities for growth as well as our commitment to financial discipline including returning capital to our shareholders allows us to be confident in our ability to deliver sustainable long-term profitable growth.
I would now like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Daniel Hofkin with William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just one question and then one quick follow-up if I may.
If you could -- just talking about the competitive promotional environment it sounds like maybe that got more intense as the quarter progressed.
Is that a fair assessment? And is that something that affected the items that you highlighted as a little bit softer? And then the second question is on the gross margin related to that.
Was that something that compared to your original expectations came in a little lower or was the trade-off between margin and advertising kind of as you would have expected 3 months ago? Thanks for the question.
I think if you go to any mall today or open any email you see that promotions are persistent and the -- particularly in the apparel areas.
But you also saw a step-up in promotions in our competitive set.
And it's something that we've been talking about for a long time.
And we feel that we have a competitive advantage because we can use our marketing or our promotions to drive sales and we can -- and because of our large direct business we can move that investment from one to the other.
We made the decision to be more competitive on price particularly in our seasonal assortments to gain market share during the quarter because we know others won't be able to do the same.
And it was strategic.
And one of the things I think that's really exciting coming out of the quarter is how high our new customer growth is which really is a great indicator of future results.
Julie do you want to add on the gross margins? Sure.
Regarding the gross margins Dan definitely we see the lower selling margins and it was particularly in the DTC channel.
That was more than we thought.
The promotions were deeper than we expected throughout the quarter.
But the key message that I want to make sure everyone hears is that the distinct advantage that we have -- Laura just touched on I touched on in my prepared remarks but every day in our company because we're 50% effectively e-commerce and 50% retail we have a choice we can make an operational decision.
Do we get the sale by having a deeper promotion? Do we get the sale by offering free ship for example? Those 2 hit gross margin.
Do we get the sale by more e-mails more catalogs more paid search? That hits SG&amp;A.
And that's just the reality of where it hits in the line item.
Thankfully we've got a big enough business with a big enough ad cost bucket to be able to make those decisions and what we learned is that the customer was reacting better to deeper promotions this quarter.
And so we followed that line of action and we have lower gross margins.
But on the flip side we're able to offset it in the SG&amp;A resulting in operating margin expansion.
And we're thrilled about that.
And we'll now take our next question from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> If I could follow up on the promotional question can you talk about whether it was particularly acute in certain brands? And also just following up on a comment that you made was it more focused on seasonal goods than on some of the more perennial product: furniture for example in a way that would lead you to believe that it would fade just with the changing of the lineup as we move out of summer and into the second half of the year? Good question.
The promotional environment I was referring to I think is touching every brand in the marketplace including all of ours.
The outdoor categories were most specifically promotional.
You saw a lot of people come out of the gate on sale.
And also in the kitchen Williams-Sonoma Kitchen business the outdoor product was much more promotional than we expected.
And it's interesting because while I'm saying all this we had our best season ever in Pottery Barn outdoor furniture but the outdoor category is much bigger than just furniture.
It includes pillows and towels and entertaining and lanterns and all those areas.
And so yes it was very intense on the seasonal products but it's also -- it's a reality of the marketplace that we have been talking about for a long time.
And our long-term perspective on it is that is why we're so aggressive on driving operational improvements and investing in our supply chain because we still see great opportunity to reduce our costs and efficiencies in those areas and mostly because those areas are the most important areas that touch the customer.
I think at the end of the day the customer does like a sale but when you're buying furniture you want quality.
And you want to know that you've got the design you wanted and that you have incredible service.
And for me the service piece is key to why we continue to outperform.
We're obsessed with it both online and offline and we worked really diligently to create that really high-touch experience in all of our channels.
And I mean not to go on a tangent but we just got some great information.
We use StellaServices that rank our industry and the goal is really transparency and what the customer sees.
And they have a rigorous methodology to test the customer service performance of online businesses.
And our ratings are outperforming in our industry.
And that's something we're very proud of.
And when we give great service we also reduce our costs.
So we're looking forward to seeing all those improvements come to play but also realizing that we do need to offer and we will compete on price as well as design and quality.
And we'll take our next question from Jessica Mace with Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could give a little bit of color on your global expansion and maybe call out any dynamics that the home furnishing category is facing in these geographies.
Sure.
We're very early in our global journey and we're excited about the next wave of stores in Australia so that we can really try some new things and better service our customers by giving them a better in-stock position with the scale of more than one store per brand.
We are seeing that in our company-owned global operations that we're seeing a larger percent of DTC than we initially expected which is quite interesting and a really good sign for the future.
And then we're also having great results with our franchise partner.
We selected the best we believe partners globally.
And we're seeing nice improvements in those businesses and are excited about the new geographies that we're going into.
And we'll take our next question from Peter Benedict with Baird.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Justin Kleber on for Pete.
Just Julie last quarter you had mentioned the fact that I think the cadence of your guys' investment spending was a bit heavier in 2Q.
Looking at your incremental margins were higher in 2Q versus 1Q despite what was a little bit softer revenue growth environment.
So I guess 2 questions in one here.
Did the cadence of that investment spend take place as you had anticipated? And then if so can you discuss any other expense leverage just outside of advertising that you guys were able to pull back on particularly in this quarter to manage the P&amp;L? Sure.
So it did play out as we expected.
We've got several initiatives that we're working on for the future long-term growth of our company and that's what our 3-year outlook and beyond is predicated upon.
And one of them is our Dallas distribution center that we opened up in Q2 which is allowing us to further our regionalization of our distribution centers which provides better customer service and lower freight costs long term.
So that's been an incredibly important initiative relative to those costs at Q2 ahead of us fully being able to get the benefit from the regionalization.
Also you have to remember that we have our global investments and we're opening up 8 company-owned stores in Australia within Q3.
And all of that requires costs that are ahead of generating the revenue and the return from it.
We have to pay rent even if the landlord calls it free rent.
We have to book rent back to the day that we take possession of the location.
And so you have rent expense you've got to hire people ahead of and train them ahead of opening the store and advertising et cetera.
So there's lots of costs that we incur before we actually open the store and then it takes a while to get scale.
So all of those were contemplated and came out as anticipated.
And we'll take our next question from Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Laura I was wondering if you could help bridge a little bit of the comments you made earlier around early trends in decor being positive and giving you good positive reads to the back half.
With some of the things you're seeing with the promotional landscape are the businesses that you're seeing that are giving you that indication is it based on that promotional activity as well? Or is that actually kind of a fuller price activity which gives us some hope that we're not going to continue to see major declines here in the back half? I think I understand your question.
Let me just talk to you about the trends that we're seeing.
We have really exciting product I believe that builds on the sales that we currently have.
For example Williams-Sonoma we continue to expand our Williams-Sonoma branded products and we're launching a whole new layer of seasonal food this year.
We already have some new very nice reads on some of the recent fall introductions in Williams-Sonoma that obviously will be new for us and provide a lot of sales in the back half.
In our home furnishings brand we have a strong lineup decorating and gift giving.
And we're seeing in our furniture assortments that the investment in additional sizes is paying off as we offer customers more choice.
And aesthetically particularly in Pottery Barn we're seeing a strong reaction to our global aesthetic.
We think this look is very much on trend.
We're excited about the texture and the layers this fall and the expansion of our best-selling bedding collections.
In addition our new leather collections are off to a great start.
And in all brands we are doing more customized offerings and really improving our speed on custom products to our customers.
So we believe we have a strong lineup and we are building on the trends that we are seeing today.
And we'll take our next question from Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was curious on the -- on the PBteen commentary can you talk about how much that hurt your comp or perhaps how much the customer deposit build year-over-year? And just to sharpen the pencil on the last question are people coming out on fall seasonal on discounts like they did for spring/summer? So I'll take the first piece of that Chris and Laura will take the second.
So from a Pottery Barn Teen perspective we haven't quantified that but except to say that it was a significant piece of their comp deceleration.
It's a heavy period of time for their furniture business.
And the fact that we basically unfortunately have that issue in Vietnam where literally a factory was burned down and the inventory was no longer available it caused significant delays.
So I would say that it's safe to say those are a significant piece of their comp.
From a customer deposits perspective -- I've seen this talked about a few times -- I think it's taken somewhat too literally.
Coincidentally and it has been true that that number turns out to end up being close to our revenue growth is but we have to remember that the customer deposits not only include our undelivered goods to our customers at the end of the quarter; it also includes our unredeemed gift cards.
So when those get redeemed who knows? So I think you can't read too much into the correlation between customer deposits and future revenue.
Okay.
And thanks for clarifying the second part of the question Chris.
We are seeing that people are coming out with broad-based promotion.
So for example they'll say all drapes 30% off that will include new and old drapes.
The outdoor though was even more significantly promotional than anything I've seen.
So would I say that the promotional environment has moderated? Not necessarily but it's not as targeted to one specific category.
It's more broad-based if you will.
And we will now go to David Magee with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just sort of maybe a broader question on the promotional environment online.
Is this sort of a structural change that maybe there are more players now that you contend with and maybe they're getting better at what they do over time? I'm going to start at that and then let Pat also respond to this.
We are in such a highly fragmented business and nobody owns a large amount.
We at the same time take our competition very seriously and we're always looking at what others are doing.
But I don't believe that that is a significant -- I don't think that was a significant change in Q2 versus Q1 for example.
And Dave if I could just follow up for a minute on that.
We haven't really seen where the competitive -- the change in individual competitors has impacted us to any extent.
We track that very closely.
I think what differentiates us really is the fact that we have first of all proprietary goods.
If you want to buy them you have to buy them from us.
And we have 85% to 90% of what we sell is designed and manufactured under our control which gives us incredible product selling margin.
And I think it's very well -- I think everyone has come to the conclusion that brands are even more important on the web.
So I think we are very strong there.
And lastly we have this great data-driven marketing in our DNA.
And we're continuing to leverage that so I think we're very well positioned.
I don't see the impact in individual competitors at this point.
And Dave this is Julie.
You're also alluding to the fact that you're seeing that our revenue growth in the DTC channel isn't as strong as we've been seeing.
I think there's a couple of things that are important to call out there.
Our demand actually in the second quarter was strong and exceeded our net revenues.
Our net revenues were impacted by a number of factors including inventory in transit at the end of the quarter which created several back order positions as well as lower customer deliveries from higher sales volume towards the end of the quarter.
So that is also impacting it and quite honestly I'm sure that's the bigger player at all [ph] than a competitor.
And we'll now go to Gary Balter with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's Andrew on for Gary.
Looking more long term you mentioned the upfront investments related to the supply chain initiatives and building out your international operations.
When should we start to expect those investments to provide a tailwind to expense leverage? Or should we just expect that these investments will be replaced by others over time particularly on the international side? No you should start to see some of that particularly in 2015 which if you're alluding to the in-sourcing of our foreign agents we just completed that this quarter mid-quarter actually.
And those reduced costs get factored into the cost of goods that ultimately go to the balance sheet initially and then when the goods are sold through is when you see in the gross margin on the P&amp;L.
So it'll take a little bit of time before you'll start to see that roll through but we should expect to see some of that in 2015.
And we'll take our next question from Kate McShane with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Could you go a little more into what gave you confidence on meeting guidance particularly on the margin side? So how should we think about the gross margin cadence for Q3 and Q4? And If Q4 is significantly like a really highly promotional environment can you maybe tactical in reducing advertising expense in that quarter? Absolutely I mean first of all we don't guide gross margin and we really focus on the operating margin which on the year at the high end is at a record level for us at 10.4%.
But that as I specifically mentioned on the call and addressing a question that is a big deal for us.
The fact that we are the size that we are with an e-commerce business we can absolutely make those decisions.
I mean quite honestly it might be more effective to send more emails and more catalogs spend more in SG&amp;A to get the sale versus doing more promotions.
We're just going to make that trade-off as we go throughout the back half of the year but we are probably one of the most well positioned to do that.
And we'll take our next question from Simeon Gutman from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
The first is can you talk about on the promotional side what form they took whether they were blanket offers versus targeted.
And then I guess taking the comments you made about operating margin expansion I take it that you were pleased with the return that you got on the promotions this quarter.
And then my follow-up just to squeeze it all in following up on that question regarding in-sourcing.
There's both short term and longer-term benefits.
Is it as simple as on the short-term benefit trying to figure out what percentage of goods that are touched by the change you made in Asia and then just eliminating that mark-up to sort of dimensionalize what the benefit to the gross margin would be over time? Why don't you start with that one Julie? Okay.
So starting with the in-sourcing side of it.
So short term it's definitely just lower cost right? So we have a third party that we used before.
They have a higher cost structure that we paid for a high rate.
And so we didn't source it.
We can manage that cost and so it's a lower cost on the cost of goods sold.
Longer term of course there's much bigger pieces at play that are more strategic.
By having our own employees in the factories managing the product making sure we are negotiating raw material costs getting the best cost getting the right raw material minimizing damages making sure the inventory is on time et cetera.
All of that start to play out in a much grander scale you'll see longer term.
Okay.
And back to the promotions it's both.
So you see people with broad-based promotions high low.
You see specific clearance extra off clearance.
So I wouldn't say I would categorize it in any one way.
It's just you've got to just take a walk in the mall and you'll see what I'm saying and how that has become a real way that people compete.
And we'll take our next question from Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> So I apologize for bringing up the promotions question again.
I know a lot of people have asked it.
But I just wanted -- I hear your comments.
I guess it shouldn't be as shocking when I know there's been a lot of promotions in your space and going throughout retail recently.
And you made the comment that you look to take -- maintain market share.
But I guess what I'm looking -- I know the future results.
And I would have thought if that would be the case then the Pottery Barn brand comp would be higher even with the more difficult comparisons.
So maybe just a comment on that.
And then the second -- the follow-up question I have is you think about the guidance and I know that people have asked about guidance as well so I apologize here too but what type of -- looking at it from a qualitative standpoint what type of promotional environment are you assuming in the back half of the year? Is it something similar to what we saw in Q2 more or less intense? Yes good question.
So no apologies needed.
Pottery Barn had a solid second quarter.
Demand was very healthy in the quarter but results were impacted by a number of factors including the inventory in transit at the end of the quarter.
That put our positions and lower customer deliveries as Julie said earlier.
And we also look at what we can do better for next year and we see some opportunity with color palette next summer a little bit more -- we're a little bit too neutral and we'll have more color in next year's summer collection.
The great news is that the response to our fall color palette is strong and the aesthetic -- that global aesthetic that I talked about earlier is also being met with good consumer response.
So I hope that explains better the Pottery Barn demand versus net that we talked about for the second quarter.
I think also just a caveat to be careful not to get too obsessed with a single quarter and to look at our results over a broader timetable because there's always variations that you'll find that you just don't want to read too much into on a single quarter.
And I think it's important to remember also when you look at the home furnishings data that grew 3.2 and our comparable business grew 6.
So we're really pleased with our results in the quarter.
And from a guidance perspective yes we have assumed that obviously the more promotional environment continues.
But we've also assumed like we've had in the past been we're able to cover and continue to get operating margin expansion.
So we're well positioned for the back half.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Lasser with UBS Investment.
Research Division</strong> Do you think that you draw in a different customer when you invest in a promotion versus an advertisement? It seems like part of what your commentary is suggesting that promotion is just going up across the board so the entire consumer population or most consumers are kind of expecting it.
But I'm just wondering if you're drawing in a different -- if a customer responds differently or different types of customers respond to a promotion rather than an advertisement.
Sometimes yes.
In fact one of the things we've seen is not just with the promotions but the opening price point products that we've designed specifically to reach new customers are really working.
So for example in Williams-Sonoma Open Kitchen as we discussed.
And then if you look carefully at West Elm you'll see that we brought in some new opening price points across multiple categories.
And that also has brought in new customers.
So you're going after a broader customer base as well as getting more from your current customer base and higher engagement with the current population.
And because of our sophisticated modeling and information we can see exactly where we're growing at and be very targeted about both building sales in the short term but also getting ourselves prepared for the long term and making sure that we always have that new group of customers that come in to each and every brand that will become loyalists.
I think often maybe the first time you buy something at a new brand it's because you like the price or it really catches your eye.
But once that brand is in your set of people that you think about when you shop for that category you more likely go back.
And recency is a big driver for future purchases.
And so this has been a really interesting thing to see at play and we're very pleased with our customer growth and our engagement with our current customers.
And we'll take our next question from Laura Champine with Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> My question Julie is on inventory.
So you called out some reasons that inventories were higher but I'm sure that you're taking ownership soon or in a way that reduces your cost per unit.
So do you have what your unit growth was? I know that the dollar growth was 21%.
I'm guessing your unit growth was actually higher.
We actually don't provide that.
But from an inventory perspective I think what's important to note is that on a comparable basis we grew 17% and that is really to support our fastest-growing brands and our growth initiatives and a substantial portion of this inventory balance was in transit so it's going to support future sales.
And as you know there's a delicate relationship between service levels and inventory especially as more of our revenues are now coming from online.
So if you don't have the inventory you're going to lose the sale.
So we're very careful with that balance.
But we have strong inventory disciplines across the company and we aggressively go after the slow movers while at the same time aggressively chase the bestsellers.
And at the end of the day we believe we have the right level of inventory to support the business and the guidance we are providing.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I'll now turn the conference back over to Ms.
Alber for any additional or closing remarks.
Well I just want to say thank you for joining us today and thank you for your future support and talk to you next time.
Thank you and that does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Incorporated Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the presentation.
This call is being recorded.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Gabrielle Rabinovitch Vice President of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP financial measures and forward looking statements.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shannon.
Good afternoon.
This call should be considered in conjunction with the press release that we issued earlier today.
This call may contain non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of unusual business events.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and our explanation of why these non-GAAP financial measures are useful are discussed in our release.
This call also contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which address the financial condition results of operations business initiatives trends guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2015 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings including the most recent 10-K and 10-Q for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our third quarter fiscal 2015 results.
Thank you Gabrielle.
Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us today.
On the call today are with me are Julie Whalen our Chief Financial Officer and Pat Connolly our Chief Strategy and Business Officer.
We’re pleased to be discussing our third quarter results today.
These results speak to the power of our brands and our ability to execute our customer focus strategy.
We delivered total net revenue growth of 8% and EPS growth of 13%.
Looking ahead while the retail landscape and consumer demand has been more volatile we believe our balanced portfolio of differentiated brands and strong multi-channel platform positions us for ongoing market share gains and we are confident we will deliver strong performance by focusing on what we do best bringing innovative functional and beautiful products to market delivering exceptional customer service developing our brands and managing our business to ensure we create sustainable value for our shareholders.
Over the past few years we’ve articulated our vision to double the revenue of our business by growing domestically and through global expansion.
We have very deliberate approach to building brands and we are always investing for the long term.
Over the past several years we have incubated new concepts and entered new markets and these initiatives are now contributing to our results.
Our portfolio approach gives us a competitive advantage.
We are not limited to a single look and our range of tasteful aesthetics allows us to address a broad market.
In our home furnishings brands from Williams-Sonoma Homes to Pottery Barn West Elm and our developing Rejuvenation brands we present a carefully edited range of aesthetics.
This stand for quality good taste and product innovation that addresses the life fit styles and life stages of today's consumer.
We are pursuing distinct strategies to grow each of our brands and we are relentlessly focused on our customers and on improving our execution.
Everything we do is through this lens.
It determines our strategy and it guides our priority.
In-house at our San Francisco and Brooklyn studio we design innovative inspiring high quality product at a great value that reflects the way our customers live and entertain.
Our products are developed with design quality and consciousness of our focus and we deeply believe that supply chain integrity and transparency is good business.
Our customers continue to want a more engaging shopping experience and a deeper and more authentic connection with the brand to which they are loyal.
Our customers also want a more integrated and frictionless shopping experience since at the purchase path is easy and intuitive whether they are shopping in store online via mobile tablet or desktop or at home with one our design associate by their side.
As a result all of the investments we have been making are with this customer objective in mind.
On our last call we told you about two major technology enhancements we had identified to improve customer service.
In the third quarter we made significant progress as it relates to these initiatives.
We’ve started the roll-out of our next generation customer order visibility tool which allows us to have improved visibility as products move to our supply chain from the manufacturer to the regional distribution hubs.
The roll-out on this project will continue through 2016.
We also recently launched improvements to our demand planning systems.
We believe that this is a critical component for us to improve our in-stock levels decrease transportation cost and improve customer service by improving local market and stock position.
We are excited to update you on the result of this program and future quarters.
In e-commerce we have advanced our ability to serve targeted content to customers on our websites.
We have more relevant timely and engaging as a result.
When we personalize content we see measurable and material conversion lift.
Our custom built platform provides us unique advantages that we will continue to leverage with new and more robust campaigns in the quarters to come.
We believe we are in early stages and will continue to build on this foundation to drive incremental results.
In onsite search we are deploying a big data solution that leverages machine learning to better tune our search results.
The initial results are very encouraging and we look forward to updating you as we roll out the technology to all of our brands.
We are also continuously finding ways to make our sites quicker more functional more easily navigated and more intuitive especially as it relates to mobile.
Providing a richer and more integrated shopping experience is a long term priority and we believe technology is essential to enabling an outstanding customer experience.
Heading into the holidays we believe we are well positioned with exciting new product launches and gift collections.
Across all of our brands we believe we have a strong holiday line up and we have refined our peak season execution plans from our store operations to our marketing cadence to our supply chain.
In store we are focused on executing the fundamentals flawlessly and delivering outstanding customer service to make holiday shopping easy and efficient.
In supply chain we have implemented new processes and organized high volume areas in our distribution complex to efficiently facile peak e-commerce volumes.
And this will be our 11th year partnering with Saint Jude Children's Research Hospital on the Thanks and Giving campaign.
Over the past 10 years we have raised more than $30 million to help Saint Jude continue leading the way the world treats and deceive childhood cancer and other life threatening diseases.
All of our brands are involved in this important cause.
In summary we are ready for the holidays.
I’d now like to update you on the global expansion of our brands another significant long term growth driver.
During the third quarter our international operations grew 46.5% and were meaningful contributors to our success.
In our franchise operations 8 stores were opened in Mexico City in the third quarter by our partner Liverpool a world class retail operator in Mexico.
The initial response has been outstanding and by year end we expect at least 14 stores open and we are excited about the total control in the region.
We are also continuing to see exceptional results with our partner M.H.
Alshaya.
Our company owned retail and e-commerce operations are also delivering strong growth in Australia and in the United Kingdom.
We are gaining experience in these markets and we are doing a better job assorting to local taste and preferences relative beginning to leverage our cost structure.
In addition I’d like to update you on our first shopping shop partnership with John Lewis in London.
In September we opened a West Elm boutique in the John Lewis store in Oxford Street.
Sales have exceeded expectations and have also driven increased traffic and sales to our West Elm London store and website.
We have more than 9 million media and social impressions on our first week.
We'll be expanding this relationship with John Lewis in 2016 and we believe that there is significant potential for this type of partnership model across Europe and other areas of world.
We are aggressively pursuing franchise and shopping shop opportunities around the world and expect to announce more of these partnerships in various formats in the future.
Now I’d like to discuss our Pottery Barn brand.
In the third quarter Pottery Barn comparable brand revenues increased 2% on top of 7% in 2014.
We had strong growth where we offered newness and we saw strength across our living room upholstery and home furnishing offerings.
However we did see some softness in other categories.
We recognize that the Pottery Barn brand could be more impacted by the current retail environment and we are relentless and our focus on these things in our control and it is clear to us that we win when we deliver product category dominant and innovation.
Pottery Barn has a unique positioning in the marketplace as the premier specialty casual home furnishing retailer.
We deliver quality products exceptional value and outstanding service.
But like any successful brand innovation and continuous improvement is key and there are three areas where we are hyper focused.
First product innovation.
We have identified specific product initiatives to drive innovation.
Second marketing.
We also believe that there is a greater potential to market the authentic store of our products and why they are higher quality and a better value than our competition.
Lastly customer experience.
All of the work that we have been doing in our supply chain will benefit Pottery Barn.
We know that we deliver the best experience in home delivery this will further set us apart from the competition.
As we head into the holidays we believe our compelling seasonal product lineup in conjunction with a more strategic marketing calendar will enable us to drive performance in the fourth quarter in Pottery Barn.
We also have the opportunity to deliver better service because we have better in-stock position.
Now I’d like to discuss Pottery Barn Kids.
In the third quarter Pottery Barn Kids delivered 4.7% comparable brand revenue growth.
Strength in our furniture business and an outstanding back-to-school season drove this performance.
And we executed a successful Halloween strategy that contributed to our results in the quarter.
Our focus on product innovation and newness in addition to our competitive marketing calendar helped to fuel our Q3 business.
In the quarter we launched our holiday assortments and we believe we have a strong lineup for the holiday season.
We are featuring dream rooms of whimsical beds like our new Millennium Falcon Star Wars bed complete with bedding and décor and we have delivered new and innovative gifts for babies toddlers and kids as well as an expanded playroom offering.
Our gifts represent the unique design and lasting quality for which Pottery Barn Kids stand and we will be the destination for kid's friendly holiday decorating from stockings to ornaments tabletop trimmings and decor.
As we turn our focus to 2016 we’re excited about the momentum building with our collaboration strategy.
In January our exclusive nursery collaboration with celebrity stylists and fashion designers Emily Current and Meritt Elliott launches to the fresh look for the brand that speaks for millennial mom.
And earlier this week we’re also thrilled to announce our collaborations with Monique Lhuillier one of the fashion industry’s preeminent designers.
Launched in the first quarter the collaboration includes furniture decorative accessories and textiles.
It captures through sophisticated and glamorous designers that are – that is inspired by her experience as a mother and a designer.
Moving to Pottery Barn Teen in the third quarter comparable brand revenue for Pottery Barn Teen declined 0.9% strengthen our furniture business and decorative accessory categories was offset by weakness in our textile business.
Our high quality furniture offering delivered solid results for the brand.
Softer trends and bedding which we discussed in our second quarter earnings call persisted throughout the quarter.
The movement we saw this weakness we moved quickly to strengthen our product pipelines and improved our marketing.
As we move into the holiday season we shift into gift giving and we are excited about our proprietary and innovative gifting assortment including our fourth quarter product collaborations.
We are launching online in December and in store in January and exclusive collection of decorative accessories and textiles with lifestyle blogger Meg DeAngelis known as MayBaby on YouTube.
Meg DeAngelis is one of YouTube’s rising star across the 4 million YouTube subscribers and more than 500 000 followers on Twitter.
Each piece in the collection embodies Meg's mission through a power and built confidence which is brought to life to vibrant colors and playful prints.
Our limited edition Peanuts inspired collection Charles M Schultz the 65 anniversary of the Peanuts common strips and the release of the Peanuts movie on November 6 is also a highlight of our seasonal offerings.
In addition our standout gift this year include media chairs that are compactable with gaining counsel and incorporate rooted audio system as well as to protect bedroom seating options for teens.
In addition to product innovation and quality we are evolving PBteen to reflect the ways to live and interact recognizing them for who they are and supporting them and their uniqueness.
We’ll speak to teens in a smart and empowering way that is authentic and inspire them with fresh decorating ideas and aspirational environments.
We look forward to sharing our progress with you in the coming quarters.
Next I would like to discuss Williams-Sonoma.
For the third quarter the Williams-Sonoma brand delivered 1.2% comparable brand revenue growth with outperformance in cookware electrics cutlery and our growing Williams-Sonoma Home business.
Proprietary and exclusive launches as well as key vendor product introductions drove success in the quarter.
Strong introductions in electrics more than offset weaker than expected performance in our early on our food assortment.
We also saw great results in our proprietary entertaining and tabletop collections which continue to become a more significant percentage of our mix.
In Q3 we continue to see strong results both online and in-store in Williams-Sonoma Home.
A key initiative was to broaden the assortment in our best performing looks and its working.
We’re also pleased with the ongoing rollout of Williams-Sonoma Home at retail.
Williams-Sonoma Home offer chic entitlement designs with highest quality.
It’s causing out unique position in the market sites with luxurious materials sleek silhouettes and a fearless use of prints patterns and color.
Our success is indicative that this brand has a lot of room for growth both online at retail and with the trade community.
In addition on October 2 we celebrated Chuck Williams's 100 birthday.
To celebrate this milestone Williams-Sonoma unveiled a limited edition collection of Chuck’s favorite product featuring his signature as well as a new cookbook Cooking at Home that honors his legacy.
The third quarter also marks Williams-Sonoma’s fourth fund raising campaign benefiting share strength no kid hungry program.
Williams-Sonoma raised more than $650 000 during the campaign fund raising efforts included customer donation both in store and online store events limited edition products such as the incredibly popular celebrity design spatulas incorporate fund raising.
Heading into the holiday season we believe we are well positioned to deliver in the fourth quarter.
In addition we have new marketing strategies we believe will be effective and we have a strong seasonal line-up of gifts and we are ready to execute.
Today I wanted to take a little more time talking about West Elm.
The West Elm brand continues to deliver exceptional results.
Comparable brand revenue increased by 15.7% on top of 17.4% last year marking 23 consecutive quarters of double-digit comparable brand revenue growth.
In the third quarter we successfully opened 6 Company on West Elm stores two franchise stores were opened in Mexico and we opened the West Elm Shoppers Stop store in London.
By the end of the year West Elm have opened 18 new company stores in four new franchise locations across the globe bringing our total global company store count to 87 and our total franchise count to nine.
West Elm's success is firmly rooted in a deep understanding of what millennial and millennial minded customers feel is important in their purchasing decisions.
West Elm is connecting with its customer like no other home furnishing brand and at the same time West Elm continues to appeal to a broad demographic and psychographic customer base.
The brand is also uniquely positioned with customers who are attracted to West Elm’s aesthetic relationship driven community initiatives and authentic commitment to conscious business practices.
Human connection still matter in the digital age and at West Elm we are successfully laying our world class customer insights with our innovative high touch shopkeeper program balancing the science and art of retail.
Data science will continue to provide invaluable insights on customer behavior and buying trends but by empowering our store managers to run their stores like small businesses and forge deep community connections through our West Elm local program we’re essentially running the brand in the collection of unique small retailers linked with the powerful data and technology of a global enterprise.
We’ve successfully reengineered our allocation strategy with tools to allow our store managers to hand pick and create assortments that are reflective of their community and the customers where the stores are located.
We are one of the first major brands to host in retail hop-up shops starting with FT back in 2010.
We continue to host a regular cadence of events workshops classes meet-ups and community driven activities in all of our stores.
And as other retailers announced the introduction of local assortments into their stores we are celebrating our network of more than 500 makers and building a pipeline for supporting our partners who will expand collaborations and manufacturing relationships.
Our stores are running community based Facebook pages and Instagram accounts and part of the reason West Elm has had such a strong and authentic social media presence is that we done all along Social Media is not a data driven platform.
By definition social is characteristic of living things not machine so well our stores social accounts allow for segmented and local marketing and communication we remain focused on building our social communities as a platform for human interaction to connect our customers.
In social many of our customers choose to talk about West Elm because we reflect their value.
Building on our commitments to content business practices and impact sourcing.
In the third quarter we announced a new click and global initiative commitment to action in partnership with Fair Trade USA taking Fair Trade from farm to factory.
As an early adopter of a Fair Trade Factory program West Elm joined Fair Trade USA and 20 other partners to improve working conditions and enable sustainable livelihoods for factory workers.
Specifically West Elm committed to certify as Fair Trade more than 20% of the brand assortments by 2017 and 40% by 2019.
West Elm’s investments includes supporting certification of more than 10 new factories contributing over $1 million in premiums will improve the lives of over 10 000 workers during the course of the commitment.
These are big goals but we’re confident we can reach them and our hope is our leadership in the market will compel other retailers to improve working conditions and wages for artisans and factory workers around the world.
Overall we remain highly confident that unique relationship that West Elm with its customers will propel the brand’s growth in our core business and into new areas of business around the world.
I would now like to discuss the results of our two developing brands Rejuvenation and Mark and Graham.
Both of these brands are delivering strong performance and contributed to our third quarter results.
Rejuvenation delivered a very strong and profitable third quarter as Rejuvenation transformation into a life style brand building craftsmanship and functional design continues.
We have seen solid performance across both our emerging categories and in addition to our core letting and hardware businesses.
In the third quarter we saw great response to the comprehensive introduction of our Northwest modern assortment and aesthetic inspired by modern design and the lushness of the Pacific Northwest.
And throughout the balance of the year we are learning new product launches on top of this successful foundation.
Our marketing continues to be effective and profitable and we've seen new customer growth accelerated across our consumer trade and contract segments.
We opened our sixth store in October at Ponce City Market in Atlanta and in addition to expanding our trade presence in the region and see this location as the hub of our large and expanding base of sales in the Southeast.
We believe that Rejuvenation has a very exciting road ahead and we look forward to keeping you updated in the progress in this brand.
Rejuvenation has the potential to be a significant multichannel lifestyle brand and a meaningful contributor to future growth.
Finally I would like to discuss Mark and Graham.
We’re pleased with the development of Mark and Graham which continues to see great sales momentum and profitability resulting from successful new product introductions and improved operations.
In the third quarter our personal accessories and home décor categories drove brand performance.
We have also introduced new personalization techniques and expanded marketing options across our assortments.
In addition our refined marketing approach has led to more productive email in catalog marketing.
This holiday season we’re excited about our preppy chic assortment of thoughtful gifts.
Our collection is inspired by rustic cabin style with beds blankets and pillows ferret nets accessories and travel gear.
In January we will kick off New Year celebrations with new table top and personal accessories introduction in fresh color palettes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Julie to review our financial results in detail.
Thank you Laura and good afternoon everyone.
We are pleased with the results we’re reporting today.
During the quarter we delivered revenue growth of 8% and earnings growth of 13% further demonstrating the power of our portfolio of high performing brands and our multichannel approach and as well as the continued success of our long-term growth initiatives.
In the third quarter net revenues exceeded our expectations increasing 7.8% to $1.232 billion with comparable brand revenues increasing 4.5% on top of 8.7% last year.
Revenue growth in the quarter once again far exceeded growth in the furniture and home furnishing industry; net revenues in our ecommerce channel grew 7% or 22.7% on a two year basis to $628 million and represented 51% of net revenues with growth primarily resulting from the continued strength we’re seeing in the West Elm brand.
Net revenues in our retail channel grew 8.6% to $604 million which reflects the momentum we are seeing from our long-term growth initiatives particularly in our international operations and West Elm; excluding the growth of our international operations our retail channel grew 4.3%.
During the quarter across both channels our international operations saw revenue growth of 46.5% reaching $80 million and West Elm drove revenue growth of over 22.8% including comparable brand revenue growth of 15.7%.
Gross margin for the third quarter was 36.6% versus 37.7% last year with pure merchandize margins only slightly down to last year and remaining essentially flat year-to-date.
The year-over-year gross margin decline reflects lower selling margins particularly associated with higher franchise revenues which are dilutive to gross margins but accretive to operating margins as well as higher shipping and fulfillment related costs partially offset by occupancy cost which leveraged 60 basis points to 12.9% of net revenues or $159 million.
As mentioned on our last call this quarter we expected to incur higher shipping and fulfillment related cost associated with out of market shipping and multiple deliveries on a single order to improve our customer service levels while we rebounced our inventory between our regional distribution centers SG&amp;A improved 100 basis points in the third quarter to 27.6% versus 28.6% in 2014.
The improvement in SG&amp;A was primarily driven by advertising efficiencies the leverage of employment primarily related to higher franchise revenues as well as the leverage of general expenses.
In the third quarter total company operating margins was 9% versus 9.2% in 2014.
By channel the operating margin in the ecommerce channel was 21.9% versus 23.3% in 2014 primarily driven by higher shipping and fulfillment related cost partially offset by advertising efficiencies.
And in the retail channel the operating margins was 8.1% versus 9% last year primarily driven by lower selling margins from higher franchise revenues and higher shipping and fulfillment related cost partially offset by occupancy and employment leverage.
Corporate and allocated expenses leveraged 100 basis points primarily due to lower general expenses and the leverage of employment and occupancy cost.
Our third quarter tax rate decreased from 37.9% to 36.1% reflecting the favorable resolution of certain income tax matters within the quarter and our higher year-over-year earnings from international operations.
These results drove a 13% increase in third quarter earnings per share to $0.77.
Moving to the balance sheet cash at the end of the quarter was $72 million even the seasonality of our business our cash levels reached at the lowest point at this time of the year as we fund our business ahead at the holiday selling season.
In addition year-to-date we have returned nearly $300 million in cash to our shareholders of which $103 million was in the third quarter consisting of $71 million in stock repurchases and $32 million in dividends.
Merchandised inventories increased 12.5% to $1.1 billion at the end of the third quarter which includes a year-over-year increase of inventory on hand and available for sale of 10.7%.
Entering our peak selling season we believe our inventory levels position us well to execute our holiday plans.
I would now like to discuss our fourth quarter and fiscal 2015 guidance.
We expect to deliver another year of strong results for our shareholders.
For the fourth quarter we expect to grow net revenues to a range of $1.575 million to $1.630 million with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 2% to 5%.
We expect our fourth quarter operating margin to be relatively in line with last year and we are guiding our earnings per share to be in the range of a $1.53 to a $1.62.
For the full year we have raised the low end of our revenue and earnings guidance all of the guidance remains the same.
As such we now expect to grow net revenues to a range of $4.965 million to $5.20 million.
And we now expect to grow diluted earnings per share to a range of $3.36 to $3.45.
The guidance we are providing today does not contemplate any material changes in the retail landscape for the broader economy.
In summary as we head into the holiday selling season we believe we are well positioned to deliver for our customers and our shareholders.
Our competitive advantage is including our portfolio brands and our multichannel business model position us for success.
In addition the continued momentum in our strategic growth initiatives gives us further confidence and our longer term ability to more than double our revenues and deliver sustainable profitable growth.
I would now like to open the call for questions.
Before that I would like to wish all of you a very happy holiday.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Daniel Hofkin with William Blair.
Hi good afternoon.
Just a couple of questions regarding the environment maybe to the degree that you’re able to kind of parsing out - the overall consumer spending pattern versus competitive factors either Brick-N-Motor online versus areas where you feel like may be the execution could have been a little bit better.
You talked about some areas within Pottery Barn I’ll be interested as it relates to Pottery Barn and the Williams-Sonoma brands and particular kind of how you would divide up the performance again around just the overall consumer landscape competition and your own performance and opportunities to improve that.
And then I just had one quick follow up.
Thanks.
Sure thanks Daniel.
And I’d just tell you I’m optimistic about the holiday season.
Yes we have seen some retrenching this fall and retailers and even some really good retailers have given some mix reports out there but there is not a lot of good news out there too.
We know that our customers love their homes and the holiday season is the time to decorate and obtain and also to be generous with gifts to your family and friends.
And I believe that consumers will shop the retailers that they trust and who have compelling product and in store experiences I think as you go to the stores whether you got to a mall or great street going to be a top lift in terms of destination.
It's really hard I think to resist going into our stores during the holiday season there.
In my opinion holiday wonderlands.
Our Williams-Sonoma stores - I think part of people holiday shopping tradition with their amazing taste and role of wonderful gifting assortments this year and Pottery Barn has incredible decorating and beautiful trees on display in their stores right now and inspiring table space.
For Pottery Barn kids and teens I can’t help us think that those great nostalgic gift assortments will give our customers a great alternative to electronics and West Elm has a distinctive and chic entertaining and giving options at a great value.
The other thing that makes us different is that small things are across all of our brands yes we gift wrap and store.
And we’re ready to offer that high touch one-on-one service that people are looking for.
I believe our online experience and service offer there is equally compelling.
We spent so much time looking at our gift assortments and the gift experience online and also personalizing that digital experience based on our consumer preferences.
So in summary we’re always looking for things we can do better we have been preparing all the year for this holiday season and we’re excited and ready to serve our customers.
Okay great.
And then thinking about looking out I know you haven’t given guidance for next year but I’m you hearing you guys talk about some of the additional investments on a number of fronts.
If you think about next year does it make sense to think about sort of may be a less rate of operating margin expansion relative to what may be a typical year might be at this early stage? Yes Dan this is Julie and obviously you’re right.
We have not given guidance for 2016.
We’re not prepared to do that today but what we are excited about is investing in the future and our future growth and I think today’s result is a great demonstration of some of the things we've been investing in that have actually come to life like our international growth.
Okay thanks.
Best of luck in the holiday quarter.
Thanks Dan.
Next question comes from the Peter Benedict with Robert Baird.
Hi guys thanks for taking the question.
I guess first Julie how you're thinking about capital allocation these days specifically I’m curious kind of your view of buybacks and how opportunistic you’re willing to get when the stock is down? Our approach for capital allocation have not changed we’re going to continue to be balanced and first and foremost invest in the business because that’s clearly where we get the biggest returns and then with excess cash share between buybacks and dividends and so our approach there has not changed regardless.
Okay.
And then quick follow up just on the fourth quarter tax rate it looks like it implied north of 40% year-to-date you’ve been more like 36 37 is that international playing a bigger role there or there other factors that we should be thinking about in terms of taxes for the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
Sure.
Look our quarterly tax rate it’s always subject to variation in the prior quarter including we did have some favorable tax resolutions and we also had which is fantastic some higher than expected earnings from our international operations which has a double benefit of lowering our taxes.
But going forward given the size of our Q4 business and our expected mix of earnings in Q4 we look at the sensitive’s and believe that this time our tax guidance is appropriate.
Of course it's possible on the year we could end up with the lower tax rate but it’s really still early in our margins quarter to make that call.
But the good news as we do expect have seen overtime our tax rate will decrease as our international business becomes larger and more profitable.
Sure thanks so much.
Next question comes from David Magee with SunTrust.
Hi good afternoon.
Can you just talk a little bit more about the inventories and did they meet your plan at quarter end and what your expectation would be at year end? Yes so our inventories as we said in the call grew about 12.5% we feel good about the in stock position at 10.7% of course it's always pockets of under and over stocks but we believe this level of inventory on hand leaves us well positioned for the holiday selling season.
I think we have to remember that from a guidance perspective we don’t necessarily guide inventory levels except to say that we’re focused on maintaining in stock inventory levels we share great customer service and we think we’re well positioned for the holiday season as we enter the New Year.
So we feel good about the inventory.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up in the overseas sales international business are you seeing gross margins that are comparable to domestic above or below just sort of curious there? We haven’t provided or disclosed that if you’re referencing what I was alluding to in the script that’s associated with our franchise revenues and our franchise revenues obviously the details of our deals are confidential and competitive but what I can say is that franchise sales have a different revenue model than a regular customer sale and depending on the deal structure these transactions can be dilutive to gross margins but accretive to operating margins.
So the higher the franchise revenues in any given quarter they put more pressure on the gross margin but I would not make that conclusion per se with company owned stores but we haven’t disclosed that.
Okay great.
Thank you Julie.
Next question comes from Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Thanks good evening.
So following up on the first question and things about the wider comp guide for the fourth quarter two to five historically more like three to five four to six kind of range.
Have you seen change in the momentum in the business what’s behind the wider guide for the fourth quarter was there a change in trend that you’re seeing at the end of the quarter that you’re trying to put into the guidance and basically any thoughts there? Hi Chris I’ll take this it’s Julie.
I think what’s important to remember is that this quarter is always so difficult to read.
Our revenue guidance reflects our best estimate two and half weeks into largest quarter that we have and it reflects our possible range of outcomes across all of our brands.
It’s also important to remember that the Williams-Sonoma brand becomes a larger piece of the mix this quarter than in other quarters and historically had lower comps than our peer home furnishing brand.
So the other thing is that we had great revenue contribution from our international businesses and as we head into our peak season our international business is expected to take on less importance relative to our domestic business.
So that plus the customer always assuming to shop later and later each time for the holiday the business is hard to read two and half weeks into the quarter.
So we felt that it was prudent to hold our guidance on the year and this is how the comps played out.
So holding the guidance for the year it was 2 to 5 fell out of that equation based on what you did year-to-date? Absolutely.
Okay.
And then was the gross margin performance relative to your own expectations for the quarter in line with where you thought it was going to be and was there any hangover from the returns and damages side that you saw in the second quarter.
Thanks.
Yes from the shipping and fulfillment related cost side it is where we thought it would be the parts that’s a little bit of a surprise is the higher franchise revenues which is a great surprise to have which as I mentioned puts unfortunately dilutive to the gross margin but it’s accretive to the op margins so optically it looks “worse” on the gross margin lines but everything else was within our expectations.
And we’ll go ahead and move to our next question from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks a lot and good afternoon.
My first question relates to the impact of the international business for Q4 Julie you alluded to the notion that it would be smaller in the fourth quarter than any other quarters but it was three percentage points in Q the delta between total and comp store sales which I presume is or total and comp brand sales which I presume is largely international was over three percentage points in Q3 was over two percentage points in Q2 is very very small less than 1% in the guidance when you look at the difference between your guided total sales growth and the 2 to 5 comp brand growth.
So is it really going to be that small during the fourth quarter is there room for that number to move around a bit? Well I mean that’s what our expectations are today also in Q3 the new West Elm stores contributed to that delta between the comp and the revenue growth but obviously we would love to see that not be the case but given the size of Q4 it’s likely that the outperformance on the international revenue side will not be as pronounced relative to the comp.
And then if you think about the impact of the international business getting bigger within the mix on the gross margin rate and on the SG&amp;A dollars can you give us a sense of how much of that dynamic - I understand that’s accretive to earnings but how much the dynamics would have impacted margin rate within the various factors that move around in Q3? Yes I mean we haven’t quantified the exact basis points of how much of the gross margin would associate with high franchise revenues I however did list it first and so we do put things in order so you could tell us very material also when you look at the SG&amp;A there has been occupancy and employment leverage and a leverage across the board and specifically even on the retail channel you see it materially from the other side of the franchise equation because basically you have hit to gross margin you have essentially no SG&amp;A.
So the profit drops to the op margin.
So presumably the reason - so presumably if international revenues are smaller in Q4 that could be a reason for gross margin to be down less? Presumably yes.
Got it.
Thank you so much.
Next question comes from Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
Hi thanks.
I want to follow-up on gross margin as well but understand the shipping cost a little bit more and sort of where we are in that transition I know that it was a pressure last quarter was greater this quarter and if you look at it I imagine that's showing up in the ecommerce business with the continued decline in margin there.
So just talking through just maybe is that still a profit center for you shipping and where are we now in that curve as the market changes? We are not disclosing the incremental shipping and fulfillment related cost except to say what I said it is one of the main drivers of our lower gross margins the second thing I listed.
And we did indicate on this call last time that we would expect this would continue into the back half of the year it did continue as we expected and we expect that it will continue into Q4.
It’s important that we’re incurring these marketing shipping in multiple deliveries on a single order to ensure high customer service levels and especially from holidays we think it’s important to continue to do that.
Longer term once we have completed the regionalization of our distribution centers and we have implemented the necessary technology which includes inventory tools that would allow us to better forecast our inventory flow and space capacity requirements by DC brand and channel as well as future system enhancements that will give us better customer order visibility we will see a reduction in our supply chain cost.
But even more importantly on this point we believe further developing our supply chain today to be more agile and adaptable will enhance our sustainable competitive advantage.
So it’s going to put even greater distance between us and our competition and enable us to provide the best customer service experience in our industry and we’re excited about the future.
And you mentioned I think repositioning inventory as part of the cost of that.
Is that unusually elevated right now because of what you’re doing or is that sort of we expect that to be an ongoing thing while we build this out? Yes so I think it’s important to think about the higher level of inventory required to be sufficiently in stock regionally.
This is a competitive advantage longer term and not only obviously minimizes being out of stock but it lowers our delivery cost and improves our delivery time to the customer.
Our primary objective has been to be in stocked to serve the customer and so we’ve been increasing inventory levels from a position that we thought was negatively impacting sales and we also want to get our merchandize particularly our larger items to our customers more quickly and so we’re accomplishing this through regional distribution.
Over the immediate term this increases our inventory levels but longer term once we have implemented the necessary demand planning tools that I mentioned we’ll be more effective at inventory allocation between the distribution centers allowing our inventory levels to moderate over time.
All right.
That's great thanks a lot.
Good luck.
Next question comes from Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Great thank you.
This is Kayla Wesser on for Neely today.
My first question is the amount of newness in the catalog for core Williams-Sonoma appears to have really stepped up as we began getting ready for the holiday season here.
Just wondering if you could speak to whether the strategy is helping you acquire new customers or reengaging lapsed customers.
Thank you for the question.
We have been really focused on our products pipeline and in last call I mentioned that we’re going to have the lot of new introductions in Q3 and we did and they are working.
And we have what I think is a very exciting holiday assortment combination of great entertaining and also gift giving ideas and across the wide range of categories where I think our customers have grown to lot of further nostalgic candies that we sell but also always want to see the new things that we have.
We’ve seen strength those in our proprietary product but also in our branded product and we developed incredible relationships with lot of these key brands and really are the place that people want to buy gifts for - in holidays.
So we have equal optimism around brand as we do around proprietary products for this holiday season.
Thanks.
And then a follow up on Pottery Barn Teen you mentioned some weakness in textiles in Q2 and Q3 and I know that it's just more towards gift giving in Q4.
Just wondering though as we think about you’re bedding in textiles business have you do you feel like you’ve identified the issues and fix them or is there still some more room for improvement in holiday and even into Q2 and Q1 and beyond.
I always think there is more room for improvement in everything.
We’re very sub critical that assortments that we have coming I think are gorgeous and really differentiated - there is lot of people watching what we do and getting into these business and that competition make us better and make us differentiate and also our – design people have our supply chain.
We're vertical so we can better cost and our scale allows us to deliver better value cost quality relationship and so as we look at next year we see some clear opportunities highly competitive so I don’t want to go through the details of such but we see some clear opportunities quarter-to-quarter for PBteen.
Great thanks.
We have time for one last question from Cristina Fernandez Telsey Advisory Group.
Hi good evening.
I wanted to ask about the customer satisfaction for us particularly at Pottery Barn.
I know those had deteriorated little bit last quarter just given the inventory issues have you seen that improve and also how much you think that weighted on the Pottery Barn comp this quarter? It’s a great question thank you for that.
Customer services are primary objective and our goal is to build a capability that delivers the most convenient and damage-free experience in the furniture industry.
And over the past three years our Pottery Barn furniture sales have growth tremendously more than deliver a ton of furniture into a customer’s home this year.
We’ve always done this better than those but we see opportunity to take our capability to the next level much like we did in e-commerce five years ago.
And so we’ve been investing as we talked about and advance our delivery platform beyond the current - every customer piece of feedback that we get we not only fixed with the customer but we grew cost it learn from it make sure that we’re not - we don’t have a bigger opportunity.
And customers are very demanding and they’re going to continue to expect more than that is why we’re making such a focus because we believe we have the opportunity to totally disrupt the furniture business with our world-class delivery.
And then a follow up as far as promotions you talked about the merchandize margins being slightly down versus last year but fulfillment costs being higher and I know a lot of this is related to the inventory issue but how much that free shipping promotions were affected this quarter? It wasn't affected at all.
It’s not an issue from more free ship or lower shipping income levels it’s 100% due to higher shipping cost from our decision to provide the best level of customer service by shipping out to market and having multiple deliveries on a single order.
Thank you and good luck this quarter.
And that does conclude our question-and -answer session for today.
I’ll now turn the conference back over to Ms.
Alber for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us today and we really appreciate your time and your continued support and we look forward to speaking with you again in March.
Happy holidays everyone.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Williams-Sonoma Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the presentation.
This call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Gabrielle Rabinovitch Vice President of Investor Relations to discuss non-GAAP financial measures and forward-looking statements.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Mellissa.
Good afternoon.
This call should be considered in conjunction with the press releases that we issued earlier today.
Our discussion will relate to results and guidance excluding non-GAAP items.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and our explanation of why the non-GAAP financial measures may be useful are discussed in our press releases.
This call also contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which address the financial condition results of operations business initiatives trends guidance growth plans and prospects of the company in 2016 and beyond and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's current press releases and SEC filings including the most recent 10-K and 10-Q for more information on these risks and uncertainties.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this call.
I will now turn the conference call over to Laura Alber our President and Chief Executive Officer to discuss our results.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us today.
On the call with me are Julie Whalen our Chief Financial Officer and Pat Connolly our Chief Strategy and Business Development Officer.
Today we are reporting record revenue and earnings per share for the year as a result of the strength of our portfolio of outstanding brands our balanced multichannel model and solid execution.
We delivered top and bottom line performance within our guidance range despite a challenging end to the year.
Disciplined management led us to meet our expectations as we adjusted to an evolving consumer and competitive landscape.
Our brands are highly aspirational and relatable at the same time and create a platform for growth.
As we look forward in all of our brands we have targeted strategies and opportunities that we believe will allow us to profitably grow market share.
We will improve our competitive positioning across product service and value for our customers.
We are expanding our brands into new products and market segments through the expansion of proprietary products.
We are developing cross brand initiatives to more fully engage with our customers and to leverage innovative marketing channel.
And we are also investing in our high growth newer brands particularly West Elm.
The brand's current growth trajectory entry into the commercial furniture market with West Elm workspace and international growth potential position it to become a $2 billion brand.
And we are rapidly expanding our global reach through existing and new franchise relationships and other opportunities such as the John Lewis shop-in-shop model.
In addition to executing against our growth initiatives we see the opportunities to do business differently.
We have identified four key strategies that will drive improvements across the organization.
We are confident that between our growth opportunities and these strategies we will double our revenues over the next 10 years.
First we’ll reserve our product leadership.
Going back to the first phase of Chuck Williams' store in Sonoma we have been a leader and innovator in building differentiated and market leading product assortments.
Our goal is to ensure our product serve a distinct purpose by being differentiated from our competitors through our price quality relationship design aesthetic and functionality.
We have developed a best in class vertically integrated sourcing network to remind you our direct sourcing advantage separates us from conventional retailers and online market places in our category.
We employ more than a 1000 associates located in offices around the world to directly oversee the contract manufacturing of our products.
This allows us to ensure a consistent high level of quality from construction to engineered packaging.
We can also monitor every aspect of social compliance from fair wages and working conditions and factories to the use of toxin-free raw materials.
And we eliminate layers of cost from agent commissions to vendor and distributor markups.
This allows us to deliver outstanding quality to great value while advancing social consciousness in the communities in which we operate.
From artisan education to sustainability free trade to hand-crafted we believe that doing business the right way creates the greatest long-term enterprise value.
In addition we are now focusing our efforts on developing and buying fewer more differentiated products that better leverage this network across all of our brands.
We believe that our long-term sustainable success on both the top and bottom lines will be built on a foundation of product quality innovation and value.
Second we are revolutionizing our approach to inventory.
We have a significant opportunity to improve customer service and reduce cost by advancing our inventory management practices.
In 2015 we experienced supply chain challenges related to the West Coast port disruptions that resulted in increased cost and lower service levels.
As we worked through resolutions it became clear to us that we have an opportunity to reduce cost through more aggressive inventory management.
Our goal is to lead the market in the delivery of furniture and home furnishing.
In 2016 we are planning inventory growth lower than our sales growth for the year there are two key components to this plan.
First we have begun implementation of a new inventory optimization system that advances our slew level demand forecasting and gives our teams more sophisticated tools to replenish our regionalizing distribution network and stores.
And second we are eliminating less productive skews which allows us to have better in stocks and improve order fulfillment.
We see this as a significant opportunity and our entire team is aligned around this initiative.
In addition to inventory optimization we are further regionalizing our supply chain.
We know that being closer to our customers is the key to faster and lower cost delivery.
As part of these plans we are opening a new distribution center in Braselton Georgia approximately 50 miles Northeast of Atlanta.
Delivery times to Southeast customers will improve and we expect to see a reduction in outbound freight cost as this DC will be used for both home deliveries and retail fulfillment.
We will have four distribution centers strategically located on the West Coast in the Midwest the Southeast and on the East Coast.
The key to lowest cost damage free delivery of large furniture items is to reduce the number of touches or movement to the furniture.
Our network is designed to minimize the number of times the furniture is moved and will provide a significant competitive advantage.
Importantly as a result of our inventory initiative we do not anticipate adding incremental distribution centers for the next three years.
Collectively these efforts will remove cost from our supply chain and materially improve our service levels.
Third we are transforming our marketing.
We are strengthening our marketing around the value propositions of each of our brands and what makes our products and services unique in the marketplace.
We know that our products are differentiated from our competitors in safety material construction design and social consciousness and that we are best in class services.
We are going to be more aggressive about marketing our key differentiators and why customers should buy from us.
We will better leverage our content to emphasize these messages across all of our marketing channels.
Finally we are continuously advancing our marketing strategy which is identifying ways to officially drive revenue increases through our portfolio of brands.
And fourth we are changing our approach to real estate and the retail experience.
Our stores are one of the most powerful marketing tools we have and one of our biggest competitive advantages.
We have built the trust customers have in our brands by giving them the ability to physically experience our products across more than 600 locations.
This is incredibly powerful however as retail traffic has declined and customer shopping patterns have shifted we know there are stores that need to be in relevant locations and provide our customers with a great shopping experience.
To continue to lead and retail we are changing our approach.
We are making technology investments to improve our cross channel experience.
Our new strategic sales platform will lead to a more inspiring and effortless customer experience.
We are customizing assortments by store size and volume and simplifying non-selling tasks so our stores can focus on the customer.
We are actively looking at store locations that are undesirable due to mall deterioration excessive rent escalations or other market conditions and repositioning in exciting new locations.
And we are defining the store of the future for each of our brands.
Across our brand portfolio we have developed and tested innovative store concepts from architectures to design to experience.
This year you will see us selectively introduce these transformative changes across our retail fleet.
Our retail store future includes an exciting and convenient in store experience a more strategic view of real estate and a sustainable and profitable model.
Together we believe that these strategies will extend our leadership position across our brands and in our supply chain providing us with a greater competitive advantage.
However these strategies that I have just outlined require additional resources and focus.
We have carefully assessed our business needs and as a result we are reducing costs in areas of our organization to fund these priorities.
We have had to make difficult decisions including the reduction of headcount in our corporate functions by approximately 5%.
These decisions are very tough knowing that they will affect a number of our valued employees.
But we believe they are necessary to achieve our long-term objectives and deliver on our commitments for all of our stakeholders.
I would now like to update you on the performance of our brands beginning with the Pottery Barn brands.
Pottery Barn comparable brand revenues decreased 2% in the fourth quarter falling short of our expectations.
For the full year 2015 Pottery Barn grew comparable revenues 1.9%.
During the fourth quarter from a product perspective we saw growth in our core furniture and textile businesses.
Strong product categories for upholstered furniture seasonal lightings and seasonal textiles however we experienced softer sales trends in our gifting categories where there was greater promotional fatigue across our competitive set.
As we move into the new year and away from the gifting holiday we are seeing improved trends.
We attribute this trend reversal to the launch of our spring and summer collections improved marketing messaging and better in stocks versus last year.
As we look to 2016 and beyond we are committed to accelerating our growth.
First we have continued to introduce relevant and authoritative product assortments with a focus on innovation function and value.
To achieve this we will strategically expand our mix of opening price points across key areas of the business and highlight these price points to attract a broader customer base.
We have also placed renewed attention and emphasis on product categories that sell particularly well in our cross [ph] channel and we are increasing our percentage of environmentally responsible products.
Our commitment to these healthy home assortments is consistent with our core value of corporate responsibility and differentiates us from our competitive set.
Second to support these product strategies we are more clearly communicating our category dominance and our appointed differentiation including our aesthetic our quality and value our initiatives related to responsible source materials and our exceptional services.
In e-commerce we are intensifying our efforts to drive traffic and conversion.
And third operational excellence you may remember that at this time one year ago Pottery Barn's inventory flow was affected by the port disruption and in stock level through low.
Entering 2016 we are significantly better positioned with higher in stocks.
We believe starting the year from this position of strength will allow us to grow our top line accelerate new customer growth and deliver high level of customer satisfaction.
In Pottery Barn Kids fourth quarter comparable brand revenues were flat to last year.
For the full year Pottery Barn Kids comparable brand revenues grew 2.2%.
Playroom and bedroom furniture introductions contributed to growth in furniture.
We’re also pleased with the strong response to our new Star Wars program and our other high quality differentiated gifts.
And we saw strength in our bedding categories specifically as well.
We had tougher businesses in our textiles and decorative accessories categories.
Pottery Barn Kids stands for timeless design and superior quality at a compelling value.
Looking ahead in 2016 we are evolving our brand to connect with a broader customer base and we’ll be extending our product collections to address the ages and stages of childhood such as our recent launch of our toddler bedroom assortment and we are committed to products that are good for kids and good for the planet and our expanding our offering of organic cotton bedding and GREENGUARD certified furniture.
Pottery Barn Kids collaboration strategy is also gaining momentum.
Late in January we introduced our Emily &amp; Meritt nursery collection and early reads of this program have been quite strong.
Tomorrow we’ll be launching our most expensive collaboration today with Monique Lhuillier.
Monique has beautifully translated her fashionable runway designs and lugs details into a collection of home furnishing and gifts for our youngest customers.
Now I will discuss our PBteen business.
In the fourth quarter PBteen comparable brand revenues declined 12.2% with disappointing performance across key categories.
On the year comparable brand revenues in 2015 declined 2.7%.
Similar to Pottery Barn we saw declines in our gifting collections.
We believe we relied too heavily on bestsellers from previous seasons.
From a product standpoint to address these challenges we have been developing differentiated and innovative products to refresh our core assortments.
We’re also expanding our offering across the distinct teen life stages to address different needs of tweens teens and college customer.
And we are continuing to institute new collaborations and partnerships to drive engagement aesthetic diversification and new customer acquisitions.
In marketing we are evolving our approach to emphasize and reflect our brand values of social consciousness acceptance and empowerment.
As you may remember on our August earnings call we discussed initial softening that we are seeing in PBteens business.
Over the past six months we have made significant changes to the brands leadership product strategy and marketing and while we have more to do we are already seeing better results.
This week we announced an organizational change placing the Pottery Barn Teen brand under the leadership of Jennifer Keller who is also running Pottery Barn Kids.
Jennifer previously ran the Teen brand during the years of its highest and most profitable growth.
Consolidating both brands under a single leader will further align our life staging strategy as our Pottery Barn Kids customer’s transition into their tween and teen years.
Now I would like to discuss the Williams-Sonoma brand.
In the fourth quarter the Williams-Sonoma brand had a 0.9% comparable brand revenue growth.
We saw strength in cutlery food and tabletop departments.
At retail our store level execution improved over last year.
We hired and trained our seasonal associates earlier and delivered an aspirational engaging and easy shopping experience.
In e-commerce we had growth in new customers and improved conversions.
In the fourth quarter we are pleased with the continued growth in Williams-Sonoma Home which is driving incremental sales online and at retail.
In the Williams-Sonoma brand we see additional opportunity to capture mind share and market share and will execute strategies to engage every demographic from millennial to baby boomer with exciting products supported by elevated marketing and branding and improvements in our retail strategy.
Great product is the foundation of our strategy in Williams-Sonoma.
For 60 years cooking enthusiasts have relied on us for innovation and inspiration.
In 2016 we plan to grow our Williams-Sonoma branded products which allows us to deliver superior quality at higher margins than the industry standard and gives us more control over the promotional environment.
We will expand our open kitchen line to appeal to a broader demographic while satisfying basic needs of our core customer.
And we’ll increase the number of new and exclusive products from our branded vendor partners.
In addition we’ll expand Williams-Sonoma Home.
We will selectively add home product to stores broaden the breadth of our assortments invest in marketing grow our trade business and look at other ways to extend our reach.
At retail we see real opportunity to improve our store operating contribution including foresight visual display and allocation strategies that are better matched to store size and volume.
Refining store assortment and inventory to reduce skews in clearance and providing tools to aid in store scheduling and drive key metrics to conversion in sales per hour.
As mentioned in our overview we are also looking at store locations that are undesirable due to mall deterioration excessive brand escalations or other market conditions.
At the same time we are encouraged by the new store models we are developing and as a part of our retail repositioning we have identified attractive new real estate near popular dining and entertainment centers.
In e-commerce we see opportunities to accelerate new customer acquisitions strengthen our content and messaging and improve onsite conversions.
Now I would like to discuss West Elm.
Comparable brand growth in West Elm was 12.8% in the fourth quarter.
From a product perspective West Elm's strong fourth quarter results were driven by growth across all categories.
Customer response to seasonal assortments delivered significant sales and market share gains.
Throughout the quarter West Elm balanced new product introductions with an effective promotional cadence and highly targeted and relevant marketing.
West Elm delivered another outstanding year and is strategically positioned to continue its growth well into the future.
Working from core strategies of choice community and consciousness we strive to exceed our customer's expectations from sourcing locally made products in their own communities to delivering innovative product with great craftsmanship and value.
And we are just getting started.
As our customers grow and change so do we maintaining our brand momentum through more targeted product and content as well as new business opportunities that bolster our brand equity.
West Elm's new store strategy is driving incremental profitable growth.
In 2015 we opened 18 new stores ending the year with 87 total company owned stores.
And in 2016 we plan to open 13 new stores.
We will expand our international reach and believe both our franchise and wholesale businesses will continue to be successful models to grow our footprint.
We saw tremendous increase in brand awareness for West Elm in the UK market following the launch of our first shop-in-shop in John Lewis in London and we are working there with a team to finalize the details of additional roll outs in 2016.
In addition West Elm workspace is a compelling growth opportunity.
Last spring the concept was introduced into 25 billion plus commercial furniture market NeoCon the industry's premier trade show earning multiple awards.
West Elm has formed relationships with 18 leading dealers across the country in the contract and hospitality phases.
We will share additional key commercial alliances in the coming quarters as our team builds to support new business.
In summary we believe West Elm continues to be well positioned to deliver 2 billion in annual revenues over the long-term.
Now I would like to discuss our global expansion plans in our emerging brands.
The significant growth and improving profitability of our global businesses give us further confidence in the meaningful opportunity that international expansion represents.
Our focus is on growth operational excellence and infrastructure.
Currently our retail side of North America spans nine countries and includes 69 stores.
Over the next 10 years we expect that we will have a presence in more than 35 countries.
We have strong partners in the Middle East Mexico the UK and the Philippines and we are actively engaging with new partners.
In 2016 we expect our franchise partners in Mexico to open approximately 15 new stores.
We are also very excited about our newest franchise partner Graham Brown [ph] a leader in South America and expect the first store to open there in mid-2017.
We are growing our company owned business in Australia and the United Kingdom and we are looking forward to update you on our progress throughout the year.
We are also seeing strong results from our emerging brands Rejuvenation and Mark and Graham.
These brands grew close to 40% in 2015 and importantly in each of these brands we are growing profitably with a disciplined investment approach.
Rejuvenation had a strong 2015 and we believe brand growth will accelerate driven by the success and expansion of the North West modern lifestyle assortment further category expansion our broadening demographic base of customers and further development of the Atlanta in Chicago market.
Also in 2015 Mark and Graham completed its third full year as a brand.
We’re seeing order and traffic growth which is driving revenue growth.
Mark and Graham's classic preppy collection interest added an assortment of high quality personalized gifts.
In 2016 we’ll continue to introduce new categories and build brand awareness through efficient catalog prospecting in digital marketing.
The ability to organically create and build brands to drive sustainable growth is a core competency of our company.
Now I’d like to pass the call over to Julie to discuss our financial results in more detail.
Thank you Laura good afternoon everyone.
Before I walk you through the fourth quarter financial results in more detail I would like to begin with a few fiscal year 2015 financial and operational highlights.
Despite a challenging environment 2015 was a year of solid accomplishments with record revenue and earnings.
For the full year we delivered net revenue growth of 5.9% taking our total revenues to nearly 5 billion and we delivered EPS growth of 5.3% to $3.37 consistent with our guidance.
Our revenue growth on the year once again exceeded the home furnishings market and allowed us to capture additional market share.
Our e-commerce revenues grew to be 51% of the total and retail revenue growth accelerated 300 basis points growing 5.4% to almost 2.5 billion.
West Elm delivered another year of outstanding growth with revenue increasing more than 152 million or 22.7% and comparable brand revenue growth increasing 14.8% a double-digit increase for the sixth consecutive year.
We also experienced close to 40% growth for the year in both our emerging brands Rejuvenation and Mark and Graham.
And in our international operations we saw more than 25% growth.
Our pure merchandized margins were flat on the year demonstrating the direct sourcing advantage we have over other retailers.
Our SG&amp;A leveraged 60 basis points highlighting our strong financial discipline.
And we generated 544 million in operating cash flow returned 353 million to stockholders and invested in our long-term initiatives with 203 million in capital expenditures.
Now I would like to discuss our fourth quarter financial results.
In the fourth quarter net revenues grew to 1.586 billion a year-over-year increase of 2.9% with comparable brand revenues increasing 0.8%.
Growth was balanced between channels with net revenues in both our e-commerce and retail channels growing 2.9% and representing 50% of total revenues.
Strong growth in West Elm's new stores and in our franchise operations drove total company revenue growth ahead of comparable brand revenue growth.
Gross margin for the fourth quarter was 38.3% versus 40.1% last year including occupancy cost of 165 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 versus a 155 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Merchandize margins were only slightly down to last year with gross margin to leverage primarily related to shipping and fulfillment related cost occupancy deleverage from our supply chain operations and lower margins associated with higher franchise sales which are dilutive to gross margin but accretive to the operating margin.
In the fourth quarter while continuing to absorb higher shipping and fulfillment related costs as a work to improve service levels and efficiencies in our supply chain we also faced a more challenging retail and macro environment resulting in a more tentative consumer and aggressive discounting.
Unlike other retailers however we were able to substantially hold our merchandize margins as a result of our direct sourcing advantage that has allowed to bring higher quality product to market at a lower cost and to pass that along to the consumer.
And while we incurred higher supply chain cost we are confident that the steps we have taken were the right ones.
We are better balanced from an inventory standpoint and have seen improvement in our order fulfillment rates and shipping cost.
SG&amp;A decreased to 24.3% of revenues from 25.2% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
This 90 basis point improvement resulted from overall expense disciplines reflecting lower employment cost despite absorbing higher labor costs associated with our fulfillment operations reduced general expenses and advertising leverage.
Operating margin for the fourth quarter was 14% versus 14.9% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
By channel the operating margin in the e-commerce channel and the fourth quarter was 22% versus 23.6% last year.
The 160 basis point decline was primarily related to lower gross margins resulting from the increased shipping and fulfillment related costs and higher supply chain occupancy cost as well as the increased employment cost in our distribution centers.
In the retail channel the operating margin was 15.3% versus 17% in 2014.
Deleverage in the retail channel resulted primarily from the higher shipping and fulfillment related cost.
Corporate and allocated operating expenses represented 4.6% of net revenues versus 5.4% of net revenues in 2014.
The 80 basis points of leverage resulted from expense discipline including lower employment costs as well as lower general and administrative cost.
The effective income tax rate in the fourth quarter was 36.6% versus 38.2% last year reflecting fluctuations in the level and mix of earnings as well as the favorable growth resolution of certain income tax matters.
These overall results generated 223 million in operating income and $1.55 in diluted earnings per share in the fourth quarter.
So we were disappointed in our fourth quarter top line performance.
Our strong financial discipline across the company allowed us to meet our financial guidance.
On the balance sheet we ended the quarter with a cash balance of 194 million and no debt.
And merchandise inventories increased 10.2% to 978 million.
However excluding inventory associated with the areas that are currently demonstrating double-digit revenue growth West Elm our emerging businesses and our international operations year-over-year inventory growth was 4.3%.
Now I would like to discuss our 2016 guidance.
For the first quarter of 2016 we expect to grow net revenues 4% to 6% to a range of $1 070 million to $1 090 million with comparable brand revenue growth of 3% to 6%.
We expect operating margin to be relatively in line with last year's operating margin rate.
We expect diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.48 to $0.52.
For the year we expect to grow net revenues 4% to 6% to a range of $5 150 million to $5 250 million with comparable brand revenue growth in the range of 3% to 6%.
We expect operating margin to be 9.8% to 10%.
Diluted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $3.50 to $3.65.
In fiscal 2016 we are also planning capital spending in the range of 200 million to 220 million.
This guidance reflects the investments we are making across our business to strengthen our competitive advantages and position us for long-term market share gains.
The investments we will be making are in those areas where we see sustainable long-term returns for our shareholders.
First we are investing in our supply chain.
As Laura mentioned we are opening a new distribution center in the Southeast to allow us to further regionalize our network to drive superior customer service and supply chain efficiencies by improving customer delivery times labor productivity and reducing freight cost.
While we expect to see a reduction in outbound freight cost overtime as well as a reduction in offsite facility cost we will seek cost ahead of savings in the initial months of operation until we are up and running.
We are implementing a new inventory system that will support our regionalization and efficiency efforts allowing us to better optimize our inventory levels and to enhance the visibility to our inventory throughout our supply chain network.
We are also investing in supply chain labor in the form of higher hourly wages to attract and retain the best talent in our distribution centers in an increasingly competitive environment for such labor.
Our supply chain is foundational to our competitive advantage and we see a clear path to extend our leadership position in the fulfillment of furniture and home furnishings.
We are building a more responsive flexible and efficient network that will scale with our growth and allow us to drive a long-term competitive advantage and sustainable efficiencies.
Second we are investing in e-commerce to support its continued profitable growth and to maintain our leadership position.
We are focused on continuous improvement and customer experience from site functionality to the tools that we give our customer service representatives.
We also plan to increase our marketing investment focusing on new customer acquisition via strong content marketing and personalization.
Third we will be making investments in our retail fleet one of our most powerful marketing tools and competitive advantages.
We will be adding 27 new stores predominantly in the West Elm brand our fastest growing brand as well as remodeling and relocating certain stores across our fleet to ensure a great shopping experience.
We will also be investing in new point of sale technology across all of our stores.
Additionally as Laura mentioned we are reorganizing our corporate headquarters along with some other areas of the company reducing employment cost that can be reinvested into our long-term strategic initiatives our supply chain operations and e-commerce.
This reorganization is estimated to result in a onetime charge during the first quarter of approximately $10 million to $12 million.
This will be treated as a non-GAAP charge and therefore it’s not included within our Q1 and fiscal year EPS guidance ranges.
I would now like to turn to our three year outlook.
Our outlook remains unchanged with mid to high single-digit revenue growth in low double-digit to mid-teens EPS growth.
While we anticipate our 2016 earnings growth to be lower than its outlook due to the investments that I have outlined we are confident that our business will deliver these results over the next three years by leveraging our strong foundation and core competencies.
We expect to drive profitable growth with West Elm path to 2 billion in revenues the scaling of our global expansion initiatives and emerging businesses Rejuvenation and Mark and Graham as well as continued market share gains across our brand portfolio.
Additionally we expect to realize further supply chain efficiencies including reduced freight and offsite distribution center cost as well as improved labor productivity as a result of our investments.
Further we do not anticipate opening any additional distribution centers over the next three years allowing us to better leverage our supply chain cost in 2017 and beyond.
With all of these opportunities for growth and efficiencies we are confident we can deliver this longer term outlook.
We also remain committed to a balanced capital allocation strategy utilizing our operating cash flow to invest in the business to support our ongoing growth initiatives and to return cash to shareholders.
We expect our capital expenditures to remain within the range of 200 million to 220 million.
We expect to continue to target our dividend levels at approximately 35% to 40% of net income and in line with the S&amp;P 500 dividend yield.
Today we announced a 6% increase in our quarterly dividend0 to $0.37.
This is the tenth dividend increase we have had since we first started paying dividends in 2006.
We also expect to repurchase shares annually at a level to at least offset equity dilution.
Today we also announced a new $500 million share repurchase programs that we intend to execute over the next three years.
Over the past five years between both dividend payments and share repurchases we have returned more than 1.5 billion to our shareholders.
In summary we know our competitive advantages combined with our strategic growth initiatives will allow us to maintain our leadership position our well known brands with compelling product at a great value.
Our multichannel business our superior customer service our opportunities for growth our strong balance sheet and our experienced leadership team give us the confidence in our longer term ability to deliver sustainable profitable growth.
I would now like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
We’ll take the first question from Daniel Hofkin with William Blair &amp; Company.
Good afternoon.
Just wanted to follow-up a little bit on the near-term guidance and then kind of square that a little bit just abridge a little bit to the longer term view which sounds like its inline with what it has been.
For 2016 I know you’ll have the absence of certain let's say drags related to the port.
I guess can you help us think about how much of a drag that was last year and then how much the incremental investments are in total this year? And then again maybe help us -- just if there is one or two most important things whether its supply chain rolling off over the next few years or something some other aspects of it that can I bridge to that higher rate of longer term growth that would be helpful? Thanks very much.
Sure and I think as we said in our prepared remarks we anticipate our 2016 earnings growth to be lower than our three year outlook because of the investments that I just highlighted particularly in our supply chain.
And short-term though those offset the port "benefit" that may have been expected this year longer term those are strategic initiatives for us.
As far as abridging to the three year outlook we believe that after we anniversary the investment in this additional Southeast DC particularly this year and as we move through the year as we have seen in a lot of our shipping performance metrics improve and we get out offsite DCs etc.
all of that will allow us to leverage our supply chain operations.
And that plus the additional opportunities for growth that I highlighted obviously across West Elm with their 2 billion in rev -- growing to 2 billion in revenues scaling of our global initiatives our emerging brands who have had 40% growth just this past year alone all of that happening at the same time.
And not investing in additional DCs over the next three years should allow us to take a step up in 2017 and 2018 to where our longer term career outlook implies on the earnings line.
Thank you.
Well hey guys thanks.
A couple of times Laura you mentioned kind of potential [ph] or broader base customer base and I was just curious are you speaking about age demographics or you are talking more income demographics? You know one of the I think the greatest advantages of our multi brand company is that we have differing aesthetics to appeal to different types of customers at different life stages.
And said that I think it is a really good place to be.
You would like to see a mall go up at the same time but the reality is it gives us like I am sure in your portfolio a hedge if there is one certain area that is trending or not trending.
And so what we are always looking for is the wide space both areas where none of the brands are covering or within a brand where we may not be performing to our -- to the level we think we should be.
And so specifically there is -- I think there is no brand that better understands the millennial customer than West Elm and we have learned a lot through studying what they are buying and how they are buying it and when they are buying it and what is appealing to them.
And so that allows us to think I think really specifically about how to appeal to that customer and the other brands.
And so we see a lot of opportunity without losing our core customer to appeal to wider range of customers.
And to be very accessible to people and as I said earlier accessibility is I think key and it is also important that you are providing inspiration but you don’t want to be so inspirational that people don’t relate to you.
And so that is a really key attribute of the way we are approaching our brand aesthetics and thinking about the future and thinking about stores that are extremely welcoming and energetic and new and fresh in great markets and then how that translates to the websites.
Thanks a lot good afternoon.
Could you both size this investment in the Southeast DC in particular it seems like it is a pretty big item for this year? And then just to the extent that 2015 and 2016 are going to be below the algorithm and the world is changing what will get easier to enable you to get back on that track it feels like the competitive environment probably has been somewhat dynamic.
Do you expect that to abate or have you incorporated those ongoing challenges to your thought process? Matt I will start basically we haven’t per say quantified it except to say that clearly you can see that it is more than offsetting the related core benefit.
I think everyone expected us to get back.
We are investing in some very long-term strategic areas for us to continue to drive our leadership position.
So we are investing in supply chain which is the new Southeast regional DC which is going to allow us to get out of offsite which allows us to reduce occupancy allows us to reduce labor and allows us to reduce labor on productivity.
We are also investing in new systems to be able to get our inventory balance correctly which obviously drives efficiencies.
And we are also investing in higher labor cost which I think we can't underestimate and we are not alone here.
I don’t know if other retailers have talked about it but everybody is facing this.
As the world is moving more to e-commerce the getting distribution center talent good talent is getting more and more competitive.
So that is a reality that all retailers are facing right now and so we are investing in that as well.
With that said as we sort of move throughout this year I think some of the key things to know is that as we entered the end of the fourth quarter and as we entered into 2016 we saw out of markets improve we saw better fulfilled rates we saw a better back order positioning and we saw a reduced shipping cost.
So all the things we have been working on the back half of the year are starting to pan out.
Unfortunately we have this offset with the -- short-term offset with the incremental cost of this DC but as we moved throughout the year that also will start to leverage and so when we entered back half splash definitely when we get into 2017 we will have supply chain efficiencies that will begin to leverage in a big way plus when you add in these other areas that we been investing in.
So West Elm again great trajectory.
I mean we can’t underestimate how strong that brand is and what that does to our bottom line.
You can't underestimate the fact that our international is growing 25%.
It's growing to 300 million this year and we talked about how when that starts to leverage that’s a big influence on our op margin.
We talked about our smaller businesses Rejuvenation and Mark and Graham same thing they grew 40%.
And when those start to grow that leverage is the bottom line.
And so you put all of that together.
By 2017 and 2018 we think we are back to the races with our three year outlook.
And the second part of your question about what is going on in the world and clearly there is a lot of external factors and many people have pointed to them and frankly we would prefer to be self critical.
We’d rather look at every area of our company that we can improve so that we can outperform no matter what the environment is hence the four areas of focus that I reviewed in my prepared remarks.
And also we believe the promotional environment will not recede and that no matter how you package a discount a discount is a discount and so we continue to go through a systematic category review so that we can be sure that we are well positioned versus the competition and offer price on like items that we have superior quality.
And so in summary we have -- the changes we are making and we have several structural advantages that we will continue to flex including the excusive design capabilities our direct sourcing advantage our sophisticated marketing capability and we believe we’ll see margin upside overtime as we reduce less productive skews and fully rollout our new sophisticated inventory management system.
Well got you.
Thank you.
Thanks good evening.
So you are guiding to a much better trend in the first quarter than what you just put up in the fourth quarter can you talk about what's changing -- what happened in the fourth quarter was it the screening promotional level on the mall was it the traffic on the mall was it the consumer reacting to the stock market as improved in stock so just give us some perspective on what seems to be a big difference between last quarter and the current quarter? I’m going to start and then I’m going to let Pat finish.
Q4 was tough across retail and our top line came in later then we had planned.
We had gotten off to a stronger start and it was the toughest part of our quarter was the high gifting time period was December and Pottery Barn brands were the most affected.
But frankly we expected to see stronger performance in all of our brands as well.
And so there was a lot of pressures on price points there is the nature of gift giving and what I am very pleased to see is that as we get past that gift giving period and people start to purchase for themselves and for their homes we’re seeing better results and Pat do you want to talk about some of the marketing.
Yes sure.
Chris specifically on the direct side of the business we did see a decline over the high single-digit performance we’d all year.
And although we’re only about half way through Q1 we are seeing a significant positive change compared to Q4 and I think we are confident in our ability to take market share especially and direct and all of our channels.
We are focusing on improved product marketing to better communicate our product quality and differentiation.
We are introducing more products and categories that performed particularly well online.
We’re accelerating in particular in our marketing our personalized marketing efforts at personalization where we have had excellent results so far and we are advancing these programs.
And we are reallocating more of our marketing mix with an increased focus on digital and new customer acquisition marketing programs where we’re seeing good performance across the range of programs.
So I think we can -- the combination of all those activities are driving positive results and I think we’re going to continue to expand on them in the coming quarters.
Thanks very much and just one follow up to that I mean do you think there were some questions about the high end consumer obviously you saw [indiscernible] and Nordstrom had made some commentary last summer.
So would any of this element maybe a solidification of the -- your core customer maybe the stock market is back in a better spot? As I said earlier we believe if we stay focused on the areas where we know we win we will continue to be able to grow across multiple customer areas.
Because every customer is looking for value and great quality and there is a lot of work that we can do to improve those areas for us.
So we prefer to be self critical as I said earlier than to look at these external factors.
Thanks very much.
Hi good afternoon.
My question is on the real estate strategy that you talked about.
I was wondering if you could quantify the opportunity on some of the lower traffic models.
I think you said 27 openings for 2016 if there any guidance you can give us on reposition or closings as well that will be helpful? The closures that are in our historic guidance that we provided you guys there are not associated with any early terminations and at this point it is really too early to comment on specific leases and landlords.
But I think the key is that we want to make clear our approach is changing.
Our customers are driven by the experience they want to engage and feel a sense of community so its need to be local and it must be relevant.
So we are looking carefully at our portfolio of leases and we have very strong partnerships with our landlords and that is leading to opportunities.
But as far as the change to what has been provided to you on the guidance is our standard process of shutting those stores down at the end of their natural lease terminations because they don’t need our profitability hurdles for whatever reasons plus the additions which are 27 which are particularly in the West Elm brand our fastest growing brand.
Understood thank you.
Thanks I want to go back to the top line for a second I know the comp was about one and we know the industry grew a little bit faster than that.
And I appreciate you being very self critical but curious again to just try to focus on if it was a high end customer that slowed.
I mean there was clearly some share shift.
Are you seeing anything changed from a consumer behavior perspective were they more item focused or are they not buying the full rooms as they once were just trying to diagnose and I guess it may be moved if it’s improving already this quarter but it was relative anomaly from a share perspective and I am just trying to understand it a little better? I guess another way to maybe answer your question is that we continue to see very strong furniture growth.
Where we saw weakness was in some of the gifting categories.
West Elm is predominantly a furniture brand.
And we have our top customers are doing really well with us.
We do look at the whole file and it’s really important to us that we have retention and that we have new customer growth as well.
And we’re always focused on both all the way down the customer curve.
But there isn't one standout piece other than we want more customers and we want them to shop more frequently with us and buy more and have great experiences.
Okay thank you.
Yes thank you and good afternoon.
I wanted to ask about West Elm and sort of the bigger topic of revenues you cleared it very well in growing the West Elm business.
And it is something that you just answered it with your references still seeing strong furniture growth in Pottery Barn.
I guess could you just give us your latest thoughts on what you’re seeing in terms of overlap of customers between West Elm and some of your other brands namely Pottery Barn and how you are thinking about that dynamic evolving as you continue to grow the West Elm business? It’s a great question.
We love to study those things and we are very always concerned about any cannibalization.
In fact we haven't seen it.
We have seen that when we do cross brands work whether its catalog mailings or emails or digital marketing we are seeing less because it's related and we do not see cannibalization.
In terms of the cross over its highly competitive so I’d rather not give you that information right now.
But its additive and its incremental is what I would answer the question as.
Great and if I could squeeze in a housekeeping item for Julie could you quantify for us perhaps how the growth of international may affect margins or operating income in 2016 relative to 2015? Well it always depends obviously in the mix of the revenues.
Clearly in Q4 in particular because we had much higher mix of international and particularly franchise operations relative to domestic business given the softness we saw in Pottery Barn it has a much bigger impact then on the gross margin.
But as we continue to grow it and the extent the growth becomes or comes into a franchise you’ll see a negative impact on gross margin but a positive impact on the op margin is accretive actually the op margin.
And from a top level perspective the more volume we have in international regardless where it comes from it’s a positive because its starts to leverage our entire infrastructure.
And so I think that’s a real key takeaway and a great question.
A fact that we’ve grown it by 25% we’re now at 300 million and we are continuing to grow and every metric we’re looking at looks for a continued improvement that could be a huge driver for us as we move into the out years.
Great.
Thank you.
Hi thank you.
Its Dan Binder.
On West Elm just looking at the comp store sales growth still very strong a little bit below where you had been earlier in the year but you are also slowing it looks like you’re slowing a store growth rate and closing two stores I am just curious as you thought about your real estate strategy what your thoughts were on West Elm specifically and the number of stores you think you ultimately can get to and whether there were some sort of significant change in their thought process? We are very pleased with our new store performance and learning a lot about how big this brand can be by opening in a lot of different types of markets and putting additional stores in markets.
And we actually are finding that probably the slightly bigger model 13 000 versus 10 000 is better.
We are constantly making improvements to the design and the services in our stores and we’ll continue to look for more opportunity.
But we are diligent so we don’t want to just open stores to open stores.
We’re thrilled with the lineup we have for this year and the following year.
There is a lot of room for growth also in our direct business.
And as I said earlier in some other channels of business that we have identified because of how innovative this team is and just seeing opportunity to take categories of furniture that are out there in the world and improve them.
And so workspace is a great example of a very big business that is not done through store and is not done through DC either.
It is done through dealers and will be a great brand halo and another way to extend the brand in the coming years.
Alright thank you.
Good evening thanks a lot for taking my question.
Have you seen an improvement in the business into the first quarter what have you noticed from the response to your promotions by the consumer have they become more effective has the overall promotional level within the industry become less intense and has the improvement been due in part to less giftable items comprising the first quarter than the fourth quarter? Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Lots of things we do not see the promotional environment retreating.
There is a lot of people with a lot of different types of promotions.
But we know that the customer is looking for the best value.
They look at the offered price they are looking at the quality and the experience matters.
I mean delivering and receiving furniture is a really important part of the decision in the future a purchase decision.
And so we have been working on a lot of things for a while and I think the combination of all of them is causing some improvements.
It means early you guys in the quarter but we did want to tell you we’re seeing some improved results and we are going to build on successes we’re seeing and where we are not getting the results we want we are incredibly critical and we have timeframes and action plans and people accountable for the improvements in those areas.
Thank you so much.
You’re welcome.
Hi good evening.
Thanks for taking my question.
If I am hearing you correctly it seemed like the sales weakness in the fourth quarter was much more tied to kind of the giftable categories and we’ve had now an improvement here at least early in the first quarter.
So the question I have is if we think about particularly in the Pottery Barn concepts how much of that product how much of a shift in product mix is there through the holidays to giftable items and are those items -- is the product mix then again shifted now as we head into the spring.
So I guess what I am asking was there a category or shift that occurred that sort of say fueled the sales weakness and now that category is largely gone? And it is so hard to know right.
I mean you don’t know if someone is buying it for themselves or buying it as a gift.
You just know that they are not buying it as a gift when you get out of December that it is a self purchase.
And it is a very different dynamic.
I mean I think about ourselves as customers and how we shop and I think we have to continually provide better services in the holiday season and even more convenient service next year.
And then more innovative products because the truth is our success makes other people look very closely at what we are doing and we need to make sure that we are constantly moving to the next great exciting key item versus being able to rely on that past sellers.
And that is an important change that we are making and we already have started working on our holiday assortments for next year and looking at which things we should change and which things we should carry over and ensuring that we have exciting new things to buy.
And at the same time improving the service because it is a sea of lot of noise it is the holiday season and we want customers to come to the mall and have a great experience with us and we are pleased with the improvements we have made this year but we think we can do even more in the coming years in the store.
Helpful and then if I could slip one follow-up was there any type of geographic difference in sales as we think about this weakness that occurred? You know Pat you studied that do you want to answer that.
Yeah I think there have been a number of questions about that and we have looked at the performance of all of our brands particularly in areas like Texas Florida and Canada and we are seeing no discernible difference in these markets compared to others.
This is across all our brands and quite honestly it really hasn’t been a burning issue for us.
Okay thank you.
I would like to thank all of you for joining us this afternoon.
We really appreciate your time and your continued support and we look forward to speaking with you again in May.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!