Good morning.
My name is Nicole and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathryn McAuley Vice President Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin your conference.
Thank you Nicole.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us on Weyerhaeuser's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
I am Kathy McAuley Vice President of Investor Relations.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
The earnings release and materials for this call can be found at our website or by contacting April Meier at (253) 924-2937.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during this conference call.
Joining me this morning are Dan Fulton President and Chief Executive Officer; and Patty Bedient Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This morning Weyerhaeuser reported Q1 2011 net earnings of $99 million or $0.18 per diluted share a net sales of $1.6 billion.
First quarter earnings include an after-tax gain of $96 million on a previously announced sale of 82 000 acres of nonstrategic Timberlands in Southwest Washington State.
Excluding this special item the company reported net earnings of $3 million break-even on a per share basis.
Please turn to the earnings information package available on our website.
This package includes a GAAP reconciliation of special items.
In our discussions of business segments we will refer to Charts 4 through 10.
Chart 4 Changes in Contribution to Earnings by Segment.
This chart illustrates the changing contribution by business segment from fourth quarter 2010 to first quarter 2011.
We begin our business segment discussion of the first quarter with Timberlands Charts 5 and 6.
In the first quarter Timberlands contributed $89 million to pretax earnings before special items $33 million more than in Q4 2010.
Third party sales volumes rose 4% from Q4.
This increase was in part due to Chinese demand for logs.
Japan remains our largest export market accounting for approximately 70% of export volume.
Third party average log price realizations increased 5% in the West and declined 2% in the South.
The fee harvest increased 11% from the fourth quarter most of the increase occurred in the West and was driven by export demand.
Higher volumes resulted in lower costs in the West.
Costs in the South were lower due to less silviculture spending.
Some of the cost improvement was offset by rising diesel prices.
Wood Products Charts 7 and 8.
Excluding special items Wood Products narrowed its loss from $85 million to a loss of $36 million an improvement of $49 million.
Lumber and OSB sales realizations increased 8%.
Lumber volumes were flat.
OSB volumes increased 9%.
Operating rates for lumber and OSB were higher in first quarter.
Log costs rose in the West.
Solid section volumes were flat and prices declined slightly due to mix.
TJI volumes fell 10% prices modestly increased.
Cellulose Fibers Chart 9.
Cellulose Fibers contributed $86 million to pretax earnings in Q1 $52 million less than in Q4.
Maintenance costs increased and productivity was lower due to two scheduled annual outages in the quarter.
In addition we also had $7 million of spending in first quarter preparing for the annual maintenance outages scheduled for the second quarter.
Fiber costs were higher in the West and chemical costs increased.
Pulp price realizations declined $14 per ton.
The majority of our pulp production fluff and fluff pulp prices were slightly lower.
Pulp volumes were flat.
Real Estate Chart 10.
WRECO lost $1 million in the first quarter.
First quarter is the seasonally weakest of the year.
Single-family closings were down 40% from Q4 and 8% from the first quarter a year ago.
The average closing price declined $20 000 to $419 000 due to mix.
The gross margin was 22% down from 26% in Q4 also due to mix.
The backlog of single-family homes sold but not closed increased to 611 homes.
And finally Corporate &amp; Other.
Before special items Corporate &amp; Other contributed $43 million less to earnings in first quarter.
Pension and postretirement expense held in corporate was a noncash charge of $12 million in Q1.
In Q4 it was a credit of $19 million.
Share-based compensation expense rose $8 million in the first quarter primarily due to the increase in our stock price.
I will now turn the call over to Dan Fulton.
Dan? Thanks Kathy.
And good morning everyone.
Over the last several earnings calls I've been reporting on how we're doing as we battle this dismal housing market.
I'm glad to report that we continue to make progress during the first quarter.
Our top line grew year-over-year as well as our bottom line.
And I remind you that this occurred while U.S.
housing softened.
While margins and returns are still not where we want them to be we continue to act on the items that we control and take advantage of every opportunity.
In my remarks this morning I will comment on three subjects.
First I want to talk about general economic conditions with a particular focus on the U.S.
housing market since new home construction has such a critical impact on our company's overall performance.
Second I'll discuss the performance of our businesses during the first quarter adding some color to the information that's already included in our quarterly analyst package and to the summary that Kathy just provided.
And finally I want to discuss the effect of the Japanese earthquake and tsunami on our business.
Although I'll address the importance of the Japanese market to us I want to emphasize that this tragic event had no material impact on our first quarter financial results.
We do expect that rebuilding needs in Japan will likely lead to opportunities for increased log and lumber exports over the midterm but it's too early to tell if there will be any material impact this year.
I'll start with general economic conditions and their effect on our first quarter performance.
With respect to the U.S.
economy GDP growth has been trending up slowly but downward revisions of projected growth in 2011 announced earlier this week by the Fed indicate that the recovery may be stalling.
Additional comments by Fed Chairman Bernanke further confirmed that there continues to be an abundance of caution.
Increasing oil prices are a major concern for us because of the impact on our manufacturing cost as well as how they affect disposable income and consumer confidence.
In Timberlands for example increases in diesel prices result in higher harvesting and hauling costs.
In our other businesses higher oil prices result in increased cost for raw materials and energy.
At the consumer level increases in oil prices translate quickly to rising gasoline prices which directly affect the pocketbook of potential homebuyers who may have been ready to reenter the housing market.
As contrasted the GDP growth in the U.S.
global growth is increasing at a faster pace especially in emerging economies.
This faster-paced growth has had a positive impact on our Cellulose Fibers business which supplies global customers and our Timberlands business which leverages the geographic advantage of our Western forests as well as our long-term trading relationships in key Asian markets.
Turning to the state of the U.S.
housing market the Fed this week described conditions in the housing sector as depressed.
In our press release this morning we used the medical term anemic to describe current conditions and the medical analogy seems appropriate.
The U.S.
housing market has been in intensive care for the last couple of years.
We moved to the recovery room last year boosted by both federal as well as some state housing tax credits but then the markets suffered a relapse in the second half of 2010.
As we entered 2011 we were planning on single-family starts recovering to an annual level of approximately 525 000 certainly not an aggressive number at that time.
But March data shows starts at a seasonally adjusted rate of only 422 000 21% lower than one year ago.
On the positive side housing affordability is at an all-time high and we did see a slight improvement nationally in new home sales in March up from the February level which was the lowest since World War II.
Perhaps the worst is behind us but our experience from the last several years causes us to be cautious and we're focusing on being profitable at today's level of starts while maintaining our ability to respond to improve demand signals.
To get housing back on track for a slow steady recovery our economy still needs to work through the challenges of continued foreclosures as well as the clear direction from Congress on resolution of the still uncertain future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Despite the continued drag on our company by the slow recovery in housing I'm pleased with the progress that we continue to make in improving performance at today's level of starts in our Timberlands Wood Products and WRECO businesses while taking advantage of continued strength in global demand for our Cellulose Fibers.
In Timberlands the big story this quarter is the Chinese demand for logs.
One year ago China represented 6% of our total export volume and in the first quarter the Chinese share of our exports increased to 24%.
The location of our Pacific Northwest Timberlands our extensive logistics systems our strategically located port facilities and our long-term trading relationships uniquely allow us to take full advantage of the Asian market helping us to offset the continued softness in U.S.
housing.
Though Chinese demand is relatively small in the context of our overall volume this increased demand has led to rising log prices in the West for both export as well as domestic logs resulting in higher log realizations for the quarter that Kathy highlighted.
Turning to our Wood Products business mill productivity increased as operating rates for lumber OSB and engineered solid sections all improved as a result of steps taken in 2010 to further rationalize production capacity.
The net result of ongoing improvements across the business including customer selection pricing improvement and the lower cost structure was an increase in our gross margin and positive cash flow before seasonal build up in working capital.
We're still not where we want to be but we are seeing noticeable improvement.
In our WRECO business as expected earnings were approximately breakeven despite very weak demand.
We did however see evidence of improvement in some market indicators.
Though year-over-year traffic levels are down our conversion rate of turning shoppers into buyers increased significantly and our cancellation rates dropped to levels we have not seen since 2003.
Comparing market conditions across WRECO the Maryland and Virginia suburbs of Washington D.C.
show the greatest improvement followed by Phoenix and the Puget Sound region.
Houston sales remain stable and California and Nevada activity declined year-over-year in part because last year's first quarter included several new project openings which generally boost sales activity.
Shifting to our Cellulose Fibers business.
The softwood pulp market remains tight driven by increased demand for dissolving pulp.
For the quarter earnings were up significantly year-over-year but fell from our record fourth quarter levels primarily due to increased expense and downtime related to scheduled maintenance at our mills in Flint River and Longview.
We are seeing opportunities in Cellulose Fibers for new products that are the outcome of our strategy of continuous innovation to serve the needs of our growing global customers and we expect that the percentage of revenues from these new products will increase over time.
Let me close with the discussion of Japan a trading partner dating back to 1923 when we first entered the market to supply lumber for rebuilding following the Great Kanto earthquake which devastated the cities of Tokyo and Yokohama.
Since 1923 our relationship has grown to the point where sales to customers in Japan represented approximately 10% of our total revenue last year.
While we do not have any manufacturing facilities in Japan whereas our products sold to Japan include pulp liquid packaging board newsprint logs and lumber and Japan is the primary market for our Westwood Shipping line.
While Japan is an important market for us we've seen only a small impact from the March 11 earthquake.
Our sales to customers in the impacted zone are roughly 2% of our total revenues and most of these customers were able to shift production to other parts of the country.
Immediately following the earthquake our attention turned to the safety and welfare of our employees and our ship's crews and thankfully everyone is safe.
We have focused on our ongoing efforts to meet the needs of our customers redirecting supply lines to address shortages and adjustments in operating projects.
Mid to longer term once essential infrastructure needs are met there should be an increase in demand for logs and wood products which would be used to build permanent housing to replace the housing that was lost and we are well positioned to work with our long-term customers and trading partners to provide materials for rebuilding just as we did in 1923 and again in 1995 following the Kobe earthquake.
And now Patty will discuss our outlook and then I'll provide a quick recap before we invite your questions.
Patty? Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
The outlook for the second quarter by business segment is summarized on Chart 11.
I'll begin the discussion with Timberlands.
Export log demand in Asia is anticipated to remain strong.
In the West sales realizations and volumes are expected to increase somewhat but this will likely be offset by rising prices for diesel fuel and seasonal increases in road and silvicultural costs.
In South we anticipate slightly higher sales volumes and flat sales realizations.
Earnings in the South will also be negatively affected by rising fuel.
Overall not including the effect of any nonstrategic land sales we expect Timberland earnings to increase somewhat in the second quarter compared to the first.
Market conditions in Wood Products for the second quarter are very uncertain.
We have yet to experience normal signs of the spring building season.
However our forecast does include somewhat higher sales volumes for all products.
Sales realizations for most product lines are expected to be flat.
Higher productivity as a result of increased production volume should lead to more favorable manufacturing efficiencies partially offset by increased log costs.
We expect the loss in the second quarter to narrow compared to the first quarter and we should be cash positive.
Global demand in our Cellulose Fibers segment continues to be robust.
We expect sales realizations to improve in the second quarter compared to the first.
Sales volumes are anticipated to also increase slightly.
Freight costs will likely be higher during the quarter.
Additional planned maintenance outages will lead to higher maintenance costs and additional lost productivity for the second quarter as compared to the first.
After the second quarter our planned outages will be complete for the year.
Despite these increased costs we expect that overall earnings in our Cellulose Fibers segment will increase compared to the first quarter.
In our Real Estate segment we expect our single-family homebuilding business to improve seasonally during the second quarter.
Homes closed are anticipated to increase to approximately 500 closings compared to 363 closings in Q1.
The average closing price will likely decline slightly due to mix.
However we anticipate margins to continue to be strong at around 20% to 22%.
We remain focused on actions within our control despite the continued headwinds of weak consumer confidence only modest job growth and buyers challenged by mortgage qualification issues.
We expect to earn a small profit in the second quarter in our single-family homebuilding business.
Now I'll wrap up with some overall financial comments.
Our cash balance as of the end of the quarter was just under $1.5 billion.
Capital spending during the first quarter was approximately $47 million.
For the full year we expect to spend between $250 million to $270 million.
We anticipate receiving approximately $15 million in credits from the Canadian government for projects at our Grande Prairie Alberta pulp mill.
Our current bank credit facility of $1 billion expires at the end of this year.
No borrowings are outstanding under the agreement and we anticipate replacing this facility by the end of the second quarter.
We have $30 million of debt payments due in the second quarter which completes our scheduled debt maturities for the year.
Our noncash pension expense and postretirement expense in the first quarter was a charge of about $24 million.
This was slightly higher than what we anticipate on a quarterly basis for the remainder of the year.
Based on updated estimates of the funded status of our U.S.
qualified pension plan we will not be required to make a contribution for 2011.
At year end we had estimated that the U.S.
planned contribution could have been as much as $20 million.
We still do expect to fund approximately $80 million into our Canadian plan later this year.
Now I'll turn the call back to Dan and I look forward to your questions.
Thanks Patty.
In summary despite challenging conditions in the U.S.
housing market which are worse than one year ago we continue to make progress during the first quarter to improve our financial performance.
We're expecting improvement in all businesses in the second quarter based upon actions that we've taken and improvements that we have made in order to increase our competitiveness.
We're focused on making the most of existing market conditions and we're prepared to leverage our scale to take full advantage of any market improvement.
As we now get ready to turn to questions I want to make one final comment in anticipation of perhaps questions about weather events this week in the South.
We've all heard and seen on TV stories of tornadoes throughout the South that's affected some of our operations in both our Timberlands Cellulose Fibers and Wood Products business.
First of all I want to say that all of our employees and their families are safe.
We are assessing damage as we speak.
We suffered some limited power outage at our Columbus Modified Fiber facility but our pulp mill is operating.
We've had some limited damage of Timberlands but we won't have any full assessment until we're able to get up in the air and survey the damage.
We've had some property damage in some of our Wood Products facilities and some minor power outages but at this point it's likely that there will be no material impact on our activities in the second quarter and we'll have further reports as our people are able to get back out to the field.
I just wanted to provide an additional assessment of how we've come through this past week.
So with that I'd like to turn it back over to Patty and invite your questions.
Nicole we'd like to open the floor for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Wanted to start with a few questions on the Wood Products operations.
Your volumes were up reasonably year-on-year and I'm just wondering do you think you took some market share or do you think customers were building inventories because that seems a little out of line with the underlying demand? I think Gail in the first quarter there is some build in inventory in anticipation of a building season.
We talked on the last call about waiting until after the Super Bowl to see if there's a spring selling season.
Based upon what we reported this morning and what we see certainly reported nationally the market is still very soft but we as you noted did have some increase in activity.
More importantly for our Wood Products business we've seen increase in margins which is related to the focus that we've had on focusing on our pricing as well as cost management.
But as I noted in my comments and I spent a fair amount of time talking about it we are concerned about U.S.
housing recovery.
The first quarter numbers are not healthy and so we're managing our business based upon the volume that's available today and positioning ourselves to grow with the recovery.
Okay.
And just following on on that your second quarter guidance were fairly flat realizations in Wood Products.
Have you -- was there a lag in pricing that would give you confidence in that? Because current prices would suggest a reasonable decline.
Well there's a bit of a lag.
We're already one month into the quarter and so the guidance that we've provided is the best information that we've got.
Okay.
And just thinking can you give a little bit more color on what you're seeing on the West Coast in terms of the trends in Chinese demand? Has it continued to grow? Is there any fund that's slowing in either kind of the U.S.
Northwest or British Columbia? And also you've kind of referenced log costs being up in the West and how you see that impacting domestically oriented sawmills in the West? So to answer the questions sequentially talking about general Chinese trends Gail we've been watching the building demand over the last 18 months.
Lumber demand has primarily impacted Canadian lumber producers in the West.
In Timberlands business the log demand from China has occurred primarily in operations in Washington and Oregon.
As we noted we've had a steady increase in the amount of export that we've been shipping to China.
In the lumber business in Canada it started several years ago with shipments of beetle-damaged wood and gradually the volumes have picked up and the quality has picked up.
As we've noted before the Wood Products are going into industrial uses primarily forms for concrete work shoring pallets and packing.
We don't see demand backing off at this point and so we are taking advantage of the opportunity in our Timberlands business to increase flows to the market because we've got longer-term relationships and we've got strategically advantaged logistical facilities.
And we are shipping some lumber out of Canada but given the location of our sawmills it's not a heavy percentage.
Okay.
And just a question in terms of margins for domestic sawmill and for sawmills in the West given rising log costs is that a major concern for you? It is a concern because as you know and as we've talked about the U.S.
housing market has been relatively weak and so there's not a lot of pricing power for lumber producers.
So log prices have moved up because of the demand from Asia and it is putting a bit of a squeeze on lumber producers.
Okay.
But no sign of that impacting log demands at this point? We have not seen it.
So I think the whole question of the impact of China on the domestic market is difficult to dimension because we do have some logs that we sell domestically that could go to export so others that are exporting as well as well as some of the domestic producers are shipping lumber to China.
So that helps the domestic market as well for domestic producers.
So I think it's a little mixed in terms of the China impact isn't really all exported it does flow over a little bit to the domestic market which is good given that the U.S.
housing market is weak.
And then I think as I mentioned related to the Japanese earthquake we would anticipate that there would be a pickup in demand from the West Coast not only for logs but for lumber.
But at this point it's too early to tell what the timing will be because they do have to work through their issues of infrastructure before they are ready to take on significant rebuilding of permanent structures.
The focus right now is on temporary structures because of the incredible amount of damage that was done in the tsunami.
So you're keeping the regular volumes to Japan at this point? We are.
We've seen very little disruption Gail in shipments to Japan.
Immediately after the earthquake there was the need for some rerouting and some short-term disruption.
In our log export business we had some logs that were scheduled to be shipped to Japan and on a short-term basis they were rerouted to China.
But we expect that the Japan demand will come back.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Credit Suisse.
And again we very much appreciate the new reporting format.
I think this is the second straight quarter and we look forward to that.
I think the biggest question I had just looking over the results is trying to forecast the corporate expense line.
And it looks to me from what you're saying is that we obviously would shave a little bit from this quarter.
It was pretty high for the lower pension expense and I'm guessing that might be what? $5 million.
And the other question is on the stock $8 million you mentioned increase on the stock compensation is that a number that is totally a function of the stock price or is there some fixed level that we should always factor in? So bottom line is where do you see that corporate expense number going? Well Chip as you look at that you're right on the pension.
And I would remind you that what's in the corporate segment is just pension and postretirement that doesn't get allocated to the segment.
So in the reporting package to try to help you dimension that a little bit better on Page 4 we give you the total company look by quarter.
And then back on Page 9 in the Corporate &amp; Other segment we give you what portion of that runs through corporate.
So that should help you with the pension and postretirement benefits.
And you're right in terms of a go-forward number.
It's probably $4 million to $5 million left on a per quarter basis than what it was in the first quarter.
Now if you think about the variable comp expense tied to the stock most of that really is a function of the stock price.
And it runs in a couple of areas.
One we do have some stock appreciation rights that we use for our equity plans in Canada.
And then we also have deferred comp that is in share equivalent.
The share equivalents are about I think roughly 1 million shares at the end of the quarter and the stock price moved about $6 in the quarter.
So that should help you dimension that movement quarter-to-quarter.
And on a go-forward basis I would say exclusive of those items probably $10 million to $15 million a quarter in the Corporate &amp; Other segment would be a good rule of thumb.
As you know the Corporate &amp; Other segment is sort of the catch-all segment and it does get impacted by things like foreign exchange stock price et cetera.
So directionally keeping those things in mind I think will help you chart what that corporate expense will be on a go-forward basis.
So said differently if we assume the stock price just didn't change in the given quarter there would still be the pension expense.
And that would be in addition to that $10 million to $15 million correct? Yes that's right.
Okay.
And then the second and last question is I believe I heard you say that as you forecast the second quarter for Wood Products you expected realizations to be flat I believe sequentially.
And just sort of looking at recent prints from whether it's the futures market or random links I'm just wondering if that might be something that could be maybe a few weeks old or is that something that would on the other hand would anticipate some improvement as we go into May and June? Well we really haven't seen improvement as we go into May and June.
Usually we would expect to see some and we held realizations flat in the forecast.
As you appropriately note in April those realizations are a little softer.
So if we don't get any pickup then I would say that there's a possible downward pressure on the flat realization forecast.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Merrill Lynch.
A couple of nitty-gritty questions I guess to start.
Did I hear you say Dan or Patty that in Wood Products while obviously still a relatively weak end market environment you expected unit costs to be lower as you were going to be improving production.
If I heard that correctly and you don't necessarily see the pickup does it make for perhaps a weaker third quarter because at some point those costs have to come back to roost if you don't sell the product? Costs are coming down for a couple of reasons George.
Part of it is the higher utilization rate at our mills that is in part related to permanent closures that we took at the end of last year.
So we are operating at a higher rate in lumber and in OSB slightly higher rate in our solid sections.
With respect to lumber we got very high operating rates in Canada somewhat lower in the U.S.
But those utilization rates should be sustainable given the level of demand that we see today.
We're also enjoying some benefits from reduced SG&amp;A.
As compared to fourth quarter we brought our SG&amp;A in the business down by 13%.
So it is a focus on tightening up costs as well as our general focus in our Wood Products businesses to work the margins very heavily and in some cases we do have some pricing opportunity.
But we've got to be working both price and margin.
Okay.
That segues to my other questions.
One to the extent that you can comment -- and if you have it in the packet I had missed it.
What would you say your average operating rates are right now across your major product classes within Wood Products? And secondly for your or for Larry if he's on the phone -- I'm sorry go ahead Dan? Larry's not on the phone so you got me and Patty.
That's still good.
Do you think the initiatives that you've taken in Wood and the actions that you've done to date would be sufficient to bring the business to breakeven on EBIT basis if we held prices in your major categories flat at the 1Q average or would you need to embark upon additional actions to get to a breakeven on EBIT? So operating rates and further actions that are needed.
Operating rates let's take that one first.
In lumber for the quarter our operating rate approached 80%.
In our OSB business we were running at around 66% and in our engineered business it continues to be in the mid-30s.
As you know engineered products go into new home construction whereas at least with OSB and lumber we've got some alternative outlets and potential export plus the home improvement warehouse business.
With respect to the initiatives in Wood Products we have a wide range of initiatives underway in every single one of our product lines: lumber OSB engineered and in our distribution business.
We need to be making progress in all of those to get to the numbers that we're projecting and we're making progress.
So I'm really pleased with the amount of activity that we have ongoing in our Wood Products business to improve our competitiveness.
But we have not completed the initiatives and they are ongoing and we need to continue to improve in every single one of those in order to hit the numbers that we projected.
So Dan if I'm interpreting it correctly your initiative would get you to breakeven on a cash flow basis but you really can't comment to whether they would get you to breakeven given the current market environment on an operating profit basis would that be fair? Well I think that would be fair George to say that in our forecast we said that we would be cash positive for the second quarter.
We said that the loss would narrow on an EBIT basis and our forecast was realization flat.
So we would not be to cash -- or to operating breakeven during the second quarter but we do expect to be cash flow positive.
It's fair enough.
I was looking at past flow 2Q but I'll leave it there for now.
The last question working capital was up quite a bit in the quarter.
Again around the same line of reasoning or questioning is there a way that you can become even more cash efficient in the future certainly you can't control that a bit more than you can the markets are dropping and in terms of improving your turns? Working capital build that you see in Wood Products is seasonal.
It is normal this time of the year that you would build first quarter.
The utilization of our working capital has also improved over time.
We continue to focus on increased inventory turns in our distribution business as well as the manufacturing portion of our businesses.
And I would not say that there's no opportunity there.
We continue to work it not just in the Wood Products business but every business that we've got.
Yes I think as you think about working capital especially in Wood Products you're coming off a very low year end the December and holiday season.
So that's a good portion of that build as well and it is pretty typical year-over-year.
I would say that if we had more confidence in the housing outlook we would have built more working capital than what you see there although it is something that we monitor very closely.
And we would not expect to be building additional working capital in the second quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
I just want to echo Chip's comments.
I find this new layout with the results and the detail very very hopeful.
A couple of questions on Wood Products.
I did notice that big drop in Wood Products SG&amp;A and I wondered Dan is that likely to go down any further? Is that first quarter level sort of the new run rate in that business? And can you tell us a little bit about what you did to bring that down? A lot of that Mark came out of selling costs as we looked at our business and evaluated what we really needed in operating.
I would say that there is -- that is the run rate that we've got today but we are looking for ongoing opportunities to bring it down.
It was a notable change.
And those were actions that we took last year in order to align our cost structure with the market situation that we find ourselves in.
And a number of those costs in addition to the selling were actually costs that were cost at the corporate center in terms of allocated cost that historically kinds of costs that would be allocated to the segment for their use for things like IT and other services.
And we have been working pretty steadily across the company to bring those costs down in line with Wood Products operating posture.
So I think it's the combination of the selling the G&amp;A the G&amp;A that is direct into the business as well.
And as Dan said I think in that business we're really trying to pull all the levers that we can.
Okay.
I will just start Patty when I looked at it across all the segments that was the segment where you really saw the big decline both year-over-year and quarter-to-quarter.
One other question about lumber Dan and I think people have kind of gotten around this a little bit already but we've seen this big drop in the lumber futures and I wondered if you have any thoughts about what's behind that.
One argument that I've heard is that the Chinese have backed away from the lumber markets up in Canada and elsewhere in the short term and that's one of the reason we're seeing this.
I wondered if you have any thoughts? We're not a huge seller of lumber into the Chinese market.
We've got some production out of Canada.
But you're a huge lumber player -- I was just going to say you're such a huge lumber so you must have a sense of what's going on.
We are.
I think some of this is a reaction to anemic U.S.
housing starts numbers.
I mean that's really the driver for lumber especially across the West.
And in the South also.
We're just not seeing the starts levels that had been anticipated as we entered the year.
I made a comment that as we were entering the year we were expecting starts at about 525 000 single-family.
That was certainly not at the high end of the range of forecast.
And what we're seeing now is those forecasts starting to drop below 500 000.
Yesterday NAHB [National Association of Home Builders] came out with a revised forecast at slightly under 480 000.
And so I think that the Chinese demand for lumber and logs has been important but the main driver is U.S.
housing.
Yes okay.
I wanted just to step over to Timberlands for a minute.
I wondered when we look at the details you're now giving us for the Timberland business is there anything that you could do going forward that would give us a little more visibility inside the portion of that business that's export in terms of export volume and export prices? And it would particularly help us understand kind of how you're doing in the Japanese market because I think you sell a much richer mix of logs into Japan and say what you would sell into other Asian markets.
Historically that's the case.
You used the comment the term richer mix and we've seen the quality of logs that are shipped to China increase over the last 12 months.
Some of that is related to availability of logs out of the West.
And we're working to try to improve the data that we do get to you so you have a better understanding of our business.
So we'll take your question as input.
And we got an Analyst Meeting coming up where we're going to talk about Timberlands and so we'll try to give you some greater visibility.
Okay.
Just one last question Dan.
Just it seems to me there are still a number of peripheral assets around the company.
And just to take a single example you've got a single bleach board machine up there at Longview.
Just seems like you have to -- you have one machine in a market that you're not really in otherwise.
It just doesn't seem to me that you're the natural owner for some of these businesses.
Any kind of thoughts on that? The bleach board business is located in Longview.
It's part of our Longview complex.
And it starts to get relatively complex in terms of shared services and integration with other activities.
That business is much improved and in fact we are significant player in that market.
There are only a limited number of producers of that product.
We've got great long-term relationships and we are a significant seller of that product in Japan so it's a significant contributor of cash.
It's operating better than it has ever been for us.
And at this point it continues to be part of the portfolio.
Okay very good.
I look forward to seeing you in a few weeks.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
First your comments about housing mix in the quarter and expectations that the mix will remain weak in Q2.
Do you anticipate at this point that your mix is where it ought to be for the rest of the year if we don't see a housing pickup or is it hard to see beyond the second quarter? And my second question I was wondering if you could just give us an update on your overall energy cost sensitivities? So on housing mix let me understand your question Mark.
You're reacting to our comment that margins shifted because of mix? Sure sure.
Okay.
So that is a comment really around the relative mix of closings and where they came from.
So fourth quarter we would have had a higher percentage of closings coming from Southern California in particular San Diego.
First quarter there were more closings in other markets.
And so on the first quarter statement and as Patty said in her outlook for second quarter about margins it is a function of where those closings occur.
We would expect as we have in the past to see a pickup in mix towards California in the back half of the year.
But as I reported when we talk about activity on a year-over-year basis our sales activity is much lower in California than it has been.
So somewhat of a concern as we look at what margins might be and it's too early to tell what that would be in the third and fourth quarter.
At this point we've got a very good sense of what second quarter activity is going to be because those homes are fundamentally in escrow.
Right right.
Okay.
And on the energy side? Could you restate your question? Yes.
I'm just trying to get a sense of what your energy cost sensitivities are right now.
Fuel costs are up oil prices are up.
Just trying to get a sense on both the -- whether it's significant enough for it to matter going forward in the Timberland business and also in your Fiber business? As you think about it in our Timberlands business Mark diesel fuel really is the biggest impact there.
And it is a significant impact.
If we were to take the prices that we have currently and have those for the rest of the year given where we were at the beginning of the year it could be as much as a $20 million to $25 million impact for the rest of the year.
So that's the primary piece.
As it relates to sale of fibers fuel of course impacts freight costs there.
And then the other major impact I would say as you think about oil prices flows over somewhat into our Wood Products business in terms of the cost for resin et cetera.
So those would be the major pieces.
Just as a final comment I made a note in my remarks that energy also does affect consumer confidence.
The translation of oil prices into gas prices at the pump does have an impact on consumer confidence which affects the homebuilding business which ultimately as you know flows back to the Wood Products business.
When we get to $5 a gallon for gasoline people start to change their habits and it makes them cautious.
Your next question comes from the line of Joshua Barber with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Dan you mentioned before some new products on the Cellulose Fibers side and if I recall you were doing something with a commodity viscose staple extender.
Can you give some more details on that in terms of timing mix? How much that could potentially take out of your typical fluff pulp business and what your expectations are for those new ones? Yes.
Patty talked about this about six weeks ago in a conference and we are making a product which has the ability to be an extender for dissolving pulp.
It has a brand name called Pearl.
And I think the estimate that we've made recently was that we may have as much as 60 000 tons this year.
We've had very strong market response for that product.
We've had a very limited number of shipments so far but we're building an order book for the balance of the year.
It does give us the potential to increase average realizations across the pulp business.
It's going to be a relatively small percentage of total production.
But on the margin it will give us some increased pricing power and it should benefit us.
And you'll start to see that more in the balance of the year.
Very limited activity in the first quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Is there some rough estimate if you get to 60 000 tons of production about how much of that would actually take out of the existing Cellulose Fibers production capacity? Well it's not a 1-for-1 substitution.
So as we shift over to that product we have a corresponding loss in fluff volume slightly more than 1:1 but it is more than made up by the increase in price.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay but it wouldn't be like a 2 for 1? No no no.
Nothing that...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And on your Wood Products side you touched on Japan and how much of that is actually mix of revenues.
Is there -- would you be able to give us an estimate of how much Japan actually makes up of your Wood Products division itself? Or is that...
It's a small percentage of Wood Products historically.
They've been a major log customer.
We ship to Japan primarily from Canada where we ship our J-grade product.
And out of our operations in Canada it is a small percentage that flows there.
As demand may pick up for rebuilding we would have the ability perhaps to pick up lumber exports not just from Canada but also the U.S.
But primarily they're a purchaser of spruce and so that would be coming out of our Canadian operations.
By and far as we talked about Japan it's a log market and it is a Cellulose Fibers market for us both pulp and liquid packaging board.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Trying to get a handle on the potential of impact of increased purchases from Japan for your log business related to rebuilding.
I realize it's very difficult to forecast especially on the timing.
But if we look back to Kobe can you give us a sense as to what type of impact that you think that that has on your log business? Did it perhaps increase your log sales to Japan by 50% versus where the run rates might have otherwise been for a 3- to 5-year period? Or how would you frame what happened in that prior situation? And if you have any perspective on how the current situation might differ that you'd share that would be great too.
I don't have numbers on the impact on our log shipments from that period.
The most significant aspect of the Kobe rebuild was that wood frame construction performed very well in that earthquake.
And so following that earthquake there was a more significant adoption of Western-style framing for the construction of single-family homes.
And that's now part of their building code so that's not a barrier that we would have to overcome.
Longer term that may be an opportunity for us in China because the Chinese do not build stick frame homes.
They build with concrete and brick.
And so a terrific long-term opportunity if the Chinese would start to build wood frame houses.
So I can't comment on the impact on our log exports.
I can just tell you that we've got solid long-term customers that buy our logs that convert them into structural wood frame products.
And so we're positioned with those relationships not only with the operators of sawmills but also the trading companies that we've worked with over the years that to the extent that there's a market opportunity and a demand for those products we'd be able to take advantage of that.
Inc.</strong> Maybe let me try and come out at a different way and perhaps you can provide some help.
If we think about the Japanese housing market order magnitude is 800 000 starts maybe 450 000 500 000 wood starts in the last year or so.
If one were to make an assumption that there's going to be another 400 000 houses but let's just say just pulling numbers out of the air so it'd be 50% equivalent of one year.
And you flow that over five years then it would perhaps add 10% or so a year to Japanese housing starts 10% to 20% depending on how you calculate it.
Would that translate to a 10% to 20% increase for you or would it potentially be very different than the 10% to 20%? So the last part being kind of the question of if we make a judgment on how much the impact is going to be on Japanese housing starts how does that then flow back to you? I can't comment on your modeling and how you would approach it.
I assume that we will receive our share of product demand for rebuilding.
But remember they get Wood Products from all over the world not just North America sending either our finished lumber or logs to Japan.
The key for us is to leverage the long-term relationships and the logistical advantages that we have and we will take advantage of this much opportunity as possible.
And the timing will play out.
As I said they need to deal with temporary housing.
There's about 150 000 homes that were destroyed their focus right now is on temporary housing which is both steel and wood frame and then they'll get to focusing on permanent rebuilding.
And in some cases some of the homes that were damaged are in areas where it's going to be a while before there's any rebuilding because they have concerns about radiation of course.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last real quick one.
I guess I was a little surprised that we didn't see a bigger increase in the Pacific Northwest log pricing relative at least to the fourth quarter? Are those -- is that mix shifts that are offsetting what seem to have been even bigger increases by specific grade? Well prices have been moving up and there is some mix.
We also have some portion of our logs as Patty said that are actually sold domestically to customers that end up flowing them to Asia.
So I'm not sure that I'm answering your question Mark.
Restate it one more time.
If you look at your Pacific Northwest log prices it was up 5% first quarter versus fourth quarter.
And if you looked at what many of the movements on individual species of logs had been it seemed to have been much bigger than that.
So I was just trying to understand why there wasn't an even bigger increase 1Q versus 4Q in your average Pacific Northwest log realizations.
And I wondered whether it was mix had something to do with that.
So you do have some movement in mix Mark because Japan is still our biggest overall market.
But in terms of movement quarter-over-quarter I would say that China which has a little bit lower price log was a bigger -- had a bigger movement in the overall mix.
Right that makes a lot of sense.
And do the prices to the Japanese market do you tend to have longer-term contracts that are much more stable or do they really move with the market as well? They move with the market.
Your next question comes from the line of Rick Skidmore with Goldman Sachs.
Just wanted to focus on Cellulose Fibers just for a second.
Can you just calibrate the outages in the first quarter and possibly the second quarter either on a tonnage basis or what you'd expect the maintenance cost to be? And then I had a follow-up just on how you're seeing the trends in the fluff market and how you'd think those trends would play out through the balance of 2011? So Rick this is Patty why don't I take the maintenance outage question? As you think about your average outage for our mill sets on average they'll run about 10 to 12 days and it will be about $1 million a day just round numbers.
So let's just say that's $12 million a mill.
In the first quarter we had two mills that were down.
So that would be a total of $24 million.
And then as Kathy said in her comments we did spend about $7 million in the first quarter on the outages for the second quarter just getting ready for those outages.
So that would be around just a little bit over $30 million for the maintenance cost itself in the first quarter and we do expense maintenance as it's incurred.
So as we move into the second quarter then I said we would complete our remaining outages for the year.
So that means we have four in the second quarter.
So again back to our $12 million a mill that would be $12 million times four it would be $48 million.
And if you took the $7 million that we already spent on that we'd be just over $40 million.
Now those are for average outages.
And we do have one mill in the second quarter where we will be installing a capital project.
So its outages a little over twice as long or about twice as long as our normal outage would be.
So let's just say that's another $10 million.
So roughly quarter-over-quarter you're looking at probably just over $30 million for the first quarter and just under $50 million for the second quarter for an increase of a little under $20 million.
Great.
And just maybe just comment on how you're seeing the trends in fluff pulp because we've seen some certainly some tightening in paper grade pulp.
There's been some tightening in paper grade fluff index.
Prices have been off a bit.
There is some substitution that's taking place where there's some fluff that is moving into the dissolving market and conversion of some machines.
Our forecast that Patty provided is that we expect average realizations to be up.
And that's a function of in part what we see as forward pricing but also there's some estimate of mix as we start to flow in some of our Pearl product.
Your final question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Just on Timberlands please.
First of all are you currently marketing any nonstrategic land or is there anything pending? We are always in the market looking at land in large part to improve the mix of what we've got.
The nonstrategic land that we sold in the first quarter was whitewood land.
And we have had a strategy of moving into land that was better suited for Douglas fir.
And so on the margin we are always in the market but we have no significant nonstrategic land parcels on the market today.
Great.
And obviously you've been in the timber business for 100 years.
But now that you're REIT do you contemplate stratifying your landholdings at the core noncore and maybe HBU [highest and best use] categories and discussing it with us? We're absolutely prepared to discuss that.
We've provided numbers in the past.
If you look at our inventory we have a relatively small percentage of HBU because we have over time been active in marketing HBU and disposing of it.
In terms of core versus noncore.
A majority of our Timberlands we consider to be core.
They're in our primary operating areas and so we don't have any significant amount of land that we would consider not to be core.
But we're happy to share those numbers and we'll provide a little bit more color in May.
We have done that in the past and our core lands are well over 90% if you look at our Timberlands.
I'll turn the call now back to Dan.
Okay just a final comment.
As always we appreciate your comments and questions.
And as a reminder our Annual Investor Meeting will be held at the Sofitel Hotel in New York 9 a.m.
on Thursday May 19 and I hope that many of you on the call will be able to join us.
If you have further questions following today's call I encourage you to follow up with Kathy McAuley.
And I want to thank you for all joining us this morning.
Thank you and have a good day.
Thank you for participating in today's Weyerhaeuser First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sylvia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now turn the call over to Ms.
Kathryn McAuley Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Sylvia.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on Weyerhaeuser's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
The earnings release analyst package and web slides for this call can be found at the website or by contacting April Meier at (253) 924-2937.
Please review the warning statement in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during this conference call.
Joining me this morning are Dan Fulton President and Chief Executive Officer; and Patty Bedient Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This morning Weyerhaeuser reported Q2 2011 net earnings of $10 million or $0.02 per diluted share on net sales of $1.8 billion.
Second quarter earnings include after-tax charges of $22 million for special items $16 million for loss on the early extinguishment of debt and an impairment charge of $6 million for the expected sale of the Hardwoods business.
The company's cash balance decreased $582 million primarily due to debt repayment.
At the end of the second quarter Weyerhaeuser's cash and cash equivalents was $181 million (sic) [$881 million].
Please turn to the earnings information package available on our website.
This package includes the GAAP reconciliation of special items.
In our discussion of the business segments we will refer to Charts 4 through 10.
Chart 4 changes in contribution to earnings by segment before special items.
This chart illustrates the change in contribution by business segments from first quarter 2011 to second quarter 2011.
My comments reviewing the second quarter refer to changes from first quarter unless otherwise noted.
We begin our business segment discussion of the second quarter with Timberlands Charts 5 and 6.
In the second quarter Timberlands contributed $112 million to pre-tax earnings $23 million more than first quarter.
Pre-tax earnings of -- were $89 million in the first quarter before special items.
Average third-party price realizations rose 9% in the West driven by Chinese demand.
Southern third-party price realizations were flat in the quarter.
Fee harvest volumes increased 8%.
This increase was in part due to Chinese demand for logs.
Export volume increased 31% from first quarter.
Costs were higher in the West due to roads and diesel.
Higher diesel cost also affected the South.
Nonstrategic land dispositions were $34 million in second quarter.
Wood Products Charts 7 and 8.
Excluding a $9 million charge for the expected sale of the Hardwoods business the Wood Products loss widened by $16 million in the second quarter to a loss of $52 million.
In Q1 Wood Products lost $36 million.
Lumber price realizations declined 5% or $14 per thousand board feet.
Oriented strand board prices fell 7% or $14 per thousand square feet.
TJI sales realizations were 1% lower than last quarter and solid section realizations were 3% higher.
Sales volumes increased across all product lines except plywood partially offsetting lower selling prices and higher cost.
Cellulose Fibers Chart 9.
Cellulose Fibers contributed $80 million to pre-tax earnings in Q2.
This was $6 million less than Q1 pre-tax earnings of $86 million.
There were 4 scheduled maintenance outages in the quarter compared with the 2 in the first quarter.
The annual mill maintenance schedule has been completed for the year.
Maintenance costs were $18 million higher due to the annual outages and pulp production was 6% lower.
Pulp price realizations increased $48 per air-dried metric ton or 5%.
Pulp sales volume decreased 2% due to weakening demand from China.
Real Estate Chart 10.
Second quarter pre-tax earnings for WRECO was $8 million a $9 million increase in the contribution to earnings.
In the first quarter WRECO had a pre-tax loss of $1 million.
Closings of single-family homes seasonally increased 26% from 363 units in the first quarter to 459 units in the second quarter.
However closings declined 27% from the year ago quarter.
Last year's second quarter benefited from the housing tax credits.
Average single-family prices declined 7% from $419 000 to $391 000 due to mix.
Gross margins increased to 22.4% from 21.7% in the first quarter.
The backlog of single-family homes sold but not closed increased to 673 homes.
And finally Corporate and Other.
Before special items Corporate and Other contributed $19 million more to earnings in Q2.
Corporate and Other includes net pre-tax charges of $11 million related to discontinued operations.
This includes operating earnings of $2 million for Westwood Shipping Lines and charges of $13 million for other discontinued operations primarily in environmental remediation reserve for a previously divested facility.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Fulton.
Dan before you start this is Patty.
I just want to make one clarification to Kathy's comments on the cash balance.
It sounded like she said $181 million.
She meant to say $881 million.
The cash decrease of $582 million for the quarter was correct.
The cash balance at the end of the quarter is $881 million.
Okay Dan? Thanks for that correction.
Thanks Kathy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Despite continued weakness in U.S.
housing and the overall U.S.
economy we continue to make progress against our goal of delivering superior sustainable returns for our shareholders.
In addition to focusing on improving operating performance we took steps in the quarter that strengthened our balance sheet and liquidity and announced 2 divestments of nonstrategic assets.
Our overall financial performance is not where it needs to be and we remain focused on those variables we can control to improve performance in today's difficult markets.
In my remarks this morning I want to provide some context related to broader macroeconomic conditions that affect our results in particular U.S.
housing conditions and demand from China.
Then I'll discuss highlights of our quarterly progress in each business segment and key strategic goals before turning to Patty who will cover our outlook for the third quarter plus financial comments.
Conditions in the U.S.
housing market continue to be weak.
Growth in GDP employment and consumer confidence are all necessary for a housing recovery and unfortunately we saw little progress during the quarter on any of those indicators.
GDP growth was less than 2% for the quarter slightly worse than the first quarter and weaker than expected.
Employment growth has stalled as evidenced by the recent June figures of over 9% unemployment.
Consumer confidence remains weak affected by high unemployment increasing gas and food prices and the budget deficit debate.
Facing these headwinds we find ourselves in a housing market that is no better than last year's very weak market.
In light of continued sluggish conditions 2011 estimates for single-family starts have decreased to fewer than 500 000 and forecasters are now pushing the beginning of the housing recovery out to 2012.
Although we faced challenging near-term market conditions we continue to be bullish on housing demand over the longer term as the U.S.
returns to trend demand levels.
We're well positioned to take full advantage of the housing recovery in the U.S.
as well as to build on our unique strengths to participate in the growth of global markets.
As I've discussed before Asia has long been an important market for Weyerhaeuser's Timberlands Cellulose Fibers and Wood Products businesses.
China's recent dramatic growth makes this market even more attractive to us.
Last quarter we discussed the positive effect of strong Chinese demand on our first quarter results particularly in our Timberlands and Cellulose Fibers segments.
Demand from China continued to be an important force in the markets early in the second quarter but late in the quarter there was a noticeable reduction in both price and volume.
Some of this change shows up in our second quarter results and will affect our outlook for the third quarter.
Despite this recent pullback overall demand is still higher than a year ago and we believe China will continue to be an important growing long-term market for our products.
Let me now turn to a discussion of business and company highlights for the quarter.
Earnings from our Timberlands segment were stronger than anticipated as we took full advantage of the opportunity presented by strong demand from Asia.
Harvest volume and prices were up from Q1 in response to strong export markets off the West Coast.
Our logistically advantaged Western Timberlands allowed us to capitalize on these strong market conditions resulting in a 31% increase in export volume from Q1.
During the quarter the Chinese share of our export volume increased to 26% compared to 15% one year ago.
Although we are now seeing somewhat of a retreat in demand from China from the first quarter high our Japan market continued strong even after the tragic earthquake and tsunami earlier this year.
Our Japanese export business continues to benefit from our close long-term customer relationships our premium Douglas fir logs and a highly efficient supply chain.
Despite continued operating improvements on our Wood Products business our financial results were weaker than we expected largely caused by continued softness in U.S.
housing which translated into overall decline in product prices.
Sales volumes increased versus the first quarter across all major product lines even with a weak seasonal increase in housing starts.
This allowed us to reduce inventory as we produced less than we sold in the quarter.
Sales volume increases were offset by lower realizations in all products except engineered solid sections.
In addition log cost increased in the West.
Though performance in this business is still below our expectations we generated $23 million in cash as we began to work down the seasonal first quarter buildup in working capital.
We continue to pull all levers to improve performance at today's low level of housing starts including expanding our customer base into new geographies and markets outside of U.S.
housing while continuing a relentless focus on improving costs and utilization of our operating facilities.
We remain focused on the goal of being cash positive in this business for the full year but it will be challenging in these difficult markets.
In WRECO our homebuilding business our performance in the quarter exceeded our expectations.
Although traffic was down 15% year-over-year our conversion rates have increased and we continued to realize strong margins relative to our competitors.
4 of our 5 homebuilders increased sales year-over-year and the business earned $8 million for the quarter.
WRECO remains focused on the basics: cost cash flow and delivering homes to highly satisfied customers.
Our customer satisfaction scores measured by willingness to refer are among the highest in the industry at over 95% compared to industry averages of 86% to 90%.
The primary story for the quarter in our Cellulose Fibers business is that we safely completed 4 planned annual maintenance shutdowns with 0 recordable incidents.
With our scheduled annual maintenance now complete we're positioned to run full for the balance of the year.
Increased price realizations for the quarter were anticipated as were the expenses related to our planned maintenance.
Towards the end of the quarter we saw some price softening due to a decline in demand from China which resulted in financial results slightly less than expected.
The decline in Chinese demand was especially evident in decreasing pricing relating to dissolving pulps and NBSK.
This decline affected sales of our Pearl product which is being used as a dissolving wood pulp extender.
Finally I want to address progress that we continue to make during the quarter to implement our strategic direction.
During the quarter we reached agreement to sell 2 nonstrategic businesses: our Hardwoods business and our Westwood Shipping Line.
We have owned and operated these businesses for several decades and as we assessed our future direction we determined that neither were core to our ongoing strategy.
By selling them to new owners we will better be able to sharpen our own management focus on our long-term strategic direction.
Both transactions are scheduled to close in the third quarter so Patty will discuss more specifics in her outlook comments.
Although we are selling these businesses I'm pleased that we will continue our relationship with our long-term associates as the Hardwoods organization will continue to be a customer for our logs and we will continue to ship products to our Asian customers on Westwood Shipping Lines.
A final element of forward progress during the quarter was continued actions we took to strengthen our balance sheet and liquidity position by refinancing our credit facility repaying our 2012 maturity notes and ending the quarter with a strong cash position.
And now I'll ask Patty to discuss our outlook and provide a financial summary and then I'll provide a quick recap before we invite your questions.
Patty? Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
The outlook for the third quarter by business segment is summarized on Chart 11.
I'll begin the outlook discussion with Timberlands.
Slowing export demand from China is expected to result in lower sales realizations and volumes in our Western operations.
In addition we expect domestic markets will continue to soften as sawmills take increased downtime in response to weakening lumber markets also contributing to the falloff in volumes and prices.
In the South realizations for logs are expected to moderate only slightly as those markets did not experience the run-up in pricing during the second quarter that we saw in the West.
Volumes may increase seasonally.
We anticipate seasonal increases in cost for silviculture and road spending in the third quarter compared to the second.
Earnings from nonstrategic land sales are anticipated to be much lower in the third quarter.
Overall we expect that earnings in the Timberlands segment will be significantly lower in the third quarter compared to the second.
Average sales realizations in Wood Products are expected to be 3% to 4% lower for both lumber and OSB compared to the average for the second quarter as market trends reflect soft demand in most geographies.
Realizations in engineered wood products are estimated to increase around 1% to 2% reflecting a July 1 announced price increase.
Sales volumes are expected to decrease across most product lines although OSB volumes may increase somewhat.
Log cost should decrease especially in the West and we expect to take more downtime in the third quarter in lumber due to weak market conditions as we continue to focus on matching supply with demand.
We've already taken 6 weeks downtime in July compared to 3 weeks in Q2.
Excluding the results of the Hardwood business we expect overall operating results in our Wood Products segment to be comparable to the second quarter.
In Cellulose Fibers pulp sales realizations are expected to decrease as the pullback in demand from China continues.
However this should be partially offset by somewhat higher shipment volumes.
We had completed all of our planned annual maintenance outages for 2011 by the end of the second quarter.
As a result we will have a significant improvement to maintenance cost and productivity.
In addition we expect lower cost for operating supplies and contract services primarily related to the reduction in maintenance outages.
We also anticipate slightly lower seasonal energy costs.
Although market conditions have softened we expect that earnings in our Cellulose Fibers segment will increase significantly compared to the second quarter.
Markets in our Real Estate segment continue to be very weak.
While we do believe that markets have reached their bottom we don't see any near-term catalyst that would overcome the continued lackluster job growth and low consumer confidence.
Despite these market challenges we expect closings to increase seasonally in the third quarter.
We anticipate closings of over 500 in this quarter compared to 459 in the second quarter.
Prices are expected to be flat to slightly lower due to mix and margins should remain relatively strong at 20% to 22%.
We expect slightly improved earnings in our Real Estate segment compared to the second quarter and we have not assumed any land transactions in our third quarter outlook.
Now I'll wrap up with some overall financial comments.
During the second quarter we used $551 million to retire debt which was originally due in March of next year.
This amount includes principal interest and the premium paid on the early extinguishment.
While this was a significant use of cash in the quarter we anticipate an overall interest savings in excess of the premium by executing the May call.
In addition we paid $30 million of regularly scheduled debt maturities in the quarter.
We ended the second quarter with cash of over $880 million.
Debt maturities for the next 5 years total just over $600 million with $200 million due in 2012.
Also in the second quarter we replaced our bank credit facility which was set to expire at the end of this year.
The new facility has a 4-year term and retains the $1 billion of credit availability.
We have no borrowings outstanding under this agreement and so we have substantial liquidity and a strong balance sheet despite challenging market conditions.
Capital expenditures for the first 6 months totaled just under $100 million and we still estimate expenditures for the full year to be in the range of $250 million to $270 million.
As we have previously disclosed we estimate pension contributions this year for our Canadian plant of approximately $80 million and most of this will be paid in the third quarter.
As Dan discussed we are scheduled to close the sales of our wood -- Hardwood and shipping businesses in the third quarter.
We expect to receive total proceeds of approximately $160 million plus transfer of long-term lease obligations.
Total proceeds for the Hardwoods business will be approximately $108 million of which $25 million is a note receivable and the remainder in cash.
In the third quarter we will recognize a noncash pension charge of approximately $10 million to recognize amortization of previously deferred cost.
Upon the sale of our shipping business we anticipate cash proceeds of approximately $53 million and we will book a pre-tax gain of approximately $45 million.
Now I'll turn the call back to Dan for some closing comments and I look forward to your questions.
Dan? Thanks Patty.
Before we turn to your questions I want to make a few comments about the current demand for Timberland since we often get questions from you about what we are seeing in the market.
After several years of relatively quiet market conditions we have seen increased interest from a wide range of investors in the South as well as the Pacific Northwest.
Recent interest has come from what I consider to be traditional timberland investors including other forest products companies TIMOs and high net worth family interests.
This year we've also seen interest from a variety of conservation-oriented investment funds.
We are routinely engaged in smaller timberland transactions normally structured as exchanges through which we are working to improve our overall returns by blocking up land adjacent to existing ownership where we can benefit from management efficiencies.
In the case of the Pacific Northwest we're continuing a long-term strategy of shifting our ownership to land best suited for Douglas fir.
Our sales of non-strategic coastal properties over the last few years is a result of our strategy in the Northwest of moving out of land that was primarily hemlock and expanding our Douglas fir ownership.
As an example earlier this month we completed the acquisition of approximately 6 300 acres of prime Douglas fir timberland in Washington that is adjacent to our own logistically advantaged holdings using exchange proceeds from the sale of nonstrategic acreage in Arkansas that closed in the second quarter.
We've described our long-term strategy to target profitable growth in our Timberland holdings and we'll continue to explore opportunities to leverage our Timberland's management expertise to add shareholder value.
And now we welcome your questions.
Sylvia would you please open the floor for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Mark Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
Patty can you just help us to size the kind of quarter-to-quarter impact from no maintenance in the pulp business? Sure Mark.
I think as we talked about on the second quarter call maintenance costs run about $1 million a day and we had just over 50 days of downtime in the quarter related to maintenance.
So -- and we had prepaid some of that maintenance in the first quarter.
So the effect is -- of the maintenance cost itself would be somewhere just a little under the $50 million number.
And then you have increased productivity because we will be running those days instead of paying the maintenance cost.
And as I said we also have a little bit less cost in the way of operating supplies and contract services all because of the maintenance.
So I think that will give you a delta.
All right.
That's -- net-net that's a number that's going to be north of $50 million maybe well north of $50 million? Well I wouldn't want to put a point on it any finer than what I just gave you.
Okay.
All right.
That's fine.
Dan just a question about your building products business especially the distribution business over an eye level.
And I'm just curious about how you think about that business whether it's just a channel market for Weyerhaeuser products or a little bit more.
I had heard that you've moved away from selling non-Weyerhaeuser products and have now moved back to selling some of those.
So maybe you can just walk us through how you think about that business.
Before we moved into our eye-level strategy the distribution business had a much broader range of products.
And as we set up our eye-level strategy and brought all of the businesses under that brand we turned it into more of a channel market as you note.
And fundamentally it's been a channel for our engineered wood products business.
As we've evaluated that business over the last 12 to 18 months especially in this continued downturn in housing we have decided to take on some additional third-party distribution and sale of the products that are related to new home construction where we can improve our efficiencies and logistics in selling those products out of those yards where we can put them on a truck.
It's already going to a job site with our engineered wood products and it will make a contribution against our fixed cost and help to improve the margins in that business.
And so what you observed is an evolution where we used to distribute a number of third-party products.
And as you observed we moved away from that and now we are taking on some strategic third-party products not at the scale that it used to be but those that are complementary to our own.
Okay.
And then my last question.
Any thoughts on whether we may see significant further nonstrategic asset sales over the next 12 months? We have nothing to announce.
We had earlier talked about our shipping business and the Hardwoods business.
We're pleased that we found good buyers for those businesses.
And we'll be closing those transactions as we said in the third quarter but we have nothing else planned at this point in time.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly from CLSA.
Dan 2 things.
I'm trying to get a handle on the difference between the fee harvest volume growth and the price movement in the West versus the South.
I mean obviously it's not quite apples-to-apples I realize that.
But the prices in the West have moved up nicely.
Prices in the South are going absolutely nowhere.
Are we really just looking at a Southern market that's super badly oversupplied? Or is there more going on in your price realizations? And understanding there's mix in there too.
The most significant difference between the West and the South is the fact that in the West we have a strong export market.
And so that has driven volumes in the West but more importantly it's driven price Mark.
So the demand -- and it's not just China.
It is the steady demand from Japan.
China has been on the margin the most significant factor but in our export business we also saw on a quarter-over-quarter basis a doubling in the percentage of exports to Korea.
So that has caused price movement on the West Coast.
In the South the South is truly more dependent upon U.S.
housing.
And so...
But Dan when I look at the data more broadly I mean I'm seeing -- granted stronger volume growth in the West but volumes in the South are up pretty good too and that's what surprises me.
Yes.
No our volume was up as you see in the charts accompanying our release.
Our volume is up in the South both on a quarter-over-quarter basis but also on a year-over-year basis.
So we've had opportunities to expand third-party sales at stable prices and we've taken advantage of that.
Okay.
One more question and I'll be done.
Just a sort of a theoretical question.
How much more fiber do you think you have in your system in aggregate as the result of the reduced harvest since 2008? Dick always used to remind us that if you don't cut the trees down they grow every year.
So I'm just trying to gauge how much more fiber you've been able to accumulate over this period relative to where you might have been otherwise.
I can't give you that number just because I don't have it available to me right now Mark.
I mean clearly we had significant deferrals 9 and 10 because of the slow market.
As you observed our volumes have picked up.
And as you note the trees do continue to grow.
And so the fiber volumes in large part have increased during the period of deferral.
But I don't have a number that I can provide to you.
The next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon from Vertical Research Partners.
Just a quick follow-up to the question about the swing in the Cellulose business.
Could you give us Patty an idea of what the maintenance costs were last year in the second quarter 2010? I don't have that in front of me Chip but we also -- quarter-over-quarter you really have to look at how many maintenance days we had and how many mills were down and then what the nature of the maintenance was.
And just by way of illustration as we talked about in the second quarter last call we had 4 mills down but we had an extended maintenance at our New Bern mill because we were actually putting in a capital project.
So they're really -- they're not quarter-over-quarter exactly the same and year-over-year.
That's why I've tried to give you sort of the amount of maintenance days and to give you some information that would help you with that.
But we don't have any maintenance left for the rest of this year.
Got you.
Okay.
And secondly you mentioned you had $34 million in strategic land sales in the quarter.
What should we -- and I know they're very lumpy but what should we at this point consider to be kind of a normal rate? And you can either give us an annualized number because it is lumpy or what you think it could be per quarter.
Well we don't have a set budget for those because they are nonstrategic land sales.
As we look forward to the third quarter I wouldn't anticipate we would have any significant level of land sales or at least at this point.
But as Dan said in his comments we are in the market all the time to be opportunistic up to -- as we find places where we can upgrade our portfolio.
And to the extent that we can transact those we will act on them.
That's why they are lumpy and why they're hard to forecast.
But probably as you look back over time excluding the large land sales like the 80-some thousand acres we transacted in the first quarter they're probably in that ballpark of $80 million to $100 million of -- as an annual basis.
Got you.
And then just lastly Patty on the 2 transactions we -- you all announced for the third quarter can you give us the magnitude of the lease assumption you're giving your obligation you're giving up as well as sort of the maturity date of the note for the Hardwoods business? Yes.
The lease obligations have to do with the ships.
They're operating lease obligations and they go over a number of years so I don't have that number for you Chip.
Your second question was I think the term of the note on the Hardwood business and that's a 5-year term.
Yes.
5 years? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos from Merrill Lynch.
Quick question first back to maintenance.
As we think to next year within Cellulose Fibers should there be any material difference between the amount of maintenance and downtime you take next year versus 2011? As we think longer term obviously you've got this change in maintenance scheduling that you're planning.
But as I recall that will tend to start helping your earnings in '13 and '14.
So any details and confirmation that will be appreciated.
George you're correct.
When we met in May we talked about our longer-term initiative of stretching out the normal planned maintenance schedules from 12 months to every 18 months and it will take several years for us to be implementing that.
That will start to show up really late 2012.
But in terms of showing up in the P&amp;L it'd be 2013 2014.
As we take our normal annual shutdowns today we are making some incremental improvement that help to move us along the path that will allow us to implement that change.
But as you know that's going to be several years before we see the results of that.
Okay.
Dan you mentioned a couple of times that China had slowed in its purchases of your products whether it's timber or cellulose fiber towards the end of the quarter.
Is there a way to put a figure on what the change or rate of change was at the end of the quarter? I don't have a specific number that I can give you for that.
Let me just talk about how it showed up in each of our businesses.
In the case of our export log business we were able to make most of our shipments during the quarter.
And so it's more of a prospective change both in volume and the anticipated price.
So we've seen some price drops for logs that are being exported.
Most of that will start to be evident in the third quarter.
In our Cellulose Fibers business the most dramatic change occurred with our Pearl product.
That is small tonnage for us but has been very high margin.
And what happened there it was really early June that Chinese government fundamentally started to tighten credit for businesses in China.
They cut back purchases.
We think that's a shorter-term phenomenon but it's playing out in the third quarter forecast that Kathy provided.
So the good news let me -- just talking about Pearl a little bit.
That's a product that we make by swinging production from our normal fluff production.
And so it's not a dedicated facility to the extent that prices fall back there's still an attractive margin but we can swing that volume back to fluff which is a big advantage for us.
So we are opportunistically taking advantage of pricing opportunities in that product but we have plenty of demand for our fluff production.
Okay.
Last question I'll turn it over.
Your cash flow in the quarter was better than I initially thought.
Nonetheless the markets that you're in obviously are not giving you any favors in terms of your ability to improve returns.
So if we think about the next 12 to 18 months Dan what do you think will be the source of the most meaningful return improvement within your business? Will it be addressing capital structure? Will it be potential return of value? Will it be further portfolio moves? Or do you think it will be on improving your operation to cost? What do you think are the most likely source of return improvement? So we are focused on improving cash flow generation from our Wood Products business.
As we noted we are in challenging markets.
We had targeted that we would be cash breakeven for the year.
Our focus is to continue to reach that goal but in the market that we find ourselves that will be very challenging.
But our Wood Products business the focus is to generate cash and to improve margins and to improve revenues.
In our homebuilding business our focus has been to generate cash through normal operations of building homes.
Plus we are an opportunistic seller of land and lots to other builders.
We've had some success in doing so.
And we expect that activity to continue as the housing market starts to recover and many builders will find themselves being land short.
And they will need to purchase lots and we'll have some to sell them.
In our Timberlands business we do generate significant cash there.
And what we would be looking at in our Timberlands business is some market recovery especially in the South.
In the West we benefited in cash flow because of the run-up in prices coming from the export markets.
As we mentioned that's softer now but we would expect that to recover.
China will continue to be a strong buyer of products off the West Coast and we'll be ready to supply them.
And then our Cellulose Fibers business we have been on a relatively steady capital spend where we're improving our facilities.
Those spending initiatives have been bringing down our cash reduction cost.
They have been reducing longer-term or maintenance cost and so we will be better positioned to generate cash in the future because of those.
So to your question what is our focus it's all of those.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman from UBS.
Dan can you talk a little bit about I guess what you're seeing in WRECO market by market? And also on your comments about improvement in 2012 can you maybe -- I know it's early but give a little bit of color how you might see 2012 playing out at this point? Sure.
Let's talk about individual markets within WRECO.
Strongest markets within WRECO have been Washington D.C.
and Houston and it's no secret why that is.
It's because they have relatively strong employment.
Washington D.C.
went into the downturn earlier.
It's come out ahead of some of the other markets.
There's not a significant overbuild of inventory.
Volumes are not what they used to be but prices are recovering and we're actually seeing some incremental improvement in price.
Houston is an energy economy and so they've come through this market in relatively good shape.
We're seeing improved activity on our Trendmaker operation both from our routine activity with our Trendmaker Homes plus we have some product enhancements and extensions that have helped us to increase market share and increase volume.
Phoenix is a market that's actually showing some growth now.
And it -- once again it's an employment story.
Relatively strong employment our activity is up in Phoenix and we're starting to see some improvements in margins in that market.
In Southern California we've enjoyed during the downturn relatively steady demand in San Diego and we've had high margins in San Diego because of our historic land position.
That continues to be the case.
Market's a little bit softer than it was 6 months in -- 6 months ago in San Diego but that's more of a relative comment.
We're seeing some improvement in the Pacific Northwest which had been soft for a period of time and that's once again related to job growth.
So relatively more improved job picture in the Pacific Northwest related to the Boeing airplane company and their ramp up in production plus other new employment.
In Las Vegas we're still struggling.
It's a tough market but the inventory is being worked down and we are starting to see some improvement in that market.
And then the last submarket is the L.A.
and the Inland Empire.
I think we're doing better than others in the Inland Empire and we're expecting that market to pick up a bit.
So it is a slower recovery than what we had anticipated Gail but we're seeing some positive movements.
And as we talked and I mentioned in my comments we had -- 4 of our 5 homebuilders had greater sales in the quarter than they did a year ago and one year ago we had the housing tax credit.
So that's good news.
The market where we did not see improvement was Southern California and Las Vegas.
And so that's the one that is our big engine and we need to see some improvement in order to see a real significant pickup in the WRECO activity.
But we've been pleased that WRECO were profitable.
Our results generally are better than those of our peers and as Patty mentioned we're expecting a bit of improvement in the third quarter.
Okay.
And just 2 things.
One just any thought -- early thoughts on how 2012 plays out? And then a quick question on fluff pulp.
At this point we look at a number of housing forecasts.
We prepare our own but we look at others.
Just to give you a range Gail in 2012 we have outside forecast that ranged from total housing starts of 630 000 to over 1 million.
So there is a wide range of uncertainty related to 2012.
We are planning conservatively on the low side and sizing our operation for a slower market but we -- because of our land position we're able to respond relatively quickly if we have market opportunity.
So we're focused on maintaining margin.
We're not chasing volume but all of the forecast that I see which suggests that we are expecting to see recovery to start in 2012 clearly didn't happen in 2011.
When we went into the year we were expecting 2011 to be somewhat of a mirror image of 2010.
2010 had a strong first half a very weak second half.
We were expecting a weak first half of 2011 with improvement in the second half of the year.
At this point we're not expecting to see significant improvement in the back half.
And so we're planning for that and we're focused on recovery starting to take shape in 2012.
We do need to see improved consumer confidence.
We need to see improved employment.
And longer term we need to have a resolution of the mortgage securities market in particular Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And just a quick question.
You talked about the dissolving pulp and a little bit about NBSK.
A competitor yesterday was talking about seeing spot pricing and fluff up pretty significantly as much as $100 a ton.
And I'm just wondering what you're seeing specifically in fluff and kind of what your outlook will be over the next quarter or 2? The fluff market has been certainly more stable.
The reason I talked about dissolving pulp and NBSK is I was trying to focus on the impact of China because those products were going into China really as substitutes for cotton.
And because of steps that the Chinese government took to tighten credit prices dropped significantly.
In terms of fluff prices Patty provided our forecast for the third quarter in terms of what we're seeing directionally.
There has been some additional supply that's come on with Domtar at Plymouth and the Alabama pine facility.
That's had some impact in putting more product on the market.
On the other hand the fluff market continues to grow globally.
And all of our large customers are concerned about maintaining supply because they have ambitious growth plans.
And so longer term we're really positive about fluff.
And then we have some fluff capacity that's been shipped to dissolving pulp and so we see the market stabilizing.
Your next question comes from the line of Joshua Barber from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> You had your comments about the Cellulose Fiber outlook especially given the weakening in China your comments mostly in late June and into the third quarter.
Could you remind us how much or what percentage of that division sales actually comes from China? We have about -- as you think about our Cellulose Fibers business broadly our pulp business we had about 1/3 of our production is sold domestically about 1/3 to Europe and about 1/3 to Asia.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And Asia would be split somewhat evenly between Japan and China? Or there would be a much bigger China focus? It would be -- there's a significant focus on Japan.
And China would also be an important market but Japan overall is a very important market to us.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So China's just going to be the biggest market for Pearl basically? China has been the market for Pearl.
When we look -- and Pearl is a very very small percentage of our production.
But on the margin it has been a significant contributor.
Once again at the margin our Asian sales our pulp both NBSK and fluff.
But also Asia is a major market for our liquid packaging board which comes out of our Longview facility so -- and that is primarily going into Japan.
So Japan's our largest market by far in Asia.
We talked about Japan on the last call because it was right after the earthquake and the tsunami and we had had some disruption.
For the most part all of our customers' operations have stabilized.
They've shifted production between their own facilities and Japan remains very stable for us.
It's also an important consideration not just in Cellulose Fibers but as we talk about our export log business.
Once again to make the point China has been terrific for us as well as the rest of the industry because it's been new demand from the West Coast.
But our large long-term export market has been and will continue to be Japan.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> That's helpful.
But following up on Japan have you seen any pick-up there lately just a result of some earthquake rebuilding start? Or do you think that's still going to be pushed out another 6 to 9 months maybe more? We have not seen a pick-up yet.
Initially the focus in Japan was on emergency housing.
We saw some initial disruption in our log shipments.
Those have all recovered.
We would be expecting longer term to see a pick-up in lumber exports but lumber would be primarily going into new construction.
We think new construction will be delayed another 3 to 6 months before we start to see that impact because they are still dealing with infrastructure.
They're completing their temporary housing initiative and they will shift now to longer-term production of permanent housing.
And that should benefit the West Coast markets for lumber perhaps some panels for those that are equipped to deal with metric sizes as well as logs.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And last question regarding WRECO.
Have you -- another one of the homebuilding competitors that's a partner of yours in South edge had taken a pretty sizable write-down in the second quarter.
Do you guys have any remaining exposure that or do you think that the continued settlements there could end up being an issue in the third and fourth quarters of this year? We are a very small partner in that enterprise.
And we believe we're fully reserved and we took those reserves some time ago.
So we're anxiously awaiting the settlement but we think we're fully reserved now.
Once a settlement is finally agreed to there'll be some cash implication.
We built that into our cash forecast for the balance in the year.
So we're not expecting any surprises at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover from D.A.
Davidson.
Changing gears a little bit.
I guess via your Catchlight joint venture you've entered into a relationship with KiOR biofuel.
But can you elaborate on this relationship? I'm sure you'll be selling the biomass and Catchlight will funnel the fuel back to Chevron.
But what kind of volume is committed? And is it a needle mover? Will we see more of these? It is too early to tell whether it's a needle mover Steve and I think we will be likely to see more of these.
So we do have a joint venture with Chevron.
It's called Catchlight Energy.
That joint venture has been operating for about 3 years.
The initial focus in that joint venture was to combine the expertise and intellectual capital of Weyerhaeuser.
If you think about the oil analogy as the upstream provider of biomass and then Chevron is downstream in the refining business.
We have over time looked at all of the technologies that are out there and have determined at this point that we will form more relationships with those like KiOR that bring in some unique technology.
Weyerhaeuser's role in that relationship will be providing biomass.
Chevron's role will be to take away the product that would be manufactured or refined by the KiORs.
Because ultimately the challenge in this business is you have to distribute it to get it to an end user.
And so the strengths of our partnership are that we better than anyone I think understand the upstream challenges and opportunities.
Chevron covers the downstream and we are likely to be entering into a number of agreements in what we would call a wraparound strategy where we have the opportunity to work with those that have a variety of technologies.
We think there's great long-term potential but it's too early to tell and I would not be able speculate at this point timing for those technologies.
But we're excited to be working with something that I've been able to get funding and we're going to try to move the dial here and develop some renewable fuel alternatives for this country.
So we should look at KiOR something as the outsourced refinery? Yes.
Not as refining.
They are a converter of biomass into a product that then would go into a refinery.
Okay.
Because I guess at some point...
That is a 3-step process.
I naively thought that a pulp mill would be a lot like a refinery as well not being an engineer or anything.
Is that still a possibility? I mean as you move more of the black liquor perhaps out of your process.
Or it's good how it is where it's just your source of energy.
Right now we're using the black liquor to provide energy for our own facilities and that is the best use.
The advantage of our pulp mills is that we have zoned entitled locations with boilers and equipment that can handle some additional biomass.
Plus we are located in areas where we have logistics and sourcing and the challenge in the biomass business is really logistical.
How do you gather it on an economic basis in order to get it to a point where it's competitive with alternative fuels? So pulp mills are great sources of energy.
Black liquor in the near term is likely to be used by the pulp mill for its own energy.
Great.
Okay.
Well keep us posted.
The other thing that we are doing is -- where we had the opportunity Steve -- we have some facilities where we have turbine generators that are installed where if we have excess black liquor or biomass we can generate power.
And the amount that we don't use we sell into the grid.
So it helps to bring down our overall energy cost as well as create new markets for power.
Well some of your friends in the -- of the timber REITs have signed some pretty significant deals for volume even offshore.
So keep us posted as these things materialize.
We'll do so.
Your final question comes from the line of Peter Ruschmeier from Barclays Capital.
I wanted to come back if I could to Japan for a minute Dan.
And I was curious if you have the high-level view of how you think about the rebuilding affecting housing starts seeing pretty modest expectations of 5% 10% but then it goes up from there.
And are you seeing any -- recognizing this could take 3 or 6 months before we get to the front end of this do you anticipate any different types of demand in other words similar order patterns for logs and lumber? Or do you expect a shift one way or the other? It's too early to tell Pete.
There are a number of initiatives underway in Japan in order to position their homebuilding industry to be able to respond to the needs.
And we're -- we have customers that are home builders to whom we sell lumber engineered wood products.
We expect their activity to begin to ramp up.
There has been some demand on panels often to the West Coast more coming from Canada than the U.S.
The issue on panels historically has been the metric size versus a 4 by 8 panel.
On a temporary basis they've been taking some 4 by 8 panels.
There may be some code changes in Japan that would allow more imported product from the West Coast.
Our initiative is really to be working with our existing customers.
So we've got long-term relationships with sawmill operators and with homebuilders and our goal is to provide them products so that they can participate in the rebuild.
One area Pete that we might see late in the quarter or fourth quarter would be in the area of the plywood operations in Japan which were hit pretty hard by the earthquake and some of those are starting to come back online now.
So we would see -- it's not a huge market for us but on the margin that would be another area of increased activity.
Okay that's helpful.
And then shifting gears back to timber.
I think you mentioned previously I think you said that your harvest plan for the year would be up in the order of 10%.
I'm curious if you have any update on that.
And maybe against the backdrop of what you're seeing in the South in terms of the dry weather increased availability of logs and the lower prices are you thinking about throttling back at all because of the prices to defer? Or what's your outlook? We evaluate harvest levels on an ongoing basis.
We talked about our second quarter harvest levels having been up.
As we look out third quarter Patty had comments in her outlook.
We have had dry weather that allows more activity.
But one of the problems with that weather is it's been so bad that in fact productivity levels are down a little bit because it's just difficult to work in the woods.
So we will continue to match our harvest levels with profitable demand.
We'll gauge pricing as we look forward and move our harvest.
What we do is fundamentally we're always looking to the future making judgments about future demand and future pricing and so that's just an ongoing process.
And I don't have any more information for you today Pete other than we'll continue our normal process.
I'd like to just close the call.
We've gone a little bit long and I'm glad that we were able to take the time to answer your questions.
We appreciate all of your comments and questions.
And as always if you have further questions or comments you can follow up directly with Kathy McAuley.
I'd like to thank everybody for taking the time to join us today and we appreciate your ongoing interest.
Thanks very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's Weyerhaeuser Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Ashley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn today's conference over to Kathryn McAuley Vice President Investor Relations.
Ms.
McAuley you may begin your conference.
Thank you Ashley.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us on Weyerhaeuser's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
The earnings release analyst package and web slides for this call can be gathered at our website or by contacting April Meier at (253) 924-2937.
Please review the warning statement in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during this conference call.
Joining me this morning are Dan Fulton President and Chief Executive Officer; and Patty Bedient Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This morning Weyerhaeuser reported third quarter 2011 net earnings of $157 million or $0.29 per diluted share on net sales from continuing operations of $1.6 billion.
Earnings for the third quarter include after-tax gains of $91 million from special items.
These items include: a benefit of $83 million or $0.15 per diluted share related to foreign tax credits; a gain of $32 million or $0.06 per diluted share on disposition; a charge of $24 million or $0.04 per diluted share for impairments and restructuring in wood products.
Excluding these items the company reported net earnings of $66 million or $0.12 per diluted share.
Please turn to the earnings information package available on our website.
This package includes a GAAP reconciliation of special items.
In the discussion of the business segments I will refer to Charts 4 through 10.
Chart 4 Changes in Contribution to Earnings by Segment before Special Items.
This chart illustrates the change in contribution by business segment from second quarter 2011 to third quarter 2011.
My comments reviewing the third quarter refer to changes from the second quarter unless otherwise noted.
We begin our business segment discussion of the third quarter with Timberlands Charts 5 and 6.
In the third quarter Timberlands contributed $62 million to pretax earnings $50 million less than in Q2.
$28 million of the decrease was the result of lower earnings from nonstrategic land sales.
Third quarter land dispositions were $4 million compared to $32 million in the second quarter.
Average third-party price realizations in the West declined 5% as a weakening Chinese market exerted downward pressure on domestic and export prices.
In the South average third-party price realizations declined slightly.
Fee harvest volumes were flat in the quarter.
Volumes were down in the West as the Chinese export market softened.
Volumes rose in the South.
Costs were seasonally higher.
These increases were due to road construction in the West and silviculture spending in the South.
Wood Products Charts 7 and 8.
Continuing operations in wood products lost $43 million $10 million less than second quarter.
Lumber price realizations were flat.
Price realizations for OSB and engineered solid section declined slightly.
Engineered I-joist price realizations rose slightly.
Operating rates in Q3 were flat in lumber improved in OSB and were slightly lower in engineered wood products.
Restructuring and impairment charges were $38 million primarily related to the permanent closure of 4 previously idled engineered wood product facilities.
This was offset by a $5 million gain on the sale of properties.
Charges related to the sale of discontinued operations were $13 million in Q3.
Cellulose Fibers Chart 9.
Third quarter cellulose fibers' pretax contribution to earnings was $135 million $55 million higher than second quarter.
Average pulp price sales realizations declined 4% or $40 per metric ton.
Pulp sales volumes were flat.
Maintenance cost was lower and pulp production increased 13%.
There were no maintenance outages during the third quarter.
There were 4 scheduled annual maintenance outages in the second quarter.
Real Estate Chart 10.
Real estate contributed $10 million to pretax earnings $2 million more than second quarter.
Single-family closings increased seasonally from 459 homes in Q2 to 508 homes in Q3.
The average price on homes closed during the quarter increased $12 000 to $403 000.
This increase was due to mix.
Margins on single-family homes closed also increased due to mix.
Corporate and other.
Excluding discontinued operations Corporate and Other was $5 million lower in Q3.
Foreign exchange charges primarily related to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar reduced corporate and other by $18 million.
This was partially offset by $7 million of additional gains related to share-based compensation.
A decline in the company's stock price during the quarter resulted in a larger mark-to-market adjustment.
Discontinued operations included a loss from operations of $4 million and gains of $58 million on the sale of Westwood and properties in the third quarter.
Discontinued operations had a charge of $11 million in second quarter.
I will now turn the call over to Dan Fulton.
Dan? Thanks Kathy and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
Despite a more challenging macroeconomic environment than we anticipated just 3 months ago I'm pleased to report that our quarterly performance improved as increased earnings from 3 of our 4 businesses offset an anticipated earnings decline in our Timberlands business.
In addition to overall factors affecting the U.S.
and world economies the 2 most significant external factors affecting our quarterly performance are the same as they were last quarter U.S.
housing and China.
I'd like to comment on these overall themes first and then I'll discuss activity in each of our businesses during the quarter.
Following my remarks Patty will provide our business outlook on the fourth quarter as well as financial comments.
First let me talk about housing.
Three of our 4 businesses Timberlands Wood Products and Real Estate are impacted in varying degrees by current conditions in the U.S.
housing market which I described in this morning's release as languishing.
As we entered 2011 our planning assumption was that U.S.
single-family housing starts would total 525 000 for the year which would have been a modest increase over 2010 construction levels.
As we sit here today in late October we currently estimate that we'll end the year at a level of about 425 000 approximately 20% below that planning assumption.
Long-term demographics continue to be compelling but prospective homebuyers today exhibit little sense of urgency.
This is a result of a lack of consumer confidence continued high unemployment rates concern about potential downward price risk related to an overhang of foreclosed homes and a desire to maintain employment mobility.
One last factor affecting home sales is interest rates.
Because of Chairman Bernanke's statements the market now expects mortgage rates to remain low for an extended period of time.
And while low rates are generally a positive for home sales the expectation of continued low rates give buyers yet another reason to put off a purchase decision.
Once a purchase agreement has been signed prospective buyers face an increasingly difficult mortgage underwriting process that causes many motivated and qualified buyers to move back to the sidelines and wait.
Our political climate has only added to uncertainty and we see little evidence at this point that conditions will improve before next year's spring selling season.
The glass half-full side of me nevertheless sees some good news on the housing front.
First although we generally don't highlight conditions in Canada housing activity north of the border has been relatively stable at about 185 000 starts for the year.
We produce for this healthy housing market through our lumber OSB and engineered wood products mills several of which are located in Canada.
Our Canadian mills also serve export markets particularly off the West Coast.
Second although U.S.
single-family housing starts are stagnant multifamily rental construction is relatively strong in response to low vacancy rates and rapidly increasing rents.
Rental units are generally smaller than single-family homes.
But for the most part they are wood-frame construction and use the full range of wood products that we produce: lumber OSB and engineered wood.
That's good news for our wood products and our timberlands.
Third inventory levels of new homes are at an all-time low so any pickup in new home sales will quickly lead to increased construction activity.
Although our forward planning assumptions are based upon today's level of starts we have the ability to flex all of our operations as markets improve homebuilding wood products manufacturing and in the woods.
Let me turn now to China before I provide some specific comments about quarterly performance in each of our business segments.
Growth in China affects 3 of our businesses: Timberlands Wood Products and Cellulose Fibers.
We have long-term experience selling products to China.
Today we sell logs lumber and cellulose fibers to a range of Chinese customers.
And although Japan has long been our primary Asian export market sales to China have increased significantly over the past 24 months.
On the last quarter's call I noted that we were beginning to see some pullback in both price and volume from China.
Those early indications of softness were realized in the third quarter as credit tightened and demand slowed.
Our view is that the slowdown is temporary and we expect Chinese demand to return and to continue to grow over the longer term.
In the meantime we should expect a greater level of volatility than in our more traditional markets.
I'll begin my discussion of business and company highlights for the quarter with Timberlands.
During the quarter the impact of slowing Chinese demand led to price declines.
Volumes were relatively steady but the falloff in Chinese log prices had a ripple effect on the entire Western log market.
Export activity from our Western timberlands during the quarter was 40% of total volume a split among Japan China and Korea.
Our ability to access export markets from our Western lands has long been a significant source of revenue and competitive strength and reduces somewhat our reliance on the U.S.
housing market.
During the quarter we made some progress towards additional market diversification from our other timberlands.
We tested sales of southern yellow pine logs from the U.S.
South to Turkey and pine logs from Uruguay to China.
These sales pale in significance compared to our long-term West Coast Asian markets but they're a step in the right direction.
Turning to land transactions.
The $28 million quarterly decrease in timberland dispositions which was due to transaction timing negatively affected quarter-over-quarter timberland earnings.
Our Minerals business remained a steady performer during the quarter contributing approximately $15 million.
We continue to receive royalties from hard minerals and from our oil and gas properties.
These include both our Haynesville gas shale acreage -- shale gas acreage in North Louisiana and bonuses from new leases with shale oil potential in the Tuscaloosa Marine Shale play that crosses Southern Louisiana.
In our Wood Products business our initiatives to lower costs and improve performance are beginning to show results.
Even with weaker market conditions our EBIT before special items improved $10 million over the quarter and $59 million over the prior year.
As we entered the year I told you that it was my expectation that our Wood Products segment would be cash positive for the year based upon our housing construction forecast.
The business was cash negative during the first quarter due to a seasonal buildup in working capital but we were cash positive in the second quarter and in the third quarter as we continue to reduce working capital.
Given the downturn in housing that we've experienced it is unlikely that we'll meet our cash breakeven objective for the year but we're making progress and it continues to be our focus as part of our return to profitability in this segment.
We are pushing all levers available to us to improve our performance in Wood Products focusing on revenue enhancement as well as cost reductions.
As in our Timberlands business in Wood Products we continue to find opportunities to diversify our sales outside North America especially from our Canadian mills.
Export represents 38% of our Canadian lumber volume.
Japan is our largest export market with over 60% of export sales.
Shipments to China have nearly tripled this year.
I noted earlier that we're well positioned in all of our wood products to meet the growing activity in multifamily construction and we're focused on growing share where we have competitive advantage based upon our products and our geography.
I'm impatient but encouraged with our progress.
This morning we made the decision to permanently close our 4 previously curtailed engineered wood products facilities: LBL facilities in Albany Oregon and Simsboro Louisiana and veneer facilities in Pine Hill Alabama and Dodson Louisiana.
This is another step in reducing the costs associated with closed facilities that we concluded we will not need in the future based upon the pace of the housing recovery.
In our Real Estate segment we turned in another profitable quarter on the strength of our single-family operations.
During the second half of the year when we normally have increased closing activity closings were up 11% over the prior quarter while margins increased slightly due to mix.
Although traffic during the quarter declined 27% year-over-year sales increased 5% as we continued to experience higher conversion rates.
Local market conditions are mixed.
Our most active markets are Houston and the Maryland and Virginia suburbs of Washington D.C.
Our weakest markets are Southern California and Las Vegas.
The most significant indicator of market strength today is employment.
To give you a little local flavor in Phoenix where single-family permits are down 19% year-over-year our sales are up 42%.
The longer-term good news for Phoenix is that job growth will approach 2% in 2011.
And the existing home market is remarkably strong on track to exceed 95 000 transactions compared with the prior peak of 92 000 in 2006.
In Houston where home prices are stable new home sales are down 30% from last year but our sales increased 21%.
Similarly in Washington D.C.
new home sales activity is 20% lower than a year ago while our sales are up 23%.
Turning to our Cellulose Fibers segment.
We continued to run well and had no planned maintenance downtime.
Revenue declined somewhat during the quarter due to price as well as mix.
Even with pressure from declining realizations the overall business result was a significant quarter-over-quarter earnings improvement.
I want to comment on progress on 2 other initiatives in our Cellulose Fibers segment.
Both are examples of executing our strategy to grow with key global customers and to make disciplined investments to improve productivity of our mills.
In early August we broke ground on our new modified fiber facility in Gdansk Poland.
Upon completion and estimated start up in early 2013 this facility will convert fluff pulp from our mills in the U.S.
South into a proprietary raw material used in diaper manufacturing by a key global customer supplementing existing production from a similar facility in Columbus Mississippi.
At our Grande Prairie Alberta pulp mill we're generating surplus green electric power from a new generator fueled by a sustainable black liquor converting an energy expense into energy income.
Lastly during the quarter we closed on the sale of our hardwoods operations in our Westwood Shipping Line.
The hardwood sale which closed on August 1 included 7 hardwood mills.
Year-to-date revenues from these operations totaled $220 million and generated a $3 million operating loss.
Our Westwood sale closed on September 30.
Year-to-date revenues from this business were $180 million with no earnings.
The sale of these noncore businesses allows us to focus on our long-term strategic direction.
As I noted last quarter we'll maintain a relationship with our former associates as hardwoods will continue to be a log customer and will transport products to our Asian customers on Westwood Shipping Lines.
We wish our former associates the best of success with their new owners.
Now I'll ask Patty to discuss our outlook and provide a financial summary and then I'll have a quick recap before we invite your questions.
Patty? Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
The outlook for the fourth quarter by business segment is summarized on Chart 11.
I'll begin the outlook discussion with timberlands.
In our Western operations we expect lower selling prices for logs as a result of a softening export market reflecting the backup of log inventories into China.
Fee harvest volumes are also projected to be lower.
In the South we anticipate that selling prices and fee harvest volumes will be flat as those markets did not experience the same price increases earlier in the year as did the West.
We expect growth costs and silvicultural costs to increase seasonally.
Excluding the effect of nonstrategic land sales we expect that earnings in our Timberlands segment will be lower than the third quarter.
Earnings from nonstrategic land sales will increase from the very low third quarter level.
Our Wood Products business is entering what is traditionally its slowest quarter of the year.
Average sales realizations are expected to decrease for both lumber and OSB as is typical of the seasonal slowdown in the housing market.
Sales realizations for engineered wood products will likely be flat.
Sale volumes across all product lines are projected to be lower.
We expect additional production curtailments as we match supply with demand and incur the traditional holiday downtime especially in our lumber system.
As a result per unit manufacturing costs are expected to increase throughout our product lines although log costs should be flat to slightly down.
Overall we anticipate the loss in our Wood Products business to increase in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter of this year.
However we expect that it will be less than the fourth quarter of last year reflecting the improvements we're making in the business as Dan described.
In our Cellulose Fibers segment global softwood pulp demand is weakening as a result of the high level of industry inventories and global economic uncertainty.
We expect prices to soften in the fourth quarter offset by slightly higher shipment volumes.
Costs are likely to be somewhat higher for fiber chemicals and energy due to seasonal increases.
We will not have any annual maintenance shutdowns as we completed our scheduled maintenance in the first half of this year.
Overall earnings in our Cellulose Fibers segment should be slightly lower in the fourth quarter compared to the third.
And we expect to generate another record year of earnings in this segment.
In our Real Estate segment home closings are anticipated to increase over the third quarter.
The fourth quarter is traditionally our strongest quarter for closings in our single-family homebuilding business.
We expect approximately 600 closings compared to 508 last quarter.
Prices will likely be lower offset by slightly higher margins due to mix.
Earnings in our single-family homebuilding business should be higher in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter.
In addition we do have some land parcels for sale that have the potential to close in the fourth quarter.
However there are none of significance under contract at this time.
One of our WRECO subsidiaries is a minority party to litigation relating to a joint venture in Nevada known as South Edge.
A reserve for this litigation of approximately $38 million was recorded in 2008.
A plan of reorganization was approved a few days ago and we expect to make a payment of approximately $30 million in November in settlement of the litigation.
Now I'll wrap up with some overall financial comments starting with a special tax benefit booked in the third quarter.
During the third quarter we made the decision to dividend earnings from our Canadian subsidiary to the United States.
This decision triggered our ability to recognize a tax benefit for the difference between the net amount of taxes paid in previous years in Canada which is allowed as a foreign tax credit in the United States and the U.S.
taxes due as a result of the dividend.
Given our mix of taxable income in 2011 we will carry this benefit forward and anticipate utilizing the credit over the next 3 to 5 years.
The full amount of the benefit of $83 million was recognized as a special item in the third quarter.
We ended the third quarter with cash of $971 million an increase of approximately $90 million.
Cash flow from operations was $117 million and cash from the sale of assets was $157 million primarily resulting from the sale of our hardwoods and shipping operations.
During the quarter we invested $66 million in capital expenditures which brings our total expenditures through the third quarter to $159 million.
We expect to spend approximately $100 million in the fourth quarter which is in line with our earlier guidance of $250 million to $270 million for the full year.
We paid $81 million in dividends and repurchased just under 1.8 million shares of our stock for approximately $29 million at an average price of $16.41 a share.
Approximately $5 million of the cash settled after the end of the quarter.
These purchases helped offset the dilution from stock option exercises and vesting of restricted stock that took place earlier in the year.
We did not have any debt repayments in the third quarter and we have no further debt due until next year.
Earlier this month we did repurchase approximately 12.5 million of medium-term notes due next year for less than their face value.
During the fourth quarter we will contribute approximately $60 million to our Canadian qualified pension plans.
With that I'll turn the call back to Dan and I look forward to your questions.
Dan? Thanks Patty.
Although the fourth quarter is our seasonally weakest quarter as reflected in Patty's guidance we have made significant improvement throughout the year.
We're not satisfied with our level of performance and every business is focused on improving results in today's market.
That means getting the right facility set controlling costs and growing the top line.
This morning you've heard examples of actions and the results in each of these areas and I look forward to sharing continuing progress in future quarters.
And now we welcome your questions.
Ashley would you please open the floor for questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on the progress that you still have ahead of you Dan.
You've done a nice job on SG&amp;A both sequentially and year-on-year.
I think SG&amp;A is down $26 million versus the year ago quarter.
Wood products are nearing breakeven EBITDA right now forgetting about the working capital source of cash.
As we think about what is possible and if we hold the current environment constant what further progress do you think you can make on either of those line items over the next 2 to 4 quarters say? As I remind ourselves internally and I remind you our focus is to improve operations at today's level of starts.
We continue to be optimistic and bullish about long-term recovery but our experience has shown over the last couple of years that we need to live with today's level of activity.
And so that's been our focus.
We have as you noted continued to bring down our SG&amp;A cost.
That continues to be an ongoing focus.
And in our Wood Products business our focus has been on first of all moving to cash-positive and then earnings-positive range.
And in the Wood Products business that takes both cost management but also top line growth.
So just a couple of comments on SG&amp;A.
We made progress on SG&amp;A as we continued to make decisions such as the sale of our shipping business and our hardwood operations that we concluded in the quarter.
That allows us to focus on our ongoing operations.
It does leave us with some overhead that we need to address that have supported those businesses but we've made great progress over the last several years in working down legacy costs and bringing down overall headcount across the company to become more efficient in everything that we do.
In our Wood Products operations our focus across the entire system is to bring down operating costs and that includes manufacturing where we need and have made progress in improving the operating efficiency and utilization of our facilities.
That is in part related to the decision that we made during the quarter to permanently shut down these 4 facilities.
We believe that we can move forward in the housing environment that we have with the facility set that we have in place.
And then we have a number of initiatives to grow top line.
Some of that comes from increasing markets offshore as we discussed this morning.
And some of it comes from finding opportunities where we have perhaps pricing power where we have the ability to increase share based upon the products that we manufacture based upon the location of our operating facilities where we may be logistically advantaged to serve some markets.
And as we look at the Homebuilding business focused more on mid-size and smaller builders where we can provide products efficiently and cost effectively.
We're also increasing some activity in repair and remodel market and going back into some locations where we have not been active where we have products that customers would like to sell and where we have an advantaged situation relative to our own manufacturing operations.
So it's an ongoing effort one where as I said this morning I'm somewhat impatient but we're making progress and it continues to be a focus and will continue to be one.
This is not a process where we get to a certain point and quit.
This is an ongoing effort to improve our cost effectiveness and competitiveness and I'm encouraged with the progress that we're making.
Research Division</strong> Maybe one follow-on and one additional question and I'll turn it over.
Given the fact that you may have some unabsorbed overhead if I heard you correctly might we see some temporary lull in your ability to reduce SG&amp;A either in aggregate or within wood products?  Or do you expect the trend without citing it in dollar terms to continue to be positive on a sequential and year-on-year basis? The trend should be -- should continue to be positive George.
I can't give you numbers and you're letting me off the hook on that one.
I appreciate that.
But it's going to be an ongoing effort.
And every time we make some changes we find more opportunities.
So I'm encouraged that the organization is involved in a number of efforts in order to both reduce costs but it -- also I would -- I would re-emphasize growing top line is equally important.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Quickly just on Chart 1 if I look at the detail there I can come up with effectively an operating pretax of about $54 million.
And I can come up with an operating income tax when I strip  out the gain of about $8 million.
And when I add those 2 together I get to your EPS.
Considering how much earnings were contributed from Cellulose Fibers I was just curious why you actually had a benefit in the quarter.
Yes George we did have a tax benefit in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> But the question Pat I guess is why considering how Cellulose Fibers was such a big piece of it of the earnings? Well I think the tax benefit is a function of 2 things.
One it's -- what happens in the quarter as well as truing up the year-to-date effective rate.
And maybe the way to think about the tax rate it's a benefit of about 20% after you strip out the discrete items.
So if you were to look for example on the analyst package the first page that shows the consolidated statement of operations you would see that year-to-date we have earnings of $202 million.
That's the earnings from continuing operations before income taxes.
So from that take out -- we have 3 discrete items this year.
The first one would be the large timberland sale.
That was in the first quarter for $152 million.
And then you would add back the second discrete item which is the $26 million of loss on early extinguishment of debt.
And then you would compare that to what we actually booked for income taxes which is right below the $202 million which is the $52 million.
And that $52 million benefit you would have to add back the third discrete item which was the foreign tax credit.
So it's the $52 million take out the foreign tax credit benefit take out the Willapa sale -- the timberland sale and then also the effect of the debt extinguishment and you'd get $15 million.
So our effective rate -- benefit rate through the third quarter and for the year is just under 20% once you strip out those items.
It's really a function of the year-to-date rate plus the discrete items that are in the year-to-date and truing it up.
If you need -- if you want more detail certainly give us a call after the call's over and be happy to walk you through it.
Research Division</strong> Yes it was more directional.
Our next question comes from the line of Joshua Barber with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering Dan in light of your comments about a poor outlook going into 2012 and it sounds like the consensus.
If you can tell us a little bit more about how inventories and log decks are looking going into that year and how tight things would be even if we got a modest improvement right now? I'm sorry Josh could you repeat the question one time please? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I mean in light of your comments about nobody really expecting much from building season this upcoming spring where do you see log decks and overall lumber inventories being? So that if we got some modicum of recovery going into the year how much slack do you think there is in the supply chain today to respond to that? I really can't respond to overall supply chain slack.
I think you highlight an issue which is in the industry people are cautious.
We see these housing starts at relatively anemic levels.
And so the concern that you raise is if we see a pickup and when we see a pickup in the spring do we have the ability to respond? We've had good weather this year and so log inventories should not be a problem in most areas.
I think we as well as others are very careful in managing inventories of finished product.
And the supply chain has shrunk during this entire recession.
If you think about the supply chain from the manufacturers to the distributor and ultimately to the builders we've had shrinkage in the distribution chain.
Most distributors are managing their inventories much more tightly.
And so as the market begins to recover I think there'll be tension and it'll tighten up relatively quickly.
I do think the industry does have the ability to respond at a range that is likely to occur.
I don't see a huge snapback in demand in the first quarter just because I think we would expect to see some seasonal improvement unless there were some major public policy changes.
I believe that the system will respond appropriately.
Builders have the ability to put houses on the ground if they have sales.
But I wouldn't expect a lot of speculative inventory and I think that the recovery will happen in a measured basis.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> You discussed weaker Chinese demand in the quarter and your view that that slowdown is temporary.
I'm just wondering are you seeing any buying or inventory trends in September or October that is kind of boosting that view? Or is that more kind of a general view based on longer-term trends? And then maybe to the extent that you can if you can talk about how you would expect Chinese demand to go from 3Q to 4Q granted that there's a kind of a seasonal slowdown there? We started to see a slowdown in China at the end of the second quarter.
And we commented on our last call and as I commented this morning that played out during the third quarter.
Our volumes to China were relatively unchanged in the third quarter but would expect that there'd be some falloff in fourth quarter.
Most of the slowdown has shown up in pricing.
And the evidence is if there's a buildup of inventory in China some of that is seasonal.
Some of it clearly is caused by a tightening of credit in China that has slowed construction.
There are some concerns that have been raised about overbuilding in the real estate market.
We have to remind ourselves that the wood products and the logs that are being converted are not going into wood frame construction.
They're used for industrial purposes but they are used for construction forms as well as pallets and packing.
Long term our view is that China is going to continue to grow.
It's going to maintain its steady urbanization and there would be like a continued demand for wood products coming out of North America.
North America should realize its share as compared to other sources which could be New Zealand Russia even Scandinavia.
But we've been very encouraged by the pickup over the last couple of years.
We view the current slowdown to be somewhat temporary and we're bullish long term.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just turning to the U.S.
side just following up on the growth in multifamily homes can you give us a rough sense of how much maybe less lumber and wood products a typical multifamily home would use than a single-family homes? Is it 20% less or 30% less? First of all we have to be somewhat cautious when we talk about multifamily.
So when we see multifamily statistics they would include both for-sale housing that's attached as well as rental housing.
We happen to be a builder of some for-sale multifamily and they would be townhomes in a market like Washington D.C.
But the significant change in activity that I was referring to this morning was multifamily rental.
That -- in this country that's generally low-rise.
It is generally built with wood- =frame material.
There's a different mix of product that are used in multifamily units.
First of all the square footage for your average multifamily unit is smaller than a detached unit.
There is a higher percentage of engineered wood products and especially engineered lumber that go into a multifamily unit.
That favors Weyerhaeuser Company because of our significant presence in the engineered business.
And then there are also uses of OSB.
OSB is primarily used in flooring more than wall sheathing in multifamily.
So you have to actually drill down into the individual products lumber engineered wood products and OSB in order to establish a relative range.
I can use a rough number but it is not exact because it does vary.
But roughly the square footage of a multifamily rental unit's about half the square footage of a single-family detached unit.
And I think you can roughly apply that 50% factor across the wood products consumption but it would vary dramatically by wood product type.
Our next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess just looking out to 2012 pulp markets seem to have come off fairly hard so it's hard to see how they might get -- be a lot better.
I guess there's some question about whether the export markets would be better than they were in 2011.
I'm just wondering can you foresee within your other operations an ability to kind of offset that type of decline next year within Wood Products Timberlands WRECO? We're not at a point of where we're able to make a forecast for next year's operations Gail.
And at this point we have seen softness as you note in pricing for cellulose fibers products.
We've talked directionally about our Wood Products business and the path that we're on to return to cash breakeven and to profitability.
We don't yet have a forecast that we're ready to share for planning purposes on what we're assuming for housing starts next year.
I'd like to do that the next time we get together on a call because I think it's helpful to you to understand our planning process and what we're thinking.
As I noted we went into this year and we told you that we were planning on 525 000 single-family starts.
We didn't see it but that enters into our thought process and each of our businesses are making assumptions based upon the factors that impact them.
Single-family housing starts is a big one but also as we look at our cellulose fibers market we're looking at global demand not just North America but Asia and Europe.
And so it's a little bit too early for us to give you guidance for 2012 but when we get together next quarter we'll talk about our view of housing starts and how we believe that plays out and also our sense of the cellulose fibers markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one other one on capital allocation.
I mean given the lack of recovery we've seen to date in U.S.
housing you guys have been pretty active doing lots of little things here and there buying back debt you've got a little bit land you've bought back some shares.
Can you just help us think of your policy and just how you plan to allocate capital moving forward given the continued challenges in housing? We continue to be cautious as we gauge the pace of recovery for housing.
And our focus in most of our capital spend over the last several years has been reforestation and silvicultural costs to maintain the quality and sustainability of our timberlands.
We have continued to invest in capital-effective projects in our Cellulose Fibers business with the goal of driving down production costs increasing productivity from our existing mills.
And that's why I gave an example this morning of what we've just done in Grand Prairie.
And we've talked on earlier calls about a longer-term initiative in our Cellulose Fibers business to be stretching out our planned routine maintenance from a 12-month schedule to an 18-month schedule.
And so we seek high-ROI projects with relatively quick payback that have the benefit of increasing productivity and also they improve our environmental footprint.
We've been spending a minimal amount as necessary for safety and environmental compliance on our wood products facilities.
And we've been cautious in our Real Estate business because we already have a large plan position and we're well positioned to take advantage of a recovery in real estate.
So we're relatively well situated as Patty said in her remarks.
We've bought in a little bit of stock.
We thought that that was an appropriate use of cash during the quarter.
And we'll continue to evaluate capital allocation on a go-forward basis strategically.
The one business that we've talked before about long-term intent to grow is our Timberlands business.
And so that will play into some of our thinking in the future when we look at how we allocate capital.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Patty is it possible to get a sense of sort of the order of magnitude that we might see in the fourth quarter on those nonstrategic timberland sales? Well Mark they are lumpy.
We had I think earnings of $4 million in the third quarter and they were down $28 million.
I don't think they'll be as big as they were in the second quarter but significantly greater than where they were in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if we used something in the sort of $15 million to $20 million as just a placeholder that would probably get us at least in the stadium? You'd be in the ZIP code.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right sounds good.
Another timberland question I had I just -- in looking at a year-over-year comparison your log realizations for the most part are up nicely as are your harvest volumes yet your EBIT on a year-over-year basis is down.
Is that just a timberland sale issue? Or is there something else going on? I'd have to do a little bit of research on that one Mark because I'm not relating to your comment.
Realizations have risen in the West.
They've been relatively flat in the South.
Volumes can be a little bit misleading in the South because we've got more commercial thinning happening and the commercial thinning obviously brings a lower realization than log sales.
So I think I want to get back to you on that particular issue.
We'll provide more detail.
Research Division</strong> All right that's -- what I'm pointing to is just kind of -- it went from $75 million down to $62 million yet it looks like the third-party log sales are up somewhere in the range of about 25% as are prices.
So I'm just trying to understand what else I might be missing there.
Dan one other question on timberland if I could.
I just -- I noticed that the realizations that you get down in South America are about half of what you get in the Southern U.S.
on a per cubic meter basis.
Is that a mix question? Or is that just the fact that we don't have kind of developed markets down there in the way we do in the Southern U.S.? We have less-developed markets and we have less mature timber.
It's primarily the timber itself Mark because we're still growing out that forest.
We are converting some of that in our plywood mill.
As I noted we are finding some opportunities -- limited opportunities to export but it is more a function of the age and maturity of our timberland in South America.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question I had you really have made great progress in improving wood products but as you noted you're still burning cash.
Is it possible to give us some idea of just the particular areas within wood products that are drawing most of your attention right now as you try to improve performance further? We are engaged in -- we're engaged in initiatives in every single one of our product lines lumber oriented strand board our engineered wood products as well as our distribution.
And so we are focused on driving down costs.
Some of that comes from increased facility utilization and we've made progress there.
And then growing the top line as I mentioned going into some new markets.
And there's also some improvement that we've made even in just increased realizations in existing markets as we understand our opportunity to price appropriately given our competitive advantage.
So we have a tremendous number of initiatives across the entire organization both on cost reduction operating efficiency improvement and top line growth.
And our goal is that they all come together bring us back to cash positive but more importantly return to profitability in this business.
And we're doing this in an environment with incredibly challenged level of housing starts.
And so the organization is responding well.
Mark this is Patty.
As I think about your question about timberlands I think there are probably 2 primary things affecting that comparison that you went through.
One would be the nonstrategic land sales which I think if you compared the third quarter to date of this year and last year are down about $25 million.
Research Division</strong> That's the issue.
And then the other would be also some cost increases primarily in the way of diesel fuel which ran up as you'll recall pretty significantly earlier in the year.
So I think the combination of those 2 would pretty much get you where you -- in your analysis.
Our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Wanted to first ask Patty about the buyback in this quarter.
We haven't seen you buy back stocks certainly in the last 1.5 years or so.
And is that just merely planned to offset some of the options exercises we saw this year?  Or is there something more to it? Well Chip it might be good just to step back from our overall share repurchase and just recap for a minute where we are on our authorization.
So as you said when we came into the quarter we did have an existing authorization that really dated back to 2008 for about $250 million.
And we'd only used a small of that authorization in prior years.
Earlier in the quarter we purchased about $20 million of shares under that authorization.
And when we came into the August board meeting we terminated that authorization and replaced it with a new authorization for $250 million and then purchased $9 million under that authorization in the quarter.
So at the end of the quarter we had a remaining authorization of about 241 million.
So as we looked at uses of cash we do believe that share repurchase is an important tool for returning cash to shareholders.
And as we've said in the past we'll utilize that share repurchase on an opportunistic basis.
And given the fact that the stock price during the quarter had fallen and that we had received cash for the option -- stock option exercises earlier in this year of just a little over $30 million we believe that that share repurchase was a good value for shareholders.
I wouldn't want to speculate on the amount or timing of what we would do in the future other than to say that we will continue to use that tool opportunistically where we can create additional value.
That's great to know.
And secondly for Dan just as you look at your house -- your markets where you build homes and just your intelligence since you guys are on the ground in so many places we're hearing that rents are going up even where there's not a lot of job creation because people just can't afford down payments.
And in that spirit are you -- or in that vein are you seeing new projects for multifamily construction in some of these areas where you're seeing an almost shortage of rental property with people not being able to afford down payments and needing a place to live? The rental market is relatively strong across the country and it's very strong in certain major metro areas.
And it's a function Chip I believe of a couple of things.
One is some challenges in purchasing.
But I think more importantly the points that I summarized on -- in my comments this morning I think that people are sitting on the sidelines waiting for the signal that it's okay to go back into the home purchase market.
And so there is some concern overall about consumer confidence.
There's some concern in some markets about employment.
I think this mobility issue is a big one where people want to maintain their -- the ability to be mobile and to take a job in a different neighborhood or a different metro area if that's what it takes.
The mortgage qualification process is much more difficult than it has been even over the last 2 to 3 years.
Appraisals are a challenge.
Down payments are a challenge.
And I think that that's an area where we have to address some public policy issues in order to break loose a bit of activity in the system.
Rents are high.
In many markets it is cheaper to own than to rent.
And so people are making a choice to maintain in effect an option by renting before they come back into the market.
We do have land that we sell to multifamily developers in some locations.
So we are not an apartment builder but where we have a multifamily land that's been a benefit because we can sell to institutional developers of multifamily property and participate in that market.
It's also putting some pressure on labor costs because we are seeing construction labor flow to multifamily projects.
And just real real quickly I know that FHA loans you can get with like 3% to 5% down.
And you think of a -- let's just be practical [ph] a $200 000 home and you need $10 000 down.
After 3 or 4 years if you've been able to keep your job it would seem like you've got enough money for a down payment.
Am I missing something? Do the houses you sell do they not qualify for these FHA loans? Do you have to have the bigger down payments? Or maybe you could just give us a little color on that because we could be on the verge of a turn if we've seen a number of people save up the last 3 or 4 years.
We're going to put you in one of our sales offices Chip.
Because you have a compelling value proposition.
And we do sell to some buyers that use FHA financing.
The challenge quite frankly is not the down payment.
The challenge is the credit underwriting process that has become overly burdensome.
And then there's a problem with appraisals because we have changed the appraisal process.
It's a much more difficult one.
And in some markets the challenge is you have a willing buyer and seller for a new home they agree on a price but the house won't appraise for that price because the appraisal includes comparables that may be foreclosures in the same metro area although that buyer wouldn't want to buy that foreclosed home.
So that's one of the things that is an impediment in the system today and needs to break loose.
And I think that to some extent the buying public is looking for the green light to go on to say it's okay to go back in and start purchasing.
And what we have seen in some markets is investors coming in from offshore that are purchasing multifamily units.
And I think that's perhaps flight capital or capital that is attracted to current market opportunities because prices are significantly lower than they were at the peak.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> 2 quick questions on cellulose fibers.
First I know that first half of this year I think you had about $80 million of downtime costs and then nothing in the second half.
You talked about trying to change the downtime schedules going forward.
Are we going to have less than $80 million in downtime costs maintenance downtime costs in 2012? That's the first question.
We are on a longer-term path of stretching out our scheduled downtime as we had talked before from 12 months to 18 months.
That process will take about 4 years to completely accomplish.
And part of it is we have entered into some capital projects that will allow us to operate safely for longer periods of time.
There's also certification processes that need to take place for those individual mills.
And so 2012 and 2013 will be bridge years where we will start to stretch out the time frame on a mill-by-mill basis.
It's probably a little bit early to be giving your guidance for 2012 but I wouldn't expect that you'd see anything significantly different in 2012 as compared to 2011.
This is a longer-term process that we have a lot of confidence in but we need to do it safely.
Inc.</strong> Okay understood.
And then -- and secondly I guess I was somewhat pleasantly surprised that in the pulp business you thought that profits would hold up pretty well 4Q v 3Q given that there has been some erosion in pricing.
And I guess I was just trying to understand whether there's some lag that happens in the way the contracts are set up so that some of the price's duration [ph] shows up a little later as opposed to in the immediate.
Is that what's going on?  Or is it just that the fluff pulp really has been holding much more stable? Fluff pulp has been more stable than NBSK.
And we have a mix of products the primary one of which is fluff and it's going to our large customers.
So there is a bit of a lag Mark.
Fluff prices have come off their peaks.
They haven't suffered as much as NBSK.
And we are expecting a pickup of some of our specialty fibers in the fourth quarter.
So generally the -- we in Patty's comments -- I mean we talked about earnings being slightly lower as we look forward to the fourth quarter.
And we'll have to see that play out.
Mark I think there is some softening in the quarter but as I also said we will have some -- a little bit higher shipment volume in the fourth quarter compared to the third as well.
So those 2 are offsetting each other.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And so basically there's not a significant lag effect to be thinking about for the first quarter? No.
No.
And our final question comes from the line of Joshua Zaret of Longbow Research.
2 quickies.
First I would like to get an explanation in wood products of what seems like an unusual sequential quarterly trend in shipments between softwood lumber which was down about 3% and OSB which was up about 10%.
So a diverging trend.
And when you add to that I'm really curious because the OSB is -- the volume was 28% above a year ago and I'm wondering if there's anything pushing that up like hurricanes or something that we should deduct as we go forward to the fourth quarter.
Josh softwood lumber is trending down.
That's a seasonal factor related to construction during the fourth quarter.
As we look at our OSB business we've got 2 year-over-year changes as we would look back at last year.
Number one we reopened late last year our facility at Hudson Bay Saskatchewan.
We saw very little volume coming out of that in even late fourth quarter as we brought that mill online and that had been shut down for a couple of years.
It is still not operating fully given market recovery but there is year-over-year volume coming out of Hudson Bay that you didn't see last year.
And then we have a oriented strand mill at Grayling Michigan and we've increased production there.
We're operating 24/7 because we've got good demand out of that geographic region.
So that's a fair level the 549 that -- relative to demand for the third -- as you see it for the third quarter? Can you repeat your question? In other words there's nothing unusual in that 549 relative to demand.
I mean you brought your -- housing's done nothing.
You brought your demand up quite substantially year-over-year and even quarter-over-quarter.
Right.
There's nothing in terms of overall market demand but we have increased production in those 2 facilities number one in Grayling Michigan because we have opportunities to sell more product.
So if you think about my general comments on wood products we're working on driving costs down but we're also looking for opportunities to increase top line.
Where we have a product that's competitive where we have logistical advantage we're taking advantage of that.
And so we've increased production and increased sales.
And then the Hudson Bay mill will be brought back online so we've got increased production this year that we didn't have last year.
That's a mill that we hope to see increase production over time.
We're going through a process now in certification for the Japanese market that creates some additional opportunity that perhaps could come out of Hudson Bay but it's too early to talk about specifics.
Okay.
And then the second quick question.
In timberlands the margin for the segment really took a dive to 23%.
It's typically in the 30% to 40%.
Can you confirm that that's overwhelmingly due to the less nonstrategic timberland sales and not to the other cost issues that you have mentioned? There have been slightly higher costs.
Some of that is related to fuel.
There was a drop in realizations modest -- just because in the West as we talked about the Chinese market slowing down and the impact on pricing.
And then the big factor in the quarter was the land dispositions.
Would the land -- the land -- I mean the lack of land dispositions for the -- this quarter.
But would that be the biggest factor the lack of land sales in driving that down? Or would it be...
That was the biggest factor in the quarter.
Okay.
So I just want to thank everybody for joining us this morning.
We always appreciate your comments and your questions.
We invite you to follow up after the call with Kathy McAuley and she'll be able to answer follow-on questions.
And we appreciate you having joined us this morning and look forward to talking to you in the new year.
Thanks.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's Weyerhaeuser Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Carrie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathryn McAuley Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Ms.
McAuley you may begin your conference.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us on Weyerhaeuser's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
The earnings release analyst package and web slides of this call can be found at our website or by contacting April Meier at (253) 924-2937.
Please review the warning statement in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during this conference call.
Joining me this morning is Dan Fulton President and Chief Executive Officer; and Patty Bedient Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please turn to the earnings information package available on our website.
As summarized on Chart 1 on the package this morning Weyerhaeuser reported fourth quarter 2011 net earnings of $65 million or $0.12 per diluted share.
Our net sales from continuing operations of $1.6 billion.
Earnings for the fourth quarter included net after-tax charges of $12 million for restructuring and asset impairments.
Excluding these items the company reported net earnings of $77 million or $0.14 per diluted share.
For the full year 2011 the company reported net earnings of $331 million or $0.61 per diluted share and net sales from continuing operations of $6.2 billion.
A GAAP reconciliation on special items can be found on Charts 2 and 3.
In the following discussion of the business segments I will refer to Charts 4 through 10.
Turning to Chart 4.
This illustrates the change in contribution by business segment from third quarter 2011 to fourth quarter 2011.
My comments reviewing the fourth quarter refer to changes from the third quarter unless otherwise noted.
We begin our business segment discussion of the fourth quarter with Timberlands Charts 5 and 6.
Timberlands contributed $70 million to pretax earnings $8 million more than Q3.
Earnings from the disposition of nonstrategic timberlands increased $17 million to $21 million.
Fee harvest volumes rose 2% in the West and 5% in the South.
Log prices declined 4% in the West due to weaker Chinese demand.
Log prices were slightly higher in the South.
Road and silviculture costs were seasonally lower fuel costs were higher.
Wood Products Charts 7 and 8.
In the seasonally weak fourth quarter Wood Products lost $61 million $18 million more than in Q3 but less than in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Sales volume seasonally declined.
Lumber 8%; oriented strand board 6%; and engineered Wood Products 12%.
As illustrated on Chart 8 price realizations for most products were lower.
Lumber and oriented strand board prices decreased 2%; engineered solid section prices declined 4% and engineered I-Joist prices were 1% lower.
Operating rates were lower in response to weaker market demand.
Downtime across all product lines increased from 12 weeks in Q3 to 47 weeks in Q4.
Unit manufacturing costs were higher due to market downtime.
Cellulose Fibers Chart 9.
The pretax contribution to earnings in fourth quarter was $134 million $1 million less than in Q3.
Average pulp price realizations declined 3% or $25 per air-dried symmetric ton.
Pulp sale volumes increased 10%.
There were no annual maintenance outages in the quarter.
Real Estate Chart 10.
Real Estate contributed $41 million to pretax earnings $31 million more than in third quarter.
Earnings were also higher than in Q4 2010.
Single-family home closings seasonally increased 15% from Q3 to 582 homes.
Year-over-year closings declined 4%.
The average price on homes closed decreased $5 000 from the third quarter.
This reduction was due to mix.
The single-family gross margin was 25.4% an increase from 23% in Q3 but lower than the gross margin of 26.1% in the year-ago quarter.
Land sales contributed $19 million in earnings.
In Corporate &amp; Other.
Corporate &amp; Other was $6 million lower in Q4.
Gains on foreign exchange were more than offset by increased charges for share-based compensation and other items.
I will now turn the call over to Dan Fulton.
Dan? Thanks Kathy and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
Despite continued economic challenges our company took full advantage of every opportunity to improve our overall performance during the last quarter and the entire year and I'm pleased with our overall results.
In my remarks this morning I'll provide some highlights of our fourth quarter results for each business segment as well as observations on overall performance for the year.
I'll also provide my perspective for the year ahead.
Patty will then present our first quarter outlook as well as financial highlights and then I'll add a few more remarks before turning to your questions.
First before commenting on the fourth quarter I want to set the context for the full year 2011.
As we entered the year I told you that we were basing our plans for the year on an assumption that we would begin to see some recovery in U.S.
housing we targeted a level of 525 000 single-family housing starts which would have been an 11% increase from the 2010 level of 471 000.
Unfortunately we never experienced the eagerly awaited spring selling season.
And single-family starts ended the year at 429 000 even lower than 2010 and 18% short of our forecast.
Offsetting this negative drag from lower-than-anticipated housing activity was the continued positive strength in our Cellulose Fibers markets for most of the year plus increased opportunities for log exports to China during the first part of the year.
The other major surprise during the year was the devastating earthquake and tsunami which hit Japan on March 11.
Though we suffered immediate short-term disruption to our export sales of logs lumber and cellulose fibers we were able to work through this extreme upset condition with minimal impact.
This was mostly due to the extraordinary efforts of our team in Japan which worked so effectively to meet the needs of our customers.
Now let's shift to a discussion of the accomplishments of each business segment in the past year.
In Timberlands the stronger export markets for the year helped to offset continued weakness in U.S.
demand.
We fully leveraged our long-term export relationships and our logistically advantaged Western Timberlands to use these markets to increase earnings over last year.
Harvest levels for the full year increased 19% in both the West and the South.
Increases in the West were primarily related to increased export sales while increases in the South were primarily the result of increased emphasis on third-party sales.
Log exports are an integral part of our Timberlands business providing valuable market diversification.
In 2010 exports represented approximately 60% of our third-party sales volume from our Western lands.
We spoke throughout the year about the significant impact of increased demand for logs from China.
We were able to quickly respond as this opportunity emerged using all of our competitive strengths in the log export market including harvesting hauling board access and sales and marketing relationships.
While maintaining historic volumes to our largest long-term customers in Japan we added additional volume to meet increased China demand resulting in a slight shift in mix among our Asian markets.
In the fourth quarter export volume decreased from the third quarter as a result of an anticipated slowdown on exports to China.
For the full year however overall export volume was up coupled with an increase in realizations.
In addition to log sales we generate income from our lands from a variety of sources including mineral rights recreational leases and biomass.
Our minerals revenue was lower in the fourth quarter as well as for the full year.
Production levels of natural gas dropped in response to lower prices.
Reported revenue from lease fees declined as fees collected in prior years were fully amortized.
Turning to Wood Products a business that was challenging enough before the 2011 slowdown in housing.
We maintained our focus on using all available levers to improve cash flow and profitability.
In the seasonally slow fourth quarter we experienced soft market conditions with lower prices and reduced volumes.
We responded by taking more market downtime.
For the full year taking into consideration adverse market factors we improved performance in areas that we can control.
For the year we were able to offset the significant negative effect of lower prices and higher log and freight costs with performance improvements in a number of areas across our business.
Our ongoing improvement efforts reduced manufacturing and related costs over $100 million and we reduced SG&amp;A by nearly $60 million.
In addition to our focus on reducing costs and selectively increasing price for certain products we added new customers.
We also expanded our sales in select geographic markets including sales of Canadian lumber to meet growing Chinese demand.
In Real Estate we continue to pursue our strategy as a regional builder and land developer adapting to individual market conditions and diverse customer needs.
For the second consecutive year was profitable which is strong performance relative to our competitors.
Despite a decline in closings for the year consistent with the overall market decline our strong margins held firm helped by mix.
In the fourth quarter traditionally our strongest as homes sold earlier in the year are delivered to customers we had profitable quarter that included earnings from both home closings and land sales.
Land sales historically represent about 10% of our total Real Estate revenues though timing throughout the year can be a bit uneven.
In the fourth quarter land sales represented a higher percentage of our revenue than normal but were in line with our historic averages for the full year.
During the quarter we experienced lower traffic year-over-year but conversion rates of perspective buyers improved.
As we approached year end in November and December we had an encouraging pickup in sales about a 5% increase over the same period last year.
This positive momentum is carried into the new year as sales for the first 5 weeks of the year are up an average of 16% over last year.
Though individual market conditions vary that 5 weeks does not establish a longer-term trend maybe we're beginning to see some green shoots in the market for new homes.
In Cellulose Fibers as expected we experienced slowing conditions during the fourth quarter as market inventories increased and prices came under pressure.
Our realizations were down which was offset with increased volume resulting in earnings approximately equal to our strong third quarter.
For the full year this marks the second consecutive year of record earnings for Cellulose Fibers a strong performance given more challenging market conditions.
All products contributed to this success as we maintained our focus on operational excellence product innovation and meeting the needs of our customers.
Before turning the call over to Patty let me provide some context for our outlook for the upcoming year.
As we entered 2012 we still face an uncertain environment.
December's reported unemployment level improved slightly over one year ago so we're moving in the right direction but progress is slow.
This morning's report shows some additional slight improvement.
Consumer confidence is still very weak and though somewhat improved at year end it is still languishing near the low levels seen in 2008 and 2009.
Uncertainty about the pace of housing recovery is still high.
Structural issues in the mortgage market are not resolved and the direction of prices is not clear.
The good news on the housing front for me is that the Fed clearly is now engaged on this issue.
This may generate some increased attention to the critical role that housing must play in the overall recovery of our national economy.
With this backdrop we're basing our 2012 plans on 665 000 total housing starts 455 000 single-family which is a modest 6% increase over 2011 plus 2 000 -- 210 000 multifamily.
We consider this to be a conservative assumption and there are certainly some who are more optimistic.
Given our experience in 2011 we're planning cautiously while being prepared to flex up if we have the opportunity.
For Timberlands we're planning to increase harvest levels approximately in line with our forecasted increase in housing starts.
Most of this increase will occur in the South where we also had an increase in third-party sales.
In 2012 we continue to play to our strength in export markets plus take advantage of opportunities for other revenue including minerals and biomass.
We expect natural gas prices to remain low but we had some opportunities in the Tuscaloosa Basin Shale oil play where we leased land in 2011 for exploratory activity.
With respect to biomass as a renewable fuel we're position to respond to market demand in the U.S.
as well as overseas if public policy supports this renewable fuel resource.
In Wood Products in 2012 we'll focus on continued improvement to reduce cost and increase revenues introducing new products funding our customer base and improving our relative competitiveness.
As market conditions improve we have the production capacity to respond quickly to meet customer needs.
In WRECO we expect to increase volume at pace with the overall housing recovery but we believe that public builders such as ourselves have an opportunity to increase share over the next several years given our land base and our access to construction capital.
We'll anticipate what today's homebuyers want and respond quickly with appealing new homes in great communities leveraging our regional value propositions and industry-leading customer satisfaction.
As the market begins to pick up our land position gives us the capacity to increase home production plus we're poised to sell desirable lots to land short builders as part of our long-term strategy.
In Cellulose Fibers we'll continue to focus on what we consider the basics: Continuously improving manufacturing excellence; carefully targeting capital expenditures to lower costs and increase volume; and developing innovative new products to meet the needs of our strategic growing global customers.
And now I'll turn the call over to Patty to discuss our first quarter outlook as well as provide financial highlights.
Patty? Thanks Dan and good morning everyone.
The outlook for the first quarter by business segment is summarized on Chart 11.
I'll begin the outlook discussion with Timberlands.
In the West fee harvest volumes will likely increase in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter.
We are expecting a higher mix of logs to Japan versus China which should result in a higher sales realization for export logs as our Japanese customers buy our premium-grade logs.
Domestic log prices in the West are anticipated to decrease slightly.
Dan mentioned earlier that fee harvest volumes in the South are projected to increase for the full year of 2012 compared to 2011.
However fee harvest volume in the first quarter should be similar to the fourth quarter as typically the first quarter is seasonally our lowest volume quarter.
Prices will likely be flat quarter-to-quarter although we anticipate a slightly positive mix variance.
Costs are expected to increase due to higher silvicultural spending in the South and diesel fuel costs will likely be higher across our geographies.
Nonstrategic land sales are expected to be lower compared to the fourth quarter but the timing of these sales is often difficult to forecast.
Excluding the effect of nonstrategic land sales overall Timberland earnings in the first quarter are expected to be slightly higher than the fourth quarter.
In Wood Products lumber prices are expected to be slightly higher in the first quarter compared to the fourth.
Oriented strand board pricing is anticipated to increase over 5%.
However pricing for both product lines is anticipated to be lower than the first quarter of 2011.
Volume for both product lines should be -- should increase over 5% compared to the first -- compared to the fourth quarter.
Engineered Wood Product prices are anticipated to be relatively flat while volumes are expected to increase.
Log costs in the South and Canada are expected to be higher offset by lower log costs in the West.
Operating rates will likely be higher across all product lines as manufacturing resumed to normal operations after the market and holiday downtime in the fourth quarter.
As is typical of the first quarter we anticipate a seasonal working capital build and we will continue our sharp focus of matching supply with demand.
We expect that our loss in Wood Products will narrow in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter and be similar to the first quarter of 2011.
Lower prices and higher freight costs compared to Q1 2001 are anticipated to offset our improving sales volume and operating rates.
In Cellulose Fibers we expect significantly lower realizations for pulp in the first quarter driven by the continued economic uncertainty in global markets and high inventories worldwide.
Shipment volumes are expected to be slightly lower in the first quarter compared to the fourth.
This quarter we will also have increased maintenance cost and lower production as a result of more scheduled annual maintenance compared to the fourth quarter when there were no scheduled maintenance outages.
We expect cost for chemicals fuel and energy to be higher due to the planned outages.
Also fuel and energy cost will increase due to the winter season.
Overall we expect to considerably lower earnings in our Cellulose Fibers segment in the first quarter compared to the fourth.
In our Real Estate segment the first quarter is seasonally our weakest quarter of the year for home closings.
In addition we continue to battle the headwinds of continued challenging economic conditions and mortgage qualification hurdles for home buyers.
We expect approximately 360 single-family home closings compared to 582 in the fourth.
Prices are expected to be lower with margins in the high teens down from margins of 25% in the fourth quarter due to a shift in market and product mix.
On the encouraging sign as Dan mentioned we have seen stronger sales during the month of January compared to last year but these will not affect first quarter earnings as the closings for these sales would typically occur later in the year.
Excluding any earnings from potential land sales we expect a loss in our Real Estate segment in the first quarter.
Now I'll wrap up with some overall financial comments.
At the end of the fourth quarter we had cash of $953 million.
Debt declined to under $4.5 billion as we reduced debt by over $30 million during the fourth quarter.
Our total debt maturities over the next 5 years are approximately $600 million with about $188 million of that due in 2012.
In addition we have a $1 billion credit facility that has no borrowings outstanding.
So as a result we continue to have solid liquidity.
The underfunded status of our pension and other postretirement plans increased by approximately $540 million compared to this time last year.
This was largely due to changes in actuarial assumptions the largest of which was the lowering of the discount rate.
For example in our U.S.
qualified pension plan which is our largest plan the discount rate decreased by 90 basis points and is now at 4.5%.
Reductions in future benefit payments as a result of planned amendments to our other postretirement benefit plans decreased the overall liability.
Based on the funded status of our U.S.
qualified pension plan as of yearend 2011 we estimate that we will have a cash contribution of up to $60 million.
This payment is not due until September of 2013.
No cash contribution was required for this plan in 2011.
Contributions in 2012 for the remaining plans which include our Canadian registered pension plans our nonqualified pension plans as well as other postretirement benefit payments will be similar to the amounts contributed in 2011 for a total of approximately $140 million.
During 2011 we had capital expenditures of approximately $240 million.
During 2012 we expect to spend in the range of $260 million to $290 million.
Now I'll turn the call back to Dan and I look forward to your questions.
Thanks Patty.
As I conclude my remarks this morning I'd like to end where I started.
I'm pleased with our performance in the context of the challenging market conditions that we faced in 2011 but I'm not satisfied.
Given the level of uncertainty in our markets for 2012 we're planning conservatively while maintaining readiness and looking forward to the opportunity to flex up to meet increased demand.
All of us in Weyerhaeuser are committed to taking full advantage of every opportunity to improve our overall performance and to safely deliver the sustainable results that you expect and deserve.
And now we welcome your questions.
Kathy? Carrie would you please open the floor for questions? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> In Wood Products your initial goal last year was to be cash positive and obviously the market became much more challenging later in the year.
Can you share with us how you're thinking about the Wood Products business reaching cash flow positive or being operating income positive in 2012? Yes Anthony.
As you note we ended up in 2011 encountering a more difficult market than 2010.
Nevertheless we made a significant number of improvements as I noted throughout the year both in improving operating costs as well as reducing SG&amp;A which helped to offset declines in prices and increases in costs such as logs and freight.
As we look forward into 2012 we continue the ongoing improvement efforts in every single one of our businesses.
As I noted we're focused on improving revenues where we have the opportunities to obtain higher prices for certain products.
We're adding new customers.
Our efforts in terms of cost reduction touch every single one of our operating businesses lumber oriented strand board engineered Wood Products and distribution.
And at this point given our outlook for housing at the level that we are projecting today we have an expectation that for the full year we would be EBITDA positive and cash flow neutral.
We continue to as I noted in my remarks use all levers that we have.
I'm encouraged by the improvement and our focus continues to be to improve profitability at today's level of starts and then be able to take advantage of the upside leverage that comes with an improving market.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just a question on capital expenditures.
I think on the last call you had guided to about $100 million in the quarter which would've brought you kind of closer to that $250 million to $270 million range that you had earlier guided to.
And I guess you ended up a little bit short of that.
And I was just wondering if you could give us any color on any projects or investments that maybe you've slowed back or pushed back a little? It's fundamentally timing difference Anthony.
We haven't changed the scope of the products or the projects.
As we move into 2012 our CapEx continues to include reforestation expense road work in the woods in order to open up lands for harvest.
And the most significant capital expenditures continue to be in our Cellulose Fibers business where we focus our improvements on projects that reduce costs that have added benefit in many cases of improving volume and continue to move us forward towards a maintenance schedule in our Cellulose Fibers facilities where we will be stretching out our -- what has been our annual maintenance over the next 2 to 3 years to an 18-month schedule.
Your next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
First question is on the -- if you could just give us a roadmap to think about pulp or I'm sorry for the Cellulose business this year.
Especially given the downtime I know you normally I believe have that heaviest in the second and the third is sort of when you let it rip so to speak.
And should we see similar pattern this year? And I guess if you look at last year the profit sequentially in the first were off about 38% without the prices falling so I would guess you're expecting it to be a deeper drop in the first quarter this year even though we're seeing signs of it turning up later.
Could you -- if you could comment on that as well I'd appreciate it.
Sure Chip.
If you compare the first quarter of this year to the first quarter of 2011 the mills that will be taking their annual outages will be similar.
But the length of the outages is going to be somewhat extended both to allow us for some completion of some capital projects but also positioning those mills for an 18-month frequency between the plan to shut down.
Now the benefit of that increased frequency will actually start to accrue in 2013.
But we're setting those mills up to be in a position to do that as we take their annual maintenance shutdowns this year.
So we'll have a little bit longer outages and do a little more maintenance work to prepare for that in addition to the capital project.
So I would estimate that the actual maintenance spend for the quarter will be about $25 million to $30 million.
Then if you factor in the lost productivity and the additional costs for chemicals energy and fuel I'd expect that the total dollar impact of the outages would be on the order of $45 million to $50 million.
And then as you referenced the other major difference quarter-over-quarter in the results will be lower pulp realizations which is also likely to be around $45 million coupled with the realizations and also a little slightly lower volume.
And then we'll have some seasonally higher input costs as well.
So I think that will help you dimension the change from the fourth quarter to the first.
And in terms of our maintenance schedule for 2012 we had completed all of the maintenance in 2011 by the end of the second quarter.
And I think our schedule actually calls for a little bit of maintenance also coming in in the second half as those mills just change a little bit.
But for the first quarter they are very similar to last year in terms of the operations itself.
Got you.
And a quick follow-up Patty you gave a great rundown on the pension funding situation.
Could you let us know how the expense change will be at least from a GAAP book basis from '11 to '12? Sure.
You know Chip I think just to reiterate maybe if you could look at the cash flow statements that we have in the analyst package.
So on Page 3 we break out in the cash flow from operations on 2 separate line items the impact of cash contributions as well as the non-cash charge that goes through the income statement for pension and other postretirement benefits.
So let me just start with the cash impact to reiterate that.
So I'm looking at the line item which is 2 lines up from net cash from operations and it's titled Pension and Postretirement Contributions.
So you see that we had $143 million that we contributed in 2011.
We would expect that those contributions for the plans that I mentioned in my remarks would be similar in 2012 or about $140 million.
Now that doesn't include the U.S.
qualified pension plan which did not have a contribution due in 2011.
Based on the funded status at the end of this year we would estimate that the cash contribution would be about $60 million and we would not need to make that contribution until September of 2013.
We certainly have the discretion to make it earlier if we want but it's not due until September of 2013.
Now let me address your other question which is the difference in the book expense on a GAAP basis.
So if you go a little further up the page from where we were before you'll see a line item called Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits under the Non-cash Charges to Income.
So in 2011 for the full year that number was $81 million.
The comparable number for 2012 is about $115 million.
Offsetting the $115 million though we will have amortization of the changes that we made in some of our postretirement benefit plans at the end of the year.
So we made some amendments to those changes or to those plans and we'll be amortizing those in 2012 and that will just about offset that $115 million.
But I think it's a little more than $115 million.
But they just about offset each other.
We will call those out as special items in 2012 but that's the way that the expense will flow through the income statement.
Your next question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just on pulp realizations for a moment.
Patty that was just very helpful guidance.
I'm just wondering what you're expecting to recognize in the first quarter.
Do you think that would represent a trough or would you expect kind of further erosion as contracts recognize pricing that's already been published? Well as prices came down through the fourth quarter and certainly softened into the first quarter but we would expect that they are pretty much at a bottom at this point and wouldn't expect further erosion coming out of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And would you be seeing any signs that the markets could recover over the next quarter or 2? Or do you think it could stay at this level for a while? That's really hard to speculate.
We usually just limit the guidance to the first quarter in terms of the outlook.
But I think we have as I said starting to see some stabilization in that pulp price.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you give us a little bit of color that pickup that you're seeing in housing activity so far this year? Is that any different as across the regions than what you operate or is it pretty broad-based? Could you ask it one more time? I've got a little bit of a bad connection with you.
Research Division</strong> Sorry.
The improvement you're seeing in your Homebuilding business so far this year is that -- any differences in what you're seeing in trend across the various regions or is it pretty universal? Well it does vary by region.
And as I noted in my comments it's a little bit difficult to extrapolate from 5 weeks.
However I've made a point a number of years in the past that we normally don't see a pickup in housing until after the Super Bowl.
So it's actually encouraging that we've got some increase in activity during January.
We're seeing more strength in the Phoenix market in the Pacific Northwest.
Texas continues to be very strong.
We've seen a little bit of softening in the Washington D.C.
area which was stronger during 2011.
And in Las Vegas we're still relatively challenged.
We're seeing a bit of a pickup in all of Southern California with the exception of LA County.
So it's a bit mixed but for the first 5 weeks overall we're encouraged.
That mix will translate to differences in margins as we go forward.
So last year we did have increased sales in all of our markets with the exception of Nevada and California.
And California especially is our strong margin market and so that's some of the mix change that Patty's talking about as she provides an outlook for the first quarter.
So we're encouraged and we'll track it through the balance of the quarter and look forward to on the next call being able to update you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last super quick question.
Patty can you give a little guidance on the tax rate in the first quarter and for 2012? Sure.
I think the way to think about the tax rate Gail is really it's not only just the rate but it's also the mix of income between the REIT and the TRS.
So as you think about our Timberlands business most of that income is at the REIT so no tax would be applied to that.
And then for the TRS the income which also would include not only the TRS businesses but also the interest expense you would think about a tax rate of around 35%.
Your next question comes from Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Patty can you talk -- just following-up on the head tax rate question.
Can you give us a little color on tax rate in the fourth quarter? Sure.
As you think about the rate itself there's a couple of things impacting that fourth quarter.
So one of course is the mix of income that I just mentioned.
We actually also had a special item that we exclude as we talk about our results.
So for the full quarter quarter 4 we actually had a tax benefit of about $10 million.
And most of that was a result of the special item of $19 million tax-affected would be around $7 million or $8 million.
So most of that is the result of that additional benefit that when we talk about our earnings we exclude as a special item.
Then if you think about the mix of income as I talked about before for the quarter and this doesn't work exactly perfectly but if you looked at Chart 1 for example you'll see that our earnings pretax earnings before special items was about $160 million.
You subtract from that the Timberlands earnings of $70 million and also subtract from it the interest expense of $88 million and you get just about a push for the quarter.
And then also at the fourth quarter you have a little bit of true up not much running through the quarter.
So basically we ended up with a small benefit of about $3 million from continuing operations.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
Dan a second question.
Just in Wood Products is there -- are there particular segments in the Wood Products business that you would regard as sort of the biggest challenges for you in getting to cash breakeven? Or is it really just kind of a question of better volume across the whole system? The markets to which our products flow has some impact on this Mark.
So lumber where we have the broadest set of markets it certainly flows into new home construction but it's also runs to the repair and remodel market.
And so we are less dependent on single-family new home constructions.
Our oriented strand board product is used in new home construction but also some portion of that runs through the repair and remodel market.
And then when you go to engineered Wood Products that has a lot heavier concentration in new home construction.
And so our challenges for Engineered Wood Products which also I would couple that with our distribution business because there's a good portion of our engineered material that flows through our distribution business is reliant on a recovery in new home construction.
And so if you look at our utilization rates across our facilities they are the lowest in engineered they are higher in OSB and then they're the highest in lumber.
Lumber also has the benefit of being able to flow to offshore markets and there's a portion of our Canadian lumber that goes to Japan and recently China.
So we will be recovering more quickly in lumber.
OSB would follow on and then I would say our Engineered Wood Products in our distribution.
In our Distribution business we picked up distribution of some third-party specialty products they bring on some additional margin contribution and so we're pleased with our progress there.
I would say overall once again our goal is to get the cash breakeven with the level of starts that we have but we have a tremendous amount of operating leverage as the market starts to recover.
And this business in a recovering housing market will have the benefit of increased cash flow and in ultimately earnings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I think it actually would be helpful in May when you're out here if we could give a little more color on sort of what the footprint looks like in distribution now because I know you've made some changes over the last several years.
Last question I had just on the housing market you mentioned California being the strongest margin area for you typically.
Can you give us some sense of how much of that is a question of just sort of the types of homes you're building the size of homes and how much of that might just be from the maybe a little cost land basis in California? It is both Mark.
So California is a big state and so we have to look at submarkets within California.
Our strongest position historically with respect to earnings and margin is San Diego.
San Diego we're now the largest builder.
And so we build a higher-end house that has a lot higher price point and the margins in those homes are much higher in part because of the product that we're building the neighborhoods in which we're building and to some extent our land basis.
The lower margin portion of the market would be the Inland Empire with LA County being about in the middle.
So there's a significant impact on our margins overall.
If San Diego was strong and San Diego was stronger in 2011 -- I'm sorry 2010 as compared to 2011.
Now in the first 5 weeks we're seeing sales up in San Diego that's a real positive and we've got a strong land position from which to build in San Diego.
The other high-margin market for us historically has been the Virginia and Maryland suburbs Washington D.C.
It's also a higher price point in product and the margins there are fundamentally related to the homes that we're building in the price point rather than a low-land basis.
Your next question comes from George Staphos with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just want to continue on WRECO.
Dan as you think about are there any regions where even if you do like your land basis around the country where you are perhaps maybe less advantaged or have less ability to flex if in fact the market recovers more than you expect? And a related question if I look back at the fourth quarter your ratio of closings relative to your backlog coming into the quarter is a little bit higher than it normally would be.
It's usually 90% but a little bit higher than that.
Does that have any impact on your ability to grow with the market at least early on in 2012? Let me first address the question of our land position.
As we've talked about this in the past we have a relatively long land position as compared to many other public builders.
And in large part it's related to our value proposition and the markets in which we operate.
So we generally would have a longer land position in a market that is more challenging for entitlements processing and we have a lighter land position in markets where it's relatively easy to process land or to acquire land.
So the extremes for us would be San Diego County where it may take a decade to get property entitled and one -- the benefit of that is that that becomes very valuable property.
And it's important to have access to land into markets like that in order to be an effective profitable builder.
The other extreme would be Houston Texas.
Houston has no zoning.
There's a vibrant land development community there and historically we're able to acquire many of our lots on a rolling option basis.
And so we won't need a long land position in Houston and then the other markets fall somewhere in between.
In terms of our ability to flex one of our challenges over the last couple of years has been to redeploy some of our land capital to markets where we may be a little bit land light.
We made a conscious decision in Phoenix to sell land that we had impaired earlier in the recession because we were confident that we could obtain the land from others as the market recovered and that has been the case so far.
If we had a very strong recovery in the Pacific Northwest we might find ourselves a bit challenged to flex as much as some other markets.
But we're comfortable with our land position as we look out the next 3 to 5 years in our markets and we do have the ability to flex up in response to increased demand.
But it varies by market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess the next question I had.
Switching to wood realizing that hopefully this year operating leverage will be one of the factors that contributes to your ability to get to cash breakeven.
What additional cost benefits do you have if you will incrementally already banked for 2012 versus 2011? Or have you realized more or less what cost benefits you had been working on in '10 and '11 within the segment? And what capacity if we're surprised again to the upside what capacity -- what in percentage terms could you restart say within a couple of quarters within lumber within OSB to meet the market? We've been engaged in a broad process for over a year to improve performance in this business.
As I've discussed it it includes revenue improvement as well as cost reduction.
Some of the cost reduction would come from reduced operating cost and input costs some would come from increased productivity.
We captured some of those improvements in 2011.
We have more to come in 2012.
And so I can't give you a number as to what we would have "in the bank" for 2012.
But we're making good progress and we should expect to see more improvement in 2012.
As I look at our operating rates we operated -- in the fourth quarter our lumber system at about 75%.
OSB was running at 72% and our Engineered Wood Products were around 30%.
So we have much more room to flex it up in our engineered business as the housing market recovers.
But we've got plenty of capacity in lumber in OSB and we're looking forward to the opportunity to test the margins when we're fully utilizing all of our facilities.
The next question comes from Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> First of all could you remind us the percentage of your wood that you sell into your facilities? And conversely how much outside wood your mills are buying? Is this -- this is a question Steve around Wood Products or...
Research Division</strong> No.
Your Timberlands obviously sell to China and to third parties and I want to get the sense of how much they're selling to Weyerhaeuser facilities.
And then are Weyerhaeuser facilities 30% beholding on your own Timberlands and buying 70% from third parties or I want to get the ratios please? In each of our businesses we participate in the outside market both Timberlands and in our Wood Products facilities as well as Cellulose Fibers.
If we think about the Western Timberlands and these are rough numbers Steve about 1/3 of our logs would go to the export market 1/3 would go to domestic third parties and about 1/3 would go to our own mills.
In the South -- and those numbers will move up and down on a year-over-year basis.
In the South a much higher percentage of our logs historically have flowed to our own facilities.
But as I noted in my remarks this morning we are consciously increasing our sales to third parties from our Southern Timberlands.
Last year that number exceeded 20%.
And that's been a good market for us.
We're seeing good prices and we are building relationships with third-party customers that we'll be able to continue to serve in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And the other quick question also focused on the Timberlands is we've seen few small deals recently at very good prices where the buyer approached the vendor.
Are you open to hit the bid if good offers materialize or would you rather grow your asset base? We are in the market all the time as a prospective buyer.
And at the right time and the right place and the right circumstances we could be a seller.
But generally we're -- and we have routine dispositions of nonstrategic land that in some cases are part of 1031 transactions or HBU land.
In general our strategic intent is to grow our Timberlands position.
But we are engaged in the market and have exposure to both buyers and sellers...
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Do you have any 1031s that have to be crystallized in the near future? We always have some in process and -- so I can't talk about specifics.
We match up the buy-sell opportunities.
Your next question comes from Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> 2 quick questions.
First Patty working capital was a very big negative swing in Q4 which took free cash a lot lower than I thought.
Can you give us a sense of what seasonal pattern we should be expecting and if there was anything funny in this quarter? And then a quick question for Dan.
You talked about the ability to sell land.
Would you consider buying a land short builder at this point? Or do you still want to keep your exposure to home building where it is? Patty you want to address the first question? Sure.
On the working capital you had a couple of things in the fourth quarter.
So typically our working capital in Wood Products would come down a little bit.
In terms of reduced receivables in the quarter we did have some inventory build in the fourth quarter to take advantage of some markets that new markets in terms of customers that we are building in the Wood Products business.
The other swing that you had in working capital was in our Cellulose Fibers business where we had more volume that we sold into the fourth quarter.
And so I believe our receivables went up those would certainly swaps with the volume that we said would be a little bit lower and a little bit lower prices as well in the first quarter compared to the fourth.
And to your second question Mark our focus in the Homebuilding business is to grow organically.
We like the markets that we're in.
We've got strong regional local brands that you're familiar with.
And our focus in growing that business will be to flex up with the operations that we have and improve our selling activity and our production in those operations.
As you know today's volume is about 1/3 of what it was at the peak.
So we have a great operations and have the capacity to build more as the market begins to recover.
If there is a land-light builder out there that need lots they better be talking to us because we'd be happy to sell lots assuming we can do so profitably.
So it's part of our ongoing business and it's important for us to have a balance between our land sales and our Homebuilding operations.
Your next question comes from Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on the plan for 2012 on the outlook 665 000 starts.
That split between single at 455 000 suggests 68% single-family 32% multi which is quite a big change from what we saw back in 2005 and '06 and would suggest that future OSB and lumber consumption would be down 10% from that time point.
I guess it's more of a question on the future.
Do you see this sort of new sort of mix ratios staying at this level going forward? And what is your information in terms of house size and log in OSB consumption? During the recession we've seen some reduction in average square footage in single-family homes Paul maybe 10%.
There has been a swing to multifamily during this timeframe.
Multifamily market right now is really record low vacancy rates in many markets.
And a lot of that I'd attribute to buyer uncertainty more than a shift long term in choice of multi versus single-family.
So it's a little bit too early to tell.
And as I talked about the numbers for 2011 single-family dropped multifamily starts were actually up.
We have the ability to sell all of our Wood Products into the multifamily market.
Multifamily units generally have a lower square footage on average roughly 50% of the single-family.
The amount of utilization of products varies.
In multifamily units our data would show that if you look at lumber lumber utilization and the multifamily unit as compared to single-family maybe about 1/3 of what is single would be.
OSB about the same ratio.
When you move into Engineered Wood Products our numbers indicate about 60% on average usage per unit so our strength in Engineered Wood Products will help in the serving any multifamily needs.
And I think it's going to take some time through this recovery to see how the ratios between singles and multis actually settle out.
I think what we're seeing now is multis being stronger a lot of fires on the sidelines.
My personal view is that as people start to reenter the single-family market you'll see vacancies rise and multifamily and people will take advantage of record low-interest rates and low prices for single-family.
And that'll be what disburse the recovery in single-family overall.
Your next question comes from Joshua Barber with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions.
First you mentioned in your remarks that you had a higher Japan volume in the first quarter do you think that's a sign of a larger trend with reconstruction starting to happen more in Japan now or is that just something that's seasonal for Japan? It's not clear yet Josh.
Our volumes to Japan during 2011 were about equal to what they were in 2010.
And that is in light of the disruption that we experienced and the country experienced during the earthquake and tsunami so we've seen a pickup in demand from our customers.
And so as Patty talked about the outlook for first quarter that incorporates the increase in demand we're seeing.
It appears that that is primarily growth of our customers and perhaps their share rather than the rebuilding efforts following the earthquake.
The areas that were most severely impacted I think are going to take some time to recover because they have very significant infrastructure needs that need to be addressed.
Can't add any more color than that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One other sort of housekeeping item.
Your deferred income taxes on the balance sheet seems to have dropped very sharply this quarter.
Was there anything that was due to or is that just a onetime funny tax fluctuations? It's really the booking of the additional liability for pensions.
So pensions is the biggest reason for why deferred taxes moved around.
Your last question comes from Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> A couple of quick clarifications.
I apologize you may have said this to Chip's question before.
But the pension expense on a booked basis what's it going to be this year versus last year? So we said that this is pension and other postretirement benefits both so they both flow into the same footnote.
They're about a little over $80 million in 2011.
In 2012 we would anticipate that that'll be around $115 million.
But there will be an amortization of a special item that will offset that $115 million for changes in the retirement benefit plans.
So what I said to Chip was that we'll call that out as a special item.
It's clear but that's the change year-over-year.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And is that going to primarily show up on a corporate line or at the segments? And maybe an even easier way to answer corporate in 2011 was roughly $100 million is that a decent number to use for 2012 or should we be adding the $35 million increase in pension expense? Well we charge to the segments themselves sort of normal service cost.
And on Page 4 of the analyst package we actually give you that breakout of what gets allocated to the business segments versus what stays at corporate.
I would expect that the amount that gets allocated to the segments next year will increase a little bit as service cost increases but the bulk of it would stay in the corporate segment.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And so corporate expense overall would you expect that to go up a little bit 2012 versus 2011? It'll be a little bit up for that item.
The Corporate segment does move around from quarter-to-quarter.
In addition to these expenses the other things that account for swings quarter-to-quarter or what happens to share-based comp as well as foreign currency exchange fluctuations so it can fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter.
But sort of as a rule of thumb I would think about $15 million to $20 million a quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on the performance on Fibers I was a little bit surprised with the magnitude of the impact you were expecting from pricing given that you ship roughly 450 000 tons.
The same hand I was surprised how resilient pricing for you had been in the fourth quarter.
And I'm wondering is that a function of the way your contracts are set up? Are they either quarterly? Do you have a fair bit of annual contracts? How does pricing typically flow through into that business? Mark we didn't hear all of the start of your question I apologize.
Could you just rephrase it a little bit so we can get a better feel for what you're asking? I think your question was about mix in the fourth quarter or was about pricing in the fourth quarter that was a little stronger than what you have expected? Inc.</strong> And then also the magnitude.
I think you said about a $45 million impact 1Q versus 4Q which you should about...
Yes.
The $45 million is about -- is a combination of both pulp realizations and slightly lower volume quarter-over-quarter.
And in the fourth quarter you had a little bit higher mix of specialty volume that went to the quarter as well.
So there's a little bit of mix in the fourth quarter and then there's a little less volume in the first quarter compared to the fourth.
Inc.</strong> Very good.
And so there's not much impact from the way your contracts are set up? Do you have much in a way of annual contracts in particular in the pulp business? Longer than annually for a longer period of time and they have some adjustments that are built in.
But for our long-term customers we have mutual commitments to keep them supplied.
And that's really one of the great strengths of our business is the great longer-term customers that we have that are growing around the globe and that provides a lot of strength for us in this business.
At this time we have reached the allotted time for our Q&amp;A.
I'd like to take one minute and thank everybody on the line.
We appreciate all of your comments and your questions.
As usual if you have further questions following today's call I encourage you to follow-up with Kathy McAuley.
I want to thank everybody for joining us this morning and thanks for your continued interest in Weyerhaeuser Company.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Nicole and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser Quarter 1 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathryn McAuley Vice President Investor Relations.
Ms.
McAuley you may begin.
Thank you Nicole.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us on Weyerhaeuser's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
The earnings release analyst package and web slides for the call can be found on our website or by contacting April Meier at (253) 924-2937.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during this conference call.
Joining me this morning are Dan Fulton President and Chief Executive Officer; and Patty Bedient Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Additional information has been added to the analyst package and web slides.
This includes EBITDA and operating margin data as well as business-specific metrics.
In the web slide package the charts and tables have been redesigned.
I will note some of the graph changes as we review first quarter results.
Corporate and Other has been renamed Unallocated to more accurately reflect the nature of these items.
Chart 13 details unallocated items.
We hope these changes help you in your analysis of Weyerhaeuser.
As summarized on Chart 1 this morning Weyerhaeuser reported first quarter 2012 net earnings of $41 million or $0.08 per diluted share on net sales of $1.5 billion.
Earnings for the first quarter include aftertax gains of $32 million from special items.
A GAAP reconciliation of earnings before special items can be found on Chart 2.
This table now details special items on a pretax and an aftertax basis.
The special items for the first quarter are: a gain of $34 million or $0.06 per share for a postretirement plan amendment; a gain of $8 million or $0.02 per share for income tax settlements; and a charge of $10 million or $0.02 per share for restructuring impairments and other items.
Excluding these items the company reported net earnings of $9 million or $0.02 per diluted share.
Turning to our business segment discussion.
My comments reviewing the first quarter of 2012 refer to changes from the fourth quarter of 2011.
This will be the same for all segments.
Beginning with Timberlands Charts 3 and 4.
The graph on Chart 4 had been redesigned.
The West and the South are now on separate charts each graphing third-party log sales versus realizations.
Graph on intersegment log sales West and South and fee harvest volume West and South have also been excluded.
Timberlands contributed $71 million to pretax earnings $1 million more than in Q4.
Income from operations increased $13 million.
This increase was primarily due to lower equipment and road maintenance cost in the West.
This increase was largely offset by a $12 million reduction in earnings from the disposition of non-strategic Timberland.
Western log sale volumes were flat.
Third-party sales volumes declined 6% primarily due to fewer log sales to China.
Log exports to Japan however have increased.
Japan accounted for 78% of log exports in Q1 versus 68% in Q4.
Exports to Korea a small market also increased.
Price realizations for logs in the West declined less than $1 per 1 000 cubic meters.
Price realizations for logs exported to Japan slightly increased.
Southern log sales volumes were flat.
Third-party sales decreased as internal sales increased due to strong Southern yellow pine lumber demand.
The combined fee harvest volumes of the West and South rose 2%.
Wood Products Charts 5 and 6.
Chart 6 has been reorganized into 4 product graphs of price and volume.
First quarter operating income improved $39 million from fourth quarter.
Sales volumes and price realizations increased across all product lines.
Operating rates were higher.
Lumber volumes were up 9% and lumber prices increased 5% or $15 per 1 000 board feet.
Oriented strand board volumes were up 9%.
Price realizations rose 14% or $24 per 1 000 square feet.
Engineered wood solid section volumes increased 16%.
Solid section price realizations were up 3%.
Engineered wood TJI volume was 7% higher.
TJI prices increased 2%.
Manufacturing costs were lower due to more mill uptime and product throughput.
Freight expense increased largely due to higher shipment volumes and an increase in fuel costs.
Cellulose Fibers Charts 7 and 8.
Pulp sales volumes and price realizations are on the same graph on Chart 8.
The pretax contribution to earnings from Cellulose Fibers decreased $90 million in Q1 from Q4.
Average pulp price realizations declined 9% or $76 per air-dry metric ton.
Pulp sales volumes decreased 4%.
Q1 had 2 scheduled annual maintenance outages totaling 27 days of downtime.
There were no scheduled maintenance outages in Q4.
Due to the scheduled downtime maintenance costs increased significantly and pulp production volumes were 5% lower.
Real Estate Charts 9 and 10.
Chart 10 contains graphic representations of the metrics formally presented in a table format.
The pretax contribution to earnings from Real Estate declined $49 million from fourth quarter.
First quarter is seasonally the weakest quarter of the year for single-family home closings.
In Q1 single-family home closings declined to 349 from 582 in Q4.
Closings were 4% lower than a year-ago first quarter.
The average home sales price was $376 000 6% lower than in Q4 and 10% below the first quarter of 2011.
Gross margins decreased to 17% from 25% in Q4.
The gross margin was 22% in Q1 2011.
Price and margin declines were attributable to mix.
The cancellation rate dropped 10% from -- dropped to 10% from 18% in Q4.
The cancellation rate was 12% in the year-ago quarter.
The backlog increased from 429 single-family homes in Q4 to 777 homes.
However the average price of single-family homes in the backlog has decreased to $371 000 due to mix.
The backlog at the end of the first quarter last year was 611 single-family homes.
It was $1 million in land and lot sales in first quarter.
Land and lot sales were $19 million in the fourth quarter.
Other items.
Unallocated items for the first quarter include a net pretax gain of $52 million from changes in retiree health care benefits and changes of $14 million for impairment restructuring and other items.
Finally I would like to remind you on May 10 we will be holding our Annual Analyst Meeting at the Sofitel in New York City.
You can register for this event on our homepage at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Dan Fulton.
Dan? Thanks Kathy.
And good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
As I begin I want to start by reflecting on my remarks from our 2011 year-end earnings call.
At that time when we provided our outlook for the first quarter we highlighted 3 major external forces that we believed could affect our 2012 financial performance: one the pace of housing recovery; two weakening log demand from China offset by continuing strong demand from Japan; and three softness in pulp prices related to high inventories worldwide and economic uncertainty in global markets.
We emphasized that we were focused on improvement across all business segments in areas that we can control.
Though cautious about economic conditions we stated we were prepared to flex up to meet increased demand if markets improve more rapidly.
Let me first provide an update on these 3 external forces.
First housing.
During the first quarter the signs of improvement in the U.S.
housing market that began to emerge late last year continued.
On our call in early February I told you that we were basing our 2012 plans on 665 000 total U.S.
housing starts 445 000 single-family plus 210 000 multi-family.
We considered this to be a conservative assumption and I shared that we were planning cautiously given the uncertain economic environment as well as our experience in 2011.
I said that once we were further along into the normal spring selling season we would have a better idea what to expect for the year.
So today is a good time for a status report.
As we approach the end of April we've seen continued improvement in U.S.
housing.
As a result we have increased our forecast for U.S.
starts by an additional 8% from 665 000 to 720 000.
The forecast assumes 500 000 single-family and 220 000 multi-family starts.
This would be nearly a 20% increase over 2011 levels.
The increased sales activity experienced by WRECO and other builders during the first quarter does not have a significant effect on first quarter results for our businesses.
This is due to the time lag between new orders permits and then starts.
The sales activity does however provide some indication of what we can expect for the balance of the year for our Timberlands Wood Products and Real Estate segments.
Second Asian markets.
In the fourth quarter we reported slowing demand from China for logs.
We anticipate a continued weakness in Chinese demand in the early part of 2012.
However we expected that the demand from Japan by far our largest export market would increase and it did.
Third we expressed concerns about softening pulp prices.
We felt the effect of this softening in the first quarter.
Today softwood pulp index pricing appears to be stabilizing.
Now let me provide some comments about the performance of each of our business segments during the quarter.
In Timberlands harvest volumes were up slightly in both the South and the West despite some difficult weather conditions in the West.
As expected Chinese demand for logs slowed.
Our export volumes shifted to a richer mix of logs to Japan where we have strong long-term presence offsetting the decline in Chinese demand.
In Wood Products performance improved compared with last year and sequentially as compared with last quarter.
We are seeing results from our ongoing improvement efforts across the entire segment.
Sales volumes were up year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter.
Much of our increased volume is coming from new market initiatives.
These include sales and new geographies increased lumber exports and increased repair and remodel sales.
Later this year we should begin to see increased volume for all product lines tied to the improved spring housing sales I mentioned earlier.
Our volume increased resulted in higher operating rates across all product lines a welcome and much needed improvement.
Higher operating rates reduced per unit manufacturing costs and contribute to our improved profitability.
Though we're still not where we want to be the combination of these improvements narrowed our operating loss significantly compared with last quarter.
In WRECO closings for the first quarter were slightly lower than 1 year ago as a result of a lower backlog as we entered the year.
As Kathy reported margins for the quarter were lower primarily as a result of mix.
Mix has affected by margin variability across markets by the relative share of closings from our respective markets and in some cases by the relative share of closings from attached and detached product.
In the first quarter we had a higher percentage of closings from lower margin and lower price markets such as Phoenix as compared with a higher margin and higher price markets of San Diego and Washington DC.
As both a builder and land developer the sale of land and lots through other builders is an integral part of our long-term strategy.
On average land sales represent about 10% of our revenue but the timing of land and lot sales can be a bit uneven throughout the year as Kathy noted in her comparison of land and lot sales in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter.
Earlier this month we successfully closed the sale of a master-planned community in Houston that Patty will discuss in a her outlook remarks.
The positive news for WRECO and perhaps for the overall market is that our traffic is up cancellations are down and sales per community increased by 32%.
The result was a 30% increase in first quarter sales over last year.
Sales increases during the quarter were the strongest in Arizona Las Vegas Puget Sound and Houston and weakest in Southern California.
This increase in sales resulted in an encouraging increase in our backlog up 27% compared with 1 year ago and up 80% from year end.
In Cellulose Fibers we expect a significant decline in earnings compared to the fourth quarter as a result of lower prices and expense-related to schedule annual maintenance shutdowns.
During the quarter our mills ran well and came up on time after our scheduled annual shutdowns.
The shutdowns were successfully conducted with no recordable safety incidents.
Some of the work accomplished during these scheduled shutdowns will help us move towards our goal of increasing the length of time between major shutdowns to 18 months rather than every 12 months.
This transition will occur over a several year period.
As we enter the second quarter worldwide inventory levels have fallen to more normal levels and prices are increasing.
And now I'll turn the call over to Patty to discuss second quarter outlook as well as provide financial highlights.
Thanks Dan.
And good morning everybody.
We expect improved operating results from each of our business segments in the second quarter as compared to the first.
The outlook for the second quarter by business segment is summarized on Chart 11.
I'll begin the outlook discussion with Timberlands.
Beginning in the West export volumes are expected to be flat to the first quarter with realizations softening only slightly.
China markets are not anticipated to improve until the second half of this year.
And Japan market realizations could be slightly lower in the second quarter due to ongoing competitive pressure from European supply as a result of a weaker euro compared to the yen.
Domestically in the West sales volumes and prices should increase compared to the first quarter resulting from a slight seasonal pickup in demand.
We expect Western fee harvest volumes to increase approximately 5% to 10% compared to the first quarter.
In the South log realizations are anticipated to be flat and fee harvest volumes are expected to increase approximately 5% as a result of seasonal demand.
We anticipate a seasonal increase in silvicultural costs in both the West and South and fuel costs are expected to remain high.
Overall we estimate that earnings in the Timberlands segment will be approximately 10% higher in the second quarter compared to the first.
In Wood Products we expect increased revenue in the second quarter compared to the first.
Volumes are anticipated to increase approximately 10%.
Average sales realizations in lumber are estimated to be approximately 5% higher.
Realizations in our other product lines are mixed but could be somewhat softer in the second quarter compared to the first if the price trends of last year repeat although OSB realizations thus far in the quarter are stronger than Q1.
Overall log costs are expected to increase slightly during the quarter.
Log costs in the West and Canada should be higher but modestly lower in the South.
Manufacturing costs are estimated to be lower due to improved operating rates.
Freight spending will increase due to higher shipment volumes and increased fuel costs.
We expect continuing improvement in our operating results in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
We anticipate approximately breakeven performance for the second quarter.
Given these expected results Wood Products would generate around $30 million of EBITDA.
While the performance in this segment is not yet where we expect it to be breakeven is a significant improvement over the $53 million operating loss we incurred in the second quarter of 2011.
In Cellulose Fibers average sales realizations for pulp are anticipated to increase modestly in the second quarter compared to the first due to improving market conditions and tightening supply.
Worldwide inventory levels have decreased due to significant shipments to China and spring annual maintenance shut.
As of the end of the first quarter the supply of softwood inventories stood at a low of 29 days.
Maintenance expense is estimated to increase in the second quarter due to some carryover expenses from the 2 mills which had annual maintenance shut in the first quarter.
In addition we will have similar scheduled maintenance costs for the mills scheduled for their annual shut in the second quarter.
Outages this year are slightly longer than typical in order to complete capital projects focused on cost reduction and to position the mills to begin the process of transitioning to an 18-month frequency and planned maintenance outages as Dan mentioned.
We expect overall earnings on our Cellulose Fibers segment to be approximately 10% higher in the second quarter compared to the first.
Moving onto our Real Estate business.
As Dan discussed we continue to see slowly improving housing demand.
Closings in our single-family homebuilding business are expected to improve by over 30% from 349 closings in the first quarter to approximately 460 in the second quarter.
This increase reflects a normal seasonal pickup in addition to the slightly improved market.
Average prices are estimated to decline approximately 4% due to mix while gross margins are expected to increase slightly but remain under 20%.
Selling expenses will increase with the additional closing volume.
Earlier this month we closed on the sale of a large land parcel in the Houston area known as Cross Creek Ranch.
The sales price for this transaction was $100 million and it is expected to contribute about $10 million to earnings in the second quarter.
Including the earnings from this sale we expect that our Real Estate segment will generate a slight profit in the second quarter.
Now I'll wrap up with some overall company financial comments.
Please turn to Chart 12 for this discussion.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of almost $730 million.
Cash from operations in the first quarter was negative $60 million.
This reflects increased working capital of $148 million in our Forest Products businesses for the typical seasonal working capital build primarily in our Wood Products and Timberland businesses.
In addition the first quarter included the cost of scheduled annual maintenance on our sale of Fibers business.
The first quarter was also the seasonally weakest quarter of the year for our Real Estate business as compared to the fourth quarter which is typically our strongest quarter for cash generation.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter were $64 million.
We expect spending to increase in the second quarter compared to the first.
Major projects with second quarter spending include a pulp-converting facility in Poland a fiber line upgrade in our pulp mill in Columbus Mississippi and an evaporator upgrade at our pulp mill in Grand Prairie Alberta Canada.
We expect capital spending including reforestation to be around $290 million for the full year.
Our near-term debt maturities for the next 5 years are also shown on Chart 12.
As you can see we have total maturities of approximately $610 million well below our existing cash balance.
In addition we have a 4-year credit facility for $1 billion with no borrowings outstanding.
We continue to focus on controlling costs across the company.
This includes a relentless effort to lower our SG&amp;A costs.
As shown in our income statement SG&amp;A in the first quarter of last year was $172 million compared to $150 million this year a reduction of $22 million.
This emphasis on cost reduction should result in even greater leverage as we began to experience a housing recovery.
Now I'll turn the call back to Dan and I look forward to your questions.
Dan? Thanks Patty.
In summary we're encouraged by our performance during the quarter.
We continue to focus on improving our financial results with current market conditions.
The performance of our Wood Products segment during the quarter is evidence of this progress.
The increasing housing demand that we are now experiencing if sustained will give us the opportunity to flex up to meet profitable demand in our Timberlands Wood Products and Real Estate segments by increasing harvest levels wood products production and home construction.
Continued firming of pulp pricing will position us for improving results from our Cellulose Fibers segment.
We remain committed to safely improving our overall performance and we're well positioned to take full advantage of opportunities that emerge from an improving market.
And now we welcome your questions.
Nicole would you please open the floor for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question is around Chart 10 and WRECO.
And it's encouraging to -- obviously the lower cancellation rates the buyer traffic picking up.
The one interesting -- one of the interesting data points here is the price in your backlog which has been trending lower.
And I guess my question here is how much of this is cyclical from what you see Dan? Or are there any secular implications that we should take away from the declining price in the backlog that could impede the recover ultimately in WRECO and profitability when we finally see more and more closings and starts? The primary reason for the decline in the price and backlog George is answered by mix.
So as I mentioned in my remarks we had mix issues across our various markets.
We have higher-priced product for instance in San Diego and the Washington DC area lower-priced product in places like Phoenix.
And what we've seen over the last 3 to 6 months that is reflected in our backlog is a recovery in sales in some of those lower-priced markets ahead of what we're longer term expecting to see coming from let's say Southern California.
So we had a very significant increase in activity for instance in Arizona not just in the last quarter but really going back probably 6 months.
And Arizona generally is a lower-priced market.
Those are lower margins.
And so that's also impacting our margins.
So it is more of a mix issue.
We also had for instance in Washington DC which is a higher-priced market a period of time where we had a heavier shift to multi-family.
So we're in some larger master-planned communities.
And for example in some of those master plans we have a requirement to build affordable housing as part of the entitlement process those are lower-priced units.
And so that would affect both the margin that you see falling as well as sale price.
So it is more a function of where the homes are.
And for instance in some markets we are beginning to be able to pass through price increases.
So I think that most of the price decline due to the softness of the market is behind us and there'll be some choppiness as mix shifts as we come out of this.
And we'll try to keep you informed so that there's no surprises.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The related question and I have one last follow-on.
Would it be fair to say then given the ultimate lag in trend and materializing your performance the recent improvement in pricing that you could see single-family margins more or less close to where they were last year in the back half should we ultimately get to better than breakeven better than marginal loss in WRECO in the second half in single-family? And then the second question I had totally different topic in terms of Cellulose Fibers.
Relative to the rest of your portfolio and what you're trying to build within Weyerhaeuser because obviously you've done a great job of improving your returns here but it still remains a very cyclical and capital-intensive business from where you sit right now why you think that Cellulose Fibers is still a good business to maintain the portfolio for Weyerhaeuser for your shareholders? To your question of WRECO in the balance of the year yes we will return to profitability.
What happens in the first quarter is that it is our lowest quarter for closings.
And so we end up in a loss position fundamentally because of G&amp;A.
And as the volume picks up through the year then you'll see those break into profitability.
As Patty mentioned we expect to be profitable in the second quarter.
And then through the balance of the year we'll be delivering the homes that we have sold earlier in the year so we'll have the margins from those sales come through the P&amp;L.
So we would certainly expect that to recover.
In terms of what the margins may be in the balance of the year we had good visibility today for second quarter margins.
It gets a little bit fuzzier as we look at third and fourth quarter because we -- some of the closings that will occur in third and fourth quarter will be from sales that we haven't even entered into yet.
With respect to Cellulose Fibers in your portfolio question we believe that the Cellulose Fibers business is a good fit for our portfolio.
We are a strong competitor in the fluff business in particular where we have very strong relationships with growing global customers.
What the Cellulose Fibers business does for us is it gives us really terrific global exposure because about roughly 2/3 of our sales are for customers outside of the U.S.
And so we believe long-term trends or demand for fluff are very positive.
And the relationships that we are building with our customers that are growing give us confidence that we will be able to maintain profitability and grow with them.
Patty mentioned when she was talking about projects that we're spending money on this year in our CapEx the Poland facility so that's a conversion facility that will give us increased product to sell to key global customer as they expand into Europe and North Africa.
And we believe that we're a strong competitor in that business and it's a good fit for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess just to start can you talk a little bit more about the West Coast export markets and I guess just the level of trend was it getting worse as you moved through the first quarter? Or was it picking up in terms of I guess the Chinese market particularly? And are there any sort of numbers you can put to it in terms of the change in your export volume to China? You were breaking up at the very end of your question Gail.
Could I just ask you to -- sorry.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Are there any numbers that you can -- the last part was are there any numbers you can put to in terms of the change in your volume to China either year-over-year or sequentially and just generally give a context on what the trends were like moving through the quarter and to the second quarter? So our overall export volumes were slightly off in the first quarter as compared to the fourth quarter.
That's fundamentally a China statement.
As I mentioned we had a significant slowdown in exports to China starting in the fourth quarter continuing into the first quarter and that caused a shift in mix.
So in very round numbers that 80% of our export volume went to Japan 10% Korea slightly more than 10% going to China.
Now we go back to the fourth quarter those numbers were sort of mid-60s for Japan.
China had actually grown to be 25% of our export volumes.
So we are returning to more typical mix.
Our long-term market continues to be Japan.
Those are higher quality logs.
That's our most valuable resource that we're exporting off of the West Coast and we see that demand continuing to be steady.
And it has been growing.
We are well positioned to sell into the China market as we did last year because of the location of our lands and the advantage facilities that we had to ship off the West Coast.
So longer term we continue to expect the export to be a significant part of our activity.
Off the West Coast Japan will continue to be our major market but we will take advantage of opportunities to serve longer-term customers in Korea to build market share in China and also to take advantage of opportunities that are beginning to emerge in some other export markets beyond those big 3.
Yes Gail to your specific question about -- in the first quarter we saw coming out of the fourth quarter a lot of inventory in China and into the first quarter and some of that was also due to some of the Chinese government policy which we are starting to see some signs of monetary easing by the Chinese government.
So that's encouraging.
In terms of the impact going into the second quarter we don't see a lot of pickup but we see some of that inventory being worked off.
So that's why in my comments I focused primarily on the second half of the year in terms of the resurgence of Chinese demand.
We don't see a lot of that impact of it happening in the second quarter but rather that inventory continue to be worked down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would these comments hold generally for the lumber exports? I think you have some exposure to that out of Canada going into China.
And if so is there any risk or are you seeing signs of some of that being repatriated? I'm sorry I'm going to have to ask you to ask that question one more time.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
I mean do those comments hold for lumber as well? And if so are you seeing any signs of volumes that might have gone to China previously kind of being repatriated in North America? Well we've been -- we have been shipping some lumber to China out of Canada.
And actually on a year-over-year basis our export volume to China out of Canada roughly doubled.
They have as you know the wood that goes to China is used for industrial purposes concrete forms and packing and crating at least as it relates to softwood.
So the Chinese government did impose try to control to try to slow down growth to try to slow down some real estate development.
We would expect that activity to start to recover.
We will continue to take advantage of that opportunity as it exists.
In our lumber business out of Canada once again our primary customer is -- has been Japan.
And that's a higher quality wood than is going to China.
But we'll take advantage of the opportunities as they present themselves.
We are -- in our Wood Products business we are exporting lumber.
We are also starting to export some amount of OSB and engineered products into Asia also.
Yes Gail I really think as it relates to our lumber exports as Dan said similar to logs.
Japan is a much more important market for us because most of our lumber production comes out of Alberta.
It's not as affected by the beetle damaged wood as some of the other producers.
So we produce and export more to Japan of a higher J-grade than probably other producers that you might be hearing from.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 quick ones.
The guidance for Timberlands in the second quarter does that include land sales or would land sales be additive or subtractive to that? We don't forecast land sales because they are lumpy.
But I can tell you based upon what we see right now that we wouldn't see a big difference in the second quarter compared to the first.
But as we've talked about in the past that can move around.
But as we sit here today it doesn't make a big difference quarter-over-quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Patty is there any guidance for the unallocated items? I think in the past you talked about maybe $80 million for the year.
You're well below that in the first quarter.
Would you expect that to normalize or is there any change structurally there? Well what we tried to do on the Chart 13 was really give you what makes up that.
So as you think about walking down that chart the unallocated corporate functional expenses I wouldn't see that changing significantly throughout the year in terms of the quarter impact.
The unallocated share-based comp does move around because that's tied to for the most part the volatility in our stock price.
Pension and postretirement costs probably pretty stable.
Foreign exchange gains that's the result of changes in primarily the Canadian dollar on our intercompany borrowings.
So those would be the primary items as you think about.
So as the foreign exchange Canadian dollar if that moves around that will impact that number.
Just roughly I would say probably $0.01 change makes about a $3 million-ish give or take.
And it's also a function of the currency fluctuation as well as the level of borrowings inter-company how that goes on through year-to-year or quarter-to-quarter.
And then on share-based comp probably about $1 movement in the stock price is roughly $1.5 million to $2 million so maybe that will help you to calibrate throughout the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just that other segment because that was a pretty swing quarter-on-quarter for the year? Yes.
That's just really made up of a bunch of little things.
There's a whole list.
That's why wouldn't call out anything separately there.
Other is a bunch of $1 million or $2 million kind of unique items quarter-over-quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But would -- is the fourth quarter kind of a more normal number or is it just completely random? It's kind of random I would say.
It's probably somewhere between that $2 million and $7 million number.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> This is Kurt Schoen filling in for Mark.
So you noted earlier that there was a pickup in the lower-priced housing market which I guess also happened to be the hardest hit market.
Given your heavy exposure there do you expect your housing segment to recover quicker than the overall industry? And will this dynamic alter your allocation of resources or strategy going forward? I don't expect that it changes our strategy long term.
So what we're seeing is housing is a regional business.
And we do have different value propositions in each market.
I talked about the recovery in demand particularly in Arizona.
That happens to be a market that has good positive employment growth.
I think on the last call I noted that last year there were nearly 100 000 housing transactions in the Phoenix market.
So that market seems to have recovered just as we're starting to see some recovery in Florida.
We're not an active builder there but investors have come in and picked up excess inventory and so the market is now starting to recover.
So the lower-priced markets where we operate Phoenix we're seeing strong recovery.
I noted Las Vegas in my comments.
Las Vegas is coming off a rare variable base but we did see a pickup on a year-over-year basis.
Sales in Las Vegas [indiscernible] transactions are starting to occur.
We had 2 new openings in Las Vegas actually higher-priced product that sold very well.
So it's not simply people that are looking for foreclosed homes that are buying homes.
The markets are starting to recover.
So I don't expect our strategy to change in any of our given markets.
We will allocate capital in order to provide lots to be able to build those homes part of that working basis.
But I don't see any significant shift longer term for us in our value propositions in markets or in the longer term mixed results.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just curious Dan and Patty as you think about sort of a housing upturn and how it will affect your different Wood Products businesses can you help us think about sort of where you think you have the greatest leverage to increase volumes in Wood Products? Yes.
So our primary products in our Wood Products business are lumber and OSB and engineered wood products which we split between our TJIs in our solid sections.
Lumber has throughout the cycle maintained a somewhat higher operating rate because there are multiple outlets for lumber.
As we see the market pick up for housing you would expect to see lumber pick up along with the appropriate level of starts.
OSB is a product that is more heavily weighted to new construction but we have some industrial uses and we have been expanding our activity in the R&amp;R market.
So as you see a pickup in activity that should translate very quickly into OSB.
That has had a somewhat lower operating rate than lumber because we've had fewer outlets for that product.
In the engineered business or TJIs in solid sections that's fundamentally a new construction product either for single-family or multi-family.
And so that probably has the most significant immediate impact as the activity picks up either for singles or multis.
That product goes into both and so we have the most leverage on the upside coming from that business because we've got the lowest operating rates today Mark in that product line.
And then there are -- there's still an issue out there as to the mix between singles and multis and what the appropriate square footages are for each of those.
But I think the most significant upside in those 3 product lines and a pickup in housing would be seen in the Engineered business because we've got the lowest operating rates and so much more ability to increase production there.
But you'll see it in all product lines.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
Maybe when you're out here it would be -- I would like to get a little update on sort of what your building products distribution business looks like right now because I know you've made a lot of changes.
A couple of other questions for today though.
Can you give us Dan just a sort of a rule of thumb in your Real Estate business about sort of profit that you make from homebuilding versus profit that you make from the gain on the underlying land? I can't do that because it varies by market and by project.
And let me give you an example Mark.
And probably the 2 extremes would be Houston Texas where historically we have purchased auctioned lots from land developers.
So fundamentally the primary profit and margin that you see in Houston comes from homebuilding.
We do as you know have some land development activity down there but roughly 2/3 of our homes in Houston are built on lots that we purchased from others.
The other extreme would be San Diego where we've got a long land position in a market that is very difficult to obtain entitlements.
And that's the nature of why we have a longer land position there.
And so the margins that come from our San Diego homes are a lot higher and clearly there's a significant component of that that relates to the land.
But I can't give you a rule of thumb across all markets because every market is different.
And quite frankly every project has some unique history to it as to who owned the land and how long it was owned and whether it was ours or someone else's.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question I had Dan was just on sort of offshore Timberlands.
I noticed the pricing continues to be pretty low down there in Uruguay.
I'm just curious as to whether that's because that's kind of timber that doesn't have a whole lot of outlets right now.
And then I'm also interested in whether you want to expand offshore timber whether it's more in South America or more maybe over in Asia.
Our offshore timber is really located in 2 markets.
As you know Uruguay is our largest position.
We have roughly 345 000 acres.
And then we've got a small joint venture in Fujian province in Southern China.
That's about a 50 000-acre partnership.
We are growing out the timberland in Uruguay.
We started with rings land and planted it.
It is now moving to a stage of harvest maturity.
We're growing primarily to a soft timber regime in that market.
We have one manufacturing facility it's a plywood mill that we built where we are producing plywood.
And I think it's an area of the world.
Quite frankly it could use some more conversion facilities in order to monetize the timber that is growing there.
So we're well situated with our plywood mill.
We've seen some improvement in performance out of that.
That mill originally was built with the thought that the market would primarily be South Eastern U.S.
And it just turned out because of the U.S.
housing downturn most of that product is being sold throughout South America and increasingly Mexico with some outlet into Europe for higher-grade tropical panel replacement.
So that's all the color that I can add.
At this point in terms of expanding Timberlands ownership our focus is is U.S.
it's not global for a variety of reasons.
We know the U.S.
the best and U.S.
is one of the few markets in the world where you can own the fee which is important.
Next question? Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
When you look at the progression of Southern fee harvest levels they just go up and you mentioned they're going to go up again in the second quarter.
But I just noticed they went up every quarter last year and further in the first quarter.
And I know obviously from years past you've talked about having greater ability or greater growth that you would harvest in the future.
But it's up I guess roughly 25% year-over-year and with more to come.
I would like to know sort of what's driving that and sort of how we should think about the harvest there going forward.
We have -- prices have been relatively steady in that marketplace.
We made a conscious decision Chip to increase the amount of third-party sales.
So that was a market where historically most of the logs went to our own mills.
We felt that we needed and wanted some diversification and so we've consciously increased sales to third parties.
They're roughly 20% to 25% of our Southern harvest.
And then this year with the increasing lumber prices and some recovery in U.S.
housing we are flowing more of those logs to our own conversion facilities to take advantage of the increased activity or increased prices in lumber.
So it's been a conscious decision on our part to increase harvest because we have profitable outlets for the logs.
Got you.
And secondly on just the tax rate.
If you your forecast is sort of as you've given us the numbers is roughly correct and maybe you mentioned this and I missed it what should the tax rate be in the quarter and what would be your sort of range that you would use for the year? And I know it's a moving part based on how much Timberland contributes but is there any kind of rule of thumb you can give us? Sure Chip.
Let me maybe walk through a couple of things that could help you as you go forward.
So as you mentioned it is sensitive to the mix of REIT income versus TRS income and of course we don't provide for any tax corporate tax on the REIT income.
So as you think about the TRS income which is primarily the income from our manufacturing businesses Cellulose Fibers Wood Products and our WRECO subsidiary.
But also remember that the interest expense is at the TRS as well.
So as we look forward for this year for the rate on the TRS results we are looking at an effective rate of about 25%.
And if you look at the first quarter and now these are just broad rules of thumb but if you looked at the first quarter and said take the contribution to pretax earnings and exclude the special items and then take away the Timberland earnings and take away the interest expense you'd get a TRS loss of about $83 million.
And then again if you exclude out of the tax benefit the impact of the special items which you can get from Chart 2 in the package you'll get about a 25% rate for the first quarter and we would see that 25% rate being the effective rate for the year again depending upon what the ultimate mix of income is.
That 25% is lower than what the U.S.
statutory rate is because of the mix of U.S.
versus non-U.S.
earnings.
And I guess if I heard you correctly you would -- basically the REIT income the Timberland segment income is fully nontaxable in another words all of the expenses whether it'd be unallocated or interest will be almost all allocated to the TRS.
Yes.
So all of the interest expense is at the TRS.
As it relates to Timberland results there are pieces in both but most of the Timberland income is at the REIT level.
So if just as a broad rule of thumb if you take the Timberland income away you get pretty close.
Got you.
So there should be probably no tax expense in the next quarter then? Well there won't be any cash taxes if that's what you mean.
Next question? Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up to Gail's question on China.
Understanding that we've seen slow activity in the first quarter and you expect some pickup in the second half of the year when you look at kind of the full year 2012 would you expect Chinese log and lumber imports to be kind of up year-over-year or down or sort of roughly flattish or how should we think about that? At this point I don't think we have enough visibility Anthony regarding the second half.
All of our intelligence suggest that it should be picking up the second half.
2011 was such a strong year in terms of exports to China.
I would be surprised if our volume would for the full year be equivalent to what it was in 2011 but I really can't speculate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
And you talked about other export markets are cultivating markets outside of Japan China Korea.
Can you talk a little bit about that or give us some color there? I know that some of your competitors have maybe talked about exporting out of the South into the Mediterranean and the Middle East.
Do you have plans there or is there any kind of opportunity that you can give us details on? I don't have specifics that would provide a lot of guidance for you.
We are exploring opportunities for other markets in Asia both off the West Coast and to some extent out of the South.
We are engaged in some initial activity and shipments into the Mediterranean from the U.S.
South and not only for logs but limited extent to lumber.
And so we are exploring opportunities both in the West and the South.
We've never been really an exporter out of the South.
We're very limited but we are finding some opportunity given that we are growing high-quality sawlogs and Southern yellow pine and given the size and the nature of the "clear" wood in those logs they become attractive for some other markets and so not enough specific to give you much help but we are in fact -- got some pilot activity both other countries in Asia as well as in Europe.
Next question? Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
First of all I appreciate the color on China log volumes.
Do you have a longer-term view on the opportunity? Could it be a 10-billion square foot or sorry -- yes board foot market on a sustainable basis maybe in 5 years or so? I can't speculate.
We do see growing demand.
They have -- if you just look at their GDP they are going to need fiber for a lot of purposes.
The big breakthrough for China would be if we started to see some increased activity in wood frame construction.
Canadian Wood Products Council has been leading that initiative for some period of time and that will be very significant if that were to occur.
We expect the activity to increase over time.
They also pull logs from New Zealand.
Russia we talked about a lot it's a question.
But the West Coast is very well situated to supply China.
And we would expect that given the growth over time it'll become a more significant market for all of us in North America.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching gears it occurs to me that multi-family residential is going to lead the housing recovery not just because of government mandates.
So are you in a position to build multi-family yourself or do you sell the land to builders with more expertise in that area? Multi-family is a broad category so it captures attached housing generally some of which is for sale and some of which is rental.
So we build a limited amount of multi-family in primarily townhouse structures.
We've always been active in the Washington DC market for instance.
In Maryland and Virginia we build townhomes.
And we have the ability to build multi-family.
We've done it in the past.
We are not an apartment developer but we have the ability and have in the past built for sale attached housing that would be low rise.
Generally when we have land in a master-planned community with multi-family we sell it to a multi-family developer.
And so when we report land sales in some cases we had some last year we're selling to apartment developers.
For our business model we prefer for sale housing rather than rental.
And so it would be a significant change for us to jump into that business.
Actually I'm more bullish on single-family starting to show some recovery.
Research Division</strong> I hope you're right.
And then final quickie.
You referred to TJIs a couple times Dan as opposed to iLevel.
So is this a reversal in the brand strategy or you're just calling them what the market calls them? That's a strategy that we reversed last year.
So we had been going to market under the umbrella of iLevel for all of our Wood Products.
And last year we made a determination to revert to our strongest brand which is Weyerhaeuser and the Trus Joist brand.
In the marketplace everyone calls them TJI's units they're not ours probably.
It is a -- we got the leading brand in the business and we're building on that and taking advantage of it.
So we're going to market under the Weyerhaeuser name and under the Trus Joist name because we believe that's our strength and that's the reputation and quite frankly our customers tell us that that's what they prefer.
Research Division</strong> I think that's true.
I think TJIs are like Kleenex and Xerox.
That's what people call them.
Next question? Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Pulp maintenance expense if you could just tell us what it was in the first quarter.
And I think you said it'd fairly similar in the second quarter and then does it pretty much go away in the third fourth quarters for this year? We'll have a similar amount of maintenance in terms of costs compared to the first quarter with the exception of a couple of the mills one which had in their maintenance shut that carried over into the second quarter for a day or 2.
And then one of our mills were actually finishing up some power boiler expense so the mill is up and running but we're finishing up some maintenance there.
So I would expect that quarter-over-quarter we'll be up in maintenance somewhere around $5 million to $10 million probably closer to $5 million when you look at quarter-over-quarter.
In terms of the total maintenance in the first quarter for Cellulose Fibers I think we were somewhere around low 20s for maintenance costs.
And then you have to add on top of that the lost productivity some a little bit of additional chemicals et cetera.
I don't have the exact number for that Mark.
Okay.
And does that -- do you have any maintenance schedule for the second half of the year? Yes.
We'll have a similar amount of maintenance in the second quarter and we had 2 mills down in the first so about similar in the second quarter to the first quarter.
So we'll have some maintenance but it'll be much less in the second half.
Most of it will be done in the first half.
Your next question comes from line of Joshua Barber with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more about your pulp mill capital projects to get the maintenance downtime a little bit more extended? I know you said that was the reason for some more prolonged shutdowns this year.
Is that actually anticipated to be completed by the end of the year and 2013 will have that extended maintenance schedule? Or is that more of a 2014 event? The transition to that extended schedule will take place over likely a 2- to 3-year period.
The scheduled annual maintenance that we have today is not focused on that transition.
It is normal maintenance that we need to do for the safety and longevity of our equipment.
But we are taking advantage of those annual shutdowns in order to make some incremental changes and improvements that would allow us to accomplish this transition so it will be a 2- to 3-year period.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned in your prepared comments that you had seen volumes picking up in Japan might be a little bit weaker in the second quarter.
Was that just Japanese economy get a little bit better or is that a post-earthquake rebuild or maybe some combination of the 2? Well as it relates to what's happening in Japan we saw an increasing amount of activity late in the year and first quarter was relatively steady.
We expect Japan to maintain perhaps pick up a bit.
We're not seeing any significant earthquake rebuild activity that's driving increased volumes.
Some of that may be happening but it's not obvious to us.
We anticipated that the rebuild would take some period of time because of the need to initially rebuild infrastructure.
The initial response in Japan was focused on temporary housing.
That's been accomplished.
That was mostly modular.
And there was -- some amount of wood product involved in that but not significant amounts.
The areas that were most hard hit by the tsunami and the earthquake were rural and not have heavily populated.
And so most of the rebuild activity will be longer term.
And we expect not to see anything like we did Josh in response to the Kobe earthquake which was a heavily urbanized area and a lot of rebuilding had to take place over the 2- to 3-year period.
So I'm sure it had some incremental volume over time but it's not terribly significant.
Josh just to be clear in terms of the second quarter outlook we said that volumes would be pretty much flat.
It's just the realizations we  said that might soften somewhat and that's really more of a currency statement in terms of competitive pressure from European supply because of the weaker euro.
So our volumes to Japan should be very stable in second quarter.
We have time for one more question.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the earlier question on price declines in your backlogs of WRECO.
That's sort of consistent with sort of smaller home sizing and lower percentage of single-family houses and sort of I guess less bells and whistles on houses overall.
The question is do you see that as a cyclical or a structural shift to the market? The mix shift that we're seeing is primarily related to geography Paul.
We've been through a period where over the last 2 to 3 years we had some decline in square footage and certainly a lot of the upgrades had disappeared from these homes.
But interestingly in a market-by-market basis we're seeing some increased activity in higher-priced homes.
So in Phoenix where we've had terrific sales we are not a first-time buyer of product there.
We sell second -- first-time move-up second-time move-up.
In the Puget Sound area our Quadrant operation has actually moved its price point up and is providing really a higher quality more amenitized house than they were 4 or 5 years ago.
Our most recent openings in Las Vegas have been higher-priced homes 4-car garage price range $350 000 to $400 000 plus or minus.
So that's not to say that's happening everywhere but in our own mix the primary factor ends up being where that house is and where the sales are occurring as we start to look at the relative percentage of where our sales are coming from or where the closings are coming from in any one period.
We've seen that shift and so plus or minus 5% of total closings.
We saw on a quarter-over-quarter basis a percentage of our closings dropped 5% in San Diego went up 5% in Phoenix.
And those kinds of shifts will be enough to throw off the weighted average of either margin or price.
So it gets a little bit complicated to have a broadbrush explanation for what's going on.
We are not seeing a rush to the bottom in terms of price or removing amenities.
In fact I think what's happening now is there had been a lot of foreclosed houses on the market.
People that are coming into new home sales offices are looking for a home that is more customized that probably has more features and it meets their needs much more closely than buying -- trying to buy a foreclosed house either from a bank or in an auction.
And we view that as being very positive.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well pretty interesting answer.
Just last question on Japan housing in your leverage there.
If I take a look at housing stats they're sort of down 8.1% annually over the last 5 years.
Wooden has held up a lot better down 3.5%.
Are you guys taking market share with your sort of growing export to Japan? Can you restate the question? I don't think I understood.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I look at Japanese housing starts I see a downtrend over the last 5 years.
I would say wooden starts has held up a lot better.
Your business seems to be holding pretty steady that suggests that you're taking market share.
Have I got that right? I believe our customers are taking market share.
As you think about who we export to Paul we're exporting.
Most of our product is export of logs and certainly our customers in Japan especially our largest customer's taking market share.
Okay let me just provide one minute of wrap-up comments here.
I want to thank everybody for your questions and your comments.
Patty mentioned that we have our New York Analyst Meeting coming up.
It's just less than 2 weeks away and so we hope that we'll see you there.
If you have questions following this call I encourage you to follow up with Kathy.
And finally I thank all of you for taking the time to join us this morning and for your continued interest in Weyerhaeuser Company.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Nicole and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser Q2 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathryn McAuley Vice President Investor Relations.
Ms.
McAuley you may begin.
Thank you Nicole.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us on Weyerhaeuser's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
The earnings release analyst package and web slides for this call can be found at our website or by contacting April Meier at (253) 924-2937.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during this conference call.
Joining me this morning are Dan Fulton President and Chief Executive Officer; and Patty Bedient Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
As summarized on Chart 1 Weyerhaeuser reported second quarter 2012 net earnings of $84 million or $0.16 per diluted share on net sales of $1.8 billion.
Earnings for the second quarter include after-tax gain of $37 million from special items.
These items are detailed in Chart 2 a GAAP reconciliation of earnings before special items.
A gain of $33 million or $0.06 per share for postretirement plan amendments no further gains are anticipated from these benefit changes which were effective June 30; and a gain of $4 million or $0.01 per share for the sale of properties.
Excluding special items the company reported net earnings of $47 million or $0.09 per diluted share.
To provide a better understanding of business operating results during the second quarter we began reporting the elimination of intersegment profit on inventory and the LIFO reserve as part of unallocated items.
Previously these amounts were reported in the business segments.
For consistency segment contributions to pretax earnings for first quarter 2012 as well as prior periods have been adjusted to reclassify these amounts as part of unallocated items.
These adjustments are detailed on Chart 14.
There is no change to Weyerhaeuser's consolidated net earnings for first quarter 2012 or prior years.
Next turning to our business segments.
My comments reviewing the second quarter of 2012 refer to changes from the first quarter of 2012 for all segments beginning with Timberlands Charts 3 and 4.
Timberlands contributed $77 million to pretax earnings $7 million more than in Q1.
Fee harvest volume seasonally increased in the West and South.
In the West log prices declined nearly $5 per cubic meter as the domestic -- as domestic volumes comprised a higher proportion of sales.
Domestic log demand was strong.
Third-party volumes increased 19% and domestic log prices rose 2%.
Japanese log volumes increased.
Japanese log prices were slightly lower.
The log export mix shifted towards China where volumes were higher and price is lower.
Southern sales volumes increased and log prices rose 2%.
Logging costs were higher in the West due to more cable logging on steep terrain and silviculture costs were lower in the South.
Wood Products Charts 5 and 6.
Wood Products contributed $36 million to pretax earnings $49 million more than in Q1.
The second quarter included a pretax gain of $6 million on a property sale.
Lumber price realizations increased $39 per thousand board feet or 13%.
Lumber volumes also increased 13%.
OSB price realizations rose $17 per thousand square feet or 9%.
OSB volumes were 14% higher in Q2.
Engineered wood products declined 6% for TJIs and 2% for solid sections.
TJI volumes rose 25% from very low level and solid section increased 9% also from a low level.
Log costs slightly increased from Q1 and other manufacturing costs were flat.
Cellulose Fibers Charts 7 and 8.
The pretax contribution from Cellulose Fibers was $36 million $12 million less than in Q1.
Average pulp price realizations were flat in the quarter due to mix.
There were 27 days of maintenance downtime in Q2.
Manufacturing issues and the timing of shipments reduced pulp sales volumes 5%.
Downtime increased costs and reduced productivity.
Real Estate Charts 9 and 10.
The pretax contribution to earnings from Real Estate before special items was $15 million $23 million more than in Q1.
Single-family home closings seasonally increased 46% to 508 homes in Q2 from 349 homes in Q1.
Home closings increased 11% from the same quarter last year.
Gross margins increased to nearly 20% in Q2 from 17% in Q1.
The average home closing price was $374 000 nearly flat with Q1.
The closing price declined 4% from the same quarter last year due to mix.
Unallocated items Chart 11.
The foreign exchange loss was $8 million in Q2 due to a weaker Canadian dollar.
This was a $14 million swing from Q1.
As discussed earlier the elimination of intersegment profit in inventory and LIFO formerly reported at the segment level is now recorded in unallocated items.
Now I will turn the call over to Dan Fulton.
Dan? Thanks Kathy and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
On this call I will provide you with a perspective of our quarterly results.
Overall I'm very pleased with our performance during the quarter.
All of our businesses were profitable.
Importantly business improvement initiatives within our Wood Products segment are yielding clear results above and beyond those realized from an improving housing market.
Our aggressive actions to improve performance are beginning to show the strength of our businesses and to position us to capture the full benefit of the market recovery as it unfolds.
Our work is not yet done and we will continue to focus on improving our performance to capture the full value of our businesses.
As you know U.S.
housing is very important to us as it affects 3 of our 4 businesses: Timberlands Wood Products and Real Estate which I'll be referring to as WRECO.
Since the beginning of the fourth quarter last year we've been experiencing a gradual improvement in the housing market that extended through the spring selling season this year and is continuing into the third quarter.
Last quarter we reported a 30% increase in our WRECO sales year-over-year.
Our momentum continued to build through the second quarter and at the end of the quarter year-to-date WRECO sales are up 38%.
During our first quarter call I noted that we had not yet seen a significant effect on our Wood Products sales due to the time lag between new home sales and starts.
Now it's clear that sales by WRECO and other builders earlier in the year together with improved sales activity in the second quarter are resulting in increased starts across the country boosting demand for Wood Products.
Improved demand for Wood Products is in turn increasing domestic demand for logs from our Timberlands.
Housing construction is on a path to return to long-term trend levels necessary to meet the needs of a growing population and household formation although we're well aware that the recovery is still somewhat fragile.
Now I'll comment on the performance in each of our businesses in the second quarter.
In Timberlands our earnings improved 10% over the prior quarter.
Harvest levels were up 5% overall somewhat more in the West than the South.
Third-party sales volumes increased for both domestic and export customers.
Third-party domestic sales volume increased 16% as a result of increased demand related to housing activity as well as seasonal pickup in the West.
Export volume grew a healthy 6% during the quarter with a shift in mix among our 3 primary markets: Japan China and Korea.
Japan continues to be by far our largest and most stable Asian market representing over 75% of our export volume during the quarter.
Log sales volume to Japan increased 5% to meet demand driven by increased Japanese housing starts.
Log shipments to China had slowed in the latter part of 2011 and early 2012 after significant increases in 2010 and early 2011.
We were not expecting much recovery from China until the latter part of this year but we were able to capture better-than-expected demand during the quarter leading to a 44% increase quarter-over-quarter.
Though a much smaller percentage of our export activity this increase in volume to China helped to raise total export volume and offset a decline in Korea shipments.
In Wood Products we had a strong quarter as a result of improved market conditions and our improvement initiatives.
This was our best quarter since 2006 point 2.
EBITDA was $63 million for the quarter up $80 million compared to last year.
Sales volumes for all products increased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.
Production rates increased across all product lines in response to increased demand allowing us to capture production efficiencies.
The good news for our Wood Products business is that there was a spring this year as buyers returned to the housing market and builders followed through by increasing housing starts.
Our improvement during the quarter was of course helped by increased housing activity but we're also seeing the payoff of improvement initiatives across our business.
These initiatives have resulted in increased revenue from new products and new markets and reductions in cost to production and operations.
Year-to-date earnings in this segment have improved $103 million from last year more than half of which is attributable to our business improvement efforts.
While we still have more work ahead of us to improve our competitiveness we've made great progress and we're better positioned than ever to profit from improving market conditions that will come with the housing recovery.
Shifting to WRECO.
We had a solid quarter with earnings from land sales and single-family operations.
Though our overall community count is down slightly from 1 year ago year-to-date closings are up 4% and sales are up 38%.
Our backlog is up 53% which will lead to a continuing increase in closings in the third and fourth quarters.
Further signs of market stabilization are a 39% decline in our unsold inventory from 1 year ago and a firming of house home prices across most of our markets.
Prices for new sales in June were 5% higher than 1 year ago.
I know that you like to have a bit of color on what's happening in our markets so here are some highlights of our sales activity during the first half of the year.
Southern California Las Vegas and Arizona were some of the markets hardest hit during the housing recession and each are beginning to rebound.
Our sales have more than doubled in Arizona.
In Las Vegas our sales are up over 60% and in Southern California sales are up nearly 20%.
In the Seattle area sales are up over 40%.
Houston has been a steady market for us throughout the housing recession and sales there are up nearly 20%.
And in the Maryland and Virginia suburbs of Washington D.C.
sales are up over 20% and we're underway with our first project in nearby Richmond Virginia.
Based on our own WRECO experience our message is that the housing market conditions continue to improve as fundamentals stabilize and confidence begins to build.
My final business comments relate to our Cellulose Fibers business.
Demand for our Cellulose Fibers products held steady during the quarter.
Planned maintenance and some unanticipated operational issues which are now resolved led to lower production levels during the quarter.
With the exception of these onetime operational issues in this quarter this business has been operating extraordinarily well.
We continue to make progress during our planned shutdowns to make changes that will allow us to transition to an 18-month maintenance cycle.
During the quarter we received regulatory approval at our Longview mill to move to an 18-month cycle.
And now I'll turn the call over to Patty to discuss third quarter outlook as well as our financial highlights.
Thanks Dan and good morning everybody.
We anticipate continued improvement in our overall operating results in the third quarter as compared to the second.
The comments regarding the outlook for the third quarter are summarized on Chart 12 and I'll begin my remarks with Timberlands.
In the West export realizations are expected to be slightly lower.
Export prices and volumes to China are expected to increase which will result in a heavier mix to China which lowers the overall export realization.
Log exports to Japan remain strong but continued to be affected by the weak euro which underpins the competition from European laminated lumber.
Western domestic log prices are anticipated to weaken in the third quarter compared to the second as more seasonal volume is marketed by smaller private landowners.
Costs for road maintenance are expected to be seasonally higher but will be partially offset by lower fuel costs.
In the South realizations for logs are likely to be somewhat lower with a heavier mix to pulpwood.
Fee harvest volume should increase seasonally although the increased income will be offset by higher silviculture spending.
Minerals revenue will be slightly higher.
Nonstrategic land sales are expected to increase.
Overall third quarter Timberlands income is expected to be comparable to the second quarter results.
In our Wood Products segment we expect third quarter sales volumes to be flat to slightly down compared to the second quarter.
Sales realizations may soften seasonally especially for lumber although overall channel inventories remain thinly stocked.
Log costs are projected to increase in Canada be flat in the South and lower in the West.
We expect the Wood Products segment to be solidly profitable in the third quarter although earnings may not be as strong as second quarter results.
As Dan mentioned our business improvement initiatives have resulted in much stronger performance.
We continue to focus on driving improvements in our operating results in addition to taking advantage of the market recovery.
In Cellulose Fibers pulp prices are expected to experience downward pressure as the weak euro and the uncertain international economic environment persists.
We expect pulp sales volumes to increase offsetting the effect of weaker prices.
Pulp production is forecasted to increase as there is only one maintenance outage in Q3 versus 2 in the second quarter and reliability is expected to improve.
As a result maintenance cost is also expected to be lower.
Costs for chemicals energy and fiber are all expected to decrease although freight is expected to increase slightly.
Overall results in our Cellulose Fibers segment should be substantially higher in the third quarter compared to the second.
In our Real Estate segment single-family home closings are expected to improve by over 25% from 508 in the second quarter to approximately 640 closings.
The higher closings reflect seasonal increases as well as the stronger home sales from earlier in the year which are now making their way into home closings.
Average prices are expected to decline slightly due to mix while gross margins are expected to approximate 20%.
Selling costs will likely increase due to higher closing volume.
Earnings from single-family operations are anticipated to increase in the third quarter as compared to the second.
Earnings in the second quarter included $12 million from land and lot sales.
It's possible that the third quarter could also include some land sales but the amount and timing is difficult to forecast.
Now I'll wrap up with some overall financial comments.
We ended the quarter with cash of $861 million an increase of $133 million since the end of the first quarter.
Capital expenditures in the second quarter totaled $75 million.
This brings the total for the first 6 months of this year to $139 million including reforestation.
Major capital projects include a pulp converting facility in Poland replacing of operators at our pulp mill in Grand Prairie Alberta Canada and a fiber line upgrade at our Columbus Mississippi pulp mill.
We still expect total capital expenditures for the year to approximate $290 million.
During the third quarter we expect to spend approximately $180 million for debt maturities and approximately $110 million for interest which includes semiannual payments.
As can be seen from Chart 13 our debt maturities for the next 5 years total approximately $600 million well below our current cash balance.
In addition we have a $1 billion line of credit with no borrowings outstanding.
In summary we have very strong liquidity improved operating performance and a strengthening housing market all of which should enhance future cash flows.
With that I'll turn the call back to Dan and I look forward to your questions.
Thanks Patty.
The housing recovery looks and feels real.
We've continued to make improvements across all of our businesses and I'm encouraged but not satisfied by the progress we've made.
We're focusing on what we can control improving our operating performance and our relative competitiveness.
We're well positioned to take full advantage of the long-term economic recovery that lies in front of us.
And now we welcome your questions and your comments.
Kathy? Nicole will you please open the floor for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions and one maybe a little more strategic.
Was there -- can you quantify any landfill and mineral income that you saw in the second quarter in Timberlands? With respect to minerals income minerals income were roughly flat quarter-over-quarter Gail.
What we saw was a decline in income from our gas properties and some of our hard mineral properties offset by increases in revenues from oil shale activity in the Tuscaloosa basin where we have property.
With respect to dispositions dispositions were on a quarter-over-quarter basis relatively flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just strategically thinking about it last year I know you talked about seeing a material change in your homebuilding business with the talk around the fiscal debt dealings debate.
And I'm just wondering is your sense this year with the fiscal close to be kind of looming that the market would be more resilient as that rhetoric kind of ramps up? Or do you have any fear or worries from the trends that you're seeing that we could repeat what happened last year? Well last year we did see a setback in market confidence surrounding the debate about raising the debt limit and it had a real impact on consumer confidence and housing sales.
This year there has been a lot of discussion.
Just I think last week Fed Chairman Bernanke was in front of Congress talking about those very same issues.
At year end we have an expiration of the Bush era tax cuts.
We have the congressionally imposed sequestration process that will take over at the beginning of the year if nothing is done and then we have a longer-term challenge around fiscal policies.
So we are concerned and that was fundamentally the message that Bernanke had to Congress.
We risk an upset in the economy if we're not able to deal with those issues.
The good news for us this year is that the housing market seems to be shaking off.
That concern at this point in time given the numbers that we reported this morning and the year-over-year activity we're encouraged but I think we still have confidence issues to deal with among homebuyers and in the general public because it not only affects home sales it affects retail sales and overall employment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just maybe one last one on China.
I'm surprised to hear that you're kind of ramping up your volumes given what we've heard from some others.
Someone suggested yesterday that perhaps inventories were starting to build up in China again.
Can you just give a little bit of color there? Our experience has been that inventories were building late last year and early this year which is when we saw the significant falloff in volume as well as some pullback in price.
And as I mentioned in my remarks we had been assuming that we would see a pickup come back in the latter part of the year.
And in fact we're encouraged to see the opportunity to increase our export activity more towards the end of the second quarter.
So we've been developing strong relationships in China.
The customers appreciate the quality of the logs that we're shipping and the dependability of our entire logistical chain.
And we expect that that activity will increase over time.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on Timberlands.
The first is Southern sawlog prices have obviously been depressed for a number of years.
And with the strength that we've seen in lumber and housing starts picking up are you seeing any of that strength kind of flow back to the stump? And what is that kind of lag that you would expect between strength in lumber and strength in sawlogs? Well it ultimately does flow back.
In the South in particular we are more dependent on domestic demand as compared to our position in the West where we have export markets.
We have had some recovery in pricing.
As Patty mentioned in her remarks as we go forward to the third quarter we see average realization declined.
But that is more of a mix issue as we expect to be selling more pulpwood.
In general in the South you want to look at U.S.
housing recovery and that's what's going to translate into timber values.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the West you referenced lower expected export log realizations in 3Q.
And is that purely a mix issue as well? Or apples-to-apples are you seeing some deterioration of export prices into July? Really Anthony that's more of a mix issue.
So we'll have more volume as a percentage going into China.
Our Japan volumes continue to be very strong.
Japan has an uptick in their housing starts this year based upon the very low mortgage rates that they have but also some concern about consumption tax increases a couple of years out.
So as well as rebuilding from the tsunami which we haven't seen a lot of yet but appears to maybe starting to make its way in.
So it really is more from a realization perspective the fact that there is more mixed going into China on a relative basis.
But all of those volumes are still pretty strong.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just one last quick one.
In engineered wood that you saw volumes rising sequentially but it really looks like prices kind of fell a little bit sequentially.
And I'm wondering if you could just talk a little bit about what you're seeing in solid section in TJIs and if you're seeing any kind of pickup in that business.
We have seen a pickup in volume as housing starts begin to recover.
As we've explained in the past our engineered wood relies more heavily on new construction as compared to our OSB business and our lumber business which has a much broader mix of markets.
And so the volume pickup is we would believe is related to the early stages of housing recovery.
With respect to price there is still -- there are lower operating rates in that industry than in lumber and OSB to competitive marketplace.
And we are seeing some signs of some pickup in pricing as we move into the third quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just want to maybe pick up on Anthony's question.
In terms of operating rates within your other wood products business could you comment at all in terms of where you stand? And are there any areas that are still troubling to you x EWP which you already covered? During the second quarter our operating rates for lumber business were in the high 80% range up quarter-over-quarter from the first quarter.
Our OSB business is operating in roughly the low 80s George.
Engineered wood business overall still less than 50% if we include a couple of facilities which have been indefinitely curtailed.
As we look at the operations that we are manufacturing in today we'd be in the 50% range.
So we've got a lot of room to flex up.
I'm not concerned about our ability to respond to increased demand because we do have the ability to especially in lumber add some shifts.
And we've been pleased with the uptick in productivity.
Research Division</strong> Dan I'm not sure that we would be able to actually model it but just to understand if we continue to see progress in obviously the housing markets and therefore the product markets for you holding price constant should we see the same level of incremental profitability with that improvement in volume and utilization rates in wood and OSB? Or in theory might you see actually an incrementally higher rate of profit dollars as demand comes in? And why or why not? We have a lot of cost inputs George.
And so it is a function of not just log costs but also energy costs chemicals.
But as we increase volume we do enjoy operating efficiencies.
And so we fundamentally have covered fixed costs.
We need to cover variable but there should be a corresponding uptick in margin assuming that input costs are held constant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So what I'm hearing from you is basically holding those constants your incrementals will stay basically at the same rate as long as volume keeps moving up.
I guess the last couple questions I had for you one why are you seeing a mix towards pulpwood in the South since we're seeing an improvement in housing since hopefully that would be driving higher sawlog prices -- or demand I should say? And then to cellulose fibers would it be possible to parse out what the if you will exceptional factors were in the second quarter that hopefully don't recur in the third quarter what the profit dollars associated with that -- those items were? Sure George.
I'll take those.
I think from the standpoint of a little more mix of pulpwood in the South we have our spending that goes on as well.
So I don't think there's any type of big change driven by pricing in those 2.
But more of just the silviculture regime of a little more thinning volume.
In terms of pulp to help you a little bit of getting from the first quarter to the second quarter or from the second quarter to the third as I said in my remarks we have just one outage in the third quarter compared to 2.
And we had about 27 days of downtime in the second quarter.
So let's just say we have half of that so about $14 million.
And as I've said in the past maintenance expense runs for just the maintenance costs itself about $1 million a day.
So we should have $14 million less in just maintenance cost.
And in the second quarter we also finished up a couple of things from the first quarter shut.
So maybe maintenance cost itself is around $14 million $15 million less quarter-over-quarter.
Then we also have the increased productivity as a result of producing more pulp which is similar in amount.
And then as I mentioned in my remarks we'll also have a little lower chemical and fiber costs.
So all in all I would expect that profits in the third quarter should be roughly twice what they were in the second quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
Patty you didn't sound as optimistic about land sales next quarter as I might have expected.
Are you seeing a meaningful pickup in conversations with builders who are short of land as we talked about a year ago? And I'm just curious how that opportunity looks to you now versus a year ago.
Yes Mark.
We do continue to have land sales that we do market.
It really was more a function of not optimism about it but the ability to really tell you what the amount and timing of those will be.
So we are still in the market with -- as you know we have a longer pipeline than most of the other builders.
So it wasn't a comment about optimism.
It was really more a comment about the forecast of timing and the amount of those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one more question.
Just on fluff pulp are you still selling primarily to the same customers? I'm trying to get a sense of whether the new capacity that's coming is just lowering prices or whether there's also a customer reshuffle going on as well that's going to impact you.
Mark we've not had any significant change in the customers.
In fact the customers that we work with rely on us.
They need our product and we're part of their growth plans not just in the U.S.
but also in the global market.
So we have not experienced any significant shift in customers.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
First question is for Patty.
Are there going to be any changes that you anticipate next year? And maybe you can give us some magnitude in your pension funding based on the highway bill provision.
Sure Chip.
As you referenced Congress did pass an amendment along with the highway bill in June which basically changed the way that the discount rate was computed for purposes of determining minimum pension contribution funding.
So we had disclosed that we would have about a $60 million contribution due no later than the middle of September 2013 for our U.S.
qualified plan.
And based upon the legislation we don't believe that that contribution will be needed.
Got you.
And then on a separate note I'm having a little trouble maybe I just missed something that's different about you guys but I'm having trouble seeing the doubling of income in pulp.
All the numbers you gave add up but we left out price.
And we've been seeing an unusual situation where softwood has been if you will softer than hardwood prices.
And so I didn't know how that came into the mix.
Chip what we've got going from the second quarter to third quarter is as Patty mentioned lower maintenance more up-time because we don't have the same number of scheduled maintenance shutdowns.
We also encountered as we noted some operational issues during the second quarter that impacted our volume by about 5%.
Those were onetime issues.
They've been resolved.
And so as we look forward into the -- going from second to third quarter we recover that 5% volume plus we add volume that we lost during the second quarter related to our annual shutdowns.
We also had a little more in-transit inventory at the end of the second quarter for pulp on the water that didn't close out in the second quarter that will come into the third.
So weaker pricing basically just gets offset by the increased volume in terms of that's why you don't see that adding up in the numbers.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So first of all on Wood Products clearly a very solid quarter there.
But just looking at your price realizations if my numbers are right I think you sold lumber for $58 more per thousand board feet relative to last quarter would imply that just from the lumber pricing you should have seen that type of pickup in the EBIT.
And is there anything going on on the cost line in that Wood Products business that held back the pricing leverage that I think you should have seen in the second quarter? No there's nothing significant there.
We had a slight uptick in log costs during the quarter but not significant.
Manufacturing costs quarter-over-quarter were about the same.
So the increase that comes through in Wood Products generally is a combination of all of our products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is any of the log costs linked to the lumber price in the Wood Products business? No.
We don't have a tie-in arrangement or indexing.
The logs that are purchased by our Wood Products business are purchased at market prices from internal sources or external sources.
And so there is no indexing.
Some of our competitors have started to move to that.
We are not doing it.
Alex as you think about the leverage we did see significant leverage in the lumber business as well as the OSB business.
So in terms of getting those numbers through in the second quarter those certainly came through.
We did not see the same kind of improvement in engineered wood and our distribution business.
So that's probably the piece that you're missing.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful Patty.
And then just on the commentary around seasonally lower profitability certainly makes a lot of sense in the context of lumber prices always seasonally softening in the third and through the fourth quarter.
But if we were to hold the lumber price constant where it is today how should we be thinking about the profitability level in Wood Products in the third quarter? I would say that if prices stay constant that you would see because volumes we're saying are flat to maybe slightly down a little bit.
We took a little bit of downtime in the southern lumber system Fourth of July holiday.
But I would say that results will be similar to the second quarter.
And we hope that's the case Alex.
Research Division</strong> Yes same here.
And just on WRECO a number of the home builders have been taking reversal to tax valuation allowance so that had been established through the very deep recession in housing.
Can you just remind us how much of the book value in real estate was written down through the downturn and whether there's an opportunity for you to be able to do that as well? We do not have the same situation as the public home builders because that fundamentally is their only business.
And we file a consolidated return and so we didn't have the same tax effect that they would have had.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question I had it looked like there was about $100 million worth of land in lot sales in the second quarter.
Is it possible to get some sense of where and why on that? The land and lot sales during the quarter were primarily related -- this is a WRECO question I assume.
Research Division</strong> Yes it is.
Yes yes yes.
So that was the sale of Cross Creek Ranch which we actually talked on the last call but the closing took place in the second quarter.
So that was a master plan community that we had developed in Houston.
We sold that property and so that's what was going through the WRECO books.
We booked income on that.
As part of that transaction what we did is we actually -- the benefit of that was not only bringing cash back to our balance sheet so that we can redeploy it elsewhere but we capitalized on the value that we had created and also established a relationship with the buyer where we have the opportunity to buy lots from that same buyer not just in Cross Creek in the future but also other properties.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
That's helpful.
Second question Patty the tax rate in the quarter was a little bit higher than we would have expected especially if you back out the Timberland earnings.
Can you give us a little more color on that? Yes.
As you really think about the tax rate Mark probably the easiest way to get there is at the way that we compute the rate is as you mentioned on our REIT Timberland earnings we won't pay any tax.
And so we look at the tax rate for our TRS earnings in this case year-to-date it's a TRS loss.
So if you take our year-to-date earnings which are on Chart 1 of the package so you have -- and exclude the special items you've got about pretax earnings of about $200 million and back out the interest expense which is around $170 million.
So you end up then with a TRS loss of $115 million give or take.
And then if you back out all the tax on the special items and those are also delineated separately for you on Chart 2 you'll get to a tax rate for the quarter on that -- or year-to-date on that computation of a little over 20%.
And our year-to-date effective rate -- or effective rate for the TRS for 2012 is just under 23%.
So that'll get you pretty close in the ballpark.
So I don't know how you did your computation but those would if you take that back out the Timberland earnings back out the special items and the tax effect of the special items you'll get to just almost that 20%.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then the one other question.
Dan I noticed on the announcement around the forest capital sale a couple of weeks ago that they specifically pulled out about 0.25 million acres of gas and oil rights down in Louisiana.
And I know that you've got I think over 1 million acres in Louisiana as well as about 600 000 or 700 000 up at Arkansas and some more over in Texas.
Have you guys looked carefully at what you think the potential value of mineral rights across the South is? Because I think all of your land pretty much has mineral rights.
All of our land -- I mean I can't say 100% we have mineral rights on every single acre of property.
But in fact we have mineral rights on more property than we own across [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Yes that's what I thought.
So we have roughly 7 million acres of mineral rights as compared to roughly 6 million of Timberland.
We do have properties in the South in the areas that you've discussed.
Some of our properties are in the Haynesville Shale area which we have talked about in the past and where we have active leasing activity and drilling activity.
And what we do just to remind everybody on the call is generally we'll enter into operating leases with exploration companies.
They spend the capital to develop the resource and then we have a royalty interest that we receive over time.
So our income stream is a combination of front-end leases and royalties.
We also have land in the Tuscaloosa oil basin which is subject to a lot higher level of interest right now because oil is more attractive to the industry than shale gas.
But we manage those properties aggressively.
We are actively monetizing those properties.
We have had a historic practice of not selling those rights but rather retaining them and monetizing them with annual steady income which we happen to favor.
I cannot put a value on all of our mineral rights and I specifically can't give you a number for what our properties would be worth in that region other than to say that we've got active leases we've got active exploration going on and it becomes a fairly steady part of our Timberlands' P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> And are you -- how satisfied are you that you're really kind of -- you're maximizing value right now I guess? Or is it -- how far along are you in the process of you think of really understanding exactly how much value you've got and then extracting it? Well we know what we have.
One of the things that has emerged over the last 5-plus years is the development of new technology.
So frac-ing.
That opened up the shale gas opportunity not just for us but really for the entire United States.
And then we're seeing that same technology used in the oil shale basin.
So what we do is we enter into highly -- leases with highly qualified operators.
They develop the resource.
If they are successful then in fact we receive those royalties over time.
So I'm confident that we know what we've got.
I'm really optimistic about the potential future income stream from those properties.
And I'm very encouraged about what the development of those resources mean for this country.
We are fast becoming energy-independent and that's a good thing for us generally as a country.
And we'll also -- we're already starting to see the impact on some on-shoring of jobs because of low energy prices.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
One quick technical and then one bigger strategy.
On the unallocated since you changed the accounting should we still be using a $20 million to $25 million or does that actually go up a little bit? Over the course of the year Mark it will basically pretty much wash out.
It will maybe be a little bit higher this year as we build inventories.
A lot of that reduction comes from -- when we sell from one segment to the next we sell at market price.
But for anything that's less than inventory we have to back out that intercompany profit.
So the reason that we brought it into the unallocated segment was really to give you a better view of what the stand-alone business results were by segment.
So as you think about our Wood Products business for example in the first quarter where we're building inventory they would be unduly penalized and then they would get that back when they sold that inventory later in the year.
So to take that noise out of the system that's really why we pulled it out of the segments and put it into unallocated so you could track it very easily from one to the next.
But I would expect that as the year progresses that will likely stay at a pretty low level and then you'll see another piece come back in the first quarter of 2013 similar to the larger amount that you saw in the first quarter of this year.
The other thing Mark that really jumps around in that segment you can see it there as well is the foreign exchange.
So the unallocated number really increased over what our guidance typically would have been because of the change in the currency Canadian dollar.
So that was a $14 million negative swing quarter-over-quarter.
And then on the dividend you've articulated how over the course of time you expect to pay out roughly 75% et cetera.
And now things are getting better.
Are you likely to view where the dividend should be on a looking kind of a trailing of what you have achieved or is it more an outlook of where things seem to be going? Because obviously we're at a point where hopefully things are getting better.
And are you going to likely be proactive on the dividend or more reactive? Mark I don't want to get ahead of our board on this one.
You articulated our policy very well.
So we set the dividend at a target range of 75% of our funds available for distribution over the cycle.
We are focused as we set the dividend not on looking back but looking forward.
And so what we are looking at as we review the dividend level is our future earnings potential our view of market conditions.
We take into consideration the certainty or the level of volatility in forecasts.
And those are the areas that the board focuses on as we look forward.
So I would say really quick answer we're not looking back.
We're looking forward.
And we are targeting that 75% over the cycle.
So we're looking forward to seeing our earnings and cash flow increase and we're looking forward to the opportunity to increase the dividend.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I did have one on engineered wood products.
You kind of touched on it.
But the fact that prices fell when -- especially for I-beams when the input the flanges and web stock were rising just is troublesome.
So is it just too much production or is there anything else? I would simply observe that it's market pricing by a range of competitors.
And I can't comment beyond that.
As I said we are starting to see some increase as we move into the third quarter.
But I've got nothing else to add.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just -- you only have one sawmill left in British Columbia and I should know this.
But is Princeton on the interior? Are you having significant issues with sawdust that's very fine? We are not.
We're very -- we've had some significant issues -- the industry has in British Columbia.
A lot of speculation about the sawdust and is that or is that not related to beetle wood.
We do not have that problem.
Our mills we believe are operating safely.
They've been inspected closely by all appropriate authorities and so it has not been an issue for us.
And Princeton is in an area Steve that is less affected by the mountain pine beetle than most of the other B.C.
mills on the [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was kind of interested because of those 2 catastrophic events and wondering whether I guess the province was putting incremental scrutiny I suppose on your practices.
They've inspected and we've gotten a good report card.
Your next question comes from the line of Joshua Barber with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
On the Timberland side you mentioned that you'll have some -- I may have missed it before but some nonstrategic sales in the third quarter.
Can you just remind us what the total acreage is that you would still classify there as nonstrategic? It's actually a very small percentage of our acreage Josh.
We include that number I believe in our fact book.
It's certainly less than 10% overall.
And so when we talk about nonstrategic we identify what's core what's not.
We do not have significant acreage that we would consider to be nonstrategic.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the homebuilding side it looks like capitalized interest moved up pretty decently this quarter.
Is that more directly correlated with the backlog and the home closings? Or is that more reflective of increased community count? I can't answer that question.
So Josh could you ask your question one more time? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
The capitalized interest on the home -- on WRECO.
On the rollout of capitalized interest? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just the absolute amount of capitalized interest.
Is that -- I mean it went up fairly significantly this quarter.
Is that more reflective of additional backlog and closings in the quarter or does that have to do more with future community count and...
I think most of that is a result of the Cross Creek sale.
So it was a large sale that took place in the second quarter so we also had to roll out the capitalized interest with it at the same time.
So that's more of an aberration of the size of that sale more than anything else.
So Josh the rollout occurs as we have closings not as we have sales.
And you made the comment about backlog and just to be clear it happens as we roll out as we have closings.
So over time as closings go up you'd see that number move.
Well I would like to thank everyone for your attendance today and for your continued interest in Weyerhaeuser Company.
If you have any further questions following today's call I encourage you to follow-up with Kathy McAuley.
And I thank you all for joining us this morning.
Have a good summer.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Marlee and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to the call over to Ms.
Kathy McAuley Vice President Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin your conference.
Thank you Marlee.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us on Weyerhaeuser's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
The earnings release analyst package and web slides for this call can be found at our website or by contacting April Meier at (253) 924-2937.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during this conference call.
Joining me this morning are Dan Fulton President and Chief Executive Officer; and Patty Bedient Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
As summarized on Chart 1 Weyerhaeuser reported third quarter 2012 net earnings of $117 million or $0.22 per diluted share.
That was our net sale of $1.8 billion.
There were no special items in this quarter.
Turning to our business segments.
My comments reviewing the third quarter of 2012 refer to changes from the second quarter of 2012.
Beginning with Timberlands Charts 3 and 4.
Timberlands contributed $80 million to pretax earnings $3 million more than in Q2.
Revenues from Timberlands exchanges were $24 million in the quarter an increase of $17 million.
In the West log prices declined approximately $5 per cubic meter.
Domestic log prices decreased due to an abundant supply of farmer wood.
Export log prices were up slightly due to mix.
Dry conditions and fire danger in the West resulted in a 3% reduction in fee harvest volumes.
Road costs in the West were seasonally higher.
In the South log prices increased 2% third-party log volumes rose 6% and the fee harvest was slightly higher.
Silviculture costs in the South were slightly lower as planting was deferred into dry weather conditions.
Wood Products Charts 5 and 6.
Wood Products contributed $59 million to pretax earnings in Q3 $29 million more than in Q2.
Price realizations increased across nearly all product lines as product supply channels remained lean.
OSB prices increased $54 per thousand square feet or 25% and lumber prices rose $9 per thousand board feet or 3%.
Sales volumes for engineered wood products increased 8%.
Sales volumes for lumber declined slightly as southern lumber mills took downtime in response to slightly weaker market conditions around the 4th of July holiday.
Lumber mills operated at over an 80% rate in the quarter.
OSB mills took downtime for scheduled maintenance resulting in lower sales volumes.
The operating rate for OSB was 85%.
Cellulose Fibers Charts 7 and 8.
Sale of fibers contributed $78 million to pretax earnings $42 million more than in Q2.
During the third quarter this segment had a strong performance.
Pulp production increased 9% and maintenance costs were lower.
In Q3 there was only one scheduled maintenance outage of 13 days.
In Q2 there were 2 annual maintenance outages resulting in 27 days of mill downtime.
Pulp sales volumes increased 2%.
Pulp price realizations were flat.
Real Estate Charts 9 and 10.
Real Estate contributed $17 million to pretax earnings and had no significant income from land and lot sales.
Second quarter pretax earnings of $15 million included $12 million of land and lot sales.
In Q3 single-family home closings increased 21% to 615 homes from 508 homes in Q2.
Home closings were up 21% of the same quarter last year.
Although the average home closing price was $372 000 this was nearly flat with 2 -- with second quarter.
Margins went up in most geographies with the largest increase in San Diego.
Gross margins in Q3 were 24.3% up from 19.5% in the previous quarter.
The backlog at the end of the quarter was 1 055 homes.
Real Estate controls approximately 27 000 lots in our primary markets.
In addition we control 67 000 lots mostly under options in a large master plan community in Nevada where development and construction is on hold pending improvement in the local market.
Unallocated Items Chart 11.
The foreign exchange gain of $11 million in Q3 was due to the strengthening of the Canadian dollar.
The swing from Q2 was $19 million.
Offsetting this was a charge of $10 million for the elimination of intersegment profit in inventory and LIFO.
As we discussed last quarter this item was formerly reported at the segment level and is now recorded in unallocated items.
The charge for share-based compensation increased in Q3 as the price of Weyerhaeuser stock appreciated.
The increase in share-based compensation largely accounts for the increase in SG&amp;A.
Now I will turn the call over to Dan Fulton.
Dan? Thanks Kathy and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
I'll start by saying that I'm pleased with our strong quarterly performance.
As Kathy noted we earned $117 million during the quarter.
Comparing this quarter's earnings with our second quarter earnings before special items we had a quarter-over-quarter increase of $70 million with each of our core business segments showing gains.
The rise in our earnings was a result of ongoing business improvement initiatives coupled with increasing strength of U.S.
housing which allowed us to capitalize on the full value of the company.
Before I offer some brief comments on the performance of each of our business segments I'll provide a macroeconomic context for our quarter.
First the housing market.
On last quarter's call I noted that the long-awaited housing recovery looks and feels real.
After another solid quarter all indicators point to continued steady improvement.
Recent September housing starts data shows a seasonally adjusted level of 745 000 for the year confirming what we're seeing on the ground in the marketplace.
In addition to increased construction activity we now have the latest release of the widely reported Case Schiller numbers which are a bit of a lagging indicator.
These numbers show broad modest increases in pricing across most major markets.
Price increases helped build consumer confidence which then begins to move more potential homebuyers off the sidelines.
While today's construction levels are still low by historic standards all forecasts point to continued recovery in 2013 as we begin to return the long-term trend levels that are needed to house a growing number of U.S.
households.
Since World War II housing has normally led the way out of our cyclical recessions but as economist Rogoff and Reinhart suggest this time is different.
In this recovery the broader economy began to improve earlier in the cycle and we enjoy the benefit of improving global markets over the past couple of years in our Cellulose Fibers business.
This time however it's Housing that has been lagging.
Ironically it now seems that the broader economy has hit a soft patch perhaps in response to trouble in Europe and slower growth in China.
Housing is at last beginning to play its historic role in putting people back to work.
There are plenty of reasons to feel cautious about the pace of the housing recovery including election year uncertainty and the year end fiscal cliff.
Additionally high oil prices affect our cost directly in the form of diesel fuel resins and glues and freight costs.
And high gas prices affect consumers especially homebuyers in California.
Nevertheless our quarterly results show that we're improving our performance in this uncertain environment.
With respect to global economic conditions over 1/3 of our revenues come from exports of products from our Cellulose Fibers Timberlands and Wood Products segments.
Slower growth in the Eurozone and China affects demand for our products in these markets.
Demand is also affected by supply from global competitors adjusting to changing levels of regional demand.
I'll discuss specific factors as I review results for our business segments.
Now I'll comment on the performance of each of our businesses in the third quarter.
In Timberlands we had a solid quarter with earnings increasing slightly as a result of increased profits from dispositions.
Export sales of logs from our strategically located Western lands are a competitive strength of Weyerhaeuser and they're an important component of our earnings.
During the past quarter demand from Japan which is our largest export market remained stable.
Quarterly volume was down slightly due to the timing of ship departures.
These shipments will be included in the fourth quarter results.
Over the past few quarters we've commented on the slowdown of log exports to China but noted that we expected some pickup in Chinese demand towards the end of the year.
Our effectiveness in building longer-term reliable relationships with direct customers together with some correction of temporary oversupply resulted in a 9% increase in our shipments to China during the quarter.
This increase helped to offset the slight decline in volume to Japan which will be reversed in the fourth quarter.
In Wood Products we again delivered strong year-over-year results and quarter-over-quarter results.
Sales realizations increased for most products as a result of improved commodity prices as well as a higher value product mix.
The segment also benefited from the effective execution of performance improvement initiatives.
The result earnings nearly doubled compared with the second quarter despite slightly lower volumes for lumber and OSB.
Excluding special items our $92 million in EBITDA for the quarter was up $102 million from the third quarter of 2011 and year-to-date we're up $195 million demonstrating the operating leverage that we have with our large scale and all product lines especially lumber and OSB.
Improvement year-to-date is a result of better market conditions but also from deliberate across-the-board initiatives that we've undertaken to improve our performance.
In total these initiatives have contributed to more than half of our year-over-year bottom line gain.
Examples of these broad improvement initiatives include revenue gains from targeted price increases for both commodity as well as value added products volume growth from an expanded presence in the repair and remodel market reduced manufacturing costs from higher operating rates and greater manufacturing reliability and lower raw materials cost due to improved log recovery reduced purchase of outside veneer and reduced use in cost of wax and resin additives.
We still have further opportunity to improve our performance but we're pleased with our progress.
Moving to WRECO as Kathy noted earnings increased slightly from the second quarter results as home closings rose 21% due to steady market improvement as well as seasonal activity.
This quarter we had no significant land sales compared to the second quarter when we sold our Cross Creek Ranch master plan community in Houston.
Sales continued to show the strength of the housing recovery as quarterly sales increased 45% compared with last year.
Year-to-date total sales were 40% greater than last year and they're up in every one of our markets.
This sales activity led to a 74% increase in our backlog compared with last year.
The national housing market continues to improve in a measured pace tracking job growth and a steady decline in both new and resale home inventory.
Real Estate is still local [ph] however and the pace of recovery differs among our regional markets.
In the quarter our most improved market was the Inland Empire of California where sales doubled from the second quarter and tripled from one year ago as we tap the market opportunity with attractive newly designed homes for more price-sensitive buyers.
Sales in the Washington DC market which typically are slow in the summer months showed surprising strength compared with last year.
This improvement included sales of affordable homes which are required as part of our development entitlements in this region.
Year-to-date our most improved markets are Arizona Las Vegas and California's Inland Empire followed by solid gains in the Puget Sound region Washington D.C.
and San Diego.
The L.A.
Ventura market is beginning to show signs of slow recovery and Houston which has been a solid market during the downturn has maintained steady volume this year.
My final business comments relate to our Cellulose Fibers segment.
Our Cellulose Fibers segment earnings increased significantly as a result of less plant maintenance downtime and higher productivity.
This improvement came despite challenging global market conditions.
Price realizations were approximately flat holding better than commodity grade index prices which declined during the quarter.
With approximately 2/3 of our Cellulose Fibers sales coming from exports foreign exchange rates can affect our results.
During the quarter the Canadian dollar rose slightly while the euro strengthened late in the quarter in response to new Eurozone policy measures.
Both changes should help the relative competitiveness of our Cellulose Fibers segment.
We continue our dual focus of continuous improvement in our manufacturing and marketing while also developing innovative new products.
Innovation over time will provide margin uplift and allow us to continue to grow with global customers.
Construction is nearing completion at our new modified fiber manufacturing plant in Gdansk Poland.
Product qualification is set to begin by year end and we should begin to deliver product by midyear 2013.
Our newest announced product is THRIVE a proprietary form of thermaplastic composite using a sustainably sourced cellulose fiber from our pulp mills as a reinforcement additive.
The product will initially be used in automotive parts and household goods.
This green polymer product will help manufacturers of auto parts improve performance characteristics and cost compared to their existing petroleum-based parts.
This will not have a significant near-term financial effect for us.
It's an example of our success in developing innovative new products from cellulose in this case for new customers starting with 4 today with global potential in the future.
Before turning to Patty for comments about our fourth quarter outlook as well as financial highlights I will talk about our recent decision to increase our dividend by 13% from $0.15 per quarter to $0.17.
When we converted to a REIT in 2010 we stated that our objective was to set an attractive dividend that would be both sustainable and could grow over time.
In setting our initial post-conversion dividend level we wanted to strike the right balance considering our overall economic outlook our outlook for near-term company performance our targeted capital structure and the affordability of our targeted dividend.
On last quarter's call in response to a question I said that we would set our dividend not looking back but looking forward considering our future earnings potential as well as our view of market conditions.
Although we remained cautious about the pace of recovery in the U.S.
and global economies our board was pleased to take action at this time to increase our dividend.
This decision was based upon the clear results of operational improvements to enhance performance within each of our businesses that are evident in our report this morning and are confident that housing fundamentals are improving.
And now I'll turn the call over to Patty to discuss our fourth quarter outlook as well as provide financial highlights.
Thanks Dan and good morning everybody.
Notwithstanding the uncertainty in the overall economy we are pleased that nearly one month into the fourth quarter we continued to see the sustained signs of an improving housing market.
Our outlook for the fourth quarter is summarized on Chart 12 and I'll begin my comments with Timberlands.
In the West domestic log prices are anticipated to be slightly higher on volumes comparable to Q3.
Export volumes to Japan our highest margin log remain strong and are expected to increase in the fourth quarter.
Housing markets in Japan have been stronger this year driven by a combination of historically low mortgage rates planned increases in consumption taxes in later years and some rebuilding and repair activities from last year's tsunami.
The weak euro continues to create heavy price competition from European laminated lumber.
Demand and prices for our logs to China are expected to increase moderately with improvement in both residential and commercial construction activity.
In the South realizations for logs are expected to be slightly lower due to a smaller piece [ph] size with a heavier mix to chips and fiber.
Fee volume is likely to be slightly higher seasonally.
We will see significantly increased costs mainly due to the timing of silviculture treatments.
Nonstrategic land sales are expected to be flat to Q3.
Overall we expect earnings in our Timberlands segment to be comparable to the third quarter.
In Wood Products the fourth quarter is traditionally one of the weakest earnings quarters of the year due to seasonality.
While we do not -- while we do expect to see some softening as we progress through the quarter to date prices and volumes have been unusually strong for this time of year across most product lines.
We will likely have reduced volumes later in the quarter and we will continue to match supply with demand.
We continue to focus on driving operational improvements across the system and we will take the opportunity with the slower holiday season to complete some minor maintenance in capital projects.
We expect to be solidly profitable in the fourth quarter but well below third quarter levels.
Moving on to Cellulose Fibers.
In the fourth quarter we expect sales realizations for pulp to decline primarily due to softening in the fluff market which lagged the decline in NBSK.
Global softwood inventories are in the normal range but uncertainty in the global economy still exists.
Sales volumes are expected to increase somewhat compared to the third quarter.
Our final planned outage for the year was completed earlier this month with downtime of about 6 days compared with maintenance downtime in the third quarter of 13 days.
As a result of fewer maintenance days maintenance expense will be lower.
Energy costs will likely be somewhat higher as a result of lower electricity sales and somewhat seasonally higher natural gas usage.
We expect that earnings in our Cellulose Fibers segment for the fourth quarter will be comparable to the third quarter.
In our Real Estate segment we anticipate home closings to increase to just over 800 compared to 615 in Q3.
The mix of closings in the fourth quarter will include fewer closings from certain high-margin communities in San Diego and increased volume of affordable homes with low margins due to regulated sales prices.
As a result although our homebuilding activity continues to be strong we will likely see margins drop to below 20% in the fourth quarter.
The increased closing volume will also result in higher selling-related expenses.
We expect that earnings from our single-family homebuilding activity will be slightly lower in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter.
And it is possible that the fourth quarter could have some land sales although the amount and the timing is difficult to predict.
There was no significant land sale activity in Q3.
Now I'll wrap up with some overall financial comments.
Through the third quarter capital spending for Weyerhaeuser Company totaled approximately $219 million.
We still expect total spending for the year which includes reforestation to be around $290 million.
We ended the quarter with cash of $608 million.
Major uses of cash during the quarter included debt maturities of approximately $181 million and a $97 million payment on a note related to a timber monetization for timber that was sold in 2002.
During the fourth quarter we expect to receive about $110 million when the related financial investment matures.
Cash received for stock option exercises during the quarter was approximately $66 million driven by the higher stock price.
Our dividend payout in the fourth quarter will increase to approximately $92 million reflecting the increase in the quarterly per share dividend to $0.17 as Dan has already discussed.
We have no further debt maturities this year and we expect working capital balances to decline seasonally by year end however not to the levels of last year end given our stronger wood products markets.
With that I'll turn the call back to Dan and I look forward to your questions.
Thanks Patty.
Quarterly results from all of our business segments demonstrate the operating leverage that we have to a recovering housing sector as well as operational improvements in each of our businesses that are increasing our competitiveness.
We will continue to focus on what we can control improving our operating performance and our relative competitiveness being prepared to take full advantage of the quality of our assets the strong relationships with our customers and suppliers and the commitment of our dedicated employees.
And now we welcome your questions and comments.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I got a question on cost.
You've done a good job of containing SG&amp;A over the past year.
But as we look forward to 2013 there's a possibility you could be growing revenue maybe in the double digits.
You should be seeing volume recovery in most of your businesses.
Can you talk about how you think about SG&amp;A targets in that environment? And then in terms of working capital requirements as you ramp up volumes what are the working capital needs and maybe the incremental capital spending that's going to be tied up as we move closer to a million starts next year or the following year? Let me first talk about -- address your question on SG&amp;A.
We've made a tremendous amount of progress on bringing down our overhead expenses over the last 3- to 4-year period and our journey is not done.
We continue to look for opportunities to continue to ratchet down our G&amp;A.
However we are now shifting to a period where we expect to be growing because of the pickup in housing and the need to be restaffing in certain locations.
A lot of the restaffing is not reflected in G&amp;A it's cost of sales headcount.
So we continue to be focused on managing our G&amp;A and keeping the gains that we've made during this downturn.
We would expect selling cost to be increasing coincident with the pickup in sales because fundamentally most of our selling costs are tied to revenues.
And we would expect selling-related expenses to be increasing as we begin to recover.
As we think about working capital Patty commented that we shouldn't expect the same level of working capital at the end of this year in our Wood Products business as we had last year because we are selling more material and we are manufacturing product not just to maintain our current level of business but as I mentioned in my remarks we are increasing sales in certain channels.
And so there will be some additional working capital related to increased sales activities as we go into 2013 and as we continue to expect housing starts to recover.
We would expect the same thing to be showing up in our WRECO business throughout 2013 because we expect our volume to be increasing coincident with the pickup in housing.
Maybe the one thing that I would add and you saw that in this quarter as Kathy commented where G&amp;A will go up to the extent that it -- the stock price impacts the variable compensation in terms of marking our share price to market.
So I look forward to that part of the G&amp;A going up but as Dan said we'll continue to stay very focused on holding on to the G&amp;A gains and really increasing that through productivity and some of the activities that we have underway.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then maybe just shifting gears to Chinese log demand.
You referenced expectations for improved log prices on Chinese homebuilding activity.
I'm just wondering can you tell us what you're seeing in October and is that something that you're really seeing now? Is there sort of an expectation for an improvement towards the year end? Or can you just give us any kind of color on what you're seeing now? Well we saw some pickup in our export activity in the third quarter probably a little bit better than we might have imagined.
We had been anticipating some market recovery towards the end of the year.
We were able to capitalize on better conditions in the third quarter and we would expect that to continue through the fourth quarter and into next year.
Some of that as I said is related to working down inventory generally in China but also us continuing to capitalize on the relationships that we have developed with our Chinese customers.
There was a slowdown in construction in China that now seems to be reversing itself a bit.
Remember that we're not selling structural grade material into China for wood frame housing.
The wood that's going to China is used in construction for primarily forms as well as other industrial uses.
But I think we're seeing the benefits of the predictability of our logistics the quality of our logs.
And so we expect that we continue to take advantage of the opportunity in China recognizing once again that our largest market is Japan where our export volume for logs.
But Anthony to your question what we're seeing for China now we are having -- and they are moderate increases small but we are seeing the pricing picking up on our China.
And as Dan talked about we really go through very established customer relationships.
So it may be a little different than what you're seeing in the broader industry.
Your next question comes from Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> So 2 things.
I mean everything you've said about housing is right and bullish and I think we all feel pretty good about it.
Was the increase in the cancellation rate anything special or is there something we should be watching for there? And then a second question I know I've sort of asked of this question before.
As I talk to Southern landowners they tell me that rotations are changing dramatically just by default.
Is your system not seeing that just because it's so big? With respect to cancellation rates I think they've been extraordinarily low for the last several quarters and I think Mark what we're seeing is a return to perhaps a little bit more normal situation.
The primary reason today for cancellations is the channel and [indiscernible] qualification which is still a difficult process for most home buyers.
And so there is some level of discouragement that leads some to drop out but I -- I don't view the uptick in cancellation rate to be troubling.
In fact there's a very low level of finished inventory in the market for new homes and the inventory levels of these sales have come down pretty dramatically.
So there's a shortage of product out there and that causes me to feel relatively comfortable.
Southern log rotations we're not seeing any significant changes in our system.
Your next question comes from Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Dan again I appreciate the increased data and kind of visibility inside Weyerhaeuser we continue to get from you guys.
I did wonder today can you give us any color on the non-strategic timber sale in the quarter just in terms of location acreage and values that you're seeing out there? Mark this is Patty.
Actually it's not just one there's a number of ones that we have that are small in size.
Most of the activity that took place this quarter I believe was primarily in the South.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you have an expectation Patty for what we will see over the next 12 to 24 months in terms of aggregate levels of nonstrategic sales? Well Mark it's difficult to know.
As you know those sales are lumpy.
I wouldn't see a significant pickup in the amount of acreage that we would bring to market from a sale perspective only because we've really optimized the portfolio.
So in terms of additional non-strategic assets as you know we sold a fair amount over the past.
In terms of things that might come on the market I think we are seeing some pickup from the industry broadly but difficult to know exactly what will happen over the next 12 to 15 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could you talk a minute  -- at WRECO what you're doing vis--vis lots and lots of options at this point? Yes I mean we always approach the WRECO markets differentially Mark as we've explained in the past.
It's really a function of what the entitlement risks are in each market.
We are always active in the market.
We have a strong pipeline of lots at various stages.
And so we're confident that we've got lot availability that we can see for an increase in activity in 2013.
As we look out towards 2014 our plans are in place to be sure that we've got the improvements going in so that we'll have finished lots for those timeframes.
We also have lots I think as we discussed before that where we have the ability to sell to other builders at the right time and the right place and we've got the optionality in our portfolio to either build homes on those lots or to sell them to others if that happens to be an advantageous strategy.
The lot market is tightening up in most major metro areas especially finished lots.
So the industry is working through a lot of the lots that had been developed prior to the turndown in the cycle.
Now we're back into a mode of having to put in infrastructure improvements to complete new lots.
And so that is causing some escalation in prices in most markets.
Your next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
The thing that stood out and I know we're not back to normal times and who knows what normal will be.
But when you go back in the past it seems like you all had usually a rush of closings in the fourth quarter in Real Estate that really took the number up a lot.
And again knowing we're just on the turn I can see why it might be premature.
But is there anything else going on in that might make the pattern seasonally be different as we go through the next few years as housing I assume continues to recover as that happens? Or will we -- at some point -- or is this an unusual year that the fourth quarter is not really moving up a lot? Well our fourth quarter closing estimate is increasing and that is typical with the seasonality that you observed in the past.
I think that's typical not just for us but for other builders.
And so we have actually a fairly significant increase in closings that are projected.
As Patty pointed out the margins will not be as great as what they were in the third quarter.
And so that's a quarter-over-quarter comparison that's important to recognize.
Q3 margins were higher than normal because of a mix that was heavier to San Diego especially some projects in San Diego where we were closing out subdivisions and had very high margins.
As we move to the fourth quarter the shift of mix moves away from San Diego to more affordable markets where margins are lower and is further affected by the fact that we have a significant number of closings that we're projecting out of our Winchester operation in the Washington D.C.
Metro area where they will be delivering some affordable homes that are required as part of the entitlement process in Maryland and Virginia.
And so those are very low margin homes that are part of an overall subdivision development.
Those affordability requirements are imposed on developers in projects that are roughly 50 lots or more.
And so what you're seeing really is a quarter-over-quarter comparison that is a mix shift and it accentuates those differences.
But we still expect an increase in activity in the fourth quarter foreclosings.
What is noteworthy this quarter as we look at the fourth quarter I think as Patty noted normally we'd have more slowdown in the Wood Products business.
And what we're seeing is pricing hanging in there a little bit longer than what might be normal and I think that's related to construction activity not for homes that will be delivered this fourth quarter but early next year.
So Chip just to give you some numbers on the closings if you went back last year in the third quarter we were at 508 and we went to 582 in the fourth quarter.
This quarter the third quarter we were at 615 and we'll be over 800 in the fourth quarter for this particular quarter.
Got you.
And that's very helpful with the mix.
It sounds like it's unusual.
I just want a quick follow-up.
I'm looking at your guidance for Wood Products and we always -- as we all know have to take it with a grain of salt given the volatility although there are lags.
It just seems to me that you are taking a quite cautious view especially given that in the last week or 2 we've seen a rise in the price of both lumber and OSB at least in the trade press.
And now we've got this hurricane which of course you guys don't have to worry about out there that is about to visit us here on the East Coast.
And so I mean are you taking a large dose of the normal seasonality in putting that into your guidance? And -- or do you actually think this is -- that no which -- are you being conservative? I think it's a fair statement Chip that our overall guidance is conservative.
As you appropriately pointed out volatility for pricing in both of those commodities has been a pleasant surprise both in the third quarter.
And as I said in my opening comments to date in the month of October we've been pleasantly surprised with the strength of pricing.
Just to give you maybe some way to gauge that a little bit in lumber every $10 of movement in price for us in this quarter it will be about $3 million per month given the volumes that we're projecting for the fourth quarter.
And in OSB every $10 is $2 million a month.
So those earnings move pretty dramatically with price increases.
So if these price increases hold we will be above the guidance that we gave you for the fourth quarter and I think you know this.
The nice thing about Wood Products is you do get some visibility as we go through the quarter in terms of what's happening out in the market given the printed publications that come out.
But we're pulling for higher pricing in both of those.
And I would be very pleased later in the quarter to be reporting that our guidance for the fourth quarter was higher than what we're talking about today.
Two final comments on that question Chip.
When the new housing start numbers were announced last week that did cause some increase in activity among our customers because our customers are running with very thin supply inventory levels and they would normally be managing inventory levels down at year end.
And so good news with starts causes the channel to react relatively quickly especially with limited amount of product in the channel.
And then finally we do care about the hurricane.
That will potentially affect our manufacturing business in our woods on the East Coast as well as overall market conditions for our customers and so we're concerned about that just as much as you are.
Your next question comes from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One on WRECO to beat that perhaps into the ground and one on Cellulose Fibers.
The closing that you're projecting for fourth quarter are actually pretty normal relative to your backlog if you look over history.
And certainly you've talked about mix and the fact you have more affordable housing being produced this -- or closed this quarter.
Yet traditionally then the fourth quarter from an EBITDA dollar standpoint and operating profit dollar standpoint has been in fact larger than the prior quarters.
Should we now assume that this change in mix is something that we should expect for future periods? Are there any implications from this or is this really just a one-off factor? And when you're talking about mix could you relate at all what the selling price changes were on what closed this quarter within your regions? On Cellulose Fibers my question is have there been any positive or negative implication thus far in terms of your demand from some of the outages that we've heard about on superabsorbents relative to that Japanese factory explosion? So George I'll answer it in the order that you asked them.
With respect to the fourth quarter it is a mix issue especially relative to Q3 and it includes these affordable units.
And the issue on the affordable units is that there's a different rhythm to them.
So in our Winchester operation which is where these sales are coming from they are normally a pre-seller of homes.
So they take an order and then they build the house and deliver it.
With these affordable units they are attached they're part of a larger project.
We build them and then when they are close to completion we turn really the sales process over to the community entity that handles these affordable units.
And so it's a larger number of deliveries all at one time.
And so when you have low margins in a large group of homes it will tend to drag down the overall mix.
That's not something that I would expect over time but there is some lumpiness to the way those affordable units are delivered.
We are also seeing an increase in closings that tracks the sales that we've had earlier in the year in some of our lower-priced markets and so that is also affecting margin.
As we look at cash flow the increased activity in closings will generate more cash flow even if margins are down a bit because fundamentally we're recovering all of our costs including the land cost that's invested in those slots.
With respect to the question on the SAP...
Maybe before you go there Dan in terms of the EBITDA quarter-over-quarter fourth quarter last year to this year the other thing that impacts that George I think you referenced that the average closing price itself.
And you can see that delineated somewhat on Chart 10 that's in the packet.
You can see the average closing price at the end of last year's fourth quarter was almost $400 000 this year it's $372 000.
Right below that graph you can see the average sale price which came down through the end of last year and the beginning of this year but now it's trending back up again.
So it's a combination of those 2.
Research Division</strong> Patty that's mix.
So I mean would you say that all your markets are seeing increases in selling prices even if the mix itself has changed the average price that you're reporting? We are seeing some.
It's not a huge significant amount.
We certainly will look forward to seeing more as housing recovery is greater but...
We did see a pickup in the quarter in September.
So if we look at our -- September numbers are different than the quarterly numbers but the September numbers prices were up I think in every single one of our markets.
Question on the SAP outage in Japan that did lead to some activity with some of our customers who are trying to replace the amount of production.
I think that plant produces about 20% of that product worldwide.
And so our key customers contacted us and we've been taking some of their needs in order to fill the gap that they'll experience with that outage.
Your next question comes from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Well with the housing momentum gaining the -- with the housing momentum improving especially with the housing starts number that we saw a couple of weeks ago which I think was a lot better than people's expectations as you look at your Wood Products manufacturing footprint is there any capacity that right now isn't running that you think you will be bringing back into 2013? We're operating all of our lumber manufacturing facilities today.
We're operating all of our OSB facilities.
They have -- they are not running 100%.
So they have some capacity potential.
In our engineered wood products facility we still have some mothballed facilities.
The operating rate in our engineered manufacturing operations is lower than it is with OSB and lumber and so we have the ability to ramp up production in order to meet demand in the near-term.
And we have no announcements at this point nor we have made any decisions about when to bring back shutter capacity.
Research Division</strong> Okay understand that.
And then as you're going to go through your budgeting process for next year would you be able to share what housing starts number or a relevant range for housing starts number that you would expect PTUs [ph] as you think about budgeting within the Wood Products business next year? We will share that on our next call at the beginning of the year.
So we're tracking a number of outside forecast.
The ranges today for 2013 from third-party forecasters that we track range from about $900 000 up to as high as $1.2 million.
We'll have a better handle on that at year end and then we will share with you what we are using for planning purposes and that will help you calibrate perhaps what we're expecting to be delivering in our Wood Products business our Timber business and homebuilding.
Your next question comes from Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about Southern sawlog markets.
So we've seen a reasonable pickup in housing activity wood product prices are up but it doesn't seem like there's much traction in terms of log prices.
I'm just wondering what do you think is holding that back and what it will take to start to see a pickup in turn there? I think it will be consistent steady demand.
And we would expect some pickup in response to increased activity.
It continues to be a regional market Gail as you know and so it starts pickup generally.
There's opportunities in the marketplace to manufacture more in certainly our Wood Products facilities as well as third parties.
And I just think it's going to be continued uptick in demand that will tension the market then you should start to see some movement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of homebuilding activity when you look at kind of the sales activity that you're seeing is the mix of business what you would expect to be normal aside from the affordable housing issues that you're having in the fourth quarter? But I mean are you seeing kind of the new homebuyers versus the mix you'd expect of new homebuyers versus move-up buyers et cetera that you would be expect in kind of a more normal housing market? We are.
I mean we sell to a broad range of customers.
The activity that I talked about this morning in the Inland Empire has been reassuring for us because that market has been very slow and so we've seen a steady increase in activity and I think we found a sweet spot in terms of price and product for that market.
So that's a first-time buyer product.
In some of our other markets we've seen move-up activity being stronger.
Las Vegas is a market where we've had some real success in move-up housing.
So I would say it varies by market.
We're not seeing any noticeable long-term shifts in demand in terms of the kinds of homes and the kinds of features.
We're all focused on affordability and we're focused on getting homebuyers confident again to go back into the marketplace.
And so we're starting to see that activity and each of our local markets are responding with new product that meets the needs of today's buyer.
Not seeing any significant long-term shifts at this point.
Your next question comes from Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Do you have a sense yet as to what your pension expense might be looking if rates discount rates stay roughly where they are for next year versus this year? Mark we'll be going through those calculations here shortly.
We really haven't finished that work up yet so I really don't have anything to share at this point but we will be going through that on our fourth quarter call.
Okay.
If I could add one more.
Do you -- I know last year you had a pretty big increase in the amortization of actuarial loss that went up by I think about $70 million.
Does that stabilize this year or does that also go up again this year? I have not gone through that computation so I would just be speculating sorry.
Okay.
And then real quick so the lumber panels you mentioned you're operating at kind of 80% 85% if I caught you right.
Yes.
Okay.
The types of housing starts increased particularly the upper end that some of the forecasters are talking about would potentially imply that quite frankly you would struggle to meet all the demand and maintain market share.
Am I missing something there? And what can you do? Is there flex in your system now where you can meet that higher demand if need be fairly quickly? We have flex in our lumber business because we have the ability to add hours and ultimately if demand is sustained to add some shifts.
And then there is -- we have continued to make improvements in the productivity in the throughput in the mills that we do have.
Our OSB mills have some flex capacity as we ramp up.
And what we'll do is focus on serving the markets where we optimize our margin with longer-term relationships and we optimize our strategic advantages.
So I would say we're looking forward to the opportunity to challenge ourselves Mark with that increased activity.
Yes especially as we look at our lumber system Mark we do have the ability to do some debottlenecking across the system as the demand picks up.
So we're looking at the ability to do that first with noncapital solutions and then obviously to the extent that there are other capital things that would give us some additional capacity that we have in front of us we'll be looking at doing that as well.
Your next question comes from Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering I actually missed your discussion of how many lots you had.
I think you said 27 000 within WRECO and you had a big position in Nevada which I missed.
Yes so what we said was that we have control of about 27 000 lots in our primary markets.
Those are lots that are intended for our own homebuilding operations as well as for sale to other builders.
Of those lots roughly 80% are owned and 13% are optioned.
And then additionally we control about 67 000 lots in a large master plan in Nevada.
And that is a project that -- where we put the development and construction on hold depending on improvement in local market conditions.
The majority of those lots are held under a long-term option and the value of that particular property is based upon its development rights and in particular its water rights.
When you look at our lot position we have always sold some portion to third-party builders.
And what that gives us is a tremendous amount of optionality because we can choose to shift the mix between what we build and what we sell.
So in general about 25% of the lots that we control have been targeted for sale to the third parties but we do had the ability to shift that mix depending upon opportunities in the marketplace.
The length of our lot type line varies by market based upon local entitlement conditions.
So we have a much longer position in a place like California where entitlements are very difficult and a short position in a market like Houston which has no zoning and one can go through the process relatively quickly.
And in some markets we are developing the majority of our own lots and others.
We continue to purchase lots from third-party land developers.
Research Division</strong> So the 27 000 are those basically shovel-ready? And how would that compare to your target inventory in a normal housing environment? They are not all shovel-ready but they are -- we control them and we have some level of entitlements.
And what we do is we manage the development of these properties so that we're not investing in a lot of infrastructure earlier than we need to.
So we're comfortable with the position that we've got.
As the market picks up we will continue to perhaps move the location of the lots around and the investment in lots but that's an ongoing process based upon local demand and local opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Could you just remind me the time lag between when a home is sold and closed? Well that varies.
So in some cases we have finished homes.
Houston is a market for example where we historically have built homes on a speculative basis because there is a large group of buyers in Houston that are relocating there primarily in the energy business.
And when they come to town they need to buy a house.
And so that house needs to be ready to move in in probably a couple of months.
If it's a completed home and if we sign a contract in today's market it's likely 60 days to go through that processing for a mortgage.
And then the other extreme would be a pre-sale which we do in most of our markets where we have a model complex a buyer comes in they sign a contract and then we build the house and the construction timeframe can run from say 90 days to 6 months depending upon the complexity of the house and the finish and ultimate price range and then you'd add the closing timeframe to that.
So if it's a pre-sale the homebuyer's going through the mortgage qualification process while the home is being built.
Your next question comes from Joshua Barber with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Again sorry to beat the homebuilding issue to death but just one quick question there.
Can you tell us what your community count is on the WRECO side and how that's changed over this year and also on that where you envision that going I guess in 2013? The community count for WRECO is down just a bit this year.
And so what is happening in the homebuilding business at all times is you're continuing to open new communities you're closing out new communities.
Total community count today for us is 66 and we would expect that to be increasing next year.
One of the things that we have focused on especially over the last 2- to 3-year period is the sales per community.
So we have focused on increasing the effectiveness and the productivity of every one of our communities to the point that today I think based upon our data we've got the highest number of closings per community of any public builder.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing credit trends among new homebuyers today or existing homebuyers are using that going down the credit curve so to speak or is it still mostly in people with very high FICO scores people that could get mortgages much easier? Are you starting to see some thawing of credit? Still very high FICO scores.
Mortgage qualification process is challenging.
We're still waiting for a definition of qualified residential mortgage through the consumer product protection bureau and also coming out of Dodd-Frank.
That's an issue that needs to be addressed in the industry.
Right now the initial proposals continue to be for a 20% down payment.
I think that's too difficult.
And there needs to be some moderation and the pendulum swung very far to tightening credit and I think that longer term we need to see some moderation in that process.
Your final question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions on Wood Products.
You obviously saw OSB prices jump in the 2012 here and they seem to remain high.
How do you see about the -- what do you think about the sustainability of that market? And then also on lumber although it's come up we're still below long-term averages.
Just your future sort of view on that pricing dynamic as well? I'll take lumber first Paul.
I mean we take the long view on lumber and look at total projected North American starts both U.S.
and Canada.
And we look at the relationship that we have with lumber that has historically come from Canada.
We would expect demand to be increasing as the market recovers and we would expect a healthy environment for lumber.
I can't project future prices.
With respect to OSB the market has been tight.
Most operators are producing at relatively high levels.
As I mentioned earlier when the new starts number came out last week it was evident that the supply channel was pretty thin.
And so I think that's what's been helping OSB prices and we would expect that -- we've got a long way to go in this recovery.
As I mentioned today's levels are still very very low compared to historic starts numbers and long-term trend numbers and so we're bullish on the long term.
Okay.
Well thank you for all of your questions.
We appreciate you joining us this morning on the call.
We especially appreciate your continued interest in Weyerhaeuser Company.
If you have further questions following today's call I encourage you to follow up directly with Kathy McAuley and I thank you all for joining us this morning.
Thank you and have a good day.
Thank you for your participation.
This concludes today's conference call and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser Q4 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And I'd like to turn the call over to your host Kathryn McAuley Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ma'am please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us on Weyerhaeuser's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
The earnings release analyst package and web slides for this call can be found at our website or by contacting April Meier at (253) 924-2937.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during this conference call.
Joining me this morning are Dan Fulton President and Chief Executive Officer; and Patty Bedient Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
As summarized on Chart 1 Weyerhaeuser reported fourth quarter 2012 net earnings of $143 million or $0.26 per diluted share and net sales of $2 billion.
For the full year of 2012 Weyerhaeuser reported net earnings of $385 million or $0.71 per diluted share on net sales of $7.1 billion.
Turning to our business segments.
My comments reviewing the fourth quarter 2012 refer to changes from the third quarter of 2012.
Beginning with Timberlands Charts 2 and 3.
Timberlands contributed $95 million to pretax earnings $15 million more than in Q3.
Earnings from nonstrategic land dispositions were $20 million a decrease of $5 million.
In the West log price realizations increased 8% and volumes rose 5% driven by strong export in domestic demand.
Southern log price realizations increased 3% and volumes rose 9% as log demand began to tighten.
Fee harvest volumes were 13% higher in the South and 5% higher in the West.
These increases were due to seasonal factors and market demand.
Wood Products Charts 4 and 5.
Wood Products contributed $38 million to pretax earnings in Q4 $21 million less than in third quarter.
Commodity products benefited from tight inventory channels.
Price realizations increased 2% for lumber and 8% for oriented strand board.
Lumber volumes were 1% higher and oriented strand board volumes rose 6%.
Engineered wood product volumes were seasonally weak.
Solid section volumes declined 12% and TJI's 14%.
Increased log and raw material costs in maintenance downtime resulted in higher operating costs.
Cellulose Fibers Charts 6 and 7.
Cellulose Fibers contributed $61 million to pretax earnings $17 million less than in Q3.
Pulp sales price realizations declined 2% and sales volumes rose 6%.
Liquid packaging board price realizations declined 6% and volumes were 7% lower due to operational issues at a production facility.
Chemicals and energy costs increased in the quarter.
These cost increases were partially offset by lower maintenance costs.
During the fourth quarter there was one scheduled maintenance outage of 6 days versus 13 days maintenance outage in third quarter.
Real Estate Charts 8 and 9.
Real Estate contributed $81 million to pretax earnings $64 million more than in Q3.
Earnings from nonstrategic land sales were $65 million.
Earnings from single-family home sales were $16 million.
The average closing price increased to $381 000 from $372 000 in the previous quarter.
Gross margins declined to 20.2% due to mix.
The backlog of homes sold but not closed was 774 at the end of Q4 an increase of 80% from the number of homes in the backlog at the end of 2011.
Unallocated items Chart 10.
The foreign exchange loss of $2 million in Q4 was due to a weakening of the Canadian dollar.
This was a negative swing of $13 million.
The elimination of interest segment profit in inventory and LIFO was income of $8 million primarily resulting from lower lumber and oriented strand board inventory.
This compares to an expense of $10 million in the third quarter.
I will now turn the call over to Dan Fulton.
Dan? Thanks Kathy.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
Over the past several years we've laid the foundation by implementing initiatives that positioned the company to capture the benefits of an improving U.S.
housing market.
2012 marked the clear beginning of that long-term recovery.
This market improvement together with our progress in implementing our own improvement initiatives is evident in our fourth quarter and annual results.
Revenues rose 13% during the fourth quarter and 14% for the full year.
Our fourth quarter earnings increased 22% over the third quarter due to strong results from our Timberlands and our Real Estate segments.
For the year our net earnings before special items increased 78% led by improvements within our Wood Products business.
Our performance has improved steadily throughout the year allowing us to continue to invest in our business pay down debt and increase our dividend.
As a result our total shareholder return for the year was over 50%.
I'm excited about the opportunity to build on the momentum of 2012 as we enter 2013.
Before I discuss the performance of our business segments I'll provide a brief comment on economic conditions that affect our company.
First the U.S.
housing market.
The housing market certainly turned a corner in 2012.
Total starts both single and multi-family totaled 781 000 nearly a 30% increase from 2011.
We began the year with stronger-than-normal spring selling season.
This momentum continued through the fourth quarter and we were pleased by the surprising strength of new home sales and Wood Products commodity prices.
As we've noted in many fourth quarter reviews both of these typically tail off at year end.
On a seasonally adjusted basis December housing starts jumped to a 954 000 annualized level.
This is the highest level of housing starts we've seen since June 2008.
Further evidence of a strengthening market is seen in home prices which have increased year-over-year according to all major price indices.
Another sign of improvement may seem counterintuitive is the declining level of existing home sales.
At this point in the cycle the cause is not lack of demand but record low levels of supply.
Uncertainty in the home mortgage market has been a drag during this recovery.
However long-awaited new rules governing qualified mortgages add needed clarity to the process and fence-sitting potential home buyers are finally moving back into the market.
These changes are good for the housing industry and for the overall U.S.
economy.
To help you compare your own modeling and forecasting with ours we're planning for just over 1 million total housing starts for 2013.
Those starts are comprised of 675 000 single-family and 335 000 multi-family.
This is roughly a 30% increase over 2012 that's a similar percentage increase as last year but off of a higher base.
Market conditions are much improved from one year ago but today's level of housing starts is still low by historic standards.
We are at last on a clear path to recovery to long-term trend levels.
I'll comment briefly on global economic conditions since approximately 1/3 of our revenues come from export of products from our Cellulose Fibers Timberlands and Wood Products segments.
Compared with conditions at the end of the third quarter we're slightly more optimistic.
In the Eurozone the extreme prices conditions in 2012 seem to have abated and the euro has strengthened.
The stronger euro should improve the relative competitiveness of our Cellulose Fibers business as well as our Asian log exports.
The Canadian dollar remains strong which should maintain the relative competitiveness of U.S.
manufactured wood products.
This may be offset somewhat by reduced softwood lumber tariffs.
In Japan the new government seems ready to implement a stimulus package to jump-start their economy.
This should increase export demand for all 3 of our forest products businesses.
And in China our export activity went through a period of adjustment in 2012.
During 2012 the Chinese economy slowed but they also went through a political change.
Export volumes for our logs lumber and Cellulose Fibers products improved during the fourth quarter as well as for the full year albeit at lower levels than we had seen in the more frothy days of 2011.
While these markets will likely remain somewhat volatile we look forward to continued growth in Chinese demand.
Now I'll comment on the performance of each of our businesses in the fourth quarter.
In Timberlands our earnings increased from the third quarter due to stronger domestic and export demand for our logs.
Price realizations improved as a result of domestic price increases in the West and the South with a shift in the mix in the West as a higher percentage of our logs were exported.
Fourth quarter export shipments increased as a result of greater demand from all of our primary export markets: Japan China and Korea.
In addition as I mentioned on last quarter's call some shipments that have been scheduled for the third quarter slipped to the fourth.
Harvest volumes increased from the third quarter despite some challenging weather conditions.
Our operations were affected by high wind and rain conditions in the West during November and wet weather in the South at the end of the quarter.
For the full year harvest volumes increased 13% as we flexed in response to improving market demand.
Minerals activity increased slightly during the quarter as continued softness in gas prices was offset by revenue from oil leases in the Tuscaloosa Basin.
As we look forward to 2013 we expect continued strong markets for logs.
Minerals activity should remain steady.
In our Wood Products segment the fourth quarter was a tale of 2 markets.
We anticipated weaker demand for all of our products as we moved into the late fall and early winter months when we typically see a seasonal slowdown.
Market surprise this year was the continued strong demand for our commodity products lumber and OSB.
This demand was caused by tight supply channels and the increasing strength of the housing recovery.
Engineered products which still suffer from low operating rates did not benefit from the pricing strength of commodity products.
Fourth quarter activity for these products and our related distribution activity was a negative drag on the positive results in lumber and OSB.
As demand improved for lumber and OSB during the quarter we also experienced higher manufacturing cost.
We had higher cost for logs veneer OSB web stock maintenance and energy.
We also incurred increased labor costs as we began to staff up to meet an anticipated increase in operating postures in 2013.
We continue to focus on effective execution and performance improvement initiatives across our entire Wood Products segment.
The combined benefit of these initiatives and improved market conditions is apparent in our year-over-year results.
Fourth quarter earnings improved nearly $100 million compared with last year and the annual earnings increased over $300 million.
Over half of this increase is attributable to our performance improvement initiatives.
As we enter 2013 we are well positioned to respond to the increased demand from new housing starts as well as the repair and remodel market.
We've come a long way in this business and we have more opportunity in front of us.
Moving to WRECO.
We finished the year with an exceptional quarter and we're well positioned for improved market conditions in 2013.
The notable event during the quarter was the sale of nonstrategic land in San Diego which generated $65 million in earnings.
This land which is part of our Pacific Highlands Ranch master plan is designated for very high density residential and mixed-use.
As a large-scale land developer in California our master plans include a wide range of land uses.
Sale of these properties is consistent with our long-term strategy and intent.
Let me turn to our single-family homebuilding business.
Earnings from our single-family homebuilding business were comparable to the third quarter as single-family margins declined primarily as a result of mix.
The encouraging news from this year's fourth quarter was that our home sales increased nearly 40% from one year ago.
This quarter marked a significant turnaround for our markets in Southern California and Las Vegas.
Our Pardee president described the change as though someone turned on a switch.
For the quarter our California sales were up over 80% over last year and Las Vegas sales nearly tripled.
This long-awaited California recovery is good news for WRECO and it's also a strong signal of future opportunity for our Western Wood Products and Timberland businesses.
At year end all WRECO indicators point to improving buyer sentiment.
Our backlog is up 80% year-over-year.
The average home price in backlog is 13% greater than one year ago.
Our traffic count was up over 60% in December compared with last year and our cancellation rate for the year was the lowest since 2004.
With this improving momentum we'll be opening a significant number of new communities during the year which will enable us to meet our growing demand.
New communities allow us to present a fresh new face to our customers to capture the emerging enthusiasm of buyers.
Many of these new communities will be open during the first half of the year capitalizing on this year's spring selling season.
My final business comments relate to our Cellulose Fibers business segment.
Cellulose Fibers segment earnings declined from the third quarter.
The decrease was primarily a result of decreased fluff pulp realizations and lower-than-anticipated earnings from our liquid packaging business.
Worldwide pulp inventories declined during the second half of the year.
Prices now seem to be stabilizing as we move into the new year.
As I noted earlier improvement in the Eurozone and government action in Japan may improve market conditions for us in 2013.
In addition to our core Cellulose Fibers products of fluff pulp NBSK and liquid packaging board innovative specialty products continue to provide opportunity for us to differentiate our products and improve margins.
Sales volumes of our pearl product to China continued to increase.
In Poland we have begun production trials of our Crosslink modified fiber product.
We're on track to enter full production in the second half of the year.
Longer term we expect that our new THRIVE cellulose-based composite product will open new markets for us.
And now I'll turn the call over to Patty to discuss our fourth quarter outlook -- first quarter outlook I'm sorry and provide financial highlights.
Thanks Dan and good morning everyone and happy new year.
Well we are looking forward to 2013 but as Dan said I will focus my comments primarily on the first quarter of the year.
So the outlook for the first quarter of this year is summarized on Chart 11 and I'll begin the discussion with Timberlands.
Export markets in the West are expected to continue to improve throughout the quarter.
Log demand from our Japanese customers is strong as a result of the improving housing market in Japan and the supportive stance of the new government to implement policies to encourage growth.
China log demand is expected to start somewhat slower due to the Chinese New Year holiday period in February but then continue an upward trend later in the quarter as residential and commercial construction picks up.
As a result export prices are anticipated to increase during the quarter.
Stronger export demand as well as an improved domestic lumber market have also contributed to rising prices in the domestic log market.
In the South realizations for logs are expected to be slightly lower due to a smaller diameter log size.
Fee volume will be seasonally lower primarily in the South and may also be affected by recent wet weather logging restrictions.
Before the effect of nonstrategic land sales we expect that earnings in the Timberland segment for the first quarter will be comparable to the fourth quarter.
Earnings from nonstrategic land sales will be lower likely less than half of the $20 million earned in the fourth quarter.
As a result overall earnings in the Timberland segment will likely be lower in the first quarter compared to the fourth.
In Wood Products market conditions for the first quarter are anticipated to be strong as the housing recovery continues on an upward path.
We expect volumes to increase across all product lines.
Sales realizations for lumber and OSB are expected to improve and engineered Wood Products realizations will likely be flat due to mix.
We have announced price increases for engineered Wood Products beginning in March but most of the effect will be in the second quarter.
Log costs are rising especially in the West as the demand for export logs increases and the seasonal risk of weather-related restrictions is greater.
Unit manufacturing costs should be lower as operating rates improve in response to increased demand and less holiday downtime.
In engineered Wood Products the benefit of higher operating rates will be mostly offset by higher input cost especially for OSB which is used for web stock.
Given the strong market and our continued emphasis on operational improvements we expect earnings in the Wood Products segment will increase significantly in the first quarter compared to the fourth.
In Cellulose Fibers sales realizations for both pulp and liquid packaging are expected to increase slightly from modest decline in pulp sales volume.
The biggest variance in earnings compared to the fourth quarter will be in the area of maintenance.
We expect to have approximately $20 million more maintenance expense in the first quarter as a result of an increase in the number of annual shutdown days as well as a number of major maintenance projects.
As we've discussed on prior calls we are preparing for a transition to longer time between planned shutdowns moving from a 12-month schedule to 18 months.
We expect maintenance expense for the full year of 2013 to be similar to 2012 as we begin to implement this change which should be fully in place by 2014.
Progress on the startup of our Poland converting facility is on track as we continue the qualification process.
We expect that overall earnings in the Cellulose Fibers segment will be lower in the first quarter compared to the fourth.
Home sales in our Real Estate segment have continued at a robust pace.
Typically we would not expect activity to pick up until after the Super Bowl.
However as Dan mentioned we are seeing increased activity in most of our markets on a year-over-year comparison.
Although it is early in the quarter sales for the first 3 weeks of this year are up 125% compared to last year.
These sales will become closings later in the year.
At the end of 2012 our community count declined to 62 open communities as sales activity was brisk.
At the end of the first quarter we anticipate our community count will increase to approximately 80 communities.
Our plan for community openings could change depending on market dynamics.
We expect to close fewer homes in the first quarter compared to the fourth as the first quarter is traditionally the weakest quarter for closings.
In the fourth quarter we closed 842 homes and expect that number to decline to just over 500 closings this quarter.
However it is a sizable increase over the 349 closings we had in the first quarter of 2012.
Margins should be comparable to the fourth quarter at just over 20% and approximately 3% higher than the first quarter of 2012.
Selling costs will decrease during the quarter as a result of fewer closings and G&amp;A costs should be lower as we will not see the year end catch-up for incentive comp that affected cost in the fourth quarter.
We expect Real Estate segment results from our single-family homebuilding business in the first quarter to be slightly profitable and increase over the loss of $8 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Now I'll wrap up with some overall financial comments.
We ended the year with cash of just under $900 million strong cash flow from operations as well as the receipt of cash associated with the maturity of a timber monetization note from 2002 were the major contributors.
Capital expenditures for the fourth quarter including Timberlands' reforestation approximated $66 million.
The total for the full year of 2012 was $285 million and in 2013 we expect to spend a similar amount.
We ended the year with total debt of $4.3 billion.
In 2013 we have debt maturities of just over $400 million $156 million of which will be paid in the first quarter.
Following our 2013 maturities we will not have any significant debt payments until 2017.
In addition our $1 billion credit facility has no borrowings outstanding.
I'll close with some comments regarding our benefit plans.
At the end of 2012 the underfunded status of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans increased by just over $400 million on a GAAP basis.
This increase was driven by the lowering of discount rates.
For example in the U.S.
qualified pension plan our largest plan the discount rate declined from 4.5% to 3.7%.
The negative effect of this change in discount rate was to increase the plan's liability by over $540 million.
Declines in discount rates have a significant effect on a plan's funded status.
For example if the discount rate was 5.4% which was the rate in effect just 2 years ago this plan would be in an overfunded status.
Cash contributions for all of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans in 2012 was $145 million.
We expect a similar amount in 2013.
The expense for these plans in 2012 excluding special items was approximately $80 million.
In 2013 we anticipate total expense of $98 million.
$64 million is for normal service costs which will be charged to the business segments and $34 million is nonoperating expense which will be included in unallocated items.
Now I'll turn the call back to Dan and I look forward to your questions.
Thanks Patty.
Since 2008 we've had a steady drive to sharpen our focus on our core businesses and improve our competitiveness.
We committed to improve profitability despite challenging market conditions and to maintain this discipline when the markets eventually recovered.
I commented at the beginning of my remarks that we've laid the foundation that positions us to capture the full benefits of an improving U.S.
housing market and an improving global economy.
The evidence is now in that we're in the midst of a housing recovery.
As the market improves we'll have the opportunity to grow increasing timber harvesting Wood Products manufacturing and community development and homebuilding and our Cellulose Fibers business will continue to grow with our global customers as we are doing in Poland.
With this increased activity we face challenges such as the availability and cost of skilled labor inflationary pressure on manufacturing input costs and increasing land and materials costs.
We're confident in the ability of our talented teams to meet the opportunities that an improving market brings and we're absolutely committed to maintain the discipline that has brought us through this unprecedented period.
And now we welcome your questions and your comments.
Kathy? Yes.
Brent would you please open the floor to questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess starting off within WRECO can you talk a little bit about what sort of mix changes might come with the increase in community count? Because it seemed like 2012 mix was a little bit weak.
Would you expect to see that shift a little bit or remain kind of where it was in 2012? Well the mix is dynamic in talking about the fourth quarter mix Gail.
We had in the fourth quarter an increased percentage of homes that are affordable dwellings.
We had talked about that on our last call that these affordable units come with an overall master plan approval process.
That was in the Washington D.C.
market.
And then we had a shift between third and fourth quarter away from a higher percentage of sales and closings in San Diego to other markets.
So we would expect as we look at the first quarter as Patty commented we expect the mix to be about the same.
We have adjusted our product in every single market in response to evolving market conditions.
We've had significant response in the Inland Empire Area of California in developing a new more affordable product.
But in other markets we've actually moved up market because that's where the demand has been in the last year to 18 months.
As the overall market conditions improve we will continue to find the opportunities where we have the greatest margin potential.
With all of these new community openings we have opportunities to adjust our product mix.
And so what we will do throughout the year is try to give you some guidance on how we would expect that mix to be changing from quarter to quarter.
But as we look from 2012 to 2013 we should not expect a significant mix shift other than this resurgent demand from California can have a positive impact on us as we move throughout the year.
It takes some time for those sales to convert to closings but we have good visibility.
As we look out houses that are in our backlog we know what those margins should be and I think we'll just continue to update you on a quarterly basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- can I sneak one more in? Yes okay.
Research Division</strong> Log price developments can you help us understand kind of the developments that you saw in the fourth quarter and currently how much might have been due to weather and how much you think is due to true underlying kind of slight demand tightness because it does seem like in both the West and the South there were weather impacts? There was a little bit more weather impact in the fourth quarter in the West than there was in the South.
In the first quarter likely that we'll have more weather conditions that would impact us because of wet weather.
What we are seeing in the log market is the impact of some recovery in U.S.
housing both in the West and in the South and in the West a continued increase in demand for exports.
So we expect some upward pressure on log prices.
We have weather events every quarter that may impact us a bit but I think generally we would expect that the impact is coming from the demand side.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Two general areas of questions one in Wood and one in Real Estate piggybacking on Gail.
I guess in Wood Products Dan inflation offset a lot of the pickup in revenue that you saw in the segment.
I guess that's to be expected this time in the cycle.
If we look out the next year or so would you anticipate that your realization should be at least able to keep up with inflation? And then taking a different take on it if we hold raw materials and pricing constant what kind of incremental margin do you expect you should be able to see out of Wood Products over the next 1 to 2 years? What we would expect is that as the market recovers we certainly have different products so we have our lumber business we have our OSB business we have engineered Wood Products.
As the market demand picks up there is pressure on log prices.
And so the relative margin between logs and lumber shifts over time or logs and oriented strand board but more related to logs.
The impact in our engineered business comes through as you noted OSB input costs.
But I can't answer your question specifically because it's a function of what supply is available on the market for logs and what production capacity comes back online in the Wood Products business.
So it is the dynamic of supply and demand and it's a function of production capability across the system.
So quite frankly I can't give you a specific number as I look out a couple of years.
So what we believe is with a recovering market in the U.S.
we should see increased demand for Wood Products which will then translate to demand and ultimately pricing on logs plus in our case we have a significant export market off the West Coast and that plays into the pricing dynamic also.
George the other thing that you saw in those margins in Wood Products in the fourth quarter was we had some downtime for the holidays and downtime for maintenance and implementing some capital projects.
So as we see utilization rates improve that will significantly impact that margin going forward as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'll leave that general area to the side for now.
If we switch to WRECO it was nice to see the increase in pricing and the backlog.
Can you speak to what's been driving that? Is that what you're seeing in California or Las Vegas? And I guess again just back to Gail's question you had called out the mix issue in the fourth quarter and you are more or less where we had expected you.
But also it seemed like Las Vegas Nevada were stronger than we would've expected in the fourth quarter regionally broadly not just Weyerhaeuser-specific.
I'm curious why you didn't see more of a mix effect in the quarter.
You're talking about sales prices which don't translate into the quarterly closing numbers and so there's a lag George when we write those sales and when they are delivered.
We were encouraged and have been encouraged not just by the fourth quarter but as Patty noted sales early this year had been very strong which is atypical.
We joke a bit about the Super Bowl being a turning point in the early year selling season so this year is a bit of an anomaly.
We're seeing prices moving up in every single market for similar type products so that is not even addressing the mix issue as to whether or not it's a first-time product or a move-up product or there may be some additional pricing power.
So we think that what's happening is certainly the existing inventory has diminished significantly.
Homebuyers are going back into model complexes and making the commitment to buy new homes in part because they have more confidence in the economy in their jobs and they can obviously see that the market has bottomed and there is more likelihood of upward pricing movement as well as perhaps some uncertainty about where mortgage rates are.
Research Division</strong> So the backlog price increase was broad not region-specific.
Is that what you're saying? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> The first question is just to make sure I get this right.
On the pension funding status I believe last year it was about $1.1 billion under.
And so you're saying based on the discount rate changes should be about $1.5 billion $1.6 billion? Yes.
As you look at the total underfunded status for the pension plan as you said and this would be for the U.S.
plan as well as our nonqualified plan we were I think about $1.150 billion.
And at the end of this year that will increase by about a little over $400 million.
That's still for the pension Chip.
That doesn't include the other postretirement benefit plans.
But if you're talking just pension those were the right numbers.
LLC</strong> Well actually on that I noticed that dropped from about $0.5 billion to $400 million from '10 to '11.
Did that change the other things that much in 2012 or they stayed flat? When you say the other things...
LLC</strong> The other postretirement benefits? Yes they were fairly flat.
The biggest change was in the pension plan.
LLC</strong> Okay that's great.
And then one quick one in addition.
When you go back in past cycles you can see and I know the footprint's different but you often see a pretty substantial seasonal or often have increase in the operating income in the Wood Products segment.
And as you know prices today are way above their fourth quarter averages and notwithstanding the I guess last night's report that there might have been a little bit of a backoff in lumber.
I mean could we see a triple-digit operating income number in the Wood Products segment is that what you mean by significant? Well when I say significant Chip remember we're talking about the first quarter when you talk about a triple digit but that's what we're working toward.
So it will be a multiple of the fourth quarter and pretty close to that triple digit.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Dan just one question.
2 years ago at Investor Day you talked about the opportunity from being long land in your homebuilding business and the opportunity to sell land to homebuilders that were short.
Has that process met your expectations? And is it reasonable for us to assume that we would see a significant ramp in that kind of activity in 2013? Our strategy is not changed Mark and we have -- we are not long land everywhere but we are long in certain markets especially where entitlement processes reward a longer land position.
Where we have master plans we have the ability to not only build those lots but sell to others.
We took advantage of that more in 2011 than we did in 2012.
In '11 there was a resurgence of activity.
Builders found themselves to be lot short and we took advantage of that in certain regional markets.
We looked for opportunities in those master plans where we have the excess land to sell to others on a profitable basis.
We did some of that earlier this year or in 2012 when we sold the Cross Creek Ranch property in Houston.
And so we have that opportunity in front of us and we'll look for opportunities where we have pricing and margin potential to take advantage of that as compared to building out those lots ourselves.
Your next question comes from the line of Carly Mattson with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about how the company thinks about refinancing the 2013 maturities and whether we should look for potential new issuance in the public bond market or whether Weyerhaeuser would prefer to pay a downward cash? Sure Carly.
It's still early in the year but what we have said in the past is that we think that $4 billion of debt is about the right amount of debt for the size of the company today.
We've been working that down.
So when we pay off our 2013 maturities we'll be right at -- maybe just a little below that target.
So I think the point will be what other uses we may have for any additional debt in the future.
But where we are right now we have said in the past and that would still be our view that around $4 billion in debt is the right amount for the size that we are today.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then as a follow-up question have you had discussions with the rating agencies about particularly Moody's about your -- the high BB rating that Weyerhaeuser has? And how does Weyerhaeuser think about the difference between being a crossover credit or a full investment grade credit.
Has that view changed at all? Well Carly we have ongoing conversations with both rating agencies as you might well imagine.
And we have historically been an investment grade rated company from both rating agencies.
And Moody's moved us down years 2 ago when the markets in Wood Products especially were much more challenged than they are today.
So we'll look forward to moving back into that investment grade area at Moody's given the increase in the profitability and cash generation of the company.
But I'll have to wait for them to make that move.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> In the Wood Products business can you just provide more color around what the impact was from the maintenance downtime during the fourth quarter? And then as we look to 2013 is there any color you can provide on how we should be thinking about the change in the maintenance expense as we work our way through the year? I think in the pulp business in the past you've been kind enough to provide that type of color to the extent that you can in the Wood Products business that will be very helpful.
Sure Alex.
As we think about the seasonality in the business in the fourth quarter we typically plan to be down implementing that's when we target to do our capital project implementation and we plan maintenance.
So it was more a quarterly statement as opposed to an ongoing piece as you think about the first quarter and second and third quarters so I don't think there's anything big about that that's different.
It's just that the market was very much stronger in lumber and OSB especially.
And we probably didn't take as much downtime -- we didn't take as much downtime as we typically would in a normal year.
Most of that would have come as well in engineered wood where the operating rates have not been as strong.
And then did you have a question about Cellulose Fibers? Research Division</strong> No.
I just -- the question really was if you guys can just put out a number for what the maintenance expense was in the Wood Products business for the fourth quarter relative to the third quarter how that changed? Yes yes.
I don't have a number for you in the actual maintenance for the fourth quarter for Wood Products.
Let me see if we can pull something together and maybe you can check back with Kathy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the follow-up question as you know Wood Products what is the current profitability level in that business look like? Is it EBITDA breakeven at this point? And as you guys look at that business over the next couple of years what U.S.
housing starts level would that business really begin to generate meaningful profitability for the company? Well that -- the Wood Products segment is generating cash Alex.
Research Division</strong> Well I'm speaking about engineered wood products not the entire segment.
Just the engineered wood products subsegment.
Engineered wood products in terms of the operating rate for the fourth quarter were still about 40% to 45% in that business.
So really what we need to do is to get that operating rate up.
And as we look forward in that business it is a late cycle recovering business in Wood Products.
In other words of the 3 technologies that we have engineered wood products because it is more exposed to single-family -- housing or new housing rather as opposed to repair and remodel it recovers a little bit later in the cycle.
I can't tell you that as you might know the Builders' Show is going on this week and the talk at the Builders' Show is concern about being able to get capacity or to get product as the cycle continues to recover.
So we look very much forward to getting to that point.
And I think as we move forward to increase housing starts as Dan mentioned in his outlook that we will see much improved results in that business.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on the sale of lots given San Diego has historically been one of your stronger regions from a margin perspective I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the decision to sell that land rather than develop it yourself? And to the extent you can can you talk about where the sale sort of leaves your land position in San Diego? Sure.
Anthony the property that we sold is part of a master plan North County San Diego called Pacific Highlands Ranch where we have a significant number of entitled single-family lots that we would build out over time.
That's a market that as you commented on has been very good to us in the past.
We have high margins in our single-family business in San Diego.
The particular land that we sold is zoned for high-density residential.
It was a very high density so multistory product and mixed-use.
So it is not our core product that we build.
That is the kind of property that we would typically sell to other builders and developers who specialize in it.
Some of that will be rental some of that perhaps could be for sale but likely more rental housing.
And so it's consistent with our strategy to sell the property that is zoned for other than single-family to others and that was the decision.
So as we think about our land position in San Diego and our lot count doesn't affect really our lot count at all because it's not a product that we would build.
So it's totally consistent with the way we manage that business.
The good news is that the multifamily market has been very strong and so it was an opportune time to sell it.
The purchasers of that property will still have to go through some of their own entitlement process over a 1- to 2-year period before they break ground.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then just maybe one last one switching to Timberlands.
I'm wondering how much your log exports to China were up or up or down year-over-year in 2012? And as you look forward to 2013 from a volume perspective do you expect kind of a meaningful change in log exports to China? For the year our export volume to China was up but we expect it to increase as we go forward into 2013.
The mix that we've talked about in the past is not significantly changed so about 70% of our exports go to Japan roughly 20% China and the balance to Korea.
And as we look forward to full year 2013 I can't give you specific numbers on what the China volume is because it's not that predictable.
But we see covering demand and we expect to be in a position to be delivering logs there as well as into our traditional markets of Japan and Korea.
We have seen a pickup in activity in Japan.
That's generally a more profitable market for us.
They buy higher-quality logs we have much longer-term relationships.
But the relationships that we've built to China are encouraging for us and so we see it as an opportunity.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Dan I wondered if you could just talk a little bit about sort of your positioning in the Wood Products business.
It seems like over the last few months we've started not only see a pickup in housing and building products activity but we've started to see more M&amp;A with the GP deal and then this Interfor deal that was announced the other day.
I just wanted to get a sense of how you feel about your footprint in the business? Well we've seen that activity Mark and I would say it's not surprising.
As the market starts to pick up you'd expect to see some more of that activity.
We like the position that we have so we have good balance in our lumber business between the West and the South.
As the market picks up especially in California we're excited about the opportunity to see improvement in our Western lumber system.
OSB business we've got 6 mills that are operating.
We've increased production in that business over the last year and we're moving even as we speak into 2013 to increasing operating posture.
I think in the fourth quarter we are operating at about an 85% level.
In OSB we expect that to increase.
So we're well positioned to serve both the Southern and the Western markets.
Engineered wood products Patty talked about it is a late cycle business.
We've got the leading brand in that business with our Trus Joist brand.
And if single-family housing picks up the opportunity there is that we do have a lot of operating leverage because we are operating it well less than capacity today but we're positioned in the West and in the East to serve the broad needs of a recovering single-family as well as the multifamily sector.
As we look forward there's still some question about the relative mix between singles and multis as we move forward wondering whether there's change in patterns and increasing density.
But we like the position that we have in every one of those products.
Research Division</strong> Would you want to expand in any of these businesses? We look at opportunities.
And fundamentally as we look at opportunities it's a function of how it would fit with our existing system and in relative financial opportunities.
So I think we're active all the time in looking but we have no immediate plans that we're prepared to discuss.
[indiscernible] is there to say that our focus really is on improving the operations that we have and we aren't operating the operations that we have today at full capacity.
So we have room to continue to grow the business with the existing facilities that we have.
So that's really the focus.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
Just can you just mention where you're at in terms of kind of maximizing with kind of oil and gas and mineral revenue from the land? And you do have a lot of land down in Louisiana and I just I wonder where you're at in terms of extracting all of the subsurface value that you might from your holdings? Our average earnings over the last year or so have been about $10 million a quarter revenues coming from our minerals operation.
There's been a bit of a shift in mix Mark between oil and gas.
If we were to go back 3 to 4 years ago when the gas shale activity took off I think our minerals business at that point was generating about $60 million.
Some of that was coming from these upfront lease payments as well as royalty payments.
So on a steady-state basis for the next 12 months or so I think $10 million a quarter is probably a predictable number.
Production levels are down in that business because of prices today for natural gas.
Drilling costs for shale oil had been relatively high.
We have land that's well positioned both in the Haynesville Shale gas area and the Tuscaloosa oil shale region.
So we have active drilling going on in our properties and I think it's really a function of pricing of the end product for oil and gas that will dictate how much additional activity there'll be in the next 12 months.
Your next question comes from the line of Joshua Barber with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You guys have talked a little bit about the increased staffing and I'm going to assume most of that has to do with the community count and with lumber production.
But would you be able to speak a little bit more specifically on the lumber production side how much you think you can get both lumber and OSB production up or just overall Wood Products production up throughout the year? Well when we talk about it and I mentioned briefly with respect to OSB we're increasing our operating posture and we have been doing some hiring bringing people back to work in order to add shifts.
As the market expands for lumber we have the same ability to add hours and in some cases to add shifts.
But we respond both to demand but primarily pricing.
And over the past 12 months most of the hiring that we have done in the company has been production employees that we've been putting back to work in order to be able to ramp up and respond to the increased opportunities for Wood Products.
In WRECO our general staffing level has been relatively stable as we add communities then we would certainly add production superintendents and sales teams.
But in the WRECO business in particular most of the activity is subcontractor-based and so it doesn't have a significant impact on our headcount.
Did that answer your question or did you have a different focus to your question? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No no I think that's helpful.
When we look at the Timberlands business you guys had mentioned also and it seems like the Southern log harvest went up pretty nicely in the fourth quarter.
How much below I guess sustainable harvest or how much above your sustainable harvest could you harvest in the coming years if there was a very strong recovery? And what could those levels go to from where they are today? During the recession we went through a period of a couple of years where we took our harvest levels down and we have been bringing them back over the last 2 to 3 years.
So you've seen a fairly significant ramp-up in harvest activity 2011 2012.
We are managing our Timberlands on a sustainable basis.
Over the next 12 to 24 months you should not expect to see a significant increase in harvest activity because we are operating today at a sustainable level.
In any given market situation we have the ability to flex a bit say plus or minus 10%.
It's a little bit -- takes a little bit longer to increase in the West because of road requirements and permit requirements.
But we have shared projections in the past in our main conference of long-term harvest levels in terms of how that would ramp up over time.
That's more of a function of the maturity of the timber rather than responding to specific market conditions.
So we have some limited ability to flex short term as we've done in the last year or so.
So we'll respond to market conditions.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Patty you touched on the pension obligation and how that went up on a GAAP basis.
Could you give us -- I know that may not be finalized yet but could you give us an idea on where that went on a PBO basis at year end? I don't know that I have that in front of me.
Let me just see if I can help you with anything on that.
I think we may have to wait for the K filing which will come out later here in the next couple of weeks.
Let me see if I can find the number for you Josh as we're sitting here.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> So your log sales prices were up pretty good particularly in the West Coast which wasn't the case for all landowners out here.
So I'm just wondering is that due to your exposure to Japan and China? Or is there also some benefit to putting higher logs through your mills at higher prices because you're basically transferring the revenue from a taxable jurisdiction into an untaxable jurisdiction? The latter is not the case.
We sell logs to our lumber business or conversion businesses at market.
The difference in pricing is more likely a function of our Japanese trade Steve.
And the quality of the logs and the long-term relationships that we have with customers there where we are being rewarded for the quality of the logs and the consistency of delivery over a long period of time.
And I think we have that same opportunity emerging in China because of the quality of our fiber the predictability and sustainability on the logistical side.
I think we're fairly compensated for the value that we deliver.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
One other quick one.
Across the WRECO footprint do you feel that you have a need to reload your land position anywhere across that in any of your geographies? We are always purchasing new land in our WRECO system to replace the lots that we are selling with the houses that we deliver.
So that is just an ongoing function of managing a pipeline of future lots.
We are very strategic in where we have a land position.
The length of that position varies by market depending upon the challenge of entitlements and how we are able to control it.
So our focus is on efficient management of our cash and allocation of resource was in that business to number one be sure that we have a pipeline but also ensure that we are earning maximum possible returns on the use of our capital.
So it is a region-by-region decision.
But in fact we are always in the market looking for lot positions for future deliveries.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
You talked about housing starts potentially being up 30% this year and I want to understand what type of flexibility you have in your lumber business in particular given that potential? If one were to assume that might mean lumber demand and if you have a differing view on this please share.
But let's say lumber demand might be up about 15% or so would you expect to have the capability in your system to increase your production by at least 15%? And you talked about having already started that process.
Where are you in that process? How much increased production have you already started to achieve? We've had a steady increase in production as the market has begun to recover.
In our lumber business in the fourth quarter we were operating in about an 80% in maybe mid-80s production rate so we have room to move beyond that in response to increased market demand.
Also in the lumber business Mark our typical shift posture is 2 shifts.
And so we have the ability to add hours to those shifts on a selective basis and we have the ability in some cases to add an entire shift.
We've got one facility in Cottage Grove Oregon that operates 24/7.
That's not typical in the lumber business.
But we do have a fair amount of flexibility in lumber to respond.
And the response obviously comes from not just volume but we have to look at who our customers are and what pricing is.
And so at the level of starts that we are at today we've got a fair amount of room.
As I pointed out the level of starts in 2012 is very low by historic standards.
We've got a lot of room to move between now and getting back to trend levels which are sort of 1.5 million to 1.7 million.
Right.
I guess what I'm trying to understand is that given your view of the world presumably you're positioning yourself to be able to produce a good deal more product this year.
And what I'm trying to understand whether or not those actions have already been taken and we are already seeing that production or whether you are in the process of taking those actions and the increased production will show up in 1 month 2 months 3 months? The increased production should show up as demand increases.
So we're not producing excess inventory and we're not producing inventory at prices that don't give us the margins that we think are appropriate.
So we have the ability to respond as the market picks up.
There's some delayed response.
It's a little bit longer-term response when you -- when we're ramping up let's say adding an entire shift to an OSB mill.
That takes a little bit longer time.
And so we've gone through some of that activity over the last year in our Wood Products business but more likely related to our OSB facilities.
So basically you feel that you can be very quickly responsive and so you do not necessarily need to be building log decks getting more work out.
You don't have to like plan a month or 2 ahead of time just so as I can understand? No we're always planning ahead of time.
So we have actually fairly robust staffing plans where we look out a potential demand and we're filling those positions.
But I can't give you specifics on a by-mill basis.
We are -- the headcount that we've increased over the last year as I mentioned has primarily been related to Wood Products production.
Mark when you think about lumber we don't have huge log decks.
We don't carry huge log decks in our supply chain.
So the things that -- and that's just a function of the way that we operate on an efficient basis.
So the things that would provide hiccups in that to being able to meet that demand are more things like if we were to have a weather-related event in the West.
That would drive out-of-log downtime.
So it's not if you go back a few years and you think -- and some competitors still do today carry a lot of inventory in the yard we have really worked on our supply chain between our Timberlands business and our lumber business so that we can respond as market conditions do increase.
Your final question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just an easy question just on log pricing.
It looks like prices are up in the Pacific Northwest and I can understand the sort of the rally in Japan in advance of tax hikes in '14 and higher Chinese demand.
I'm really concerned with the log prices in the South.
And if I look at it historically I mean it seems to be a correlation of after 6 months of the lumber price hike you were 6 to 12 months you've seen log prices come up and we've seen that gap expand out and lumber prices are up sort of 30% to 40% year-over-year.
So the question is when do you expect the log prices to start to move up significantly or materially in the U.S.
South? Paul we are starting to see log prices move up in the South I would say more on a modest basis.
Our own sales realizations for logs in the Timberlands segment as I spoke to will actually be down just slightly.
But that's really more a function of the diameter size of the logs that we're logging this quarter and that's not atypical for us.
We are looking at settings that we can access especially as it relates to this wet weather.
So that's just an isolated instance -- incident.
But we would expect saw log prices to start to move more significantly in the South as we go through the year assuming that would be our assumption that housing continues to recover.
Thank you.
Dan? Okay.
I'd like to thank everybody for taking the time to join us today.
We continue to appreciate your interest.
As you can tell from our comments we're encouraged by the recovery in housing that's underway.
We think we're well positioned to take advantage of it and we look forward to -- we're looking forward to 2013 because I think we have the opportunity to fully participate in this recovery.
And we look forward to your continued interest.
If you have questions following the call follow up as you normally do with Kathy.
Appreciate it very much.
Good day everybody.
And Josh you can get that answer to your question from Kathy we'll dig that out for you.
Okay thank you.
Have a nice day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser Q1 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Kathryn McAuley Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
McAuley you may begin.
Thank you Brent.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us on Weyerhaeuser's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
The earnings release analyst package and web slides for this call can be found at our website or by contacting April Meier at (253) 924-2937.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during this conference call.
On the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures.
A GAAP reconciliation can be found on Chart 19.
Joining me this morning are Dan Fulton President and Chief Executive Officer; and Patty Bedient Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we review the first quarter earning material Patty Bedient would like to make a few comments.
Patty? Thanks Kathy and good morning everybody.
As we begin our financial reporting for 2013 I want to call your attention to some additional information that has been included in our earnings release presentation material.
This information is intended to provide you with some further insight into our reported results.
I'll briefly describe some of the changes we've made to our earnings release slide package and then Kathy will follow with her normal comments on the first quarter performance.
We now present condensed income statements for both Weyerhaeuser Company and each of our business segments to assist you in comparing our quarter-over-quarter results.
For Timberlands we've provided additional detail on revenues from export log sales and the countries to which we sell those logs.
This information is to help you understand the scale and diversity of our markets for our Western Timberlands.
We've also included a quarterly detail of our nonstrategic timberland disposition.
To better explain the earnings of our Wood Products segment we are reporting the quarterly EBITDA for each of our major business lines: Lumber oriented strand board engineered Wood Products and distribution.
In Cellulose Fibers we've provided the total quarterly maintenance expense dollars in addition to our scheduled annual maintenance outage days.
For Real Estate we've included quarterly earnings from land and lot sales as well as information on the number of lots we controlled at quarter end in each of our major geographies similar to the information we report annually in our 10-K.
We hope these changes will help you in your understanding of Weyerhaeuser and we look forward to your comments and suggestions.
And thank you for those -- that have been provided in the past.
So now I'll turn the call back to Kathy for a discussion of our first quarter results.
Kathy? Thank you Patty.
As summarized on Chart 1 Weyerhaeuser reported first quarter 2013 net earnings of $144 million or $0.26 per diluted share on net sales of $2 billion.
Turning to our business segments.
My comments reviewing the first quarter of 2013 refer to changes from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Beginning with Timberlands Charts 2 3 and 4.
Timberlands contributed $104 million to earnings $9 million more than in Q4.
Western log demand was strong in both export and domestic markets.
Log price realizations increased 9% and log sales volumes rose 7%.
The fee harvest in the West was 6% higher.
Export log sales increased 15% and this is illustrated on Chart 3.
Southern log prices were slightly higher and volumes declined.
Wet weather in the South resulted in an 11% decrease in fee harvest volumes.
Earnings from Timberland dispositions this is new data available on Chart 4 were $3 million in Q1.
Dispositions were $20 million in Q4 2012.
Turning to Wood Products Charts 5 and 6.
Wood Products contributed $178 million to earnings $140 million more than in the fourth quarter.
EBITDA improved in all business lines.
EBITDA by business line can be found on Chart 5.
The strong lumber and OSB demand experienced in the fourth quarter continued through the first quarter.
OSB price realizations increased $69 or $0.24 -- 24% to $359 per thousand square feet.
Lumber price realizations increased $74 or 20% to $444 per thousand board feet.
Lumber sales volumes were flat and OSB volumes were 2% lower.
Sales volumes in Q4 were very high on a seasonal basis.
Price and volumes increased for engineered Wood Products.
Solid section prices were up 2% and sales volumes 19%.
I-Joist prices rose 3% and production 16%.
Operating rates increased across all product lines.
Raw material costs were higher.
Cellulose Fibers Charts 7 and 8.
Cellulose Fibers contributed $31 million to earnings $30 million less than in the fourth quarter.
Scheduled maintenance costs increased to $62 million from $45 million and the number of annual outage days doubled to 12.
In addition to annually schedule maintenance outages there were projects to lengthen the mill maintenance cycle from 12 to 18 months.
Fiber costs increased due to wet weather in the South.
Average pulp price realizations declined slightly.
Pulp sales volumes increased 2%.
Production decreased due to the scheduled maintenance outages.
Real Estate Charts 9 10 and 11.
In the seasonally weak first quarter Real Estate was slightly better than breakeven.
This compares to a loss of $8 million in the same quarter last year.
Earnings of $81 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 included an unusually high level of land and lot sales.
As illustrated on Chart 11 earnings from land and lot sales were $65 million in Q4 and less than $1 million in Q1.
463 homes were closed in Q1 1/3 more homes enclosed in the first quarter last year.
First quarter closings were down from the seasonally strong fourth quarter when 842 homes were closed.
The average closing price increased to $394 000 an increase of $13 000 in the quarter.
The gross margin declined slightly to 19.5% from 20% in Q4.
The decline was due to mix and raw material costs.
At the end of the first quarter the backlog of homes sold but not closed increased 46% to 1 131 homes from 744 homes at the end of Q4.
The average sales price of homes in the backlog also increased.
Unallocated Chart 12.
The elimination of intersegment profit in inventory and LIFO was an expense of $24 million.
This was due to an increase in log and lumber prices and volumes.
The unallocated corporate function expense was $5 million lower.
Unallocated share-based compensation expense increased by $4 million due to a higher stock price during the quarter.
I'll now turn the call over to Dan Fulton.
Dan? Thanks Kathy and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
First quarter results exceeded our expectations led by continued improvement in our Wood Products segment and in our Timberland segment.
Our Wood Products business benefited from strong lumber and OSB prices.
In addition our ongoing focus on earnings improvement initiatives allowed us to take full advantage of improving markets.
Our Timberlands business benefited from an improving U.S.
housing market and strong export demand.
We're realizing the significant operating leverage that comes with housing market improvement.
Our steadily improving operating results coupled with our outlook for continued housing recovery led our board earlier this month to increase our dividend.
Combined with an increase just 6 months ago this represents a total increase of 33% since October 2012.
Before I discuss the performance of our business segments I'll provide a brief comment on select economic conditions that affect our company.
First the U.S.
housing market.
The U.S.
housing market continues its recovery towards long-term trend demand levels.
I'll cite a few statistics that help to inform our discussion of operating results during the quarter as well as our outlook for next quarter.
Though our primary focus for our company is on new construction we look at the overall housing market both existing homes as well as new homes to better understand and respond to longer-term supply-and-demand balance.
Sales of existing homes have increased year-over-year leading to a drop in inventory.
We now have less than a 5-month supply of existing homes a level not seen since 2005.
Sales of new homes continued to increase but we are still less than 40% of peak levels of 2006.
New home inventory at the end of March was less than a 4.5-month supply of today's level of sales.
The drop in available home inventory is leading to price increases in most markets and increasing demand for new homes resulting in an increase in housing starts.
New starts for March as reported last week now had moved over 1 million on a seasonally adjusted basis for the first time since the recession.
The single-family starts at nearly 628 000.
Increasing home prices as I've commented before begin to rebuild consumer confidence and strengthen household balance sheets.
These factors help bring potential home buyers back to the market.
For Weyerhaeuser this trend improves demand in 3 of our 4 business segments.
Beyond the effect from the U.S.
housing market activity on our Timberlands Wood Products and WRECO business segments global demand and foreign exchange rates affect our Cellulose Fibers and our Timberlands segments.
For the past quarter we continued to deal with a slow European economy and Asian markets remained relatively strong.
Movement in exchange rates has not been significant enough to have had a material effect on our businesses.
Now I'll comment on the performance of each of our businesses in the first quarter.
In Timberlands our results primarily reflect improved conditions in the West with relatively flat performance in the South.
Not including the results of land dispositions total earnings from operations improved 35% compared with the prior quarter and 66% year-over-year.
In the West demand increased for both domestic and export markets.
As Kathy noted this activity was reflected in increases in volume as well as price.
Domestic markets are beginning to see the effect of an improving housing market especially the beginning of a recovery in California.
Our export demand continues to grow with total volume up from the prior quarter and year-over-year.
Japan remains our largest export market followed by China and Korea.
In the South first quarter activity was adversely affected by weather causing harvest levels to decline a bit.
Prices moved up slightly due to lessened availability of logs across the region.
The contrast between Western and Southern markets is dramatic.
In the West we've had the benefit of a strong export market throughout the recession.
As a result industry harvest levels did not decline in parallel with the steep drop in U.S.
housing.
Southern log markets by contrast are more closely tied to U.S.
housing levels so the industry deferred a greater percentage of harvest in the South during the recession.
This was especially true of smaller landowners.
Now as U.S.
housing begins to recover Southern log volumes include more significant amounts of deferred volume as compared with the West resulting in slower price response to increase domestic demand.
The positioning of our Western lands allows us to fully realize the opportunity to supply strong export markets as well as to serve recovering domestic demand.
In the South we're well positioned to meet increasing demand as log markets improve.
We highlighted in the earnings release that our Wood Products segment experienced its most profitable quarter since 2005.
By comparison at that time total housing starts were over 2 million and our sales volumes were roughly double today's level.
Market conditions in the first quarter improved in line with the recovery in U.S.
housing driven especially by increased prices for lumber and OSB.
Our scale and the earnings improvement initiatives allowed us to take full advantage of the opportunity.
Earnings from this segment increased significantly from the prior quarter as well as year-over-year.
We've noted in prior discussions that our engineered wood business is the most reliant on new residential construction.
With the recovery of housing volumes for engineered TJIs and engineered solids increased notably during the quarter.
Realizations for all products were up over the prior quarter with the most significant increase in lumber and OSB.
Operating rates improved as we ran better though the benefit of improved pricing and operating rates was dampened slightly by higher raw material costs in the West as well as issues in Canada related to rail car availability and the late takeaway by traders in the South.
These factors taken together resulted in inventory build-up at quarter end.
Our operating results reflect better market conditions as well as continued progress on improving our operations through initiatives to grow revenue and to reduce costs.
Moving to WRECO.
All of our markets continued to improve and we're clearly on a path to recovery.
Let me highlight some key statistics for the quarter.
First community count.
As the market continues to recover you should expect our community count to increase in response to improved demand.
During the first quarter we opened 16 new communities while closing out 4.
Next traffic.
During the quarter our traffic count increased significantly year-over-year which leads to new sales.
Our sales increased 18% year-over-year.
Closings during the first quarter are seasonally low but total closings increased year-over-year reflecting last year's increased sales activity.
Our backlog is the number of sold but unclosed homes at any time.
Included in backlog are homes that may already be complete homes at various stages of construction as well as homes for which construction has not yet begun.
With the continued pickup in market activity our inventory of completed but unsold homes has continued to fall.
As a result an increased percentage of our backlog represents homes not yet under construction.
As Kathy noted at the end of the quarter our backlog had increased significantly.
These backlog homes will be delivered over the next 3 quarters.
Average home prices in our backlog are a function of both timing of the sales contract as well as geographic and product mix.
Average price in backlog at the end of the first quarter increased and prices for new orders during the quarter were greater than that for the prior quarter.
This points to steady but modest increases in prices across our regions.
In earlier calls I've noted that Washington D.C.
followed by Phoenix were some of the first markets to begin to show signs of recovery.
Last year Las Vegas began to wake up and finally our Southern California markets bounced back to life in the fourth quarter with significant increases year-over-year.
Assuming that our competitors are having similar success these new sales are a very positive signal of future improvement in our Western Wood Products and Timberland businesses.
While improved traffic sales and price increases are all positive signs all homebuilders face challenges during this recovery.
First one would typically expect the increased demand and reduced supply to lead to price increases.
However increases are hampered today by today's tighter underwriting rules and the ability of appraisers to keep pace with changes in market pricing.
In rising markets sales comps for these increased prices aren't available.
Second land and lot prices are increasing as the existing inventory of finished lots are depleted.
New lots need to be entitled permitted and improved to keep up with demand.
Third construction costs are increasing as cost of materials increase and availability of materials and labor are limited as an entire industry is in the process of going back to work.
Leading the way on cost increases are OSB and lumber.
It is difficult for builders who like us begin construction of most of our homes only after locking in a contract price for a home to totally protect ourselves from these cost increases.
The challenge is to maintain and grow margin in the face of these increases as price increases are limited by factors I noted above.
Over time market demand and supply should adjust to these changes but compared with the conditions that we faced over the past 5-plus years these are challenges that we welcome.
My final business comments relate to our Cellulose Fibers segment.
Overall market conditions for fluff and liquid packaging were relatively stable in the quarter with fluff prices still essentially flat and NBSK prices slowly improving.
The euro was relatively stable during the quarter and global softwood pulp inventories are at the high end of a normal range up slightly from year end.
Our earnings for the quarter were lower as a result of planned maintenance scheduled at our Port Wentworth mill and additional costs incurred for scheduled major maintenance projects at several mills as we move to an 18-month interval between scheduled maintenance outages.
Additional unfavorable cost during the quarter was a result of higher fiber costs seasonally higher energy costs for natural gas and fuel usage and lower electricity prices in Canada where we sell energy to the grid.
During the quarter we continued with our strategy to grow with our global customers.
We began production and product qualification at our new modified fiber facility in Gdansk Poland.
The grand opening ceremony for the facility will be held next month.
We expect to generate our first commercial sales by the end of the second quarter.
And now I'll turn the call over to Patty to discuss our second quarter outlook as well as provide financial highlights.
Thanks Dan.
The outlook for the second quarter of this year is summarized on Chart 13.
I'll begin my comments with Timberlands.
In the West the strong export markets that we experienced in the first quarter are expected to continue.
Japanese housing starts this year are running ahead of last year and some projects continue to be delayed by the carpenter shortage pushing the backlog of housing orders further into 2013 contributing to strong log sales through Q2.
In China inventory of North American logs are lower than the same period last year.
Log prices moved up in March and these strong prices are continuing into this quarter aided by an improving U.S.
domestic market.
Heavy April shipments from the Pacific Northwest combined with record shipments of New Zealand radiata pine in Q1 may tend to dampen further upward price movement in Q2 but we expect these markets to remain strong.
Domestic log prices have increased during April in response to strong lumber markets.
Western fee harvest volumes are anticipated to be slightly lower.
In the South realizations for pine grade logs are expected to be flat and fee harvest volumes will increase somewhat now that the wet weather is receding.
Costs for both West and South are anticipated to increase seasonally due to higher silviculture-related spending.
Before considering nonstrategic land sales Timberland earnings are expected to be comparable to the first quarter.
Earnings from nonstrategic land sales are anticipated to be somewhat higher than Q1 where we had income of $3 million.
In Wood Products zen [ph] channel inventories combined with a seasonally stronger demand are expected to drive low double-digit sales volume increases across all major product lines.
Adverse effects from unexpected weather events combined with Canadian rail transportation issues should subside.
We expect sales realizations for engineered Wood Products to increase slightly while there may be some potential for softening in lumber and OSB prices as more supply enters the market.
Log costs are anticipated to increase especially in the West partially offset by improved operating rates.
We continue our focus on operational improvements including product strategies and customer selection as well as manufacturing efficiencies.
We expect another strong earnings performance for the Wood Products segment in the second quarter with overall results comparable to the first quarter.
In Cellulose Fibers sales realizations are expected to increase slightly as the markets slowly improve.
We anticipate lower maintenance fiber and energy costs.
We have fewer major maintenance projects scheduled this quarter as we continue on track for the transition to an 18-month interval between scheduled maintenance outages which should be completed by 2014.
As Dan said we are on schedule with the qualification process at our newly constructed Poland converting facility and we anticipate completing qualification by the end of this quarter.
Overall second quarter earnings in our Cellulose Fibers segment should be significantly improved compared to the first quarter.
In our Real Estate segment markets continue to gain momentum as low inventories rising home prices pent-up demand and historically low interest rates are motivating buyers.
Prospective buyers are attracted to fresh new product designs and new communities.
As Dan mentioned our community count is increasing and we are likely to end the quarter with operating 81 communities.
During the second quarter we expect to close approximately 600 homes compared to 463 homes in the first quarter.
The average closing price for this quarter is anticipated to be slightly lower due to mix although input prices or costs are rising average margin should be comparable to the first quarter.
Given the higher closing volume we expect higher selling costs.
Overall we expect a slight profit in our single-family homebuilding business in the second quarter and we do not anticipate any significant land or lot sale.
Now I'll wrap up with some overall financial comments.
During these comments I'll be discussing items that are included on Chart 14.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of nearly $640 million a decrease of approximately $260 million compared to year end.
Consistent with our normal seasonal pattern and because of the strength of our Wood Products sales we used cash from operations to build working capital.
We had total capital expenditures of about $48 million during the quarter and we expect total expenditures for the year to be up to $300 million.
Given our improved operating results coupled with our strong liquidity and valuable mix of timberlands holdings Moody's announced earlier this week that they have upgraded our credit rating.
We are investment grade rated by both Moody's as well as S&amp;P.
We retired nearly $160 million of debt during the quarter.
We have remaining maturity this year of just over $250 million well below our existing cash balance with no significant additional debt repayments until 2017.
In addition we have an unused line of credit totaling $1 billion.
Our net debt-to-enterprise value was 17% as of the end of the quarter.
As Dan previously discussed earlier this month our board increased our quarterly dividend to shareholders from $0.17 to $0.20 per share underscoring our commitment to a sustainable dividend that we intend to continue to grow over time.
Now I'll turn the call back to Dan and I look forward to your questions.
Thanks Patty.
Overall I'm pleased with our financial performance during the quarter and I'm optimistic about our ability to continue to improve our operational results as the housing market remains on a path to return to trend levels of demand and global markets stabilize for our Cellulose Fibers segment.
In our Timberlands segment we're well-positioned to capitalize on improving domestic markets while taking full advantage of our competitive strengths in accessing high-value export markets from our Western Timberlands.
We have an added benefit that comes from our extensive mineral rights which generate revenue from oil gas and other resources.
In our Wood Products segment we have the widest range of wood products of anyone in the industry all of which will be needed to construct new housing units as the U.S.
housing continues to recover.
Our lumber and OSB businesses showed their potential during the quarter.
As new construction continues to increase we expect to see improved results from our engineered Wood Products and distribution businesses.
Our WRECO business is filling its backlog pipeline for new homes to be delivered over the balance of the year.
As we continue on our planned path to increase our total community count by nearly 20% this year I'm encouraged by the interest of new buyers who are visiting our model homes and signing new contracts at increasing prices.
In our Cellulose Fibers segment as Patty noted in her outlook a slight recovery in pulp prices together with reduced maintenance fiber and energy expense are expected to result in significantly higher earnings in the second quarter.
We'll continue with our strategy to grow with our global customers by innovating to create differentiated products that benefit our key existing customers while attracting new ones.
An example of these differentiated products is our new cellulose-based composite THRIVE which is now planned to be used as an interior part of a new 2014 Lincoln model which will hit the market later this fall.
In closing we had good solid performance in the quarter and yet we still have opportunity for continued improvement.
We've made great progress in improving the strength of our balance sheet while rewarding shareholders with another increase in our dividend.
And we're well-positioned to capture the opportunities that will come as we continue on a path of economic recovery.
And now we welcome your questions and comments.
Would you please open the floor to questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wondered -- first of all on the Wood Products business can you give us a sense of kind of what your estimated operating rates are in those different businesses? Sure.
For the first quarter Mark our lumber and OSB businesses were operating at about a 90% rate.
And in our engineered Wood Products business we saw a significant increase in operating rate so that we're now operating in the mid-40% range for our I-Joist facilities and mid-50% range for our solids.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Dan can you also talk about anything that you might be doing to kind of add more capacity whether it's just picking up another shift or perhaps restarting capacity or maybe even thinking about a little incremental capital? Yes a couple of comments Mark.
We are -- we do have the ability in our lumber mills to add hours and to some extent add shifts.
All of our lumber facilities are operating today.
In our oriented strand board business all of our mills are operating.
And we are increasing shifts in some cases so there's some additional flex capacity in our solid or engineered wood business.
We still have 2 curtailed facilities.
And as the market continues to recover we have the ability to bring them back.
As anyone in the industry restarts capacity there's a long lead time.
And so we are positioning our facilities so that at the right time we can bring them back to meet demand.
One of the surprises I think in the industry has been how long it takes to bring back mills that have been shut down both because of the availability of labor that's qualified the ability to fill a log yard and to operate smoothly.
So we have flex capacity to respond.
And as the market continues to improve we're well-positioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just...
Mark I just might add that the engineered wood operating rates that Dan gave you did include those 2 closed facilities.
So if we were to back those out and just use our existing facilities that would be closer to the mid- to high-60% ratio.
So those operating rates as Dan said are continuing to move up.
I think also as you think about our capital spending which I referenced was -- could be up to $300 million for this year which is similar to what we spent last year.
But the mix of where we spend that will be very different from last year given that in last year we were finishing our converting facility in Poland so we were spending more in Cellulose Fibers last year than we will this year.
And we will also be putting more money to work in Wood Products especially in our lumber business to look at low capital but still capital solutions where we can bring on additional capacity as we need it adding a dry kiln here and there so that we can process more of the green lumber that we can produce at some of our facilities.
So you'll see a little shift in mix that is not huge increments but across our 18-mill set does add up as we put those dollars to work.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could -- just a follow-up on your Timberland business you highlighted that dichotomy between kind of the Western situation and the Southern situation what are your expectations about kind of price and volume in the South as we kind of move through the year? And when do you think this pickup in housing and Wood Products prices is going to start to flow through to Southern log and timber prices? Well we think it will come but we can't call the timing Mark.
As I mentioned there was more deferral in the South.
And so as markets pick up clearly the Wood Products production is increasing.
So the deferral wood in the South is benefiting the margins of wood products producers whereas in the West it's a much stronger log market.
So it will just be one that we have to watch over time and very difficult to call the timing of when that market tensions because there are so many landowners that are -- have the ability to bring logs to market.
Research Division</strong> But fair to say you think it may be a little longer than normal lag in the South this time around before this starts to flow back to the stump? I'm not sure what a normal lag is.
I mean I think we've been through an extraordinary period with this housing recession and so we don't have experience with this amount of deferral.
But I would expect with the pace of recovery in housing that there'll be opportunity.
Yes.
So Mark I think we've already experienced a little longer than a normal lag...
Research Division</strong> Yes yes I agree Patty.
It's not been a normal downturn.
Yes.
So I think we'll -- those prices will start to move probably some time more in the latter half of this year than what we've seen at this point.
So I don't think it's a long ways away but we'll be ready for it when it comes.
All right we all will.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> By the way not to join the bandwagon but I noticed this was the third quarter in a row where you didn't have any adjustments to between GAAP and reported earnings and the first time you've had 3 in a row since 1998 so congratulations.
Thanks Chip.
I'm glad that you noticed.
LLC</strong> Oh yes absolutely.
Listen the first question -- this has been a long time coming.
The first question is on the Cellulose business.
I know you sort of gave us the view that there will be substantial improvement.
And as you know that number can jump around considerably excluding any price impacts.
So if we made -- I don't know what you're assuming whether this current round of pricing -- price announcements go through or not but could you just give us a little -- a better guidance in terms of what the movement might be if we exclude any pricing impact from first to second quarter? Well maybe the way to think about it Chip would be if you think about where we would expect that business to be in the second quarter given the assumptions that I had in my outlook that I would say that it will be much closer to the $60 million that we earned in the fourth quarter than in the $31 million that we moved in this quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then second follow-up is on the Wood Products business.
I know your guidance is for flat and it's really tough with pricing moving around the way it is.
It just seems like in the past that often when there is a sudden movement about the time of the call and it's not fair because your people couldn't have looked at randomly last night for example and then reacted to it.
But it would seem to me that if we see a continuation of softer lumber prices in the next 3 or 4 weeks that maybe that would prove high but maybe you could comment on that sensitivity.
And maybe if I turn it around and said if we do see a bottom by the end of let's say by mid to late May in a turnaround could that number actually be up? I guess the best way to answer your question is to think about conditions in the channels Chip because this is really a behavioral issue as much as anything.
Channels are very tight and with prices as high as they have been most in the channel have been reluctant to take significant inventory positions but the orders continue to come in because new home construction is picking up.
And so the real question is to the extent that there's softness how long how deep? And since the inventory levels are relatively low I think what we may find is something similar to what happened in the fourth quarter where the orders were coming in and so the distributors and the builders put their orders in and reentered the market.
So it's really going to be a behavioral issue I think as much as anything.
And it's all really just flow back to demand levels and construction.
So I think you have to look at construction levels for some guidance there and I wouldn't want to speculate about price movement.
LLC</strong> And you're not concerned about inventories being elevated at the very end -- at the builder level because we've seen so many strong months? Help me a little bit with your question.
Inventory levels at the builder level? Inventories...
LLC</strong> Yes your end customer.
Yes exactly the guys that are actually using the stuff now.
Channels seem to be relatively thin.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And finished inventory for builders is very low as I commented.
And so as those new orders come in construction will pick up and it starts with the lumber drop and panels.
And so we would expect building activity based upon all of the statistics starts permits to be continuing to increase through the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Joshua Barber with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you guys can talk about any of the possible supply pinch points that you may see cropping up or are seeing today? Dan I think you mentioned something that I think a lot of us just look at strangely which is the engineered business seems to be operating at pretty low operating rates and generally would follow the single-family business whereas lumber and OSBs had multi-year highs.
Can you talk about I guess anything that's affecting that today and where you think that could possibly continue if the supply and demand continues where it is for the rest of the year? Well by product type the engineered products as we've talked before are primarily reliant on new construction.
And so I think that we have a significant position in both I-beams as well as solids and that product does flow into new construction and so we expect new construction activity to continue to pick up and I think that that's a positive.
We saw that move just in the quarter in the change in operating rate in that business more significant really than what it was for our lumber or our panel business.
Multiple outlets for lumber both new construction repair and remodel all of that looks positive; and in industrial a bit.
And then panels primarily going into new construction but that's also singles and it's multis.
The big question in the industry is probably facilities that are -- that had not been operating that are coming back online.
And I think that the -- that there's -- people underestimate the challenge of bringing the facility back if it's been shut down for some period of time.
So there is -- there will be supply that will come online to meet demand but I think that the supply response is a bit delayed and trying to catch up to demand.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess also as these markets get better and better and especially on the homebuilding side where we're seeing some really excellent valuations would you guys be inclined I think at some point to consider spinning off or selling perhaps WRECO given the valuations that a number of the other builders are trading at? We're focused on operating our businesses as well as we can and continuing to take advantage of the opportunity presented to us with market recovery.
So our focus is on operations.
In our homebuilding business we're well-positioned because we do have a land position to build on.
We're in great markets and they're all showing really robust recovery at this point.
So we're going to take advantage of that in our operations.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to pick up on WRECO as well.
And certainly you're seeing progress.
But for example the closings in the quarter were I think a little bit below where you had guided in the prior quarter.
I think at one point in time you had said you were looking for 500 closings.
So I was wondering what might have created the variance there if that was a correct recollection.
And also Dan I mean we're seeing from our scan of the homebuilding regions California has been very very strong.
Texas had been very very strong.
These are areas where you are certainly very strong from a regional standpoint.
I'm just curious why we're not yet seeing the lift in your margin within WRECO.
And then I had a couple of follow-ons.
The margin question is I mean to some extent it's a mix issue among markets.
We have different margins by market different margins by product type.
We've historically guided that we should expect gross margins in the low-20% range.
This quarter we were at 19.5%.
That was a bit of a mix issue between a more attached product in the Washington D.C.
area and coming off some higher margin projects in the Las Vegas area.
Sales as you know in California had been very strong.
As I look at our first quarter activity the real strength year-over-year was in L.A.
Ventura which had been a soft market.
It was the Inland Empire it was San Diego and it was Las Vegas.
So those have been the last markets to come back.
There is a lag in when those homes are delivered.
So the sales that we took contracts on in the first quarter will be delivered over the second third and fourth quarter depending upon the complexity of the home.
As I noted in my comments a lot of these are to-be-built houses and so there's a bit more of a lag.
And so we would expect that we'll have a stronger back half of the year as we always do at WRECO.
I did note and I wanted to spend some time talking about cost increases because they are factors for everyone in the industry.
As you noted I led off with OSB and lumber so that's not a bad thing for Weyerhaeuser Company.
But there are increased costs and there is a process as cost increases and we pass that through to the ultimate homebuyer where there's a bit of a lag.
So you should expect prices to continue to rise.
Our focus is not just on maintaining margins but growing margins.
So -- and you talked about Texas.
Texas was not quite as strong first quarter but last month or so it has really picked up.
So we're really pleased with the markets that we're in.
We think we have the ability to maintain the margins that we've had in the past but there are mix issues quarter-to-quarter.
And that business is traditionally back-ended in terms of deliveries much more heavy in the third and fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Dan you've mentioned for a number of quarters the I'll put it as the affordable housing element in your mix that's been keeping margins perhaps below where you'd like them to be.
When does that if you will cycle through? And are you finding that as you're needing to purchase land if there are scenarios like this that you need to continue to commit to a certain level of affordable housing as you purchase these new lots and in turn that's keeping a lid on margin? And the other question I had and I'll turn it over and I think you're alluding to this as I look at your backlog pricing it seems to show up in your -- your selling price on a closed home is usually within a couple of quarters.
So these $440 000 levels you've been at the last couple of quarters these more or less should be showing up in the back half? Would that be your expectation? Let me start with the last question.
The higher-priced homes that we have generally are -- some of them are in San Diego and some are in the Washington D.C.
metro area for our Winchester and Camberley brands.
We had the longest lead time on those Washington D.C.
homes because they have more customization and so there is a cycle time for them that maybe 6 to 9 months as compared to a shorter cycle time for it.
The other extreme would be a townhome that we're building in the Inland Empire.
So there is some lag that you observed.
With respect to land and lot prices lot prices had been moving up relatively quickly.
We clearly are -- we are restocking our pipeline for current projects.
Those prices had moved but we would not expect that that would lead to a significant degradation of margin.
You talked about the -- asked about the affordable housing units.
That's a function primarily in that Washington D.C.
metro area.
It happens in larger communities of more than 50 units and we try to point that out when we see those closings come through.
That was not an issue in the last quarter.
Last quarter was just a shift to more of a townhome product which is lower priced as compared to higher-priced single families.
So we can try to guide you a bit on those affordables.
When they do occur it normally occurs where there's significant number of closings at one time because we turn those houses over to a regional housing authority and they handle the sales activity.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> There were a couple of reports in the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times earlier this week talking about the tax treatment of REITs and the Journal specifically was talking about Congress taking a look at that pretty hard.
I'm just wondering can you give any comments from what you know about what's going on? Is there anything kind of out of the usual there? And most specifically how it might drill down the timber REIT versus maybe a more traditional REIT? Well there had been a series of articles that you've noted that have discussed some recent conversions or some planned conversions including some nontraditional real estate.
So I think that they are all consistent with the current tax law.
As we look at broad tax reform I think Congress if they take a broad look on tax treatment they talk about all aspects of the code including a discussion of corporate tax personal tax LLCs pass-through entities as well as REITs.
The National REIT Organization is well-organized.
They have broad constituency across the country.
I think that the REIT structure has worked very well for a long period of time.
Because of the way it's structured the REITs generate income.
That income is distributed to individual shareholders and they pay taxes.
So I can't speculate on what Congress might or may not do in any tax reform but we pay attention to it and the National REIT Organization is well-positioned to deal with those questions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one other quick question.
Going sort of back to Chip's question on Wood Products I just want to make sure I understand or can you just clarify what you think is causing the weakness in wood product prices that we've seen over the last couple of weeks? I can't comment on market reaction to prices.
Prices have been very high.
And I think that at today's levels that creates some level of caution.
But the product is needed.
And ultimately as I come back in my discussion you have to look at the channel.
The channel is relatively thin.
If the orders are coming in they'll get filled and prices will be settled at market.
And I can't comment on quite frankly the direction because it's a function of supply-demand.
I feel really good about the demand side.
Gail as you know prices -- volatility and prices for both lumber and OSB are not surprising.
That usually does happen and prices did move up in the first quarter.
So to think that they're going to just continue to move up forever would certainly be a mistake...
Research Division</strong> No I guess I was just wondering if there's a sense that maybe more supply was finally making its way back into the market and even tension a little bit but...
Yes.
I think that as the demand increases we will need more of that supply.
So the fact that more supply is coming on is just kind of the natural order of things.
I don't think there's -- if you're talking about a real big shift a big fundamental shift from supply-demand balance I don't think that there's a huge piece.
I think what we're seeing here is just more of the normal kind of reaction that we see.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
I think you're going to start to face some high-quality problems in the near future specifically with the balance sheet.
With the EBITDA improving and the cash flow generation picking up it seems to me the leverage ratio will start to really drop pretty quickly.
So can you remind us again how you think about the efficient leverage in the business and what you expect to do to stay in front of the balance sheet becoming inefficient? Yes Alex.
What we have said is that for this size of company that we would think that gross debt of -- or at about $4 billion would be something that would make sense for us.
At the end of this year we'll certainly be there where they're on a net debt basis today.
I think that what you point out is that because of the strength of the balance sheet because of the strength of the improvement in markets and also our own operating performance that we are experiencing -- as you call it a high-class problem I call it a great opportunity to take advantage of things that are out in front of us.
And so those are the kinds of things that we look at in terms of what is the right leverage what is the right capital allocation.
You've heard us talk about this morning both in terms of investing in our businesses returning cash to shareholders.
And all of those things are things that we are reviewing on an ongoing basis.
So I think the future does look very exciting and those kinds of problems I like a lot better than the ones that we've seen behind us.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And switching to the Wood Products business can you talk about what you believe the strategic rationale to have a distribution business tied back into the manufacturing businesses is? Sure.
With distribution for us it's always helpful to provide a little bit of history.
Today our distribution business is a significant channel for our engineered Wood Products business plus we do flow some lumber especially our higher-grade lumber Framer Series and differentiated products as well as some of our higher-value OSB.
We also in that business distribute products for third parties.
So we have some third-party element of distribution because we've got the infrastructure in place to serve our customers in the homebuilding business and they need not just our products but others.
And so there are some complementary products.
We have a business that historically had more scale.
We scaled it back when we changed our operating model and went to a brand called iLevel about 5 years ago.
And in that time we eliminated most of our third-party distribution and focused on being a channel for our own products really made that business uneconomic.
And so we noted that that wasn't working for us.
We shifted it back to a standalone business and so you'd see the results where we account for is a separate P&amp;L.
We've got a scale of footprint that allows us to flex with an improving market and we have a lot of operating leverage in that businesses as we see housing recovery.
So it serves as a channel for not all of our product but some of our product as well as third party gives us an opportunity to provide some additional marketing services especially for our engineered Wood Products.
And we are looking forward to the opportunity to have that business take advantage of its scale and operating leverage as the market recovers.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I had a quick follow-up on WRECO.
You talked about a stronger back half of the year but also some mix headwinds and price bottlenecks.
And I guess when you look at the business broadly I think WRECO earned about $100 million last year with a large land sale impacting that in the fourth quarter.
When you think about the earnings potential of the business for full year 2013 would you envision the business would earn a similar amount? Would it -- would you expect it to earn significantly more or slightly more? Or could it actually earn less given the large land sale last year? And I understand you don't give full year guidance but sort of any kind of color on that would be very helpful.
Well you're right we don't provide full year guidance so I appreciate you recognizing that.
We did have a significant land sale last year of some nonstrategic land in San Diego which is land with a product type that we don't build.
We always have some of that.
It's part of our land development strategy especially with our Southern California operation.
As we look at 2013 full year what we are expecting is a significant shift in mix in our earnings that will be much more heavily weighted towards our housing business.
There may be some land sales but we are not projecting them.
We're an opportunistic seller both nonstrategic land that might be zoned for products that we don't build but we also have in some cases residential lots that -- where we have the option to either build them on ourselves or to sell them to others if we have the right price.
So I think that the major story for WRECO 2012 versus 2013 will be a shift in income away from just land sales not just land sales but heavyweight the land sales to a much higher weighting of a single-family.
I think also Anthony as you think about WRECO coming out of 2012 into 2013 I think as Dan gave in his comments we ended the year with a very low community count in WRECO at 62.
We'll be at 81 at the end of the second quarter.
So there's a little bit of a flywheel effect if you will of low inventory at the end of 2012 as we weren't sure about where the California markets were headed.
So that flywheel is going to work.
You're seeing it now in the backlog.
Although as what's discussed earlier most of those homes don't get delivered until the back half of 2013.
So as you noted we won't give full year guidance but it will be significantly better and better than our normal seasonal pattern because of that flywheel effect of low inventories at 2000 -- end of 2012 and now going to work in 2013 back half.
Your next question comes from the line of Carly Mattson with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Following the company's return into a full investment grade could you talk to whether Weyerhaeuser will consider looking to refinance its higher-coupon debt or what types of consideration the company takes into account when it's thinking about that decision? Carly yes absolutely.
We would love to refinance some of that higher-coupon debt.
It really is a function of what premium would have to be paid in order to do that in the economic tradeoff.
So we look at that on a very regular basis.
And when that makes sense for us to do that would be a great thing to do.
But right now from an economic standpoint it doesn't make sense.
And your final question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
First just the intersegment elimination LIFO inventory that was in the corporate I assume that goes away next quarter and so that corporate goes back down to more like a $20 million number.
Is that generally speaking right? Yes Mark.
It is unusually high for 2 reasons: one typically from a seasonal perspective that number would be higher at the end of the first quarter because of our normal inventory build.
But given the strength of Wood Products we certainly had a little more working capital than maybe even a normal seasonal pattern would be.
And then as we sell down that working capital over the course of the year that will turn around and come back so that the pattern of the unallocated segment will be closer to as you just described it.
We try and take all of these anomalies and put them in this unallocated item and give you full visibility in terms of the detail of what's in there.
So you can track that volatility.
But you've got the pattern right.
Just as you can see in the fourth quarter we actually had pickup from LIFO and intercompany profit.
And all that -- by the way I do appreciate the additional disclosure in general.
It's very helpful.
Second as you're making more money from the Wood Products and the homebuilder hopefully soon can you help us in how to do the tax rate? It came off a little off from my tax rate.
Is there kind of a rule-of-thumb way to be able to get to the tax rate? Well it really is as we've talked about before a function of how you think about the mix of earnings.
So the mix in the Timberlands business that is in the REIT of course is a 0 tax rate.
And as we look at the TRS those have a normal kind of tax rate.
I would think about something around the 34% 35% rate for that mix of income.
Now we had a higher tax rate maybe than what you would have thought given the fact that we had a higher Wood Products income in the TRS than what a number of people were thinking about in the model.
So it really is a function of the TRS versus the REIT.
And then also not all the Timberlands earnings are REIT-qualified.
We do some merchandising of our logs in the TRS portion of the Timberlands business and so we did have income in the TRS from Timberlands that would be subject to the tax.
Okay.
And then lastly Dan you referenced housing going back towards trend levels of demand over time.
At this juncture having had a couple of years to think about it where do you think trend levels of demand for housing single-family and total what do you think is the right number for trend levels? I continue to follow the long-term trend numbers that are generated by the Joint Center for Housing at Harvard.
They're not a forecaster.
They just look at long-term demographics starting with population household formation.
And there's a headship assumption there's the repair or the replacement for destroyed units and then the wildcard in their estimates is immigration.
So they would have a range of 1.6 million to 1.9 million Mark with the biggest question being the impact of immigration which can move numbers by 100 000 or more or so.
As I think about it I think generally 1.6 million to 1.8 million is a trend number over a 10-year period.
There are periods when you would expect housing starts and deliveries to be greater than that and then obviously we're coming off of a very deep trough.
I think we've been underbuilding for some period of time.
The question or the mix between singles and multis is being debated a little bit just as demographics change but I quite frankly don't expect a very significant shift.
I think we'll see a gradual move to higher-density housing over time just because of the continued urbanization of population.
But as I note we're a long way from those trend numbers.
And it really is about household formations and we're going to go through a period of accelerated formation now just because household formations have been so low.
Household formations are about 1.2 million a year 1.2 million on average.
And as you think about -- if you have those types of long-term trend numbers that that might call for one type of investment strategy in your underlying business.
At the same time you said that we're pretty far away from those numbers.
Are you going to be much more of the mindset to actually begin to really see evidence of it of these much higher housing-type numbers before starting to commit significantly more capital recognizing that you maybe a little bit late doing it that way? Or are you going to be inclined to get out in front of it because you're confident it's coming? I think the timing is a question and I think that there's-- we're going to be cautious.
As we've come through this recession it was just last year that California housing started to pick up and that's a very significant market not just for us but for the entire country.
I think that directionally we want to be operating the facilities that we have today as best we can make them as efficient as possible get the most return that we can from them.
We've got opportunities with modest investment to continue to improve operations of our existing facilities.
And we will focus on what we've got in front of us rather than I think getting out with significant new capacity.
New capacity will come back but I think the entire industry is going to be operating much more efficiently than we were in the prior cycle.
I commented earlier that as we noted in our release this was our best quarter for Wood Products since 2005 and yet we did it on half the volume.
And so I think not just us but the industry is going to be more efficient and we'll react as the demand emerges.
Well I want to thank everybody for joining us today.
We appreciate your attendance and we appreciate your interest in Weyerhaeuser Company.
I want to remind everybody on the call that we'll be hosting our annual investor conference in New York.
That's just 2 weeks from today on May 10 at the Sofitel Hotel.
You can register for attendance on our website.
And if you have any questions about that event or following this call if you have further questions and you need follow-up contact Kathy McAuley.
And we appreciate you joining us this morning.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser Q2 2013 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the call over to Kathryn McAuley Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Brent.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us on Weyerhaeuser's second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
The earnings release analyst package and web slides for this call can be found at our website or by contacting April Meier at (253) 924-2937.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during this conference call.
On the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures and a GAAP reconciliation can be found in the package.
Joining me this morning to discuss second quarter results are Dan Fulton President and Chief Executive Officer; and Patty Bedient Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Doyle Simons CEO elect is also with us this morning.
Doyle becomes President and Chief Executive Officer on August 1.
I know you are looking forward to hearing from Doyle but the purpose of this call is to focus on second quarter earnings and performance.
As summarized on Chart 1 Weyerhaeuser reported second quarter 2013 net earnings to common shareholders of $196 million or $0.35 per diluted share on net sales of $2.1 billion.
Turning to our business segments my comments reviewing the second quarter 2013 refer to changes from the first quarter of 2013.
Beginning with Timberlands Charts 2 3 4.
Timberlands contributed $114 million through earnings $10 million more than in the first quarter.
The disposition of non-strategic Timberlands in Q2 was $14 million.
Non-strategic Timberlands dispositions were $3 million in Q1.
Export demand continued strong as export log sales rose 27%.
Western log price realizations increased 9%.
Both export and domestic prices were higher.
Southern log price realizations were flat.
Fee harvest volumes declined 4% in the West and were essentially flat in the South.
Road and silviculture expenses seasonally increased.
Wood Products Charts 5 and 6.
Wood Products contributed $136 million to earnings $42 million less than in Q1.
During the quarter lumber sales volumes increased 13% and oriented strand board sales volumes rose 3%.
Price realizations declined 8% for OSB and lumber price realizations were slightly lower.
Engineered wood product volumes were flat while prices increased 4% for both solid section and TJIs.
Log costs were higher in the West.
Manufacturing costs increased due to downtime and repairs associated with the fire of our Arcadia Louisiana OSB mill.
Engineered wood products' maintenance expense was higher than normal and raw material cost increased.
Margins in the distribution business were adversely affected by the steep drop in commodity prices during the quarter.
Cellulose Fibers Charts 7 and 8.
Cellulose Fibers contributed $57 million to Q2 earnings $26 million more than in Q1.
Scheduled maintenance costs were $7 million lower than in the previous quarter.
There were 12 annual outage days.
Higher productivity resulted in a 4% increase in pulp production.
Energy fiber and chemical costs were lower.
Slightly higher electricity sales at Grande Prairie also contributed to lower manufacturing costs.
Real Estate Charts 9 10 and 11.
Real Estate contributed $14 million to earnings an increase of $14 million from the seasonally weak first quarter.
636 homes were closed in second quarter a 25% increase over the same quarter last year and a 37% increase from the first quarter.
The single-family growth margin increased to 21.6% due to mix.
The average closing price increased 3% to $405 000.
At the end of the second quarter the backlog the number of homes sold but not closed rose 27%.
Q2 includes $2 million in earnings from land and lot sales.
Unallocated Chart 12.
Unallocated expense in the quarter netted to 0.
The elimination of intersegment profit in inventory and LIFO was an expense of $24 million in Q1 compared to a gain of $8 million in Q2.
Unallocated share-based compensation was an expense of $7 million in Q1 compared to a gain of $5 million in Q2 due to the change in stock price.
I will now turn the call over to Dan Fulton.
Dan? Thanks Kathy and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
We've had a very busy quarter at Weyerhaeuser.
This morning I'll provide some color on our second quarter performance beyond the specifics that Kathy has just reviewed.
In addition on June 16 we made a series of significant announcements that we discussed in a call on June 17.
Following my discussion of second quarter results I will recap those announcements and provide an update related to those matters.
Let me first address our second quarter results.
I'm pleased to report that earnings for the second quarter increased significantly from the first quarter more than double last year's second quarter results.
As noted in our earnings release it is a fourfold increase before special items.
During the quarter the U.S.
economy sent mixed signals.
Private sector employment is increasing partially offset by fiscal contraction.
Consumer confidence in June increased to its highest level in 5 years.
This is a big factor in bringing buyers back into the housing market.
As I discussed during our May analyst meeting we still believe that we're in the early stages of a longer-term return to trend levels of housing starts.
Existing home sales continued to improve both in volume and price.
Retail inventory continues to be limited.
New home sales continued to increase and new home inventory continues to be especially tight.
There was less than a 4-month supply available in June.
Total new housing starts in June were seasonally adjusted 836 000 was a bit of a shift towards the higher percentage of single-family homes.
Forecasters now estimate that there will be approximately 1 million starts in 2013.
Most projections for 2014 are up an additional 20% to 25%.
Home prices for both resale and new homes continued to rise in most markets.
Both the recent Case-Shiller and National Association of Realtors' indexes report year-over-year increases of 10% to 15%.
The greatest uncertainty in the U.S.
economy today seems to be the role of the Fed in managing interest rates and the signaling about its strategy to taper asset purchases.
Global economic activity affects our Cellulose Fibers and Timberlands business segments and growth remains fragile.
The U.S.
dollar continues to strengthen against the Canadian dollar and the euro and we've seen a significant weakening in the Japanese yen as a result of government policy designed to spur domestic growth.
Now I'll comment on the performance in each of our businesses in the second quarter starting with Timberlands.
In Timberlands as Kathy noted operating earnings were essentially flat quarter-over-quarter with total earnings up slightly due to disposition of non-strategic Timberlands.
In the West we continued to benefit from our long-term strategy of maximizing returns by leveraging log exports.
Japan remains our primary export market but all of our Pacific Rim markets remained strong with volume and price increasing in the quarter.
Our new Longview Timber acquisition is a perfect fit with this strategy as these acres are well positioned to flow volume to Weyerhaeuser's strategically located Pacific Coast export facilities and then to overseas markets.
The market story in the South hasn't changed much from last quarter.
Our risk volumes were flat sales volumes increased slightly and prices remained essentially flat.
As U.S.
housing continues to recover we expect southern log volumes to gradually improve but with a somewhat slower price response as deferred harvest volume comes back into the market.
Our Timberlands operations are focused on extracting the most value from the current market relying on our low-cost scale harvesting and hauling capabilities as well as directing our logs to the highest end-use markets.
In Wood Products we had another strong quarter though earnings declined quarter-over-quarter.
Wood Products contributed the highest earnings of all of our businesses in the second quarter $136 million and delivered $227 million in cash flow.
Over the last few months a question frequently asked is whether the market has bottomed.
We entered the second quarter with lumber and OSB prices at levels not seen since the top of the last housing boom.
Prices peaked in the early weeks of the quarter then fell steeply until bottoming around the end of the quarter.
From peak to trough during the quarter Random Lengths' composite lumber price fell almost 30% and the Random Lengths Index for 3/8-inch OSB fell over 40%.
Despite these significant price adjustments during the quarter year-over-year our realizations are up over 50% for OSB and almost 25% for lumber.
While lower than the peak at the beginning of the second quarter prices are at a level that provide opportunity for good returns for our Wood Products businesses.
As I've noted in the past fundamental demographics and improving consumer confidence are major factors in bringing fires back to the market.
Housing is recovering but has a long way to go before reaching trend.
Our Wood Product volumes in the second quarter support this point.
We had solid volume takeaway across all product lines.
As we look forward we continue to be encouraged by the opportunities we have in Wood Products.
We're taking advantage of improving demands for our lumber OSB and Engineered Wood Products.
At the same time we continue to focus on operational improvements that reduce cost and improve revenue opportunities.
Moving to WRECO.
As Kathy noted and as you can see on our web slides volume price and margin all increased during the quarter.
Volume increased as a result of normal seasonality as well as continued recovery toward long-term trend levels.
Our community count increased over 10% from the first quarter leading to a strong increase in sales.
We remain on pace to increase our net community count by 16% this year.
June sales were unseasonably strong.
This is the first time that June sales exceeded May sales since 2005 a signal of continued recovery in our markets.
Second quarter sales activity was strongest for us in the California markets of L.A.
Ventura and the Inland Empire followed by Phoenix and Houston.
Prices were up in all of our markets quarter-over-quarter.
Last quarter I expressed concerns about cost increases eroding margins of pre-sold homes.
However our experience in the second quarter is that prices are increasing faster than cost allowing us to maintain and gradually grow margins.
Even with the increasing level of closings during the quarter our improved sales raised our backlog by over 25% over the prior quarter at almost 40% year-over-year.
In 2012 we closed over 2 300 homes.
At our analyst meeting in May we forecast that 2013 closings would increase to 2 800.
Today we estimate that we'll close nearly 3 000 homes this year.
We expect a large percentage of our backlog will be delivered in the fourth quarter historically our most active quarter for home closings.
My final business comments relate to our Cellulose Fibers segment.
Overall market conditions for pulp and liquid packaging were again relatively stable in the quarter.
Our earnings improved significantly primarily as a result of reduced maintenance expense and higher productivity.
Pulp sales volumes were essentially flat while volumes increased modestly for liquid packaging.
When we talk about the strategy for our Cellulose Fibers segment we focus on 3 elements.
First we strive for continuous improvement in our manufacturing through increased operating efficiency and reduced cost.
Both of these contributed to our quarter-over-quarter improvement.
Second we need to continue to develop innovative products for new markets and improved margins.
During the quarter we added several new customers for our Pearl product which will lead to future increases in sales volume.
We also moved closer to commercialization of our THRIVE cellulose-based composite product.
And third we want to support our growing global customers.
In June we completed the qualification process and shipped our first commercial product from our new modified fiber facility in Gdansk Poland.
Now I'll briefly recap the major announcements that we made on a very busy Father's Day June 16.
First we announced the acquisition of Longview Timber LLC whose primary asset is 645 000 acres of unique high-value Timberlands strategically located in Washington and Oregon.
This acquisition expands our timber holdings in the Pacific Northwest by 1/3 to approximately 2.6 million acres.
It also increases the total amount of timberlands that we own or control to nearly 7 million acres.
The total purchase price including the assumption of debt was $2.65 billion.
I'm pleased to report that this acquisition closed earlier this week and Tom Gideon and his Timberlands team are now on the ground working with the Longview Timber team.
This timberland enhances our leading position as the largest owner of timberland in the region.
These lands are highly complementary and contiguous with our existing ownership in the area.
We intend to leverage our silviculture infrastructure logistics and marketing expertise to reap the full potential of this valuable asset.
Second in conjunction with this acquisition we announced that our board intends to raise our quarterly dividend from $0.20 to $0.22 per share.
This increase should begin with our third quarter dividend which will be declared in August and payable in September.
This will be our third dividend increase in the last 4 quarters bringing our total dividend increase to 47% over that time.
Third we announced that our board has authorized a process to explore a range of strategic alternatives for WRECO.
These alternatives could include continuing to hold and operate WRECO or a merger sale or spinoff of the business.
Given the improving fundamentals of the housing market generally and of our own operations and the strategic growth markets especially California we want to explore strategic alternatives for the business to ensure that WRECO achieves its full potential.
There can be no assurances that the board's evaluation process will result in any transaction or that any transaction it pursued will be consummated.
However we are fully engaged in the process and we are encouraged by the interest that we've received.
We do not intend to comment further unless or until the evaluation process is completed or terminated.
Our final announcement on June 16 was to report that I will be stepping down as President and CEO of Weyerhaeuser on August 1.
Doyle Simons who is previously Chairman and CEO of Temple-Inland and has been a member of the Weyerhaeuser board since June 2012 has been appointed by the board as my successor.
On August 1 I will become Executive Vice Chair in which capacity I will serve until my planned retirement in October when I turn age 65.
After August 1 I will provide support to Doyle as we complete the transition of responsibilities.
It has been a privilege for me to have been able to serve as President and CEO of the company for the past 5-plus years and I'm especially pleased to have Doyle follow me.
Now before turning the call over to Patty who will discuss our third quarter outlook as well as provide a financial update I'd like to give Doyle an opportunity to say a few words.
Doyle? Good morning everybody and thank you Dan.
I am truly excited to take over as President and CEO on August 1 and Dan will be a very tough act to follow.
As Kathy mentioned the focus of today's call will be our second quarter earnings.
I look forward to speaking with each of you on the third quarter call and beyond.
With that let me turn it over to Patty to discuss our third quarter outlook.
Thanks Doyle and good morning everybody.
The outlook for the third quarter is summarized on Chart 13.
I'll begin the outlook discussion with Timberlands.
In the West export price realizations and volumes are expected to be lower for the quarter.
The Japan market is normally seasonally softer during the summer months due to rainy weather and Japan continues to experience carpenter and construction labor shortages as a result of a strong housing market.
In addition China has entered its typical July slowdown.
Domestic log markets in the West are anticipated to be weaker during the third quarter due to lower saw mill production in the West as a result of pressure on lumber pricing.
In addition we typically see more logs coming to market in the summer from the small private non-industrial land owners who don't have adequate road systems to harvest on a year-round basis.
As a result we traditionally plan a lower fee harvest volume in the West for the third quarter.
We also accelerated some harvests into the first half of this year to take advantage of the strong export market.
While we do anticipate a slower third quarter we expect activity will again pick up later in the year.
In the third quarter we will also see increased road costs in the West as we expect more seasonal road maintenance and spur roadbuilding as is typical this time of year.
In the South overall price realizations are anticipated to be comparable to the second quarter.
Although fee harvest volumes should be higher due to seasonally better weather this increased volume will carry a heavier mix due to first settings [ph].
We're also planning higher cost from seasonally increased silviculture treatments which again is typical of the quarter.
We expect that earnings from non-strategic landfills will be somewhat higher in the third quarter compared to the second quarter.
As Dan mentioned we closed on the acquisition of 645 000 acres of high-value timberlands in the West just a couple of days ago.
We're very excited about the opportunity that these lands provide going forward.
However the third quarter results will only include about 2 months of activity.
The positive effect of these incremental earnings will be more than offset by the seasonal slowdown in our existing operations and therefore we expect that overall earnings in our Timberlands segment will be lower in the third quarter compared to the second quarter.
In Wood Products as Kathy discussed prices for both lumber and OSB declined throughout the second quarter such that we began this quarter at significantly lower levels than the average of the second quarter.
Current prices for lumber and OSB are improving.
However we expect third quarter average realizations for OSB will be down substantially compared to the second quarter and average realizations for lumber will also be lower.
Engineered Wood Product sales realizations are expected to improve modestly.
Sales volumes for OSB and engineered wood are expected to increase while volumes for lumber should be comparable to the second quarter.
Log prices in the West should be lower in the third quarter comparable to the second quarter for the South and slightly higher in Canada.
OSB and engineered wood manufacturing costs should improve given higher production and we expect lower OSB web cost for I-Joist.
The improvement in manufacturing cost will not be enough to offset this quarter's lower average sales realization in OSB and lumber and as a result we expect that earnings in our Wood Products segment will be significantly lower in the third quarter compared to the second.
However given the recent improvement in prices a strengthening housing market and our continued focus on operational improvement we expect that earnings will be well above the third quarter of last year.
In Cellulose Fibers we expect modest improvement and average sales realizations and volumes for pulp and liquid packaging board.
The effect of these increases will be offset by higher maintenance costs associated with increased planned annual outage days in the third quarter compared to the second as well as the impact of the lost productivity associated with the maintenance downtime.
We expect that third quarter earnings in our Cellulose Fiber segment will be comparable to the second quarter.
In Real Estate we expect continued improvement in our single-family homebuilding business as a result of a strengthening housing recovery especially in Southern California as well as the seasonally stronger third quarter compared to the second quarter.
Sales have continued at a brisk pace and we expect to close over 700 homes in the third quarter compared to the 636 closed in the second quarter.
Average closing prices are anticipated to be comparable to the second quarter at about $400 000 per closing.
Price increases have been implemented in most of our communities which will result in margin expansion for future closings.
We expect margins of approximately 20% in the third quarter which is slightly lower than the second quarter due to mix.
Volume costs will be higher as a result of the increased closing volume.
We anticipate a slight increase in our earnings from land sales compared to the 2 million in the second quarter.
Overall we expect that earnings in our Real Estate segment will be higher in the third quarter compared to the second.
Now I'll wrap up with some overall financial comments.
I'll refer you to Chart 14 for this discussion.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of just over $900 million.
This does not include the cash rate in our June equity offering of approximately $1 450 000 000.
These funds are segregated on our balance sheet as they were designated for the acquisition of the Longview Timber lands.
Excluding these funds cash increased approximately $270 million compared to the end of the first quarter.
Cash from operations increased from a negative $61 million in the first quarter to $374 million in the second quarter.
Year-to-date for the first half of the year we had capital expenditures including reforestation of approximately $100 million.
We still expect to spend up to $300 million for the full year so the activity will pick up in the second half of the year.
Excluding the Longview acquisition we have debt maturities for the remainder of the year of just over $230 million of which just over $160 million is due in the third quarter.
With the closing of the Longview acquisition earlier this week we assume debt of just under $1.1 billion.
We expect that we will repay this debt in the fourth quarter and replace it with unsecured longer-dated maturity debt.
We expect that this will be a combination of bank and public market debt the mix and timing of which is still to be finalized.
Finally Chart 15 summarizes the changes in our share count as a result of the equity offerings we initiated in June for the acquisition.
With that I'll turn the call back to Dan and I look forward to your questions.
Thanks Patty.
As I stated at the beginning of my remarks we had a very busy quarter at Weyerhaeuser.
We had solid financial results with all 4 of our businesses contributing to increased profitability.
From a strategic perspective we're excited about our acquisition of the 645 000-acre Longview Timber asset.
This acquisition is consistent with our stated intent to play to our strength and grow our timberlands base taking full advantage of our Timber REIT structure.
And finally the strategic review of our WRECO business evidences our commitment to ensure that WRECO achieves its full potential for the benefit of our shareholders.
And now we welcome your questions and comments.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Dan best of luck.
I guess you talked about -- and WRECO is seeing strength in June business this year than in May.
I'm wondering if you can give a little bit perspective on July with interest rates rising? Have you seen any sort of changes in consumer behavior in WRECO? We have not seen any significant changes in behavior Gail.
The thing that was noteworthy about June was as we look at the pattern of sales it was noteworthy because normally we see some summer slowdown.
But in fact June being stronger than May it was the first time that's happened since 2005.
And so to me that is evidence that we are on a path of this longer-term recovery.
So you think about where housing starts are today as compared to long-term trend levels we've got a long way to go.
And so we should expect to see steady improvement and so we're breaking some of these seasonal patterns and that's a good thing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one other quick question.
Patty can -- the Wood Product guidance for the third quarter are you assuming that the current -- the recent price improvement in OSB and lumber continues? Or is it kind of based on current levels of pricing? Yes it is that it will continue to improve for all the reasons that we talked about in terms of the underlying fundamentals but it will still be well below what the average was for the second quarter.
But as I said we do expect that while it will be less than what we earned in the second quarter it will still be well above the third quarter of last year.
So I think that will give you a little bit in terms of the guideposts of what we're looking at out of the Wood Products segment.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> So your pulp business is doing fine.
What I was wondering is if you could tell us how well you think the market has absorbed the new capacity that other people have been bringing on? You haven't seen quite the impact that some others have but I'm just curious if you think competitive pressure there is still significant.
And then the second more specific question with respect to logs in the South I'm curious how much the wet weather has actually affected your production.
Obviously we're all talking about demand but I'm curious whether we're going to see a production impact from all the rain that we've had.
Thanks Mark.
Well with respect to the pulp market as Patty commented thinking about the third quarter guidance we are seeing relative stabilization.
There has been some change in supply some going out of the market with Rayonier completing their shift in their mill.
Fundamentally we rely on the relationships with our longer-term customers and so we feel relatively confident about demand levels going forward.
We would certainly benefit from a pickup in global growth because there's been some softness.
But at this point I think the reliance that we have on our longer-term relationships with large global customers has served us well.
I think the other thing as we think about our Cellulose Fibers business relative to other commodities plus producers is that we do have a number of specialty products within that particular space.
I think Dan referenced the Pearl product and certainly our cross-linked product that is -- commands a higher price also probably underpins the fact that you haven't seen as much pressure on ours as probably some of our competitors.
And then you had a question about logs in the South Mark? Research Division</strong> Yes I'm just curious whether the weather that we've been seeing mostly in the Southeast has had much impact and is going to have much impact on you down there? We do not expect a significant impact in the third quarter.
I think that as we look at our Timberlands business we do expect that we will harvest more fee volume in the third quarter as I said which is typical.
We did -- probably one place where we'll see some additional impact is from -- earlier in the second quarter we would have likely done a little more silvicultural treatment traditionally.
But because of the wet weather some of that did get deferred into the third quarter.
So it's really more from a copy [ph] perspective that you'll see some impact for our particular operation.
Another element Mark is -- one other element Mark is that we have -- generally a road system that's in better shape than perhaps some of the smaller owners.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Congratulations to Dan and Doyle.
I wanted to ask a kind of an arcane question.
You mentioned that we don't see an improvement in the I guess EBIT of the Timberlands segment and I was wondering if one reason could be accounting for the write-up of inventory of logs that you obviously have to do when you make an acquisition? And if -- and as you work down those inventories if they've been written up that could help raise earnings in future periods? Chip there really isn't a big impact from the write-up of log inventory in that we don't carry big log inventories in the Timberland business in the West.
So if you're thinking about large log decks that typically you would see in the West those might be in competitors' saw mills but certainly not in the Timberland business.
So we really won't have a big inventory as we make the acquisition.
And Longview typically didn't carry big long inventories as well.
So we really look at the activity in the third quarter from Longview being the fact that we will really only have that for about 2 months.
And then also they have the same impact in terms of pricing for the third quarter that I talked about in the export market certainly that we are looking at as well.
So we do believe that as we go into the fourth quarter we expect that pricing will be picking up and that we will then also have had the 2 additional months on the ground to really start to work on some of the logistics and marketing synergies that we talked about during the call on the announcement of the acquisition.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then just a quick follow-up.
As we go from the third to the fourth quarter how will the maintenance expense in the Cellulose segment change? More specifically the impact of not taking this much down time if we leave price neutral? Well we're really only talking about guidance for the third quarter on this particular call Chip.
So in terms of giving fourth quarter guidance we'll probably defer to the fourth quarter.
But most of our maintenance did happen to a great extent earlier in the year.
So I would expect that it will be somewhat lighter but I don't have specific guidance for you.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dan best wishes for your retirement and we appreciated the interactions that we've had over the last couple of years with you.
Thank you for that.
A couple of quick questions for you.
First it seems like you guys saw a pretty good pricing momentum on the EWP side.
Can you just talk about how you see your utilization rates in that business and opportunities perhaps for a little more prices as you move through the balance of 2013? Thanks Alex.
As we've talked here about Engineered Wood Products it is the product line in Wood Products that is most closely tied to new home construction.
Utilization rates have been relatively low in this business during the recession and we've been talking about the fact that we would expect it to start to pick up with housing recovery.
And so we've seen I would say early stages of that.
And as construction starts continue to pick up that will affect that business pretty significantly because the products that are produced are going into new home construction.
As we've talked about our own experience in WRECO with the increase in sales and we look at broad housing start numbers we are starting to see the momentum of this recovery and it should translate into increased sales activity for the engineered products and with the facilities that we've got.
That will be evidenced in our higher utilization rates.
So that's what we've been expecting to happen and so we're starting to see early evidence of that.
Research Division</strong> And just a question on sawlog prices in the U.S.
South.
We continue to flat line even though we're -- you're 2 of a housing recovery.
Do you think there's much visibility there in terms of just where the inventory levels actually are and how long do we take to be able to work through the deferred harvest levels in the U.S.
South and actually see some sort of uptick in sawlog prices in the South? We've discussed in the past the fact that there were more deferrals in the South than in the West because of the fact that the West has export potential.
Additionally there are more small land owners in the South.
And what we are seeing is as housing begins to pick up there is an increase in volume but there's not that significant cost pressure that there is in the West.
So it will happen eventually but I can't call the timing.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Best wishes Dan.
I just had 2 areas I wanted to ask about.
First Patty can you give us just any guidance going forward from kind of harvest volumes and mix at Longview both in the third quarter and then on an annual basis thereafter? I really don't have numbers to give you on that Mark but I would tell you that we will be looking at accelerating some harvest over what historically Longview has done.
So maybe pointing you towards the filings that we made of the Longview financial statements in the first quarter of this year.
So you can see 2013 first quarter and then 2012 as well.
So we'll be accelerating that harvest because of the maturity of the forest as well as as we enter again into the fourth quarter we'll see export activity beginning to pick up; as well as as we look at lumber pricing continuing to improve domestically in the West we expect that we'll be seeing a pickup in domestic log activity as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The other thing I wanted to ask about is just the distribution business.
I really appreciate the fact that you've segregated that out now.
You had a $13 million EBITDA loss in the second quarter.
We know that there were inventory issues with the falling prices.
I'm just curious about how you would think of -- have us think about that business on a going-forward basis and also if there's sort of a level of housing starts that you think will get you to EBITDA breakeven in that business and maybe even what like 1.5 million starts might mean for profitability in the business.
Thanks Mark.
In the second quarter the operating losses that we had in our distribution business were in large part related to the significant drop that was experienced in prices for the commodity OSB and lumber.
Some of that is a function of the level of inventory that we're carrying.
Some of that is the function of the challenges in that business with that kind of a price decline.
Longer term I can't put a number on housing starts as to what level it will take in order to return that business to profitability.
I can tell you that our focus is on improving operations today as it has been with our other Wood Products businesses in order to be profitable at the level of starts that are available to us in today's market rather than projecting it in the future.
So as is the case with our other Wood Products businesses we had a significant number of initiatives underway to improve operations.
I'm confident that we will see some progress but obviously we're disappointed with what happened in the second quarter.
And we believe that as the market picks up we will certainly benefit from the leverage of the business but we also need to make operating improvements.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations to Dan and Doyle.
Just following up on Wood Products I was wondering if you could share your operating rates for the 3 businesses.
And during the quarter we obviously saw a decline in lumber and OSB prices and there were discussions of some mills out West taking downtime.
And I'm wondering if that lumber price weakness caused you to step back from adding shifts or any flex capacity? Or if you could share with us what you saw in the quarter? In the second quarter Anthony our operating rate for lumber was elevated slightly so we operated at about a 93% operating rate.
And OSB operating rates were flat to the second quarter at about 88%.
And then our I-Joist business we were roughly 45% and then sawlog's a bit north of 55% which is consistent with where we were in the prior quarter.
In terms of our production rates we do adjust based upon market demand.
We have -- in each of our markets we focus on operating the right shifts at the right time with the right capacity and will continue to adjust to market conditions.
And [indiscernible].
As we -- go ahead Anthony.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe switching to the log side and for 3Q in the West you referenced potentially weaker export prices.
And I'm wondering as you went from maybe the end of the quarter into July if you have any -- if you could share any kind of view on log prices to Japan and China? And in your comments you -- when you discussed sort of weakness in China you seemed to reference it as being pretty seasonal or sort of typical seasonal weakness.
And I was just wondering if you could give us a view on the Chinese market as well.
Sure Anthony.
It's Patty.
As we think about the China market it as well as Japan was strong in the first half of the year.
And as I've said typically in China when you get into the July time frame very hot.
The workers really go back to more of the rural areas and so we always see somewhat of a seasonal slowdown in China.
And that really is our view on China as we go through the third quarter which will be softer.
But we expect it will pick up again in the fourth quarter.
So that really is seasonal from our perspective.
And your other question was? Research Division</strong> Just in terms of price movement from June to July.
Are you seeing a meaningful deterioration of export prices out West? Or are they basically stable? What are you seeing? It's a little softer as we talked about on the guidance.
It's not a huge drop.
Prices are still good.
It's just that relative to the second quarter they will not be as strong.
Anthony just to add a little bit of color we had actually very strong sales in the second quarter to China.
They picked up quite a bit from the first quarter.
China is primarily a buyer of whitewood rather than Douglas fir.
As you know our -- Weyerhaeuser lands are very heavy to Douglas fir the -- as are the Longview Timber lands.
But the Longview Timber lands have a little bit higher percentage of white wood and we'll be able to take advantage of that in providing some additional supply to the China market.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Congrats again to both Dan and Doyle.
My question my first one is on WRECO.
You mentioned that sales levels have been brisk.
June was an outlier relative to May versus the last 7 years.
You mentioned that pricing seems to be outpacing cost if I heard you correctly.
And from the homebuilders as well you've been seeing generally strong outlooks into the third calendar quarter.
And so while I realize that you're seeing a modest improvement in WRECO profits thus far into the third quarter in your guidance relative to 2Q I'm wondering why we aren't seeing a little bit more lift now Dan in terms of homebuilding profits.
In the past you've talked about mix.
What factors are limiting factors now if any? And when do you hope to surmount those? Thanks and I had a follow-on.
Let me talk about the increase in sales activity throughout the first and second quarter and the impact on our backlog.
So at this point when we talk about backlog George you're aware that backlog includes -- so it's sales of homes that have not been closed yet and they may be homes that are completed or under construction or still to be built.
We have very very low levels of standing inventory and so for most part our backlog has a longer-term delivery cycle which would shift more of those closings and backlog to the fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter.
So you see what we've done so far in the first 2 quarters Patty talked about the deliveries that we expect in the third quarter.
And as I mentioned in my remarks we've now increased our expectations for closings for the entire year.
So we expect having a very strong fourth quarter likely a higher percentage of fourth quarter closings than we have seen in quite a number of years.
Even though fourth quarter is generally stronger this fourth quarter I think will be stronger than most.
There is a mixed shift that takes place quarter-to-quarter and it is impacted by where those houses are.
And so we had a higher percentage in the second quarter in San Diego including some homes that we thought we'd close in the third quarter that actually closed at the very end of the second quarter.
And at the same time we had a shift of some homes that we thought would close in the second quarter that moved into the first couple of weeks of the third quarter.
So that mixed shift does matter.
The most significant factor in what you highlighted is that in our remarks we said that we are starting to see some margin improvement as we're able to pass through price increases.
So on a same-store basis we are seeing margin improvement.
But in some quarters that's clouded by mix.
So our view is that over the longer term we should expect to see those higher margins show up in the closings that we would see coming in the fourth quarter and perhaps even into the first quarter of next year.
Research Division</strong> I understand.
And Dan the relative question I had in the last few quarters you've talked about mix being dampened by I think some level of more affordable housing being built into your communities.
Will that factor be lessened to any great degree over the next few quarters? Or is that always going to be something you have to contend with? Should we see a better margin from here on out as that mix factor lessens hopefully? So what you're referring to is the issue of margins on affordable homes that we are required to build in some master-planned communities as part of the overall master plan entitlement.
It has affected us most significantly in the Maryland Virginia suburbs of Washington D.C.
where we build affordable townhomes as part of larger master plans.
That will still be a factor and it's a factor because when we deliver those affordable homes we generally do it with a block of homes at one time.
And so there's a larger percentage perhaps in any given quarter.
But as our volume picks up generally that would be a smaller and smaller percentage of our overall closings.
And so we should expect that the impact of that will be diminished as we go forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I guess like Mark Wilde I was trying to get some help modeling Longview and I'll try a different approach.
If we look at the purchase price and assumed say a 6% discount rate that would imply annual sales of $160 million.
Would that be a good way to add to your legacy land base and then maybe give a little extra bump for the synergies and increased harvesting that you planned? Well I think the way to think about it Steve is really to look at what Longview has been harvesting.
And I think that's around 475 000 to 500 000 board feet.
And I think also to think about your outlook for pricing in terms of how you think about what pricing will do on a go-forward basis considering that there is a rich mix in terms of mature logs but also logs that can go into the Japan market and that as we look at what will happen with their cost structure we do believe that the synergies that we talked about of about $20 million we will get certainly over time but will get a significant portion of that even yet this year in terms of on a run rate perspective and that we will also access the marketing expertise that we have as well.
On the flip side as you think about the historical amounts for Longview we will take out the purchase price most of which will be Timberland and we will pool that with our Western lands in terms of a single rate for depletion.
I think I would refer you to the pro-formas that were in the prospectus that we filed for the equity offering and you can see how that will roll through the financial statement.
For the third quarter that cooling didn't have a significant impact on the results but it could in the future as we go forward given the mix of what we would harvest from Longview and what we would harvest from our existing Western lands.
Research Division</strong> And I -- just as a follow-on having done such a large transaction should we consider you to be still in the market? We know you want to grow your land base.
Or are you out of the market for Timberlands for a little while? We're always in the market trying to improve what I would call improve our hand in our land position.
A lot of that activity happens on a quarter-over-quarter basis with $10.31 exchanges where we can improve the return on -- to hold on all of the lands that we have and the way we do that is we have to maintain an active position in the market.
So we're exposed to opportunities that emerge.
We'll take a look at them.
And as we talked when we announced the Longview acquisition we've looked at a lot of property over the last several years and this was really one that had an extraordinary fit to us for a lot of reasons.
So we'll be cautious.
But for the right property we will be certainly taking a look.
But we've got a lot to absorb with the Longview acquisition and our focus right now is to integrate that into our operations and to capture all of the opportunities that it brings us.
Your final question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Two quick ones.
One on the pulp business you had some initiatives underway with the intent of reducing maintenance costs sourced -- spreading that out over 18 months instead of 12 months.
Can you give us an update on how that's proceeding and whether that will have any impact on 2014? We've made a lot of progress in shifting to an 18-month scheduled maintenance schedule Mark.
We've talked about this over the last couple of years.
It takes some time to implement this on a mill-by-mill basis because in some cases we have had to invest in some operating equipment to allow us to do that.
In other cases -- in every case we have to have an approval from a regulatory body at the state or if it's not state-controlled even our own insurance carrier.
So we've been working through that process.
And additionally all of our mills with the exception of Grande Prairie have received an approval to go to an 18-month outage schedule.
Grand Prairie is still being evaluated.
And in some cases where we receive an approval it'll be subject to further review after that first 18-month cycle to be sure that we are operating safely.
Our focus is to be sure that we're doing it safely.
But we've made great progress and you should expect to see some of the benefits begin to play out in 2014.
But really 2015 probably will be the most significant impact.
And I believe at one point you had said about $40 million would be a potential benefit from that.
Is that still a good number? I don't remember what the exact number was that we had before Mark.
But there's no reason that we would see a change from what the number was that we had before but I don't have the prior ones in front of me.
I think just as we think about the mills we have underway now with us -- we are completing the annual outages for some of the mills in 2013.
They are on their 18-month outage.
So you don't see it in '13 because their outage did take place.
But their next outage will be 18 months from now.
So some will not have an outage in '14.
We do have 1 mill that didn't have -- won't have an outage in '13.
So what we're trying to do is stagger those because it is a function of not only the maintenance between timing between but also the staging of customer orders as well.
So it is underway as we speak.
And as Dan said we would expect with the exception of Grande Prairie which is still -- we're looking at it.
We expect to try to move that one as well.
But we would expect all of them during 2014 to be on an 18-month schedule.
That doesn't necessarily mean they won't all have an outage in '14 though but they will be on a staggered basis.
Okay great.
And then if I'm doing my math right it seems like you're hoping anticipating to have north of 1 000 closings in WRECO in the fourth quarter and I'm trying to get a sense as to what type of gross margin you think is embedded in the backlog.
I understand that in the third quarter there's some mix which is going to bring the gross margin down a little bit perhaps from the third quarter level.
I think in the past you've talked about low 20 gross margins.
Are we at a point where you're able to achieve those types of gross margins on the backlog that you see? Or do we have to get to higher run rates for that? We have identified low 20% gross margins as a long-term number that you should be able to count on.
And over a couple of quarters we've had some mix issues.
I don't want to provide guidance for fourth quarter margins at this point.
You are correct.
As you look at the estimated number of closings and -- I would fall back to my comments that we've been through a period where we had cost increases that were keeping pace with price increases.
And in the second quarter our price increases outpaced cost increases and so we are encouraged about the longer-term direction of our margins.
And as we look at the homes that are in that backlog we would expect some continuing strength and pickup in margins but we can't provide at this point a fourth quarter guidance number.
Okay.
That concludes our call.
I'll turn it back to Dan.
So just some brief closing comments from me.
First of all as always we appreciate your attendance today and your interest in Weyerhaeuser Company.
I want to thank all of you on the call for your support during my tenure as the Weyerhaeuser CEO.
The past 5 years have tested us but through the hard work and dedication of Weyerhaeuser employees we've adjusted to changing market conditions and I believe that we're well positioned to continue to improve our performance in order to maximize the value of all of our assets.
As I wrap up my final earnings call with you I look forward to the experience and the energy and the commitment that Doyle brings to his new role.
And then I'd like to add one final comment and that is that throughout my entire tenure as CEO and the many times that we've been together with you in our analyst and investor meetings and on the many calls that we've had for quarterly earnings and other special events I've been joined throughout that process by Patty Bedient and Kathy McAuley.
I just want to say that I've been incredibly blessed to have had their support along our path together and I want to thank them in front of all of you.
And I want to direct anybody that has further questions to follow up with Kathy.
But we appreciate you joining the call and I am really looking forward to the next phase of company performance and what Doyle will bring to it.
So thanks very much everybody this morning.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Natalia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser Q3 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now turn the call over to Ms.
Kathryn McAuley Vice President Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you Natalia.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us on Weyerhaeuser's third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
Please review the statements -- the warning statements on our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during this conference call.
On the call we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures.
A GAAP reconciliation can be found in the earnings materials which are on our website.
Discussing third quarter 2013 this morning are Doyle Simons Chief Executive Officer; and Patty Bedient Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the call over to Doyle.
Doyle? Thank you Kathy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for today.
It's been a busy almost 3 months since I joined Weyerhaeuser and as I've said before I'm excited to be here.
This morning I am pleased to report solid third quarter earnings of $157 million or $0.27 per diluted share on net sales of $2.2 billion.
This is a 34% increase in earnings compared with third quarter 2012 and a 28% increase in adjusted EBITDA compared with year-ago levels.
Let me now turn to our business segments starting with Timberlands Charts 2 to 4.
Timberlands contributed $118 million to earnings in the quarter up $4 million from second quarter 2013 as the contribution from a partial quarter from the Longview Timberland acquisition mostly offset a smaller-than-expected seasonal decline in earnings from the company's legacy Western operations.
In addition non-strategic Timberlands dispositions were up modestly in the quarter.
In the West log sale realizations were down in both domestic and export markets.
Fee harvest from legacy Western lands was seasonally lower and as expected road and silviculture expenses increased in the quarter.
In the South log sale realizations in the third quarter were flat compared to the second quarter and fee harvest volumes were up modestly.
We continue to be excited about our acquisition of the Longview Timberland and are fully engaged in leveraging our silviculture logistics and marketing expertise to realize the full potential of this outstanding asset.
This transaction closed on July 23 and contributed $16 million in earnings and $26 million in EBITDA in the quarter.
Going forward we will be focused on maximizing the earnings and cash flow from all our Timberlands.
Wood Products Charts 5 and 6.
Wood Products contributed $79 million to earnings in the quarter down from $136 million in the second quarter but above the $59 million of earnings from third quarter 2012.
Average sales realizations for OSB declined 26% in third quarter 2013 compared with second quarter 2013 and realizations for lumber fell by approximately 7%.
The effect of these lower prices was somewhat offset by higher sales volumes across all product lines and lower log cost in the West.
Adjusted EBITDA in the quarter was $110 million.
In lumber EBITDA was down $26 million in the third quarter compared with the second as lower prices were partially offset by higher volumes and lower log cost especially in the West.
In our lumber operations we are focused on continuing to drive down our cost structure and improve our margins.
In OSB EBITDA was down by approximately $42 million in the quarter compared to second quarter as significantly lower prices were partially offset by higher volumes and lower fiber costs.
We continue to be focused on lowering manufacturing cost and delivering high margin products to our growing customer base in this business.
Engineered Wood Products generated EBITDA of $16 million in the quarter compared with $7 million in the second quarter of 2013.
This improvement was due to higher prices in volumes and lower costs.
We are committed to continuing to improve the operating performance of this business.
The Distribution business remained challenged in the quarter as it worked through higher-priced commodity inventory.
We expect improved results from this business in the fourth quarter due to our performance improvement initiatives.
Cellulose Fibers Charts 7 and 8.
Cellulose Fibers contributed $47 million in the quarter down from second quarter 2013 as higher-than-anticipated costs associated with the scheduled shutdown of a liquid packaging board facility higher fiber costs associated with wet weather in the South and higher chemical costs in the quarter more than offset slightly higher pulp realizations due to mix.
We are focused on 3 priorities in this business: first we will continue to drive down our cost through operational excellence; second we will focus on developing new specialty products to improve our margins; and finally we will continue to support our growing global customer base.
Our ramp up of our new modified fiber facility in Gdansk Poland is going well.
Real Estate Charts 9 to 11.
WRECO reported solid results as Real Estate contributed $33 million of earnings in the quarter more than double the contribution during the second quarter.
Single-family closings increased seasonally by nearly 21% over the second quarter and margins improved to 22.3% as margins increased due to previously implemented price increases.
As Patty will share with you in more detail in just a moment we expect a very strong quarter in this fourth -- we expect a very strong fourth quarter in this business with closing volume increasing nearly 50% in the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter.
In a moment I will come back with some general comments on markets but let me now turn it over to Patty to specifically address our fourth quarter outlook.
Thanks Doyle and good morning everybody.
The outlook for our fourth quarter earnings is summarized on Chart 13 and I'll begin the outlook discussion with Timberlands.
In the West export realizations are expected to be comparable to the third quarter on higher sales volume primarily as a result of including a full quarter's operation of the Longview acquisition.
Domestic realizations are expected to increase slightly.
Lower sales volumes from our legacy Western ownership will be offset by increases from the Longview acquisition.
Fee harvest in the West is expected to increase by about 10% and Longview accounts for most of this increase.
Costs are anticipated to be lower in the West due to decreased silviculture spending.
In the South realizations are expected to be slightly lower due to mix.
Fee harvest is expected to increase on a seasonal basis.
Logging costs are anticipated to increase due to a slightly longer hauling distance this quarter.
Silviculture costs will also increase due to the timing of treatment.
Sales of non-strategic Timberlands are anticipated to be modestly lower.
Overall earnings in the Timberlands segment are expected to be comparable to the results in the third quarter.
In Wood Products the fourth quarter is traditionally one of the weakest earnings quarters of the year as we close out the building season and mills prepare to perform minor maintenance and capital projects during the slower holiday season.
As a result we expect to see lower sales volumes across most product lines and flat to potentially softening prices as we progress through the quarter.
We continue to focus on controlling inventories and matching supply with demand while driving further operational improvement.
We anticipate that log costs will increase in both lumber and oriented strand board.
Earnings in the Wood Products segment are expected to be lower in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter but still above the $38 million we earned in the fourth quarter of last year.
In Cellulose Fibers pulp realizations are continuing to move up and shipment volumes are also expected to increase modestly.
Worldwide inventories of softwood pulp are well-balanced and exchange rates are favorable.
Maintenance expense should be lower as we have fewer days planned for maintenance outages.
We anticipate higher productivity and decreased chemical costs during the quarter.
We expect that earnings in the Cellulose Fiber segment will increase significantly during the fourth quarter compared to the third.
In Real Estate we opened 8 new communities in the third quarter and we expect to end the year with a community count in the mid-80s which compares to 62 communities at the end of last year.
At the end of the third quarter of this year our backlog of homes sold but not closed was 1 435 an increase of 36% compared to a year ago.
Although we have seen some weakness in consumer confidence driven by the current uncertainty of governmental actions we continue to believe that we will see improved results as housing recovers.
During the fourth quarter we expect to close over 1 100 homes or approximately 35% higher than the fourth quarter a year ago.
The average price per closing is projected to be higher than the third quarter with gross margins between 21% to 22%.
Selling costs will increase as a result of the additional closings.
We also expect earnings from land and lot sales to be comparable to the third quarter.
Overall fourth quarter earnings in our Real Estate segment is expected to increase significantly compared to the third quarter.
I'd like to touch on unallocated items and unallocated items are shown on Chart 12.
During the third quarter we had a very large positive adjustment for the elimination of intersegment profit in inventory and LIFO.
This is the result of reductions in inventory primarily in Wood Products.
We do not expect the fourth quarter adjustment to be of the same magnitude.
Now I'll wrap up with some overall financial comments.
I'll be referencing numbers on Chart 14 for these comments.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of approximately $900 million comparable to the second quarter excluding cash associated with the financing of the Longview Timberland acquisition.
In July we purchased the equity of Longview Timber for $1.58 billion in cash and assumed debt of approximately $1.1 billion.
During September we issued $500 million of new debt and earlier this month we borrowed an additional $550 million under a term loan which together with cash on hand were used to repay the debt assumed in the acquisition.
As a result of the early repayment of the assumed debt we will have a charge for early extinguishment of approximately $24 million in the fourth quarter.
Debt repayments for the third quarter exclusive of the acquisition totaled $163 million.
Fourth quarter maturities are approximately $69 million.
After the fourth quarter we have minimal maturities until 2017.
In addition during the third quarter we replaced our existing revolving credit agreement with a new $1 billion agreement that does not expire until 2018.
There are no borrowings outstanding under this agreement.
Capital expenditures including reforestation for the third quarter were $76 million bringing our year-to-date expenditures to $179 million.
We still anticipate spending for the full year to approximate $300 million.
Now I'll turn the call back to Doyle and I look forward to your questions.
Thank you Patty.
In terms of markets and specifically housing markets we continue to be encouraged as long term favorable housing fundamentals remain in place.
With that said the housing recovery appears to have taken a slight pause due to higher home prices higher interest rates although still very low by historical standards slowing job growth and the antics of our government.
However we continue to believe we are in the early stages of a longer-term return to trend levels of housing starts.
Forecasters now [Audio Gap] that there will be approximately 950 000 U.S.
housing starts in 2013 and somewhere between 1.1 million and 1.2 million starts in 2014.
The housing starts long-term average is north of 1.5 million units.
So there's still a lot of runway in front of us.
We are focused on driving ROI and cash flow to capitalize on the upturn as well as appropriately positioning our sales for the future.
On that note we will host an investor meeting in New York on December 17.
In that meeting we will address where Weyerhaeuser is today where we are going and what we are doing to make this a truly great company for our shareholders.
We look forward to sharing our thoughts and plans with you at that time.
Later this morning we will put out a notice containing the details of the meeting.
Finally regarding our previously announced process to explore a range of strategic alternatives for WRECO we are fully engaged in the process continue to be encouraged by the interest in this business and will be back to you when the process is completed.
Until then as I'm sure you will understand and appreciate we will not have any further comment on the strategic review.
With that we will now open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We have a question from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Doyle a couple of bigger-picture questions maybe to start.
You mentioned driving cash flow and ROI within Weyerhaeuser in the years ahead.
Are these going to be the primary metrics that you focus your team on or are there any other metrics that we should be aware that you can discuss at this juncture that you'll be using to gauge the progress of the company? And then you mentioned a couple of times certainly within Wood Products and I think also within Cell Fibers that you are focused on lowering manufacturing costs to paraphrase at this juncture to the point -- to the extent that you can comment where do you see the opportunities to do that? Good morning George and thanks for the question.
I would say in terms of your first question clearly ROI and cash flow will be key metrics for our company going forward.
But I wouldn't say they'll be the sole metric but clearly those will be key metrics for our company going forward.
We look forward to our conversation on December 17 at which time we will provide hopefully a lot more clarity on again where we are where we're going how we're going to get there and how we will measure our progress along the way.
In terms of Wood Products one of the things we are focused on throughout the company will be to continue to drive down our cost and specifically our manufacturing cost.
What we're looking forward to doing is delivering high-quality products to our customers products that our customers want and are willing to pay for and doing that at the lowest possible cost.
So that will clearly continue to be a focus for Weyerhaeuser going forward.
Research Division</strong> Doyle maybe the follow on and I'll turn it over do you see the opportunity more driven by process or by needing to maybe put in more investment or some other factors as well? And then just quickly and I'll turn it over should we expect that your overall operating profit in WRECO in 4Q is up versus last year's level? Yes.
I'll address the first question and then I'll ask Patty to address your second question George.
But in terms of opportunity I think it's all the things you listed.
I mean it will be process it'll be -- we'll look at opportunities to drive down cost across-the-board.
Again what we're focused on is producing high-quality new products for our customers and doing that at the lowest possible cost.
So we'll be looking for opportunities to do that.
Some of those opportunities will require some capital.
Some of those will not.
With that let me ask Patty to address your second question.
So George your second question I think was profit in WRECO this quarter compared to a year ago fourth quarter compared to a year ago? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Yes I think that the thing that swings from quarter-to-quarter is that -- and I don't remember fourth quarter a year ago how much we had in terms of land sales and lot sales in the fourth quarter.
Our single-family home-building business will be very strong in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to 2012.
And I think -- as I've mentioned in the comments that at this point we would expect a comparable amount of land and lot sales although as you know they're quite lumpy but comparable to the third quarter which I think was about $9 million.
Your next question is from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess just starting on the longer-term -- the near-term outlook for housing when you talk about consensus numbers of 1.1 million to 1.2 million next year from kind of what you're seeing from the market and hearing from your customers how much confidence do you have that consensus has it right? Yes as you know predicting housing numbers is always a little difficult Gail.
I would tell you that when you step back and look at the long-term fundamentals I continue -- we continue to be very bullish on housing.
As I mentioned there has been a slight pause here due to a lot of factors but clearly in my mind we have and we'll continue to have an upward trend in housing as we start to approach the 1.5 million to 1.6 million average over the next few years.
And I don't know exactly what the slope of that line is going to be.
I think it has flattened a little bit just because of the issues that I raised.
But we'll see how it plays out but I think in my opinion the 1.2 -- 1.1 million to 1.2 million is a pretty good guess at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay and I mean the pause that you're seeing I mean how significant was it? I mean it looks like WRECO buyer traffic was down pretty significantly.
Was that seasonal or was that reflective of the uncertainty that we saw rise with interest rates coming up in DC? I think it was a combination of both Gail.
I think clearly again as we had the shut down from the government as we had prices go up in houses and some other factors we saw a pause.
But again I think pause is the right term.
I don't want to overstate the pause.
And again if you look at the underlying fundamentals they continue to be strong and in place and I think will drive housing going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick question on Engineered Wood.
Given what's been going on in terms of the input costs do you see the recovery as sustainable or at some point would you expect to see some price pressure emerge as customers kind of start pressuring you given some of the cost relief of lumber and OSB pricing? I think in that business as we mentioned we saw a nice improvement in the quarter Gail.
Now there will still be seasonal factors that will have an impact.
And as Patty outlined fourth quarter is a slow seasonal quarter.
But longer-term that's a business that we're encouraged by what we're seeing on the pricing front probably need additional pricing going forward.
But more importantly we're focused on our operations and making sure that we provide on a cost-effective basis the products that our customers need.
Your next question is from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citibank.
Research Division</strong> In Wood Products you talked about your expectation for improved distribution performance in 4Q and I was wondering if you could give us any color on the performance improvement initiatives that are driving that improvement.
And then maybe what is the magnitude of earnings improvement you're expecting versus the loss this quarter and how much of that is really driven by the performance initiatives versus just sort of working through inventory? Yes good question Anthony.
And the improvement that we anticipate in the fourth quarter as you just highlighted will be driven primarily by 2 factors.
One is the fact that we will have worked through most of the high-priced inventory in the fourth quarter.
And then secondly as I mentioned we have some very specific profit improvement initiatives including real focus on operational excellence.
And again making sure we have the right cost structure in that business that we also have a very focused effort regarding growing specific product lines that we need to continue to grow in that business to make it a profitable business going forward.
So back to your original question 2 key drivers for the fourth quarter: one we will have worked through the high-priced product; and secondly we have a very focused profit improvement effort in place in that business and I think we'll see the impact from both of those in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it is safe to say that maybe more of the benefit of the performance improvement initiatives are -- will be seen in 2014 or just in terms of the time frame of completing some of those initiatives? Sure.
Sure Anthony.
Yes we will see the initial -- I mean we've been working on it but we'll see like I said some of them in the fourth quarter.
But it's not just solely in the fourth quarter.
We will continue to build those into 2014 and beyond.
So these aren't onetime initiatives.
This is an ongoing effort to improve the operations of our distribution business.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just switching to Timberlands.
Do you think that this quarter's EBITDA contribution from Longview adjusting for the fact that you only had 2 months is representative of what the business could do over the next few quarters? And do you have any updated view on synergies or the time frame to realize those synergies? Sure.
In terms of Longview like I said we're excited about that acquisition and are pleased with the results in the third quarter.
To your specific question I think the third quarter adjusted for the things you just said is generally representative.
The other thing I would say is as you know third quarter in the West tends to be seasonally a weak quarter so you should factor that in as you think about this acquisition going forward as well.
In terms of synergies as we've previously stated we anticipate synergies -- achieving synergy savings of approximately $20 million.
And I would tell you we are on track to achieve those synergies by the end of 2014 at a run rate.
Your next question is from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just -- I want to come back to distribution again because you've now got another publicly traded peer out there with the distribution business.
They've made $21 million the last 2 quarters.
You guys have lost $27 million.
I mean how much of this do you think is maybe just different treatment from an inventory standpoint? And what are the other issues here? Because it's a huge delta.
Yes Mark we understand the delta that is in place.
I can tell you I think part of it does have to do with -- my guess is and it's only a guess because I don't know what our competitors do but I think part of it may have to do at least in the third quarter with the treatment of inventory.
As I mentioned earlier though we understand the gap and the opportunities and challenges that we have in that business and we are focused on improving that business everyday.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Doyle do you regard that business as somehow kind of intertwined with your Engineered Wood business that especially you have to be in Distribution to be successful in Engineered Wood or not? Mark we look each of our businesses individually and we expect each of our businesses to achieve above cost of capital returns over a cycle.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just in Wood Products you talked a lot about improving cost of things.
Are you doing anything just to kind of rethink maybe how Weyerhaeuser has approached markets from the commercial side? In other words thinking about how you sell how you go-to-market whether you're really kind of getting the best dollar you can for everything you produce? Sure Mark.
As I mentioned in my initial comments on Wood Products one of our key focuses is delivering products that our customers want and are willing to pay for.
And a big part of that is who our customer base is how we go to market.
As you know we have very -- we produce very high-quality products here at Weyerhaeuser and I think our customers appreciate that.
And we just need to make sure we have got the right customer base in place and that we're delivering quality products that our customers want and are willing to pay for.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And the last question I had is just on the Timberland side.
Your log prices were down quite a bit quarter-to-quarter but I notice that you're export mix skewed to China.
I know they typically buy lower-priced logs.
I just -- I wondered whether kind of a mix shift in where you were selling contributed to that $10-drop in log -- average log prices.
Well as you -- we talked about on the quarter outlook for the third quarter on our last call pricing was projected to be weaker in the third quarter because of the seasonality and we did see that.
And now we're starting to see those prices move up again.
In terms of the mix we do have a higher percentage of the total mix going to China.
Part of that is because of the Longview acquisition of just exporting more into China overall.
So I think from a mix perspective China does impact that a little bit but we did say that pricing would come down somewhat in the third quarter as it does on a seasonal basis.
Your next question is from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> First question is as we look at your -- the company's last couple of years capital spending has been quite a bit below the depreciation and that's understandable because of the purchase accounting and -- some of it is at least and depletion.
But I mean Doyle as you look at things do you think something down in the sub-250 range is something that's sustainable or could there possibly be opportunities either in the Wood Products business or maybe a requirement for boiler rebuild or something in the Cellulose business that we should keep an eye out? In other words should we see CapEx remain at about half of depreciation? Chip we're -- as I mentioned earlier I've been spending a lot of time with our senior management team over the past few weeks and we are right in the middle of that process regarding capital.
That's something that we will share with you at the December 17 meeting and probably even get more specific when we release fourth quarter earnings.
I can tell you generally Chip in terms of our financial priorities going forward first and foremost is going to be to return cash to shareholders primarily through a growing and sustainable dividend.
But also at the appropriate time share repurchase.
Second will be to invest in our businesses through high-return projects and look for opportunistic growth opportunities.
And then finally making sure we maintain the appropriate capital structure for our shareholders going forward.
So that's generally how we think about it.
But again we'll be back to you with much more detail in a couple of months.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just a quick follow-up.
I know that in -- a couple of years ago the company changed the way they did maintenance in the Cellulose business and found a way I believe to cut costs by shifting from annual to I guess every 18 months.
And I didn't know if that's something that you felt was good and likely to be sustained or if you think that there could be some tweaking to the way you look at the costs especially for maintenance in the Cellulose business.
I think -- Chip thanks for the question.
I think that is something that's good and will continue.
As you know we are in the process of phasing that in and I think we'll start to really see the benefits of that in 2014 and 2015.
But I think that is the right approach.
It ultimately over time will lower your maintenance expense and also a key benefit of that of course is you improve your productivity because you're not going down as often in your mill system.
Your next question is from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question is can you give us an update on the restart of the Alabama engineered wood products facility? How much capital do you think you'll need to put in to get that up and going? And how do you see the trajectory of the volumes out of that facility going into the market? Sure Alex thanks.
I think the important thing to keep in mind about our Evergreen mill in Alabama is that we announced that we would be restarting it.
But the actual restart is not projected to take place until late spring of 2014 probably around in the May time frame before we'll actually producing significant product at that location.
Anytime you're starting up a mill that's been down for more than a year it certainly takes time to put a workforce in place.
And so we're very focused on doing that.
From a capital perspective we will need to put some capital into that mill because it has been down for some period of time.
But it's not a huge increment of capital.
So I think that as the market continues to recover especially for engineered wood we're really looking forward to bringing that capacity online at a time that the market will really need it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on lumber as I look at your shipment numbers quarterly relative to what you state is your capacity number for lumber in the 10-K it seems like you're essentially running at capacity even though housing is well below normal levels.
As you think about the medium term do you expect you will be able to grow your lumber shipments with the market without having to put significant capital into your system? Or will you have to put in a significant capital to be able to do that given you're essentially running at capacity based on the numbers that are reported? Alex I would say we're running somewhere in the low- to mid-90s in terms of operating rates in our lumber operation.
And what we're focused on every day is improving our reliability in our lumber operations and doing things to get additional production where it makes sense to do that.
So that's the focus of our lumber operation going forward.
Research Division</strong> Just one more question on pulp.
Softwood inventories are in excellent shape prices are moving up while on the other hand hardwood inventories are elevated and prices are moving lower.
There seems to be a significant amount of hardwood inventory that -- hardwood capacity that will be coming online over the next 12 months.
As you talk to your customers what kind of impact do you think all this new hardwood capacity that's entering the market what kind of impact do you think it may have on softwood pricing and your Softwood business? Well Alex it's difficult to know exactly what the impact will be but our products from a fluff perspective are really focused more in the softwood grade.
And in addition to fluff we have a number of specialty proprietary products in the fluff grade spectrum.
So our focus really is on as Doyle said is to continue to drive down costs which is always a good thing.
And then really in our product mix in addition to our products today to developing new products.
In the priorities for the business that Doyle spoke to in his comments #2 priority was innovation around specialty products things like the product that we announced which we call THRIVE which is a cellulose-based product that has some promise for us going forward in terms of the automotive industry and others.
So we're working on all fronts.
But difficult to know exactly what that hardwood capacity will be but it doesn't substitute directly for fluff today.
Your next question is from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
How much of the improvement in Engineered Wood was attributable to the lower OSB prices? And second you commented a little bit on the increased sales from Longview to China.
China for you has been relatively low margin.
Is there an opportunity to move some of that Longview capacity into higher-margin markets or is this just going to be a shift a little bit down in the overall mix? Mark I'll try to address your first question and then I'll ask Patty to address your second question.
In terms of the improvement in ELP in the quarter I don't know exactly how much of that was attributable to the lower OSB cost.
But as I mentioned it's a -- it was a -- the improvement was a combination of lower cost and improved revenues in that business.
So Mark as you think about the Longview acquisition one of the things that you are not seeing as much of an impact in terms of the overall revenue and that chart is a revenue chart that's in the web slide is that we actually did purchase through third-party purchases from Longview some logs to go to Japan to round out our inventory needs for Japan as we do on the marketplace.
So that's why you don't see the significant change there.
It's not that Longview logs are not going to Japan.
They're now going as Weyerhaeuser logs.
The other thing that I would say is as the light wood market becomes stronger we will take advantage of shipping whitewood off to the extent that we have it off the coastal lands of Longview to take advantage of both the China market as well as the Korea market.
So the mix will move around but we will ship the appropriate log to the appropriate market to get the best margin out of that.
One of the opportunities for us in terms of driving synergies from that acquisition is that even though we were purchasing logs from Longview we now have the trees and we have the opportunity to merchandise the cutting of the tree into logs to get that -- pull the highest grade to the highest market for that.
So we as Doyle said really are very pleased with what we've seen so far.
Your next question is from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A quick question on Japan.
How should we look at the effect of the consumption tax increase next April? And how do you expect that to flow through in terms of timing on export log sales to that country and the magnitude of the drop-off once that tax is in? Sure Paul.
Difficult to know because the consumption tax is just one of the factors that affect the demand.
Right now we're seeing very strong demand.
There is projected to be a small move up in the consumption tax but the Japanese government has also -- proving to be very accommodative to housing financing.
So I think that if that consumption tax does move up as it is projected that we'll also likely we see some potential benefit to the overall housing economy in Japan.
So difficult to know but our own view at this point would be that demand will continue to be strong in 2014.
It may have some slight impact from the consumption tax.
But it is something that we're monitoring pretty closely.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then I just had a follow-up question for Doyle.
Just you've been there almost 3 months now.
What's most impressed you at Weyerhaeuser? Where do you see your biggest challenge? Thank you for the question.
And I would tell you when I showed up at Weyerhaeuser I spent the first few weeks going around to our facilities meeting our people and really listening -- learning and listening a lot.
Over the past few weeks as I think I mentioned earlier I have been spending a lot of time with our senior management team kind of distilling everything that I learned when I was out visiting our facilities kind of figuring out where we are where we need to go and how we're going to get there.
And that will be the focus of our Investor Meeting on December 17.
And at that point in time we'll spend a lot of time highlighting like I said where we are and what our biggest opportunity -- what our biggest strengths are and what our biggest opportunities are as we move this company going forward.
So I look forward -- we look forward to sharing those thoughts with you on December 17.
Your next question is from the line of Evan Wingren with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Given that a lot of your competitors have seen sort of log prices in the south up a little bit this quarter I noticed that yours were flat.
Was that surprising to you given -- kind of given what we heard about the wet weather in the South as well? Our log prices in the South as you mentioned we did not see much of a movement.
There were in various regions impacts because of the significant wet weather.
I think that's a portion of what you've seen in some of the competitors.
Also there may be some different inventory situations for various competitors as well.
What I am encouraged about is I think when you step back and look at it overall I believe our pine sawtimber prices this year will be up probably 4% to 5% versus last year when all is said and done.
And probably more encouragingly as we continue to see housing rebound demand continues to grow we see the impacts of the Canadian situation I'm convinced that we will see sawtimber pine sawtimber prices in the South start to -- continue to increase maybe even more rapidly as we move into 2014 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> And kind of moving to Cellulose the additional 6 days of maintenance you took could you maybe just give a little more color on that? And maybe how much did that cost you in the quarter if you could provide that as well? Yes.
Part of the impact in the quarter was due to the additional downtime that we took.
And above and beyond the downtime that was scheduled we had a couple of additional downtimes at our liquid packaging operation that were a result of not coming up quite as well as we had planned in that operation.
So that had a impact on the third quarter versus the second quarter as well.
Now the good news is the liquid packaging operation is back up and running and running well and there will be no impact from that shutdown in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> All right fair enough.
And then on EWP again I mean do you have a range that you can provide maybe of what you think utilization rate was in that business during the quarter? Yes.
Overall there's a lot of different products as you know in that business.
But overall the operating rates were in the mid-60s for ELP in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And on the pricing side of that are you seeing momentum sort of heading into the back half of the year or maybe just sort of what are the trends you're seeing there on pricing just moving forward? Yes.
As we indicated prices were up in the third quarter versus the second quarter in ELP.
And I think clearly the trend is for favorable pricing going forward.
Now we've got to factor in the seasonality.
And as Patty properly highlighted and as you very well know the fourth quarter tends to be a slower seasonal period for Wood Products including ELP.
But I think we will see favorable trends in pricing in ELP going forward.
Research Division</strong> And just one more kind of housekeeping.
I sort of missed the extinguishment of debt cost $24 million.
Could you just bring that back real quick? Sure.
So when we acquired Longview Timberlands that acquisition we assumed debt in that acquisition and we repaid that debt early in October.
And as a result of repaying it early there were some prepayment costs associated with that and we expect that there'll be about $24 million of loss from early extinguishment of debt.
That will be in the fourth quarter number.
So I just wanted to make sure that you all have that number as you think about putting together your fourth quarter estimates.
Your next question is from the line of Mark Weintraub.
In the past Weyerhaeuser has indicated their intent over the cycle to pay out roughly 75% of free cash flow in dividends.
If as through actions that you take an increasing proportion of your cash generation in the future is coming from the more stable timber business does that lend an upward bias to that 75% number? Mark as I mentioned earlier in terms of our financial priorities first and foremost is returning cash to shareholders primarily through a growing and sustainable dividend.
So one of the things that we'll be continuing to monitor going forward is just exactly what the right payout ratio is in terms of our FAD contribution.
So that's something we'll be looking at.
But we understand and are committed to -- we understand the importance of and are committed to a growing and sustainable dividend going forward.
Okay as I understand it there are no additional questions.
So let me just close with a couple of comments.
Let me start by thanking everybody for joining us this morning and for your continued interest in our company.
And also I just want to say I look forward to seeing everybody on December 17 in the -- at the meeting that we will be hosting in New York.
And as I mentioned earlier we will be sending out details for that meeting later today.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's earnings call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
My name is Carmen and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 4Q '13 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the conference over to Kathryn McAuley Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Carmen.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss Weyerhaeuser's 2013 results.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com and materials can be found at our website.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during this conference call.
We will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of GAAP can be found in the earnings materials on our website.
On the call this morning are Doyle Simons Chief Executive Officer; and Patty Bedient Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the call over to Doyle.
Doyle? Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
Our vision here at Weyerhaeuser is to grow a truly great company for our shareholders customers and employees.
2013 was a very good year as we made initial progress toward achieving this goal by doubling net earnings excluding special items from $316 million or $0.58 per diluted share in 2012 to $654 million or $1.14 per diluted share in 2013; increasing our dividend by nearly 30%; announcing an agreement to combine our Real Estate operation with TRI Pointe Homes and a tax-efficient Reverse Morris Trust transaction; and acquiring approximately 645 000 acres of some of the finest timberland in the country through the purchase of Longview Timber.
As a result of our actions in 2013 and our relentless focus on operational excellence going forward we are well positioned to fully capitalize on improving markets and drive value for our shareholders in 2014 and beyond.
Speaking of improving markets let me just comment on economic conditions that affect our company before I discuss our fourth quarter performance.
First the housing market.
The housing market continued to improve in 2013 with total starts rising to 923 000 an 18% gain from 2012.
The housing recovery showed resilience as construction activity increased in the fourth quarter having adjusted to higher interest rates and market uncertainty caused by fiscal infighting which impacted the second and third quarters.
Housing fundamentals remain positive with low inventories and affordability still well above historic norms.
In addition prices for existing homes have increased 14% on a year-ago basis and the additional homeowner wealth is a boost to the economy.
The economy has been adding jobs and as people find employment they are forming households and adding to the demand for housing.
These trends are expected to continue in 2014 and we are planning for over 1.1 million starts including 780 000 single-family.
I'll comment briefly on global economic conditions since approximately 1/3 of our revenues come from exported products from our Cellulose Fibers Timberlands and Wood Products segments.
As the Eurozone continues to manage its debt crisis and emerges from recession the currency has stabilized and strengthened.
A stronger euro should improve the relative competitiveness of our Cellulose Fiber business as well as our Asian log exports.
In Japan fiscal and monetary reforms have stimulated the economy and increased housing starts which has improved demand for our products.
In China our export activity picked up in 2013 and while many forecasts of overall economic growth in China have been lowered the government continues with its objective of moving people from rural to urban settings.
This is the driver of construction activity and the source of China's growing demand for imported wood.
Now I will comment on our fourth quarter performance.
For the fourth quarter 2013 we reported net earnings of $43 million or $0.07 per diluted share on net sales of $2.3 billion.
We have several special items in the quarter the largest of which was the previously announced noncash impairment of a community excluded from the combination of WRECO and TRI Pointe Homes.
Charges for special items were partially offset by some unrelated tax adjustments which Patty will discuss in more detail.
Excluding these special items we reported solid fourth quarter net earnings of $157 million or $0.27 per diluted share compared with net earnings of $143 million or $0.26 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2012.
Let me now turn to our business segments starting with Timberlands Charts 4 to 6.
Timberlands contributed $134 million to earnings in the quarter up 14% compared with the third quarter 2013 as construction markets in China drove increased demand for Western logs.
Our Western fee harvest volumes were up by 17% due to the stronger demand and a full quarter of harvest from the Longview land.
I'm pleased to report that the Longview integration continues to go smoothly and that we are on track to achieve or exceed our EBITDA and synergy goals.
Turning to market condition.
Selling prices for Western logs were generally higher in the quarter while our sales realizations were flat due in part to a higher percentage of logs exported to China compared with higher value logs to Japan.
Southern log price realizations were up modestly.
As expected road and silviculture costs were high in the quarter and the contribution from the sale of nonstrategic Timberlands declined by $3 million in the quarter.
Wood Products Charts 7 and 8.
Wood Products contributed $58 million before special items to earnings in the quarter down from $79 million in the third quarter but above the $38 million of earnings in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Special items for the fourth quarter included noncash impairment charges of $10 million related to the permanent closure of previously curtailed engineered wood products operation.
Sales volume declined across all product line in the quarter due to seasonality and unusually severe winter weather.
OSB prices were lower in the quarter while lumber and engineered wood sales price realizations were higher.
Adjusted EBITDA in the quarter was $88 million compared with $110 million in the third quarter.
In lumber EBITDA was down $7 million in the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter as lower volumes due to seasonally weaker demand extreme weather conditions and higher log cost more than offset the benefit from higher prices.
In OSB EBITDA declined by $15 million compared with the previous quarter due to 4% lower prices and 11% less volume due to seasonality as well as extreme winter weather and capital-related downtime.
Engineered wood products generated EBITDA before special items of $11 million in the quarter down from the prior quarter due to a seasonal decline in sales volumes and again some weather-related production and transportation issues.
And finally EBITDA and distribution improved by $5 million in the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter primarily due to increased product margin.
As we discussed in our December 17 investor presentation we are committed to improving the EBITDA in both engineered wood products and distribution by $30 million to $40 million in 2014 compared with 2013.
Cellulose Fibers Charts 9 and 10.
Cellulose Fibers contributed $65 million to earnings in the quarter up $18 million from third quarter 2013 and up $4 million compared with fourth quarter 2012.
The improvement compared with third quarter 2013 was attributable to higher pulp price realizations lower maintenance expenses and improved productivity due to fewer maintenance outage days.
These were partially offset by higher fiber cost and lower realizations from liquid packaging board.
Fourth quarter liquid packaging board sales included a smaller proportion of higher-value products.
We expect a return to our typical mix in the first quarter.
Real Estate Charts 11 to 13.
WRECO reported strong results as Real Estate contributed $71 million to earnings before special items in the quarter.
As mentioned earlier the fourth quarter includes special charges of $349 million primarily associated with the previously announced impairment.
The improvement compared with the prior quarter was attributable to a 40% increase in single-family closings an 11% increase in average prices and single-family gross margins of 23%.
I will now turn it over to Patty to specifically address our first quarter outlook.
Thank you Doyle.
Good morning everybody and happy new year.
Notwithstanding the harsh weather that much of the country has been experiencing 2014 appears to be off to a good start with a steadily improving economy and housing starts for 2014 forecasted to increase by approximately 20% over 2013.
The outlook for the first quarter is on Chart 15 and I'll begin my comments with Timberland.
Export log volumes to both Japan and China are expected to increase during the quarter.
The pricing momentum that we saw in the fourth quarter is carrying over to the first quarter.
A higher percentage of Japan volume relative to the fourth quarter as well as an increased percentage of Douglas fir logs to China are anticipated to contribute to strong price realizations.
The robust export markets are also putting upward pressure on domestic log price.
Westerns fee harvest is expected to increase slightly compared to the fourth quarter in order to take advantage of the stronger markets.
By contrast the pricing dynamic in the South continues to be less robust.
Log prices are expected to increase only slightly while fee harvest volumes are expected to decrease by approximately 5%.
Slightly lower road maintenance and silviculture spending in the West will be offset by slightly higher costs in the South.
We expect that the effect of the strong operating earnings for the segment in the first quarter will be largely offset by decreased earnings from nonstrategic land sales.
In the fourth quarter we had earnings from nonstrategic land sales of approximately $20 million and we anticipate the first quarter sales will be minimal.
As a result we expect overall first quarter earnings in the Timberland segment will be comparable to slightly higher relative to the fourth quarter results.
The outlook for fee harvest volume for the full year of 2014 is expected to increase by approximately 10% to 12% mostly as a result of the Longview Timber acquisition in July of last year.
In Wood Products with the seasonally softer fourth quarter behind us and an improving housing market outlook we expect Wood Products sales volumes to increase across all product lines in the first quarter.
Channel inventories remain at low levels.
Lumber sales prices have continued to increase thus far in the quarter and we expect stronger realizations in the first quarter relative to the fourth.
By contrast OSB pricing has been softer thus far and we expect overall realizations for the full quarter will be slightly weaker compared to the fourth quarter.
Engineered wood products demand is anticipated to decrease (sic) [increase] although realizations will be slightly lower due to product mix.
Log costs are expected to increase especially in the West consistent with our Timberlands outlook.
Increased operating rates should lead to lower unit manufacturing costs.
However the wildcard is the severe weather conditions that we've experienced in January especially in the South.
Operating postures and rates are being adversely affected by the extreme cold and great recovery decreases due to frozen logs.
Transportation availability is also limited by treacherous road condition.
We do expect these harsh weather conditions to begin to moderate as we move through the quarter and anticipate that the stronger market conditions will result in higher earnings in the Wood Products segment in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter.
Moving to Cellulose Fibers.
The year ended with global softwood pulp inventories at approximately 24 days which is below the normal range of 28 to 32 days.
Pulp sales volumes are anticipated to decline slightly as a result of the timing of shipments.
Higher liquid packaging sales realizations and volumes are expected to offset the effect of the pulp sales decrease.
Maintenance spending will be somewhat higher and labor costs are also expected to increase slightly.
We anticipate higher fiber costs in the West.
Overall earnings in our Cellulose Fiber segment is expected to be lower in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter.
In Real Estate the first quarter of the year is historically a seasonally weaker quarter for home closings compared to the fourth.
This year is no exception.
We expect to close approximately 600 homes in the first quarter down from 1 072 in the fourth quarter.
However this is a 30% increase over the 463 closings in the first quarter of last year.
Margins are anticipated to be around 20% to 21% which is lower than the fourth quarter but comparable to the first quarter a year ago.
We have 13% more homes in backlog as of December 31 compared to a year ago at prices 29% higher than a year ago.
The number of actively selling communities at the end of 2013 is 35% greater than the prior year.
We expect the selling costs in the first quarter will decrease relative to the fourth quarter as a result of fewer home closings.
Consistent with the normal seasonal pattern we expect that first quarter earnings from our single-family home-building business will be significantly lower than the fourth quarter but better than the breakeven results of a year ago.
Our previously announced combination of our Real Estate business with TRI Pointe Homes is on track to close in the second quarter of this year.
We continue to be excited by the value creation of this powerful combination.
The requisite registration statement was filed at the beginning of this month and we have received clearance under our Hart-Scott-Rodino filing.
We continue to work through the remaining steps to close the transaction.
Now I'd like to touch briefly on unallocated items which are shown on Chart 14.
Excluding special items unallocated expense in the fourth quarter increased by $49 million compared to the third.
Almost half of that difference relates to a smaller favorable impact from the elimination of intersegment profit and inventory and LIFO as a result of changes in inventory level.
Amounts in the other category for the fourth quarter include charges for environmental and litigation reserves and other miscellaneous items with no single item greater than $5 million.
Now I'll wrap up with some overall financial highlights.
We ended the year with a cash balance of approximately $835 million.
Capital spending for the fourth quarter was $114 million bringing our total spending for the full year to $293 million.
For 2014 we expect the capital spending will be approximately $390 million consistent with the guidance we shared during our Investor Meeting in December.
During the fourth quarter we completed the financing for the Longview Timber acquisition and we also repaid all third-party WRECO debt.
As of year end we had approximately $4.9 billion in total debt with no maturities until 2017.
During 2013 we replaced our revolving line of credit with a new agreement with $1 billion of capacity and the agreement does not expire until June 2018.
There are no borrowings outstanding under the line.
As Doyle mentioned we had significant positive tax adjustments in the quarter which we have called out as special items in our earnings material.
These adjustments follow the completion of examinations by taxing authorities covering multiple years in both the U.S.
and Canada.
The largest of these relates to the exclusion from income of our alternative fuel mixture credit claimed in 2009.
Looking forward to 2014 we expect our tax rate for our taxable REIT subsidiary earning to be approximately 33% to 35% and of course we accrue no taxes on REIT income as they plan to distribute all taxable income of the REIT to our shareholders.
Now I want to wrap up with an update on our pension and postretirement plans.
During the fourth quarter we made the decision to close defined benefit pension plans to employees hired after 2013.
We replaced both plans with defined contribution plans.
We also made plan amendments to certain of our other post-employment benefit plans.
Factoring in these changes as well as the strong investment earnings and increased discount rate the funded status of our plans as of December 31 2013 improved by approximately $1.45 billion compared to the funded status as of December 2012.
Cash paid for all plans in 2013 totaled $137 million.
We expect total spending in 2014 to approximate $110 million.
Consistent with last year we do not expect to contribute any cash to our U.S.
qualified plan which is fully funded.
Our primary contributions will be to our Canadian plan for approximately $55 million with the remainder going to pay benefits under our supplemental retirement plan and our other post-employment benefit plans neither of which are separately funded.
Now I'll turn the call back to Doyle and I look forward to your questions.
Thank you Patty.
As I said earlier 2013 was a very good year for Weyerhaeuser as we doubled our earnings before special items significantly increased our dividend and positioned ourselves for the future through significant transactions.
But we still have a lot of work runway in front of us.
As we look ahead we are excited about 2014 and are relentlessly focused on growing shareholder value by driving our performance through operational excellence and capitalizing on improving markets to increase our cash flow and grow our dividend.
So with that operator we will open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions for you.
So first on the cost savings in the distribution and EWP business where we're targeting $30 million to $40 million for 2014.
How should we think about how that flows through the model through the course of the year? Do you start to see that in the -- as early as the first quarter? We'll start to see some improvement in the first quarter Alex but it's not going to -- and it will be all throughout the year.
So you can't take the $30 million and $40 million divide it by 4 and it's going to be even.
It actually will build throughout the year as we gain traction on the initiatives that we outlined in our December 17 presentation.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Doyle.
And then just looking at the price performance of OSB relative to lumber lumber has been so much more robust over the last 6 months.
Typically they historically move together.
Can you just talk about the supply-demand dynamics that you're seeing and always be relative to lumber that may be driving some of that delta? Sure.
And in terms of -- we'll start with lumber.
In terms of lumber supply and demand dynamics are favorable.
What we've seen of course is improvement in demand as housing starts have continued to grow.
And on the supply side of the equation Alex while there have been some restarts and everybody's ramping up production supply and demand are in pretty good balance.
On the other hand in OSB as you're very well aware while we have seen improvement on the demand side there have been some significant restarts and new facilities that have come online and that's what's led in our opinion to the volatility in OSB pricing over the past few quarters.
And I think that will continue until we see supply and demand getting more in balance.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And just one housekeeping question.
The EWP facility that's primarily closed how much capacity was that? I don't know that exact figure off the top of my head.
We'll tell you Alex if that is and we'll get back to you with that.
That is the last facility that we had that had been curtailed.
And now -- and so all of our facilities are now either running or have been permanently closed at this point.
Alex the facility was in Colbert Georgia.
As Doyle said it was closed for some number of years but it was about 3 million cubic feet and it was a Parallam facility.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
A couple of questions I guess.
First on the lumber pricing I know this is random land was up about $35 looking at the composite.
Obviously you're in lots of different geographies et cetera.
But why -- your price is only up $9.
Was that really just a geography and mix thing? Or do you sometimes lock in pricing early in the quarter and maybe that can affect things as well? Mark you thought you might ask this question so here's what's going on.
Very little blocking in prices.
Actually what happened as we dug into this is as you know random leaks takes into account a variety of grades and widths.
But it's mostly 2x4s and 2x10s and that's normally pretty reflective of what's happening in the overall market.
This quarter mid-widths which is 2x6 2x8s which are not included -- or not generally included in Random Lengths but are 40% of our volume at Southern Yellow Pine were down 9%.
So this is a quarter where random lengths because of the mix and everything went -- was significantly different than what our actual experience was.
Now if you look at it overall and we went back to compare it year-over-year we're right on top of Random Lengths.
Just this happens to be one quarter where the 2 are out of sync.
Okay got it very helpful.
So I just want to -- also on the pension so does that mean you ended the year at about like $100 million to $200 million underfunded? Am I doing the right math there Patty? Well as you add all of our plans together so that's a combination of our pension plans as well as our post-employment benefit plan they'll total about just under $500 million underfunded.
If you look at just the pension plans themselves it's really the Canadian plans that are underfunded.
So you're about right on that number.
But the total underfunded as we think about all of those.
And as I mentioned we don't fund the supplemental plan or the post-employment plan.
So just pension alone you're pretty much right but altogether will be just under $500 million.
And then lastly has there been any further thought on -- I believe you got like $700 million $730 million of cash from the TRI Pointe transaction as well as the shares going to shareholders.
Has there been any further thought on the use for that money? Mark as you know and as we shared with the group in December as we think about our financial priorities going forward including the $700 million first and foremost we were focused on returning cash to shareholders.
That will be primarily through a growing dividend going forward but also through share repurchase where appropriate.
Second is going to be investing on our business again through higher return projects to improve our cost structure and our margin.
And we'll also look for opportunities to grow our business but we'll be very disciplined in doing that through acquisitions that create value.
And then finally maintaining the appropriate capital structure to support a growing dividend and we shared some of those metrics with you in December.
So I give you that background just to say we are -- look we understand the amount of cash we're getting.
We understand the cash on the balance sheet.
And we will as we move forward through the TRI Pointe transaction we'll be making decisions with what to do with that -- with the proceeds from that and exactly whether we're going to do a spin or split in all that.
So what you could anticipate is we won't make a decision on -- we probably won't make a decision on the dividend until we have completed the TRI Pointe transaction and then we'll be back to you at that point in time.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Some housekeeping.
I apologize if you already answered some been doing a couple of calls at once here.
First of all Patty did you say what the amount of pension expense will be in the P&amp;L this year? I did catch the funding but I'm not sure I caught the expense.
And then the other housekeeping item did you mention what was in the rather large tax adjustment in the fourth quarter? What drove that? Sure.
Yes George you guys have had a busy week.
So let me -- in terms of answering the pension and postretirement expense maybe the way to think about that would be to look at Chart 18 that's in the material.
I did not give you the expense number in my prepared remarks.
But as you look at that chart if you looked at what we had for expense in 2013 in total it's about $100 million.
In 2014 the total expense will be just about flat.
So we really won't have any expense to speak of.
Now as you think about the business segments though we do charge the segments their normal service cost.
So overall service cost in the business segment was I think around $60 million in 2013.
That will come down to around $40 million because the service cost comes down as the discount rate increases and the discount rate did increase year-over-year.
That $40 million offset then will be in the allocated segment as income in the unallocated segment because we want to make sure from a business perspective that we are charging the normal service cost into the business segment so hopefully that's helpful there.
On the tax yes I did speak to that.
We had a number of years under examination both in the U.S.
and Canada that we completed in the fourth quarter.
You might recall in the third quarter filing in the 10-Q we said that it was reasonably possible that we would be releasing up to $160 million of FIN 48 or unrecognized tax benefits as a result of those examinations and that that would be primarily related to the alternative fuel mixture credit.
Remember those go back to 2009.
We had included the credit in income and we had provided a FIN 48 reserve for those that now has been resolved.
And so that's the reason primarily the biggest part of the tax reserves that we released in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question and I'll turn it over.
Totally different topic.
Doyle in the past the company had a number of what I'd call incubation-like businesses within Cellulose Fibers.
And years back there was talk about carbon replacement products being generated by Weyerhaeuser.
Obviously you've had the jet fuel venture.
How do you see those playing out over time within Cellulose Fibers? Do you see them as still viable in an environment where you are pursuing operational excellence obviously? Are there areas perhaps where there's been investment spending that maybe that needs to come down at some point? Thanks for the question George.
And I'll tell you at Weyerhaeuser to your point innovation has been a core value and will continue to be a core value going forward.
With that said what we -- as we go through the process we're going through on operational excellence George we're become -- going to go become very focused to where we're innovating where it adds value to the bottom line.
So we want to make sure that the monies that we spend the effort that we spend on R&amp;D and innovation ultimately results in a benefit to our bottom line.
So as we move forward that's part of the process we're in is making sure we have direct alignment again between the funds that are being spent the effort that's being spent on innovation and how we ultimately drive value for our customers and for our shareholders.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just to start can you just maybe take a step back and give some broader color on what you're seeing in the Wood Product market particularly on 2 things one comparing it to last year where there was clearly a lot of panic and tension and also just if you've seen any sort of response given -- and any change in your business just given the decline in the Canadian currency over the last month or so? I'll take your first question on that Patty to address the Canadian currency situation but you cut out or maybe we cut out a little bit when you said comparing it to last year where we saw something and I didn't hear [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Last year there was just a lot of panic and tension.
I mean a lot of the supply hadn't come back yet that you had to jump in housing starts towards the end of the year.
And I'm just wondering have you seen your customers may be more cautious relative to last year given what happened with the price movement? Or given the fact that we did see another late year of ramp-up in housing activity do they feel well prepared for the housing season that's coming up? Sure.
So let me talk specifics and then I'll step back.
If you look in terms of specifics Gail currently versus kind of the fourth quarter lumber prices have continued to improve and are up probably $25 versus the fourth quarter average.
OSB as I mentioned a little bit earlier in response to a question we've seen continued pressure there and those prices are down somewhere probably in the $10 range.
Specifically regarding customers I would tell you to your exact point I think inventories are very lean.
Customers are cautiously optimistic.
They do remember kind of what happened last year.
But I would tell you as we talked to our customers they are confident that we're going to continue to see growth in housing starts.
And in fact some of our customers' biggest concern at this point is will we have the supply to provide them with what they're going to need to service their customers going forward.
So that's kind of how we characterize where we are versus where we were a year ago.
And Gail to your question about the Canadian currency as you noted the Canadian dollar has depreciated here of late.
And typically the effect of that is that it makes it easier for Canadian lumber to come into the United States.
We really haven't seen a lot of impact as a result of that.
That would be primarily the FPS that comes across both from interior BC as well as Eastern Canada.
And as we've talked about in the past from a supply perspective the interior British Columbia is dealing with the Canadian pine beetle and Eastern Canada is dealing with reductions in the allowable cut.
The other piece that is a positive dynamic at that is that today the export markets for lumber are much more robust than they were a few years ago when we saw a much weaker Canadian dollar.
So it is something that we do track very closely.
But so far we haven't seen a big impact from that.
And we also do have some Canadian production as well so we are benefited to the extent that it will come to support.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a couple more.
Your cancellation rate seems to have moved up a bit in WRECO.
I'm just wondering if there's anything out of the usual there.
Yes Gail good question.
We really haven't seen anything that we would say would be a trend.
It did move up in the fourth quarter but we haven't seen anything that we would say is really a trend year-over-year.
The cancellation rate is in line.
I think as we look forward to the first quarter it's really difficult to tell based on what's going on in the markets because of weather really severe weather which you know well better than we do here in the West.
Because sitting here in Seattle which we often complain about the rain well there are no complaints about our weather this year compared to what the rest of the country is experiencing.
And that does hit for us in our Winchester subsidiary in the Washington D.C.
Virginia Maryland area as well as even in Houston which we wouldn't think would be suffering cold weather but even the South is being hit.
But in talking with our Real Estate folks there isn't anything that we see that we would say is a trend.
Mortgage interest rates are going up a little bit but it's not a huge significant thing at this point but we'll stay tuned to that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a couple of quick modeling questions.
I might have missed it but can you give us any sort of guidance on what you'd expect the average price in WRECO to do in the quarter? Also any guidance on the change in pulp downtime costs? And then just one quick last one after that.
Sure.
The average price will increase relative to the fourth quarter.
As you look at our backlog the average price in the backlog is higher than what it has been in -- at the end of other quarters so we'll enjoy that going into the first quarter.
Margins will come down a little bit compared to the fourth quarter really based on mix.
To your question about maintenance spending we'll have a little bit more maintenance spending really more in the major maintenance area.
The actual downtime won't be real significant.
I would expect that overall the increase in maintenance spending would be maybe $4 million to $5 million additional than from what we had in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just quickly I thought you mentioned your outlook for OSB your guidance for Wood Products you're assuming just a slight decline in OSB pricing? I just want to verify that I heard that and does that imply that you're expecting a pretty healthy recovery through the balance of the quarter? Well we said that it would be weaker relative to the fourth quarter realizations.
So it is one of those things that sitting here in January it has weakened.
We would hope that that would not be the case as we -- weakening further as we go through the rest of the quarter and start to see the spring building season.
But that's something that we'll have to track.
I think January is a difficult month usually to forecast for the quarter because it's a weaker quarter -- or weaker month for the quarter.
And as you know again we are being challenged more this quarter because of the weather impacts so we'll just have to see what happens as we go forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLP.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you can help us think about the magnitude of the profit difference between China and Japan and how that's going to change especially as you sell more Doug fir to China which sounds like a good thing.
And second question can you remind us how different Longview's end markets are versus the rest of your Pacific Northwest business? Well in terms of Longview I'll take that one first.
They do have a high percentage of premium logs as compared to our Western market so a good percentage of that will go to the Japan market as well as they also have though on a specie mix a little more whitewood and that's what you saw in the fourth quarter pricing to China.
The mix was more heavily than our typical mix to whitewood versus Douglas fir.
As I mentioned in my remarks we will be changing that mix so that mix will change a little bit in the fourth quarter to send more Doug fir to China.
Now Japan will always compete for the highest-value Doug fir log because of the fact that they do build housing in the traditional post-and-beam construction for example.
They build housing out of wood as opposed to China being more of a construction activity use of the wood.
But those -- that historical gap between China and Japan has closed a little bit based upon the strength of the construction activity taking place in China.
Research Division</strong> And do you think that's going to keep narrowing Patty? Well it's always difficult to tell because you've got the activity taking place and it is the additional supply dynamics as well.
But we -- as we sit here today for the first quarter certainly continue to see very robust demand coming out of China.
So I don't see anything that will change it in the near term and I think just both of those economies in the longer term.
But our demand from Japan has been very stable as well.
So we like the fact that we've got 2 very robust markets now that we are -- have the ability to ship wood into.
Your next question is from Ketan Mamtora with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
Can you remind us what you have in the form of tax shields at this point whether in oils or alternative fuel credits or anything of that kind? We do have some cellulosic biofuel products that we have to apply against our cash taxes.
In terms of cash taxes for example in 2014 we don't expect to pay any additional cash taxes.
I don't have the actual amount of the cellulosic biofuel credit but you'll get a more detailed review of what we have in taxes obviously when we file the 10-K which will be here in the next couple of weeks.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But you do not expect any significant cash taxes in 2014? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then on EWP I saw the prices were up quite nicely year-over-year.
Can you just talk a little bit about what you are seeing in that business in terms of just overall pick up and then if you can tell us what the operating rates were in all the Wood Products grades in Q4? Sure.
Let me just start with the operating rates and then we'll go back to the -- what we saw in pricing.
But in terms of operating rates in lumber in the fourth quarter operating rates were roughly 85%.
A portion of that fall from the third quarter had to do with weather-related items.
In OSB the operating rates were approximately 89%.
And in ELP we've ramped up production there.
If you factor out all the closed facilities and started-up facilities we're nearing -- we're at much higher rates than we've been over the past few quarters in EWP.
In terms of pricing we've been encouraged by what we've seen in EWP from the standpoint that EWP normally does lag.
Lumber and OSB as housing has continued to improve.
Over the past year or so we've started to see gained traction in EWP pricing.
And while that will be lumpy going forward we would expect that trend to continue going forward.
Yes.
And EWP pricing in terms of how we price the product we aren't seeing a significant change in the first quarter.
It really is a function -- the lower price realizations is really a function of mix in terms of the actual sale of the products that are going in.
That business does have a very wide product mix ranging from TJIs to solid section to Timberstrand and Parallam so it's really a mix that's moving that.
Demand continues to be very good.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's very helpful.
And then just one last one.
You mentioned a couple of times about weather.
I was wondering if it is possible at this time to sort of quantify what that impact would be in Q1.
No.
It's difficult to do for Q1 because we're right in the middle of it.
As you know I'm kind of just giving you a sense as every leader of every business that we have came to me yesterday and gave me an update on exactly the impact from weather.
So whether it be in our Timberland whether it be in our Wood Products operations or Cellulose Fiber all of those are experiencing some impact from weather.
Just for lumber for example we've already lost 20 days in our lumber operation due to either the impact from frozen logs or impact from roads being closed or whatever that -- or something freezing in one of our sawmills so difficult to give any impact this point.
We did do that exercise for fourth quarter.
And I can tell you in our Wood Products operation which is where the impact was in the fourth quarter that number was probably somewhere between $3 million to $5 million in the fourth quarter and we'll be continuing to monitor the weather impact in the first quarter as Patty said.
As Patty said we are hopeful that as we move forward through the quarter that the weather improves and we can make up some of the impact that we've experienced over the last couple of weeks.
So we'll be running some additional days in lumber for example to make up the additional volume that was lost in the additional days that Doyle was talking about and that's primarily days in the South.
And your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> First question is on looking at the land sales you mentioned in the first quarter when you gave the guidance on the Timberland it was excluding the land sales.
And I know there's 2 components: What you sell and what you transfer.
And I noticed -- I know the fourth quarter tends to be a big number and the first quarter is low.
In '13 that swing was about $25 million.
Should we kind of see that kind of a swing as well where it might go from $30 million in the fourth of last year to something in the single digits in this quarter? I think the way to think about it Chip is we had $20 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 and we really wouldn't see much at all in the first quarter of 2014 so that -- about a $20 million swing quarter-to-quarter.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then could you give us some help on the interest expense you think you'd see for the year? And I know that you might have to qualify it given the WRECO situation but I know it popped up in the fourth quarter and -- as we expected.
But what -- should we annualize that number x what we think happens to WRECO or what would you have us do? Well Chip remember that in the fourth quarter we had a loss on the early extinguishment of debt that was the Longview Timber debt and we put that loss in interest expense.
So be sure that as you look at the fourth quarter interest expense you back out the $25 million early extinguishment that we called out for you as a special item.
Past that I think you've got the debt.
The interest rates I think are all -- I mean there's no change really there as well.
So I think that that will give you a pretty good guidance in terms of what to put in for the full year of 2014 and we don't have any maturities now coming due in 2014.
LLC</strong> Got you.
So $350 million to $355 million.
And then on the -- you mentioned real quickly on the tax situation at least for the black liquor part I would imagine that's all noncash is that right? Yes.
We do have in terms of some refunds coming back in 2014.
So it wasn't cash in 2013.
But in 2014 as a result of closing out some of those examinations we do expect to get some refunds back.
That's one of the reasons why we have no cash taxes due in 2014 on a net basis.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the last thing is you mentioned in the guidance on the Cellulose segment a little more maintenance and I know there -- that there are a lot of moving parts as you go to a longer cycle for the mills.
What -- can you give us some idea as to how that will unfold throughout the year? Will there for example be very high or very low maintenance quarters that you can identify at this point? Well yes there will -- it will be lumpy because it will depend on what we do in terms of the mills probably the biggest lumpiness will occur in our liquid packaging operation because we do have some capital projects to tie in later this year.
I don't recall whether that's third quarter but I think it is.
So you will see some lumpiness through the year.
On a year-over-year basis other than that extended outage at Longview for that capital it'll be pretty steady.
It'll be different in terms of the mills so where we take the maintenance.
But the total amount will be up a little bit because of the liquid packaging extended maintenance outage.
Other than that not much difference.
So in 2013 we had 1 mill that didn't have an outage.
So our New Bern mills didn't have an outage in 2014.
We've got 2 mills that won't take an outage and then that will continue as we go through a full cycle of implementation.
And your next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question or comment.
Just on the question have you -- besides EWP and distributions' hard cost savings targets by the end of the year have you been able to put a more definitive time line on the $260 million that you identified on that -- in the New York -- your New York Analyst Day in lumber must be in Cellulose Fibers? In -- as I mentioned in December we have set those targets.
We will be working forward on those.
You'll start to see those -- some of those bottom line improvements as early as the first quarter of this year and then we will give you updates on a periodic basis or probably on an annual basis as to exactly where we are.
So again we don't know.
Some of it's capital intensive some of it's not.
We don't know the exact timing.
But I could tell you we are focused everyday on executing against those specific initiatives and those operational excellence targets that we set forth.
The other part of it that is near term just like EWP and distribution is the SG&amp;A cost savings which we indicated we would be at a run rate of $75 million lower by the end of this year and we are confident that we will in fact achieve that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is there -- just for modeling is there a range that you can give us for what you expect in '14? Well I mean I think the range would be the things that you've outlined the specific numbers on EWP the specific numbers on distribution the specific numbers on SG&amp;A.
And then again you can -- it's not going to all be back-end loaded in the numbers.
As we said it's going to be a 2- 3- 4-year process.
There will be some lumpiness but there will be benefits that show up as early as the first quarter.
And as early as the first quarter and clearly in by the end of 2014 we'll see some benefits.
And again the ultimate measure as we said in December 17 is going to be our relative performance versus the competition and I'm confident you're going to see that improved going forward.
Paul the other thing that I would just caution a little bit on modeling is remembering that the cost target that we've given you for example in lumber our cost targets of lowering our cost net of logs.
As you know very well the biggest percentage of cost in lumber is the log cost.
So log cost is continuing to escalate which is a good thing for us in terms of our Timberland business.
But net-net to the lumber cost if you were just looking at the P&amp;L the cost net of logs on a per 1000-board-feet number should be lowered but the absolute number of cost will fluctuate based upon log cost.
And your last question will come from the line of Joshua Zaret with Longbow Research.
Doyle in Timberlands in what you call International Operations which I assume is Uruguay you've shown dramatic revenue growth over the last several years through 2012 and then it fell 15% in 2013.
So a couple of questions related to that.
One what caused the downdraft in revenue and I guess earnings? And two are there plans -- if I'm right it's Uruguay.
Can you tell us where the state of the forest and the converting operations are in their plans to double that revenue in the next whatever years? So I'll try to answer your -- the second part of your question and then as Patty did to deal with the first.
So Uruguay as you indicated is a primary component of our international operation.
We are focused on continuing to grow trees there.
As you may recall Josh we just planted those trees not that many years ago so we're not in the full harvest mode at this point in time.
So as time passes we'll be able to generate additional revenue and earnings off of those -- off of that 300 000 -- approximate 300 000 acres of land in Uruguay going forward.
And sure Josh the revenue in the international segment has fluctuated.
It is only Uruguay as we sit here today.
It has included some China.
It has included some other smaller pieces.
So -- and the other thing is that from time to time it has included some land sales in Uruguay as well.
But as we sit here today it is purely focused on the Uruguayan operations.
And the end product that we produce there is lumber appearance or panel -- appearance panel that we come out of there.
The other thing that has been in international operations is we had a small joint venture in Brazil which also has now been curtailed since a year ago.
So going forward I think and especially as panel markets start to pick up we will see some of that reverse.
Okay.
So I mean it's been consistent growth until last year.
So you believe that will be back on track? And could -- but -- so could it have been land sales that caused that down or...
It's likely the land sales.
I don't have the detail of that in front of me.
We would be happy to take it off-line and walk through it with you there have been some land sales in Uruguay in the past.
So there's some lumpiness that comes into that as well.
Okay.
If I understand it that was our last call.
Let me just conclude by thanking everybody for your interest in our company and as I mentioned earlier goes to you all.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you again for participating in today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Carmen and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) I will now turn the conference over to Kathy McAuley Vice President Investor Relations.
The floor is yours.
Thank you Carmen.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss Weyerhaeuser's First Quarter 2014 earnings.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com our earnings release and presentation materials can also be found at our website.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during this conference call.
We will discuss non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of GAAP can be found in earnings materials on our website.
On the call this morning are Doyle Simons Chief Executive Officer; and Patty Bedient Chief Financial Officer.
Now I will turn the call over to Doyle.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone earlier today we reported first quarter net earnings of a 183 million or $0.31 per diluted share on net sales of 2 billion.
Excluding special items we achieved solid first quarter net earnings of a 153 million or $0.26 per diluted share as our businesses delivered strong operating results despite unusually severe winter weather throughout much North America in the quarter.
Special items in the quarter included a gain resulting from an amendment to a post retirement health care plan a gain on sale of a non-strategic asset and restructuring charges associated with our previously announced SG&amp;A cost reduction initiative.
I will begin this morning with a few comments on the housing market and overall economic conditions before turning to a discussion of our business results.
The unusually severe winter weather dampened market momentum early in the year and housing starts in January and February declined slightly on a seasonally adjusted basis compared with year ago levels.
As the winter weather is moderated markets are improving in March single family housing starts increased to 635 000 on a seasonally adjusted annual basis 2% higher than a year ago.
Single family also comprised a greater percentage of total housing starts in March compared with February.
Prices for existing homes are 13% higher than last year and fundamentals of job growth and improving household formation support our expectation for continued recovery in the housing markets.
Although the weathers disruption experienced during the past few months has slightly diminished the overall housing outlook for 2014 the market consensus continues to forecast significant growth compared with 2013 and we are planning for approximately 1.1 million starts including over 700 000 single family starts.
Globally Chinese demand for our logs and pulp remains strong as the pace of orders rescinds following a normal seasonal slowdown associated with the Lunar New Year.
Orders from our Japanese customers weakened slightly at the conclusion of the first quarter due to uncertainty regarding the effect of the increased consumption tax.
However Japan remains a very strong customer for our logs and we expect that demand will remain generally solid overall.
Let me now turn to our business segment starting with Timberland charts three to five Timberlands had an outstanding quarter contributing a 164 million to earnings an improvement of more than 20% compared with last quarter demand for western logs was strong in the quarter and prices rose in export and domestic markets.
Operating margins improved due to higher harvest volumes and our operational excellence initiative.
The strong performance of our western Timberlands business also reflects increasing benefits from the Longview timber acquisition which contributed 53 million of EBITDA in the quarter an improvement of 18 million from the fourth quarter.
In the south log prices rose modestly continuing the slow upward trajectory we observed in the fourth quarter.
Wet weather resulted in lower southern sea harvest volumes as well as reduced silviculture spending.
First quarter earnings from disposition and non strategic Timberlands are usually minimal and as expected dispositions declined to 4 million in the quarter.
Excluding dispositions the segment earned a $160 million.
This is the highest quarterly Timberlands earnings excluding land sales since the second quarter of 2006.
Wood products charts 6 and 7.
Wood products earned 64 million an improvement compared with the fourth quarter despite the effect of severe winter weather.
Weather resulted in reduced sales volumes for most products as demand stalled and transportation challenges related to Canadian rail car and trucking availability made it harder to deliver products to our customers.
Adjusted EBITDA in the quarter improved to 93 million compared with 88 million in the fourth quarter.
In lumber EBITDA improved by 17 million.
This improvement is primarily attributable to increased lumber sales realizations which more than offset lower sales volumes and higher western log cost.
Operating rates improved and the business did a good job of controlling cost in the quarter despite weather related disruptions.
In OSB EBITDA declined by 10 million as our prices fell by 3% and sales volumes declined by approximately 5% manufacturing cost rose slightly as the business incurred higher energy and maintenance cost as a result of the extreme weather.
EBITDA for engineered wood products fell slightly compared to the fourth quarter due to cost associated with the startup of the Evergreen Alabama mill and EBITDA for the distribution business improved by a $1 million despite a significant number of lost days due to weather related closures.
Operational excellence efforts for all our wood products businesses remain on track and we expect to see additional benefits as the year progresses.
Cellulose fibers chart 8 and 9 cellulose fibers contributed 54 million to earnings down from 65 million in the fourth quarter despite the harsh weather the mill system ran very well in the first quarter average pulp price realizations rose as markets tightened due to lower levels of supply.
Energy costs were higher as a result of the weather and pulp sales volumes declined due to timing of shipment and Canadian transportation issues similar to those that affected our wood products businesses.
As expected maintenance expenses also rose due to an increase in a number of scheduled annual outage days.
Real estate  charts 10 to 12.
WRECO contributed 12 million to first quarter earnings down from earnings from four special items of 71 million in the fourth quarter.
First quarter earnings included 2 million from land sales.
The first quarter is typically the weakest quarter for our real estate business and home closings declined seasonally this is partly offset by an 8% increase in average prices and lower selling expenses due to the decreased closing volume.
Gross margins were approximately 21%.
During the first quarter we made significant progress against our SG&amp;A initiative to reduce costs by 75 million by 2014 year end.
We incurred 18 million of restructuring charges in the quarter primarily for severance as efforts to simplify and streamline our processes and operations reduce our staffing needs we are highly confident we will achieve our target run rate by year end 2014.
I will now turn it over to Patty to discuss our second quarter outlook.
Thanks Doyle and good morning everybody.
Although the housing market has gotten off to a slow start in 2014 we expect to see demand pick up as we move to the quarter.
The harsh winter weather has now dissipated and the strength of underlying market fundamentals should begin to yield better results in the second quarter.
The outlook is summarized on chart 14 and Ill begin my comments with Timberlands.
In the west export prices are expected to soften somewhat but overall demand and prices remained at favorable levels.
The effect of the increased consumption tax is causing Japanese demand to weaken compared to the first quarter.
However we expect that volumes to China will increase in the second quarter as activity returns to pre-holiday levels.
Demand from domestic sawmills is also anticipated to increase as home building picks up although prices will likely be somewhat softer.
We expect increased log and haul costs as we begin to harvest sites with higher elevations and longer hauling distances.
Silviculture costs are also expected to increase.
In the south we expect pricing to continue its slow but steady upward direction.
Volumes are expected to increase slightly offset by higher silviculture costs.
Dispositions of non-strategic land sales will be higher in the second quarter compared to the first with anticipated Q2 sales at approximately $20 million which will be substantially completed by the end of this month.
Including the effect of these land sales we expect that second quarter earnings in the Timberlands segment will be comparable to the first quarter.
In wood products we expect that the seasonal pick up in home building will result in increased sales volumes across major product lines resulting in improved earnings in all businesses.
Lumber sales realizations have softened thus far in the quarter however they should stabilize as demand improves throughout the quarter.
OSB prices appear to have bottomed out and we anticipate slightly improved realizations for the second quarter compared to the first.
Demand in engineered wood products is improving and we expect higher sales realizations during the quarter.
In addition our Evergreen Alabama plant is scheduled to begin shipping commercial product high choice and microlam in May.
In our distribution business customers are continuing to express signs of optimism and channel inventories are still at relatively low levels.
On the cost side of the equation we expect lumber manufacturing cost to improve with the higher production volumes and log cost will likely increase marginally due to seasonally higher log cost in Canada offsetting favourable variances in the west and south.
OSB manufacturing costs are expected to remain flat as the positive effect of higher productivity is offset by slight increases in resin in some planned annual maintenance downtime.
Engineered wood products manufacturing cost should improve especially for veneer cost which were negatively impacted by adverse weather in the first quarter.
Cost should also decrease as our Alabama plant moves from start-ups to production next month.
Weather related transportation issues should moderate now that the extreme winter weather conditions are behind us.
We anticipate overall earnings in our wood product segment to increase significantly in the second quarter compared to the first depending on the strength of the spring building season.
Sales realizations in our Cellulose Fibers segment are expected to continue to improve.
Global softwood pulp inventories were below normal at the end of the first quarter.
Liquid packaging realization should also improve primarily due to higher grade mix.
We expect lower energy and fiber cost given more favourable weather conditions compared to the first quarter.
Maintenance costs are also expected to be slightly lower this quarter.
Earnings in our Cellulose Fibers segment should increase significantly in the second quarter compared to the first.
We expect improved results in our Real Estate segment as we move into the seasonally stronger second quarter and weather improves.
We expect to close approximately 650 single family homes in the quarter up from the 508 closed in Q1.
We anticipate higher average home prices with margins similar to the first quarter of around 20%.
Selling cost will increase due to the higher closing volume.
Earnings from land and lot sales are also expected to improve moderately compared to the first quarter income of $2 million.
Overall earnings in our Real Estate segment are expected to increase in the second quarter compared to the first.
The earlier announced combination of our single family home building business with TRI Pointe Homes is on track and we anticipate closing just after the end of the second quarter.
The decision of whether to distribute the shares using a spin or split will be made by the Weyerhaeuser Board likely later this quarter.
We remain excited about the benefits of this transaction which should create an even more powerful homebuilder with additional long-term growth potential.
Now I would like to refer you to chart 13 and make some comments regarding unallocated items.
As discussed in our earnings release three special items in the first quarter accounted for $49 million of pre-tax earnings.
These items included a restructuring reserve of 18 million for our SG&amp;A and R&amp;D cost reduction initiative that we announced in December.
Most of the first quarter reserve is for severance for identified personnel reductions across the company.
The majority of these reductions are taking place over the remaining quarters of this year.
As a result very little benefit is in the first quarter operating result.
We expect additional restructuring expenses of approximately $10 million to $15 million as we complete the overall cost reductions and we expect to achieve our targeted run rate by the end of this year.
Special items also included a benefit for $45 million for one quarter of the amortization of the reversal of liability associated with the postretirement amendment.
We expect each quarter of this year to have a similar amount.
The final special item was a $22 million gain related to the sale of nonstrategic property.
Unallocated G&amp;A expenses for the first quarter as shown on chart 13 totalled a positive $1 million.
The change when compared to the fourth quarter is primarily the result of income from changes in share based compensation which is driven by the change in order in stock price well as a shift from unallocated pension expense to pension credits due to the performance of the pension assets and a change in the discount rate.
Unallocated function expenses were also somewhat lower than normal.
Ill wrap up with some overall financial comments and Ill refer you to chart 15 for these comments.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $780 million down from the $835 million at yearend.
The first quarter is typically our lowest cash generation quarter due to the seasonal build in working capital as well as lower housing market activity.
Cash flow from operations was $109 million which included income tax related receipts of approximately $60 million.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $65 million and we expect total expenditure for the year of approximately 400 million.
Our long term debt was unchanged from yearend and we have not maturities until 2017.
Now Ill turn the call back to Doyle and I look forward to your questions.
Thank you Patty.
I am pleased with our first quarter results as we delivered strong operating performance despite unusually severe winter weather significantly increased EBITDA from our Longview Timber acquisition and took actions against our commitment to reduce SG&amp;A cost.
We are beginning to realize the initial benefits of our operations excellence efforts and I look forward to sharing additional progress with you as the year progresses.
We are relentlessly focused everyday on growing a truly company by driving superior operational and financial performance to increase cash flow grow our dividend and generate additional shareholder value.
With that comment I think we will open it for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research Group.
Thank you.
Congratulations on a very good quarter.
You ended the first quarter with 780 million of cash and I believe youre going to have some more cash coming in as part of the TRI Pointe acquisition as well.
Can you give a sense as to what you think is the necessary or the right amount of cash from a longer term basis to run the business that you would tend to want to have recognizing where the first quarter might be different than a different quarter? What order or magnitude? What type of cash level do you typically like have to run the company? Good morning Mark.
Its Patty and Ill take that one.
I think as we think about the cash balance there are a number of considerations to think about.
One of course is where we are in the cycle and we believe we are still in the early innings of the homebuilding recovery but also what we need for our working capital to support the increased activity.
The other thing of course is what is the level of liquidity? And we have very good liquidity.
One of the things I didnt mention was that we have our line of credit for $1 billion that we have no borrowings outstanding.
So as we look at cash going forward we wouldnt anticipate that we would need the level of cash that would be indicated by the $780 million that youve referenced at the end of the first quarter as well as additional receipts from the TRI Pointe acquisition.
The other thing that we will not have going forward of course is the cash generated from income from WRECO so thats the other offset to that.
So a lot of things that go into that number and so those are the things that we are looking at in terms of what is the best use of that cash going forward to build shareholder value.
Your next question is from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Thank you.
Doyle as we think about operational excellence should we expect there to be any meaningful impact in your Timber rotations or your harvesting plants in general.
Obviously Longview has caused me to have some optimization but if we leave Longview out of it is there a meaningful effort thats going to change in the way youre managing your Timberlands? Mark were applying our operational excellence within lands across our entire company including Timberland both the Legacy Timberland as well as the Columbia Timberland what we called Columbia Longview Timberland.
And just as an example Mark I would say that in this quarter while we clearly benefited from the higher volume and prices in the quarter part of the strong quarter in Timberland was a result of the operational excellence initiative that we have put in place specifically in logging and trucking cost improvement and merchandising.
And also making sure we get the right log to the right customer to capture the full value.
So were looking across through an operational excellence lens across all of our businesses including Timberland.
And while I cant speak specifically to the exact impact on the harvesting and that type of thing I can tell you we have already started to see improvement in our timberland operation as a result of our operational excellence initiatives and a little bit of that showed up in the first quarter.
Okay thats very helpful and just one thing.
It sounds like youre going to see the log shift towards China away from Japan a little bit overall year-over-year.
Whats happening to the China margins? Youve talked about improvement in some of your China margins in past quarters.
Is this shift going to push the overall margin down or are we seeing China pick up? So Mark this is Patty.
As we think about China the difference in margins I would say come from some softening in Japan so as you know a grade mix that goes to Japan is a little richer grade mix.
That also in terms of their competition for that log goes into the overall volume that goes into Asia.
So we expect the China margins will see some pressure in terms of just the overall amount and I think I referenced that in our outlook comments but from a perspective of overall demand from China we believe that will continue to stay strong.
And then as we go forward and get more of the pickup in housing domestically that domestic log saw log competes with the China demand so those two will put tension on each other in terms of the pricing.
Your next question is from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merill Lynch.
Thanks.
Hi guys good morning.
Congratulations on the progress.
I guess first question on RICO what would be your interpretation for us in terms of the fact that you do have closings now picking up and cancellations down.
And in particular are you seeing Doyle a pick-up in the first time home buyer in the market because that seems to be what's been missing here in the cycle in terms of extending it going forward? George I agree with you.
I think that is what's been missing and for this housing to get back to the 1.5 1.6 1.7 level that we've seen historically we're going to need to see the first time home buyer start to gain some traction.
I think we're starting to see a little bit of that but there's still some challenges in the mortgage market regarding loan availability and the amount that's required to be put down and just the credit scores that are currently required.
Encouragingly I think we're starting to see a little bit of loosening of some of those standards which I think is healthy and that will prompt more first time home buyers into the marketplace.
So we are cautiously optimistic that we're going to start to see more and more first time home buyers stepping into the market and we think that's what's going to take this housing starts to the next level.
Yeah George kind of the other things that is just holding back a little bit that first time home builder or buyer is the fact that the FHA limits have also been reduced somewhat so I think that's putting a little pressure on that marketplace as well but as Doyle said overall as we look forward for housing we're optimistic about what will happen for the rest of 2014.
Patty the FHA limits has been a much discussed topic and it's a good thing you are bringing it up.
Do you think that that won't be a burden or an in pediment for a year or do you think if you're through a quarter or two down the road we should have already had the impact of that in terms of demand? Well I think it's yet to be seen and I think it's one factor in the first time home buyer.
I think the other pieces of the overall mortgage availability as well as just what's happening with consumer confidence and economic activity overall.
So I think if that continues to improve even slowly but subtly that will overcome some of that pressure that comes from the FHA limits.
Thanks.
My last question and I'll turn it over.
Within EWP can you comment or maybe provide a little bit more granularity on why you feel you're on target with some of your operational improvement programs.
And Doyle you mentioned you expect or Patty mentioned you expect sales realizations to be up I guess marginally in the quarter.
Is that because of the tail effect from last year or is that because there's some new price increases in the market? Thanks.
And good luck in the quarter.
Good question George.
And on ELP specifically what we saw in the quarter was we had some start-up costs as we mentioned associated with our evergreen Alabama mill.
We also had some weather impacts in the quarter.
We like I said remain confident that we're going to increase the earnings in that business by $30 to $40 million EBITDA in 2014 compared with 2013.
We also to your point are encouraged and confident we're going to see some price increases and are already starting to see those in the second quarter versus the first quarter some of that due to mix but some of that due to just overall improvement in prices as we move into the stronger spring seasonal period.
Your next question is from the line Gail Glazerman with UBS.
I guess before I ask my question Patty just want to acknowledge the retirement best of luck and I guess we'll have you for another quarter on the call but thanks for all your help.
Thank you.
I guess just starting with timber results were higher than what you might have suggested last quarter and I'm just wondering what surprised you in the quarter where the upside came from relative to what you might have expected? Gail we were encouraged by our results in our timberlands business in the first quarter and I would basically point to three things.
One thing was we clearly had higher prices as prices strengthened in the quarter versus the fourth quarter that resulted -- as a result we had a little bit higher volumes to capitalize on those higher prices in the quarter.
The second thing is as I mentioned earlier we had some benefit from our operational excellence initiatives specifically in some cost improvement on logging and trucking and also did a good job of merchandising and what I mean by that as I mentioned earlier is getting the right log to the right customer at the right time to fully maximize the value.
And then third and importantly we saw a really nice improvement from our Longview acquisition in the quarter.
As I mentioned or as we mentioned that was up approximately $18 million from the prior quarter.
We saw about 6 million of synergy benefit or let me put it this way in terms of the synergies from Columbia we are at a run rate as of the first quarter about 6 million a quarter which would translate into about $24 million of synergy benefits on an annual basis.
And as you know thats well ahead of our original target of 20 million in synergy.
So those are the three buckets that contributed to the Timberlands improvement in the quarter versus the prior quarter and maybe versus some expectations.
Okay and I dont suppose you could quantify the operating excellence contribution there? As weve said before Gail we will quantify that on an annual basis because it will be lumpy.
But I will tell you it did have an impact in -- a significant impact I guess it depends on how you define significant but it did have an impact on the bottom line in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter.
And can you talk about maybe the weather impact in the quarter both potentially if you can quantify what it might have done to you and just maybe taking a step back and what it might mean for the market for instance lumber seems to have accrued up in Canada.
Are you starting to see that come back? So if you could just maybe talk about both I guess the financial impact and direct impact as well as how you think it might impact some of the markets as everything unfolds in the second quarter? Sure so let me start off by saying I was proud we were proud the way our people managed through the tough weather conditions in the quarter.
As you know there was a lot going on.
In terms of quantifying the impact its differential by business as you would expect but I would say in Timberlands it was minimal.
In our Wood Products business if you look across our Wood Products businesses the impact by business was somewhere in the $2 to $5 million range per business.
This had to do with things like closures and lumber for example we lost 27 days due to closures and distribution.
We lost over 50 days due to weather closures.
In addition we had slow backs as you know when you have frozen logs in a saw mill you cant run as fast so that was part of the issue.
We had transportation issues in Canada and in the US.
And we even had a couple of mills for a short period of time specifically in one of our OSB Mills we're able to get logs to the mill to run.
So those were some of the challenges that we had.
Again I thought our people did a really nice job of managing through that in our Wood Products business.
And then in our Cellulose Fibers business Gail the impact there from weather was approximately $4 million and that was primarily due to higher energy cost and some railcar availability specifically regarding our Grand Prairie Mill.
In terms of going forward most of these issues we think are behind us.
There we still have transportation challenges that we'll work through specifically in Canada as you talked about but all-in all we think most of it's behind us and well be able to work through it as we move through the second quarter.
Okay.
And just from the market perspective any worries that production build up in Canada as the transport issues unwind will have an impact on the market is that why youre looking for fairly muted lumber prices in the quarter? So Gail I think as we referenced our realizations thus far in the quarter were softer.
I think that likely part of that is due to that issue but I think now we see them starting to stabilize and think they will move up from this point.
So I think well work through that nicely.
Again it is dependent upon how housing activity comes back but the underlying fundamentals for housing and now with the improved weather things look good at this point.
Okay.
And just one last question can you talk about I guess looking at WRICO and the activity youre seeing there and as it suggests for housing activity more broadly are you seeing can you kind of quantify and give examples of any seasonal pick up youre seeing and also you operate in regions that would have been affected by weather but also ones that probably werent? And did you note a difference in trend beyond just the underlying market fundamentals that gives you confidence some of the sluggishness in housing or a lot of the sluggishness in housing in the first quarter was weather related versus something else? Sure.
I think there are a couple of things as we look at our own markets.
If you think about our Winchester subsidiary which is in the Washington D.C.
area was really hammered by weather even the first part of the second quarter hammered by weather so its a little tough to see exactly the impact that weather had how much of it but it was significant and were starting to see that now come back around.
I think the other in the first quarter markets that were a little rougher were not surprisingly those that were potentially a little overheated in the prior year and I would reference Phoenix and Las Vegas there.
Phoenix is now stabilizing as well so thats a good thing California Los Angeles is doing well and here in the Puget Sound of course the market did not go down as far as some of the other markets that we had.
Texas also continues to remain strong so I think again as we look forward a lot of that's behind us I think the other thing that has put a little bit of a dampening effect on the marketplace is sort of a good news bad news we had some pretty significant price increases over the course of last year and I think that has slowed that a little bit so we don't have as many closings as we'd like but they're closing at higher prices so one sort of helps to offset the other one but as I said before we are much more excited now about homebuilding as we look forward with this really harsh weather in so many geographies behind us.
Your next question is from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Can you remind us how much incremental capacity the Evergreen Alabama plant will add to the EWP business and where your utilization rates will be once that plant starts up?  You know in Evergreen which is it has started up now and it will be shipping product the first of May it produces two products primarily I-joist and microlam and we have about 61 million Lineal feet would be the capacity that we would note for I-joist and about 4 million cubic feet for microlam solid sections.
In terms of its moving into commercial production now it won't be operating at full capacity to start with as we move that product into the marketplace.
I think overall if we were to discount the Evergreen mill we're operating across that part of the business in engineered wood at around 70% but it's very differential by product line.
For example our microlam product is operating at very very high operating rates.
That's one of the reasons that we're excited about having the availability from Evergreen coming online.
Appreciate that detail Patty and then pulp there's been recent price erosion on the softwood side in China even though inventory seems to be in pretty good shape.
Do you have any thoughts on why we've seen prices move lower in China and any visibility into the pulp price environment in China over next couple of months?  Well I think as we look at one of the things that puts pressure on paper grade softwood is of course the additional hardwood capacity that is coming online but China does need softwood to go with the hardwood so I think even though prices may soften here later that we still are feeling good about pricing overall moving up in the second quarter and that would certainly include our fluff pulp price going up as well.
Yes Alex if you look at the -- as we mentioned first quarter and fourth quarter clearly fluff prices were up and we anticipate that trend will continue into the second quarter and part of that has been the disruption in the overall supply side of the equation due to the weather but we do think that's going to carryover clearly into the second quarter overall.
Your next question is from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks very much good morning.
Just a couple questions on Timberlands exports.
My understanding is Chinese log and lumber inventories are actually pretty high right now.
I guess a question is are you seeing the same thing and then just on your reference to the consumption tax increase in Japan and the slower refile there.
Can you quantify that? Do you expect that down 5-10% in Q2?  From the Chinese perspective I think inventories did build a little bit during the Lunar New Year period as I referenced in my comments.
We anticipate as that gets behind us that demand will in fact continue to increase in China and that will be helpful in decreasing the overall log inventories in China.
In terms of Japan if you look at it historically when there's been a change to the consumption tax you normally see a little bit of pre-buying and then you see a little bit of weakness as it goes in and then stabilization.
And it's hard to tell exactly how that's going to play out this time but our guess is it's going to be a similar type pattern.
We probably did see a little bit of pre buying now we're in the period where there may be a little bit of weakness due to the adjustment to the consumption tax but long term we continue to be very encouraged by the demand out of Japan.
Okay.
And then just on operational excellence it looks like you're getting some traction there.
Just wondering if you're able to share at some point in the future your targets your timing and sort of the CapEx required to get where you want to get to? Yeah.
So let me talk generally about OpEx across all of our businesses and I would tell you we're encouraged by the progress that we've made against the targets that we laid out in December.
As we previously said we will quantify the benefits on an annual basis but let me give just a little bit of color directionally on some of the benefits that we're starting to see.
I already hit on Timberlands a little bit but clearly part of our good quarter in Timberlands was a result of our operational excellence initiatives.
And specifically as I mentioned earlier regarding cost improvement on logging and trucking and also on merchandising again making sure we get the right log to the right spot.
In terms of lumber our manufacturing costs were lower than the prior quarter.
That as you know is the key focus of our operational excellence efforts.
I will tell you that was somewhat hampered in quarter by weather but I can tell you plans are in place to start to really capture the benefits from our efforts there in the second quarter and we're confident we'll see the benefit of that in the second quarter and going forward.
And our OSB business the reliability was a challenge our key focus areas its improving our reliability again as we laid out on December 17th that was challenged during the quarter due to weather but we start to see an improvement late in the quarter and that improvements continued into the second quarter.
And then the other initiative there is to improve our mix of high value products or enhanced products and just as an example there we're starting to make our flooring product at our Hudson Bay mill.
In ELP as I mentioned earlier we had some weather impacts but we are confident that we will see the improvements that we've laid out in ELP.
And similarly in distribution where we are there as I mentioned had over 50 days of closure due to weather in the first quarter but I can tell you all of our sites has completed an extensive analysis of the customers the products lines pricing the warehouse cost and delivery cost and I can tell you one by one those sites are turning to profitability and we are encouraged by what we're seeing there.
In sales Fibers -- we can give you a number of examples of operational excellence but I think the one that I would highlight for the first quarter is we had record production at a number of our mills despite the very severe winter weather and that's not the case across the board if you look at what happened in that business overall and when I say in that business I mean in that industry overall in the quarter so we did a good job of running those mills despite the tough weather.
And then we talked about SG&amp;A and we're making great progress on our SG&amp;A.
I'm confident we're going to get where we need to be.
So I think the summary is we're on track.
We're working hard on this operational excellence every day.
We're starting to see some benefit and much more to come and we'll like I said we will update you on an annual basis on exactly where we are versus the targets that we laid out on December 17th.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Just two quick questions.
First of all can you just tell us what criteria would determine whether a split or a spin is preferable? Sure Steve.
As we think about those we think about the spin as being like a special dividend and the split is more akin to a share repurchase.
So if you think about the criteria that you would use for each of those.
In addition one of the things that we look at when we look at the spin versus the split is of course in the spin you're just issuing the shares pro-rata to the existing Weyerhaeuser shareholder base.
In a split shareholders are given a choice to exchange their Weyerhaeuser shares for the shares of what we think is a very strong home builder going forward.
So the split gives the investor base the opportunity to choose which one.
And we think that it has the added advantage of then placing the stock with its more -- its natural investor base.
Whereas there may be some people who are Weyerhaeuser shareholders who would say I don't really want to own homebuilding long-term I want more of a forest products exposure and so it really is the fact that one is simpler certainly the spin is much simpler and the split though a little more complex does have the ability to place the stock with more of its investor base and it is the split is what we did in when we did the downtown transaction in 2007 although it is a little more complex to execute it is something we have done in the past.
It does make sense I guess to get it in the hands of those who want it.
From a tax perspective is one more advantageous than the other? No there really isnt any difference from one versus the other.
Okay thank you for that.
And then the second question was youve elaborated on why you remain confident in the housing recovery so can you just tell us how you position the Wood Products business? Is your operating stance predicated on an 18% increase in starts which is the difference between 2013 and the 1.1 million that you expect or is it based on your order filed from week to week? Well I would say its both of the above.
We clearly are matching our supply with our demand but were also as we look forward we continue to anticipate an improvement in housing as we said.
So you factor in all of those equations as you look to the future for our wood products business but I like the way were positioned in our Wood Products business.
Our focus as mentioned earlier is just running the capacity that we have better.
And were starting to make improvements in doing just that.
And in terms of our overall if you look at it any of our mills that we closed have either been started up so which was evergreen or permanently closed.
We do not have any mills sitting idle at this point.
And like I said I like where were positioned in Wood Products and think were very well positioned to fully capitalize on the continued improvement in housing going forward.
So youre ready to serve 1.1 million starts but youre not going to run for practice right.
That is correct.
Your next question is from the line of Chip Dillon.
Three quick ones.
Good morning Doyle and Patty and Kathy.
And again good luck to you Kathy as you later this year move on into retirement.
I wanted to you ask first on the land sales now that we have a reconfigured Timberland business with the Longview properties is sort of the second quarter is that an usually high level land sales you would expect going forward? And I know it's erratic or would that represent kind of a normal level? Well it is lumpy from quarter-to-quarter sort of historically if you can call it seasonality to it.
The first quarter is usually a little lower.
The second quarter at 20 million does not involve Longview land sales.
So its not that activity is not coming as a function of Longview.
So I would say that 20 million probably is more on the high side from a quarterly perspective so that would give you a run rate of around 80 but its going be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter and from year-to-year really based upon the opportunity that we see.
So we look to upgrade the portfolio through the land sales because those are for the most part exchanges that we are doing.
So its a function of continuing to look for the best opportunity and thats why you see the lumpiness we're not trying to hit it a particular target in any one quarter its really opportunistic.
I see and then I guess the second one is I know in December that kind of the two sub-businesses within Wood Products had sort of need the improvement obviously our EWP and distribution and I was wondering sort of when do you get to a point where they need to show the kind of improvement you expect them to versus maybe making of a decision from those businesses? In other words would that be a couple of years or maybe a year? Chip as we very specifically said on December 17 we anticipate and fully expect both of those businesses or each of those businesses let me be very clear each of those businesses to improve EBITDA about $30 million to $40 million in 2014 versus 2013.
At this point we remain confident that thats in fact exactly whats going to happen and were taking a lot of very proactive steps to make sure that is in fact the case.
So thats the timeline weve played out and thats the timeline were committed to.
Okay very clear and one quick one for Patty.
The interest expense for the first quarter at 83 million was a little less than we thought is that a good run rate to use for that the rest of year assuming nothing big -- well forgetting the -- even with split off would you assume not to change much? Yes I think that that should probably be a pretty good.
That is net of capitalized interest.
So a few million can change quarter-to-quarter depending upon what projects were doing but there shouldnt be anything particularly different in that number going forward.
Your final question will come from the line of Colin Ming with Raymond James.
Hey good morning just real quick going back to the question about really the cash balance in the past you guys have talked about using some of your cash position to continue to grow that Timberland portfolio.
Can you maybe just update us on what youre seeing from your perspective on the acquisition environment and are there any other deals you guys are looking at on that front.
I would just say we are constantly looking at opportunities to grow our Timberland base now we will as we have historically well be very disciplined in doing that and were not going to grow just for the sake of growing if we can find acquisition opportunities like the Longview acquisition where we can drive value for shareholders thats something we will pursue going forward so were as weve have been historically and we continue to be we look at lots of different acquisition opportunities but we will be continue to be very disciplined in the way we approach those going forward.
Okay thanks Doyle and then Patty maybe can you just remind us are there any sort of restrictions tied to the proceeds coming from WRECO the $700 million plus or minus just given the way that the homebuilder unit was in the TRS and then just the nature of the transaction are there going to be any near term restrictions related to that incoming cash?  Yes Colin as you think about that cash it is unrestricted but as you referenced it is coming into the TRS so there are no additional restrictions as a result of it coming from the home building business other than the fact that would be the same as any other cash that is in the TRS in terms of moving at around between the REIT and the TRS but it is totally unrestricted other than that.
Okay well can you maybe just remind us like some of the mechanisms to get that that amount of cash out of the TRS and up to the REIT?  Well one of the things that certainly you can do is dividend cash from the TRS to the REIT there are limitations as to how much cash can be dividended in any particular year and thats really a function of the earnings in Timberland business.
The other thing that you can do there is no restriction in terms of borrowing cash from the TRS although you do need to pay interest income on that borrowing from one to the other.
Certainly if you want to move cash down you can make a capital contribution but I think your question is more about moving cash from the TRS up to the REIT so you can loan it up without restriction you just have to pay interest income on that down to the TRS.
Okay and then just you guys referenced in kind of you I think your 2Q outlook in some of the prepared remarks just about some of the momentum youre starting to see in the US south as far as log pricing there can you guys quantify that at all I mean weve kind of heard mixed messages depending upon which specific region youre in generally the Gulf south not being as strong but kind of Georgia Florida the Carolinas being a little bit stronger can you just maybe put a little additional color on that maybe quantify the type of movement youre seeing in the south.
You know I would answer that by saying if you look at 2013 prices in the log prices in the south were up roughly 4%.
As we said in our comments and as shown on the slides prices were up again modestly in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter and what we anticipate is a slow but certain increase in log prices in the south going forward yes by quarter by quarter it will vary by region and youll see one move up more than the other but overall we are encouraged by the trend that we see and are confident that over time prices will continue to improve in the south as we see housing continue to rebound.
Okay great congrats on the quarter.
Thank you.
Okay as I understand it that was our last question Id like to just end by thanking everybody for joining in this morning and thanks for your interest in Weyerhaeuser.
Thank you for joining us today you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brad and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeusers Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
I now like to turn the call over to Denise Merle Senior VP of Human Resources and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead maam.
Thank you Brad.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us today to discuss Weyerhaeusers second quarter 2014 earnings.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com our earnings release and presentation materials can also be found on our website.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during this conference call.
We will discuss non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of GAAP can be found in earnings materials on our website.
On the call with me this morning are Doyle Simons Chief Executive Officer; Patty Bedient Chief Financial Officer and Beth Baum Director of Investor Relations.
I will now turn the call over to Doyle Simons.
Thank you Denise and good morning everyone.
Weyerhaeuser delivered a solid earnings performance in the second quarter driven by very strong results in each of our businesses and reflecting our employees relentless focus on operational excellence.
This morning we reported second quarter net earnings of $280 million or $0.47 per diluted share on net sales from continuing operations of $2 billion.
Excluding discontinued operations and special items we earned $234 million or $0.40 per diluted share.
This is an increase of nearly 65% compared with the first quarter and almost 30% compared with one year ago.
Special items in the quarter included an ongoing gain from a change to the post retirement health plan and restructuring charges associated with our SG&amp;A cost reductions.
Earnings associated with Weyerhaeuser real-estate company RICO are being reported as discontinued operations as a result of the divestiture of that business on July 7.
I would like to thank the Weyerhaeuser and RICO employees for their hard work in completing this transaction.
As part of the RICO transaction we retired nearly 59 million common shares worth over $1.9 billion.
These retirements which will be reflected in our third quarter share count more than offset the common shares issued in conjunction with last years Longview Timber acquisition.
I will begin the discussion of our business results with some brief comments about market conditions.
Severe winter weather earlier this year dampened the start of the spring building season and the U.S.
housing market recovery remained sluggish with total housing start up only 6% in the first half of 2014 compared with 2013.
Rising employment and strong consumer confidence support our expectation of further housing market improvements.
However we have lowered our 2014 housing outlook as a result of the weaker market during the first half of the year and are now planning for between 1 million and 1.1 million starts.
The bottom line is we believe that residential housing markets will continue to improve but at a slower rate than it had been previously anticipated.
Let me now turn to our business segments starting with Timberlands charts 3 to 5.
Timberlands posted another outstanding quarter contributing $170 million to earnings.
In the West we experienced steady demand in our domestic markets our realizations from Western domestic logs declined.
Although overall Chinese demand softened somewhat during the quarter as a result of elevated inventory to support our sales volumes to our customers increased compared with the first quarter and our pricing remained comparable.
As anticipated Japanese demand weakened in the second quarter due to the effect of the increased consumption tax.
Western logging and road cost increased seasonally as we log our higher elevations in the summer months when snow is not present.
We remain extremely pleased with the performance of our Longview Timber acquisition which contributed $51 of EBITDA in the quarter.
In the South sea harvest volumes declined due to wet weather and log prices rose by approximately 1% compared with the first quarter.
Second quarter also included $24 million from dispositions of non-strategic Timberlands an increase of $20 million compared with the first quarter.
The Timberlands segment continues to benefit from operational excellence initiatives including reduction and stomp to customer logging cost and increased extraction of export quality logs.
Wood products charts 6 and 7 wood products earned $102 million in the second quarter an improvement of nearly 60% compared with the first quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA increased to $132 million compared with $93 million in the first quarter and sales volumes increased seasonally across all our product lines.
In lumber EBITDA improved by $9 million as high sales volumes due to improved weather and seasonality were partially offset by lower average price realizations.
Lumber manufacturing costs continued to decline as a result of our operational excellence initiative which are focused on lowering our costs net of logs.
In OSB EBITDA was flat as lower realizations were offset by growth and enhanced products and improved productivity.
Results for engineered wood products improved significantly compared with first quarter as EBITDA increased nearly fourfold to $30 million.
Sales volumes increased more than 25% for solid section products and nearly 40% for TGI Joists and average realizations for both products rose slightly.
The business also benefited from lower manufacturing costs compared with the prior quarter as a result of operational excellence initiatives and the successful ramp-up of the evergreen Alabama mill.
Our distribution business reported EBITDA of $3 million in the second quarter an improvement of $8 million.
The business remains focused on lowering cost and improving sales and margins.
Were extremely pleased with the progress that our engineered wood products and distribution businesses made against their operational excellence targets in the quarter.
Cellulose fibers chart 8 and 9 cellulose fibers earned $91 million a substantial increased compared with $54 million in the first quarter.
Fluff realizations were strong and maintenance cost declined due to fewer schedule maintenance outage dates.
The business had another excellent quarter operationally and set a year-to-date record for productivity.
Discontinued operations chart 11.
As I indicated in my opening remarks results from our real-estate business are now reported as discontinued operations.
Second quarter results include after-tax earnings of $22 million from discontinued operations compared with $10 million in the first quarter.
The improvement was primarily due to a seasonal increase in home closings.
At the end of the second quarter we clearly identified all planned cost reductions associated with our SG&amp;A initiative.
Implementation is ongoing and we incurred an additional $6 million of restructuring charges in the quarter relating to this initiative.
Im highly confident we will reach our $75 million run rate reduction target by the end of the year.
I will now turn it over to Patty to discuss our third quarter outlook.
Thanks Doyle and good morning everybody.
The housing recovery thus far in 2014 has been slower than anticipated.
However this weeks better than expected forecast on GDP growth for the remainder of the year was welcome news.
The outlook for the third quarter earnings is summarized on chart 12 and Ill begin my comments with Timberlands.
In the west export log realizations and volumes are expected to decline as a result of normal seasonal softening.
The Japan market is normally weaker during the summer months as a result of rainy weather.
In addition to the normal seasonality the Japanese lumber market has been adversely affected by the implementation of the consumption tax increase.
High log inventories at Chinese courts will also likely result in lower demand and prices.
Domestic log markets are anticipated to be weaker as well during the third quarter.
Softer export markets combined with the increased supply of logs that typically come to market during the third quarter from the smaller non-industrial private land owners who do not have adequate road systems to harvest on year round basis are expected to exert downward pressure on prices.
As a result in anticipation of the softer markets in the third quarter we intentionally accelerated harvest into the first half of this year.
For these reasons we anticipate a lower fee harvest in the west in the third quarter compared to the second.
Supply constraints as a result of fire related logging restrictions could result in some upward price pressure in certain markets especially in Oregon.
In the third quarter we also expect seasonal increases in western road costs.
In the south we expect that fee harvest will increase as some harvest in the second quarter was delayed due to wet weather.
In addition we typically perform more of our spending activity on the third quarter which increases volumes and lowers the average realizations due to mix.
We are also anticipating higher cost due to seasonal increase in silvicultural activities.
Earnings from non-strategic land sales should also decrease compared to the higher levels of the second quarter.
We expect that overall earnings in our Timberland segment will be significantly lower in the third quarter compared to the second but comparable to the third quarter of last year.
In wood products we expect that sales realizations will be down slightly for both lumber and OSB with relatively consistent volumes.
Sales realizations for engineered lumber will be up as a result of price increases that were effective as of the beginning of this quarter.
Engineered lumber volumes could be somewhat lower due to orders that may have been called forward into the second quarter as a result of the announced price increase.
Log cost in the west should decrease in the quarter and also in Canada to a larger extent.
Housing demand has been more muted than expected however our inventories continue to be in great shape across our system.
And our continued focus on cost reduction and operating efficiencies continues to benefit all businesses.
We expect that earnings in the third quarter in the wood product segment will be comparable to the second quarter.
In Cellulose Fibers global softwood inventories as beginning of this quarter were in good shape at a couple of days below normal.
We do see some softening in paper grade especially into China and we expect that inventory levels will return to normal during the quarter.
Fluff demand globally remains healthy and our order books are full.
The most significant change in our Cellulose Fibers business in the third quarter will be an extended planned outage at our Longview liquid packaging operation.
We will be completing a number of capital improvements that have been planned for some time.
These include upgrades to the press section evaporators digester and head-box.
The improvements will lower energy and fiber costs and increase the quality of the board and product mix.
Although the outage will result in increased maintenance cost our sales volumes will be only somewhat lower as we have been building inventory in anticipation of this outage and we have had excellent year-to-date operating reliability.
In addition to the liquid packaging outage we will also have increased plan maintenance in our port mill system compared to the second quarter.
Overall we expect that earnings in our sale of fiber segment will be significantly lower in the third quarter compared to the second quarter and more comparable to the first quarter of this year.
Our real-estate results have been restated for all periods to show RICO operations has discontinued.
At the end of the second quarter our balance sheet was grossed up for funds RICO borrowed in anticipation of the transaction.
Both the cash and the debt are included in discontinued operations as of June 30 and were eliminated after the end of the quarter when the divestiture was completed.
As previously announced we closed the divestiture on July 7.
As a result our share count was reduced by approximately 59 million shares bringing our current share count to just under 530 million.
In addition we received over $700 million in cash.
Our third quarter results will show a gain on the divestiture of approximately $1 billion.
Chart 10 summarizes the unallocated items for the second quarter.
In the third quarter we expect that we will once again have a special item for the pretax gain of approximately $45 million related to an earlier post retirement health plan amendment which we are amortizing ratably over the year.
Other ongoing unallocated items are difficult to forecast as they are driven by changes in foreign exchange share price and inventory levels.
Chart 13 summarizes certain financial items.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $845 million an increase of almost $70 million.
There was no change to our long-term debt of just under $4.9 billion and we have no maturities until 2017.
As of the end of the second quarter we had year-to-date capital expenditures including reforestation of $159 million and we still expect the total for the year to approximate $400 million.
Now Ill turn the call back to Doyle and I look forward to your questions.
Thank you Patty.
Through the RICO divestiture and Longview Timber acquisition we have positioned Weyerhaeuser as a focused force products company with a productive asset base and significant runway for earnings growth and cash generation.
Our strong second quarter results reflect our employees commitment to operational excellence.
And we remain focused on driving superior returns from our assets to generate value for our shareholders.
Thank you.
And now I would like to open the call to questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning Anthony.
Good morning.
I had a couple of questions in Wood Products.
In engineered wood products it looks like youve got $20 million of EBITDA improvement year-to-date.
And I believe that you had the $30 million to $40 million target for the year.
And given the progress thus far do you feel like maybe youll be at the top end of that range? Is there maybe potential upside to that target? And then also for the three main businesses within wood products I was wondering if you could share what your operating rates were in the quarter? So lets start with your first question and in our ELP business Anthony we were very encouraged by the progress we made in the quarter.
As you referenced we went from $8 million of EBITDA to $30 million from $8 million of EBITDA in the first quarter to $30 million of EBITDA in the second quarter.
Also as you referenced our commitment was to improve EBITDA in that business by $30 million to $40 million in 2014 versus 2013.
And we think were well on the way to doing that thats the commitment were going to work to get as much earnings out of that business as we can get in 2014.
And like I said were encouraged about the progress we made to date.
In terms of operating rates if you will start with lumber lumber operating rates were in the low 90%.
OSB was approximately 90% and then ELP overall and as you know that the mixture of products was in mid-70s in terms of operating rates for that business.
Okay thats very helpful.
And then just a follow-up maybe on Cellulose Fibers.
The project in liquid packaging board is that going to result in any material increase in capacity or is it just a cost measure? Anthony the most important part of that project is cost reduction and quality improvement.
We will get some increased capacity maybe in the around 10% range but that project really was done to lower our energy and our fiber cost and as I said improved the product quality.
Okay thats helpful.
Ill turn it over.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
Just following up a little bit on the liquid packaging and the Cellulose Fibers can you give us a sense as to roughly how much the outages are going to impact the third quarter relative to the second quarter? Sure Mark.
As we indicated in the comments we anticipate earnings will be lower in the third quarter versus the second quarter in Cellulose Fiber.
And that is primarily if not wholly driven by the outages.
Just to quantify it a little bit we think the Longview liquid packaging outage will result in roughly $30 million of the impact.
And as we also said we have additional outages compared to the prior quarter in our port mills.
And that would be another $5 million to $10 million impact on the third quarter versus the second quarter.
Great.
And then is it fair to say that when you come out of it the other end you not only get that back but presumably from the project picking the liquid packaging you hopefully have even higher earnings power assuming pricing and markets are similar.
And any way to give us a feel for the type of returns or earning enhancement that you might get from the project? Well as Patty alluded to Mark the project will do three things improve quality lower cost and then have roughly 10% over time it will take a little bit time to get there but 10% improvement in production.
So all those things will factor in.
We wont provide a specific number but clearly the reason for doing that project is to drive additional earnings in cash out of our liquid packaging board operation.
Okay.
Thank you and congratulations for the evidence of continued operational improvement.
Thank you Mark.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yes good morning Doyle and congratulations on a great quarter.
Thanks Chip.
I wanted to ask you about distribution I know that it seemed like in the first quarter hadnt really turned much of a quarter but on the numbers I see here it looks like you went from something like $16 million EBITDA loss from the first half of 13 to $2 million loss in the first half of 14.
So it may not be  it may not have arrived yet but it looks like if the needle is moving in the right direction do you still think youll get to your goals for the year or have your feelings about the business changed any in the last three to six months? So were very encouraged about the progress weve made in distribution Chip.
And as you will recall the objective there is to improve earnings about $30 million to $40 million.
In that business versus 2013 we think were absolutely on track to do that.
I can tell you there is a real focus on continuing to grow profitable share making sure our cost are at the target levels.
And Ill just tell you were encouraged as now more than half of our sites are in fact profitable and we see more and more of those becoming profitable as we move forward.
So again very  lots of work to do as you mentioned but very encouraged by the progress thats been made over the past couple of quarters.
Okay.
And then on the $1 billion gain on RICO is the early tax impact on that that we should anticipate in the third quarter? No Chip that transaction as we talked about was done in a reverse more structure.
And that is one of the benefits of that structure is there is a tax on that gain.
I see and then lastly just on the dividend at this point I would imagine with $700 million plus coming in from RICO and with the strong results and I know the third quarter is not going to be quite a repeat.
But with the lower share count is that something that you guys are thinking about in the near-term in terms of bringing? So Chip as we previously disclosed were going to be visiting with our board in mid-August regarding the dividend potentially use of cash proceeds and those types of things.
Just to remind you and everybody else as we think about capital allocation and what our financial priorities are as you know first and foremost is returning cash to shareholders primarily through a growing dividend but also about share repurchase where appropriate.
Second is investing our business to high return projects.
And then just as you heard on sale this morning then improved cost structure and our margin and of course well also look for opportunities to grow our business through value creating acquisitions.
Again an example there would be Longview.
And then finally making sure we maintain the appropriate capital structure.
And as you know were in good shape on that front.
So thats the way we think about it and again well read back to you in mid-August.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Gail.
Good morning Gail.
Maybe going back to engineered wood for a little bit the volume growth that you had relative to the comments about housing maybe not picking up as quickly as you thought and given how much engineered wood is driven by housing.
I mean what do you think of your volumes were you picking up share was there an inventory build or do you think that volume has actually been used? I think there are a couple of things that were happening.
Or Im guessing there were a couple of things that were happening there.
I think first as we mentioned Gail there is a price increase going into effect and first is third quarter.
So I think there might have been some pull forward in terms of buying in the second quarter versus the third quarter.
So I think thats part of the equation.
I will also tell you as I mentioned earlier we had a very focused sales effort in that business and Im encouraged by the progress were making there.
So I think our sales folks did a really good job of growing profitable share in that business in the second quarter as well.
And Gail as Doyle referenced in his remarks we did bring up the ever green Alabama facility so all of our engineered wood products facilities now are operating.
And so that came up starting shipping product in May so well have it for the full quarter in the third quarter.
Okay.
And going and looking at Cellulose Fiber was there anything in the second quarter result that you wouldnt view as sustainable I mean I was wondering it is your best quarter since 2011 pricing reported didnt move dramatically.
Im just wondering kind of what you think of that upside? Well probably the thing that drove the upside the most was just outstanding operational performance across the Cellulose Fibers system.
And I think that all of the hard work that theyve been doing is paying off and I would look to that being sustainable and repeatable as we go forward.
Okay.
And looking at the Japanese market I guess what trends did you see moving through the quarter obviously the tax went up at the start of the quarter? Were things still getting worse or theyre stable just how do you see that market? Are you talking primarily on logs? The logs market yes.
So we had thought that it would be impacted we started to see some impact in the second quarter and that continued into the third quarter.
Its a little difficult to tell for sure because as I mentioned the third quarter is normally seasonally weaker.
But I think the latest news that weve heard just earlier this week was that the Japanese government is thinking that the impact of the consumption task now this is broadly was not as significant as many once thought.
And that it is starting to come up and they see more activity towards the second half of the year.
But well have to see.
But certainly it is softer in the third quarter.
Okay.
And just one last question your Timberlands guidance for the quarter can you give the sense of what type of land sale activity might be incorporated in that? So share it.
Its about  it will be lower than the second quarter as we mentioned it will probably be somewhere around $8 million to $10 million lower than the second quarter.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Alex.
Good morning.
Couple of questions starting off engineered wood products.
Can you put a little bit more meat around how much you think pre-buy may have contributed to the volume number in the second quarter? I guess were now through July kind of looking at how the divine trends were in EWP in July.
Does that sort of give you any incremental insight into how much pre-buy there was in the second quarter? Well it is always difficult to assess pre-buy I would tell you our activity in the month of July continued to be good.
So I would tell you there are some  there clearly was some pre-buy in the month in the second quarter.
But we didnt see just a dramatic fall-off in July so we continue to be encouraged by those markets and our sales efforts in those markets.
Okay thats very helpful Doyle.
And then when you talk about share so taking share in the EWP is that again just traditional lumber or would that be against other players in the EWP market? And again its hard to know exactly what happens on shares because we dont see all the different information.
But really what were talking about when we talk about profitable growth is just growing the ELP business overall.
And there are some coming out of saw logs maybe but thats not specifically what were talking  when I say I didnt mean all of it some of it coming out of lumber possibly but thats not really what were referring to.
Okay understood.
And then just one last one Patty on the corporate line just from a modeling perspective so is it really just zero to minus 5 an then everything else is kind of noise around like you said currency and inventories and some of the other things as well on that line? Yes Alex as I mentioned it is difficult to forecast.
And thats one of the reasons why when we put this information together weve started putting that chart 10 together for you just so you can see what it looks like in the number of things that move around.
So if for us the foreign exchange really is a function of the Canadian exchange rate.
So as that moves our share based comp certainly you can track that with the stock price.
And then there are just a whole lot of other stuff that goes in there.
This quarter and as we go forward the other thing that we are focused on is lowering our G&amp;A but we will have some costs on a go forward basis that were historically allocated to the RICO business.
And we are focused on making those costs lower as well.
But you may see some choppiness as a result of that as we work through the G&amp;A cost.
Okay got you.
All right thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning Doyle good morning Patty.
Good morning Mark.
Good morning Mark.
Good to hear you.
Good to be here.
I wondered if you guys could talk a little bit about just this shift that weve seen over the last year and where your log exports are going because its been a pretty marked drop off in the proportion of the volume that goes to Japan and about a 20% to 40% in terms of the growth in whats going to China? Sure Mark.
It really is a function of not Japan getting smaller but the China market growing.
And so as you think about the percentage of the pie to those markets it moves around.
What were really focused on is growing the pie and Japan continues to be an extremely good market and important market to us.
But whats moving that really is more growth in the China market in terms of incremental growth.
And Patty does that should that change sort of your average just realization in your export log prices because my understanding is always that China doesnt buy as high priced of log as what goes into the Japanese market? Yes thats fair Mark.
From a mixed perspective you will see the average realization come down.
But you will still see a spread between the specific China log compared to the Japanese log.
Yes.
And how would you think about that spread right now? Its closing a little bit but theyre both  both of them have come down in the quarter as we talked about.
So I dont know that the spread is changing all that much.
Okay.
Just a couple of other quick ones.
Doyle can you talk a little bit about how you would think about both investments and/or acquisitions outside of Timberlands say in the Wood Products area? And then can you give us a little color on that joint venture you announced with Pioneer? Doyle Simons: Okay.
In terms of the way we look at acquisition opportunities in wood products Mark.
We will as weve said we would be interested in potentially growing our wood products business but were going to be very disciplined.
Were not going to grow those businesses just for the sake of growing.
And if we find one-off opportunities that something we would consider but our primary focus in our wood products business is weve said its just running on what we have better.
And thats what were focused on doing every day.
Mark I think youre referencing the licensing that we did on some of our technology IP international intellectual property.
And I think its an important recognition of the importance and the strength of our intellectual property.
But I will tell you that its not a meaningful increase in terms of our quarterly results.
Okay.
Very good.
Thats helpful.
Good luck in the second half of the year.
Thank you.
Thanks Mark.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
To follow on Marks question so the market in Asia for logs is moving in the direction that you said last quarter you thought it would.
Does that change the way you think about your Timberland mix? Over the years obviously Weyerhaeuser bulked up on higher value species and got rid of a lot of the lower value Hemlock and other lower value stuff.
So are we likely to see Weyerhaeuser maybe attempt to move that shift back to owning or being more willing to own lower value species in the Pacific Northwest? Well Mark we are focused primarily on Douglas Fir that is what our most of our lands are best suited to grow.
We do have some Whitewoods as well.
And so as you know not every acre grows best the same species.
So I would say we will continue to have a focus on Douglas Fir but our Whitewoods inventory will be important as well.
Although it does come at a lower price point based on the quality.
Okay.
And then a second question youve said that you have catch up investing to do particularly in Wood Products.
When do you think you will have caught up? Will that happen this year or next? And what do you think of as normal spending in manufacturing and maintenance once that catch up is done? So Mark were spending a lot of time working on capital issues currently.
We will as always once we make some decisions for next year either late this year or early next year we will be passing those on to you.
It will take more than one year period to get our  to make the investments in some of our wood product operations that we need to to get our cost structure to where we want it to be.
And as you know thats the real focus of the investment were going to make going forward is to continue to drive down our cost structure in order to fully accomplish the OpEx initiatives that we laid out.
So thats how were thinking about it.
And as we develop more detail we will be sharing that with you.
Thank you.
Thats very helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for all the details.
I guess my first question I wanted to go back to distribution.
And Doyle recognizing there were a number of factors that you had mentioned in past that you were focused on in terms of improving the profitability.
Were there one or two key things that you did this quarter better as a business than you did first quarter or second quarter last year that drove the swing in profitability? And could you comment to those things? Sure sure George.
And it really is when you step back and look at it its getting the focus where it needs to be and just doing the blocking and tackling better.
But just a couple of things that I would highlight is we set very specific targeted cost levels that we needed to accomplish in our distribution business to get  start to get earnings to where they needed to be.
And we made significant progress towards those target levels in the second quarter.
And then the other thing I would say is while weve been successful in driving the top-line in that business as I referred we havent always had a focus on driving what I call a profitable share.
And I think our folks did a really nice job of growing business that added profit to the bottom line in the quarter.
So those are the two specific things that I would highlight occurred in the quarter.
Again more work to do but really encouraged about the progress that were making in distribution and our folks have done a lot of really good work in that business.
In terms of the runway is it going to be more on the cost side or is it going to be more on what youve got on the racks and can sell? I mean where do you get the further uplift from here if you had to pick between those two? Normally Im not ambiguous as you know George.
But I would tell you its absolutely both.
We have to pull both those levers to get to where we need to get to.
So I think there is opportunities both on the cost side and making sure we get the turns right making sure we have the right products that our customers need.
So lots of levers to pull in that business and were going to need to pull everyone (inaudible) we are.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
Doyle in terms of the Longview board machine I seem to remember that machines maybe had some operating difficulties in the last couple of years.
Now clearly youre going to improve productivity youre going to improve cost and you need a little bit of throughput out of this as well.
But how much of this was driven by the fact that maybe the machine had been a little bit less reliable in terms of quality over the last few years? And can you explain a little more in terms of what was behind that? So let me give my view point of probably little more short time and Ill let Patty expand on it.
But again Im just telling you this facility has run really well and Patty mentioned in her comments its run really run over the past few quarters both from a quality perspective.
Youre right historically weve had some quality issues but quality we made significant improvements in quality over the past few quarters.
And just to be real straight forward about it the operating rates and reliability of liquid packaging had been kind of up the charts the last few quarters.
Now again were excited about this the outage and the capital that were getting because we think thats going to allow us to take it to the next level.
But this is not one where we go were having big big problems so we got to go spend this money this is the one thats really going to just further enhance what weve been able to do at this facility at least over the past year.
Thats where I was going with that question.
Go ahead Patty Im sorry.
No I was going to say George that as we look at the spending thats being done at Longview there is some spending for cleaners that will improve the quality.
But as a percentage of the total dollars its a small amount of that.
The big piece as well in this project is that it will allow us to upgrade the product mix coming out of that operation.
Today the excess fluff pulp goes into wet lap.
And so there is not a great market for that.
So well be able to change the product mix a little bit.
And then again the big piece will be just lowering the fiber cost and lowering the energy cost.
So its not a place where as we look across our system that we would spend capital in any operation that we didnt think had the ability to run well and run reliably.
And Longview has proven that.
And I think they have a really good package going forward as it relates to the return that well get from these projects.
Okay.
Last question and Ill turn it over.
Would it be fair to say that in recognizing it is the Boards decision that at this juncture from your vantage point of the key metrics either from a balance sheet standpoint or the operating fundamentals of the Company and the sectors that youre in that youve checked the box so to speak in terms of being able to raise the dividend in the next several quarters? Thanks guys and good luck in the quarter.
Yes I think George going back to the comments that I made in December at the Investor Meeting.
We said that we would be looking forward to increasing the dividend in the future but that would likely be after we closed the RICO transaction.
And that is now closed and as Doyle said well be visiting on that with the board at the next board meeting in mid-August.
Thank you Patty.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with DA Davidson.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks good morning everyone.
Good morning.
A couple that pertained to I guess the Wood Products segment.
Starting with engineered wood products I think you indicated that all of you facilities are now running and youre at around a 75% operating rate.
Lets if we call housing at $1 million and potential $1.5 million thats a 66% operating rate.
Will you guys have sufficient engineered wood product when the housing actually hits mid cycle particularly if EWP gains share versus solids on lumber? So as I have said were running at 75% kind of on a blended average across the system.
Some of our mills are running more than that some of our facilities are running less than that.
So clearly in some products if housing continues to improve we may not have enough production to always meet our customers demand.
In others we clearly do have as Patty mentioned were in the process of ramping up evergreen.
So weve clearly gotten more capacity there.
So we feel pretty good about where were positioned overall in engineered lumber in order to continue to service our customers as we move forward.
But the capacity you have is the limit right? Everything that has been de-commissioned has been demolished or is there any kind of temporarily or indefinitely idled capacity that still exists? Youre exactly right.
The capacities that we have is what we have.
And so there is nothing sitting out there to go start back up were running what we have.
Okay.
Thanks for that clarification.
And then just on distribution great to see it turn the corner a little bit.
Again looking towards mid cycle can you give us a sense of the revenues and I guess EBITDA or margins are please? Yes.
Its hard to project exactly what revenues or earnings are going to be.
But Ill just tell you as mentioned our commitment this year is to improve by $30 million to $40 million in our distribution.
But lets be clear about it that doesnt get us to where we absolutely need to be.
We think as we do benchmarking versus our competition we understand we are clearly not the leader.
Our goal will be to be the leader in that business.
And Ill just put it this way Steve I think there is still a lot of run way.
Once we accomplish the $30 million to $40 million this year there is still a lot of run way in front of us to continue to improve earnings and cash flow out of that business going forward.
Yes I should think so.
And so therefore would it be safe to say that your aspiration is to see 3% perhaps 4% EBITDA margin once youre back at mid cycle potential? Yes I mean our goal is to be like I said the leader in that business.
And those types of numbers are absolutely what we would be able to accomplish.
Great.
Thanks Doyle.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yes thanks very much.
Morning Doyle and Patty.
Just a couple of easy questions here.
Just trying to put in context on Cellulose Fibers you mentioned the year to date record productivity.
I know youve moved to 18 months maintenance schedules on some of your mills.
Just if you could give us an update on where you are in that program? And then how the year-to-date productivity record balances with that? Sure Paul.
As it relates to the 18-month cycle now all mills will be on an 18-month cycle.
The last one really is Longview which was on 18-month and we took it down it went down in 13 its coming down this quarter or this year in order for us to be able to flip those capital improvements.
But now they are all on an 18-month cycle going forward.
So I dont have the specific how many mills and which year will be in 15 versus 14 in front of me.
But they are all on that cycle.
In terms of the productivity that really is as we look at it how are we doing in terms of our uptime and how are we doing in terms of our production per day.
And all of our mills are really operating very strongly.
And they are competing with each other as well as one gets better they benchmark each other and share best practices.
And were really pleased with the work thats being done by the folks in Cellulose Fibers.
As I mentioned the third quarter earnings will be significantly lower but thats because of the maintenance that were doing because the mills arent running well.
Okay great to hear.
And Doyle you mentioned that youd be interested in growing the Wood Products business.
Just curious as to which area within Wood Products is more highly sought after than other areas? Yes and what Ive said on the wood products business is our primary focus is continuing to run what we have better and again making progress there.
In terms of specific businesses there is not a specific business we feel compelled to grow at all.
We like our position.
And all of those  in those businesses again we think our biggest opportunity is to run when we have better.
With that said if we find growth opportunities then we think can add additional value for our shareholders in that business thats something we would consider.
Great thanks very much.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Your next question comes from the line of Collin Mings with Raymond James.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning Patty and Doyle.
Good morning.
Congrats on the quarter.
A couple of questions here.
Can you guys discuss a little more about the trends youre seeing in the different wood baskets you operate in the US south? I know weve heard kind of just generally out there that Arkansas and Mississippi is heavily lagged.
Maybe as it relates to you guys the Carolinas.
But put a little bit more color on what youre seeing kind of your expectations there for the back half of the year? Sure so in terms of further on saw logs we should step back and look at overall in the south we saw log prices go up about 4% in 13 versus 12.
As we mentioned earlier we had seen saw log prices up modestly in the first half of 14 versus 13.
And we think that trend will continue into the second half of 14.
Yes there are always some regional differences based on capacity based on weather based on a lot of different things.
So yes you do see some different things in mid south versus Gulf versus Atlantic whatever the case may be.
But overall we continue to anticipate but continued improvement in saw log prices going forward.
Okay.
And then I dont know if maybe you guys could break out roughly how much of the EBIT during the quarter came from the south versus say the west? I dont have that exact number in front of me.
I would tell you that in terms of looking forward in the third quarter most of the decrease in EBIT will come in the west versus the south because of the export markets both in terms of what the export markets are doing in export and then obviously that has an impact back to the domestic market as well.
Okay.
And then just to like following up on earlier question and I know its early.
But as you think about the  really the step-up in the run rate as far as the CapEx this year is.
The $400 million kind of  is that even appropriate if we think about 2015 or could there be another I guess Im asking could be there another leg up in terms of CapEx dollars do you feel like this was kind of the high water mark? Colin as we look at our capital expenditure what will drive that is our ability to continue to have high quality projects which we would focus on as driving our cost down.
So as Doyle said were still looking at those numbers.
I hope actually that that number will go up a little bit because that means we do have good projects but were still working through that as we are speaking.
And I think the other thing that we have really had a focus on is making sure that before we spend capital all of our operations are really operating well.
So were not looking at growing capacity necessarily from additional capital spend it really is focused on improving the cost position of our operations.
But well be giving you more clarity on that as we get closer to the end of the year.
Okay.
And then again going back to just the capital allocation and still recognizing youre in the middle of that process right now.
Can you maybe just put a little more detail on how much time are you really actively spending right now looking at Timberland acquisition and growing that part of the book currently or has it really just been trying to again determine where you want to put capital to work and still kind of integrating Longview? Were always looking for opportunities to grow our Timberland base.
So there is as you probably are assuming  Im sure you know there is some activity out there.
There has been a pretty consistent flow.
We look at every opportunity that comes along.
We take a disciplined approach to it.
And we will continue to do that.
So no we didnt  Longview has been a fantastic acquisition for us.
Were well ahead of our synergy targets.
Were on track to deliver the EBITDA that we indicated out of that acquisition.
But we didnt put other things on hold as we went through that process.
Weve continued to look.
Again well be very disciplined but we think there will be opportunities to grow our Timberland base going forward and were focused on doing just that.
Okay thanks.
Ill turn it over.
Thank you.
Weve now reached the allotted time for questions.
I would like to turn the call back over to Doyle for closing remarks.
Thank you.
And thanks everybody for joining this morning.
Before we sign-off one thing I would like to do as I would like to acknowledge Kathy McAuley who actually retired effective today.
Its hard to express just how much Kathy has contributed to Weyerhaeuser during her 14 years with us.
Patty and I would like to offer our sincere thanks.
And more importantly wish her all the best in her retirement.
As we have previously announced Denise Merle has taken on responsibility as Senior Vice President of HR and Investor Relations.
And Beth Baum is the Director of Investor Relations.
They will both be available to answer any follow-up questions that you may have.
And again Id like to thank everybody for joining us this morning.
And we appreciate your interest in Weyerhaeuser.
Thank you.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the call over to Denise Merle Senior Vice President of Human Resources and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Brent.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Weyerhaeuser's third quarter 2014 earnings.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
Our earnings release and presentation materials can also be found on our website.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during the conference call.
We will discuss non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of GAAP can be found in earnings materials on our website.
On the call with me this morning are Doyle Simons Chief Executive Officer; Patty Bedient Chief Financial Officer; and Beth Baum Director of Investor Relations.
I will now turn the call over to Doyle Simons.
Thank you Denise.
Welcome everyone and Happy Halloween.
This morning we reported strong third quarter results in each of our businesses as our employees continue to drive sustainable performance improvements through relentless execution of our operational excellence initiatives.
Net earnings for the quarter totaled approximately $1.15 billion or $2.15 per diluted share on net sales from continuing operations of $1.9 billion.
This includes a gain of approximately $970 million related to the July 7 divestiture of Weyerhaeuser Real Estate Company.
Excluding discontinued operations and special items we earned $178 million or $0.33 per diluted share an increase of almost 31% compared with the year-ago quarter.
Special items for the third quarter included an ongoing gain from a change to a post-retirement health plan and restructuring charges associated with our SG&amp;A cost reductions.
I will begin the discussion of our business results with some brief comments about market conditions.
Housing starts continued to improve in the third quarter but at a measured pace.
We now anticipate approximately 1 million housing starts for 2014.
We are confident that housing markets will continue to strengthen supported by employment growth and increasing consumer confidence.
We are also encouraged by changes recently proposed by the Federal Housing Finance Agency that would improve mortgage credit availability.
Looking forward to 2015 our outlook is in line with consensus forecasts which anticipate 1.1 million to 1.2 million housing starts and an accelerated single-family recovery.
Let me now turn to our business segments starting with Timberlands Charts 3 to 5.
Timberlands contributed $136 million to third quarter earnings compared with $170 million in the second quarter.
In the West fee harvest volumes declined as we intentionally accelerated harvest during early 2014 in anticipation of lower price realizations in the third quarter.
Realization for Western logs declined due to the normal -- due to normal seasonal increases in domestic supply and softer Asian markets.
Inventories at Chinese ports although down from their peak are still elevated and takeaway remains below normal levels.
Sales volumes to Japan increased due to timing of shipments.
Our Longview Timber acquisition contributed $36 million of EBITDA in the third quarter and remains on track to achieve our 2014 target of $175 million to $185 million of EBITDA.
In the South fee harvest volumes increased due to improved weather conditions.
Average realizations for southern logs rose slightly compared with the second quarter.
Third quarter earnings included $19 million from disposition of nonstrategic timberlands a decrease of $5 million compared with second quarter.
Operational excellence initiatives to optimize truck scheduling road construction and maintenance and silviculture practices contributed to Timberlands' strong performance in the quarter.
Wood Products Charts 6 and 7.
Wood Products earned $105 million in the third quarter a slight improvement compared with the second quarter.
EBITDA increased to $135 million.
In lumber EBITDA improved by $8 million compared with the second quarter.
Average price realizations improved approximately 1% as higher realizations for narrow lumber were partially offset by lower prices for wide dimension lumber.
Log cost for our western mills declined and operating rates fell slightly.
This business continues to implement operational excellence initiatives focused on reducing manufacturing cost net of logs.
In OSB EBITDA decreased by $3 million compared with second quarter as a decline in average realizations was partially offset by lower manufacturing cost.
This business remains focused on lowering cost improving operating reliability and increasing sales of higher-value products.
Engineered wood products reported third quarter EBITDA of $27 million a slight decrease compared with second quarter.
Average sales realizations improved for solid section products in TJI joists as we captured the value of our announced second quarter price increase and benefited from a favorable sales mix.
These improvements were offset by lower sales volumes across most product lines as second quarter included prebuying in advance of the price increase and customers managed inventories tightly during the third quarter.
The distribution business reported EBITDA of $5 million in the third quarter an improvement of $2 million.
This business remains focused on improving margins and lowering costs.
Our engineered wood products and distribution businesses continued to make strong progress against their operational excellence targets and we remain confident that both of these businesses will improve EBITDA by $30 million to $40 million in 2014 compared with 2013.
Cellulose Fibers Charts 8 and 9.
Cellulose Fibers contributed $59 million to earnings down from $91 million in the second quarter.
Fluff pulp markets remained strong through the third quarter and average realizations for pulp and liquid packaging board increased.
This was offset by substantially higher maintenance costs due to a scheduled increase in maintenance outage days within the pulp mill system and an extended planned outage at our liquid packaging board facility.
Our liquid packaging board facility restarted in early October and is running well following the safe and successful completion of several maintenance and capital projects.
The Cellulose Fibers business continues to demonstrate excellent offer -- excellent operational performance.
Let me now switch gears briefly to SG&amp;A and other matters.
Our SG&amp;A initiative remains on track and I am highly confident we will achieve our $70 million run-rate reduction target by year-end.
On August 13 our Board of Directors approved a 32% increase in our quarterly dividend and authorized a $700 million share repurchase program.
During the third quarter we repurchased nearly 19% of that authorization.
Our foremost priority for capital allocation is returning cash to shareholders and these actions demonstrate that commitment.
Also in August we announced we will move our corporate headquarters from Federal Way Washington to Seattle.
We expect the move to occur in mid- to late 2016 when construction of our new leased building will be complete.
Although our existing campus has served us very well over the years it is too large and too costly for our current needs.
Our move to Seattle is an important step forward and will help position Weyerhaeuser for future success.
I will now turn it over to Patty to discuss our fourth quarter outlook.
Thanks Doyle and good morning everybody.
The outlook for the fourth quarter is on Chart 11.
I will begin my comments with Timberlands.
Starting with log exports in the West.
Log inventories at Chinese ports are still at elevated levels which will likely result in somewhat lower sales volumes to China this quarter.
We also expect lower sales volumes to Japan primarily as a result of timing of shipments and realization for our Japanese exports are expected to increase modestly due to mix.
Sales realizations for domestic logs in the West are expected to increase compared to the third quarter.
In the South we anticipate volumes will increase slightly with flat pricing.
Silviculture costs are expected to increase seasonally.
Earnings from nonstrategic Timberlands sales and miscellaneous items are anticipated to be approximately $15 million lower in Q4 compared to Q3 primarily as a result of timing.
Excluding these items we expect fourth quarter earnings in our Timberlands segment to be comparable to the third quarter.
In our Wood Products segment the fourth quarter is the seasonally weakest quarter of the year.
Because of the seasonal slowdown we expect lower sales volumes across all product lines.
Average sales realizations for both lumber and OSB are expected to weaken relative to the third quarter.
Log costs are anticipated to increase somewhat with seasonal inventory build and weather-related restrictions.
Production volumes in the fourth quarter will decrease due to the holiday season and scheduled downtime to complete maintenance and capital projects.
This downtime will result in higher per-unit manufacturing costs.
Consistent with the normal seasonal pattern we expect fourth quarter earnings in our Wood Products segment to be lower than the third quarter and likely comparable to the fourth quarter of last year.
Moving on to Cellulose Fibers.
Worldwide inventories for softwood pulp at the end of the third quarter were at 27 days slightly below normal levels.
Demand for our products continues to be strong especially for our fluff pulp and we expect mostly -- pricing to be stable in the fourth quarter.
Sales realizations for liquid packaging board are expected to be somewhat lower due to grade mix and fiber costs are expected to be higher.
Total maintenance expense for the segment will be much lower in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter.
As I discussed on our last quarter call we had an extended planned shutdown at our Longview operation during the third quarter for maintenance and installation of capital equipment.
We had a very successful startup of the mill which was completed during the first week of this month.
The mill is running well and customer response has been very positive.
During the fourth quarter we planned only one mill down for maintenance.
That shutdown was completed earlier this month and that mill is also back up and running well.
We expect earnings on our Cellulose Fibers segment to be significantly higher in the fourth quarter compared to the third.
Now I'll wrap up with some overall financial comments.
As shown on Chart 12 during the third quarter we invested approximately $112 million in capital expenditures in our businesses.
This brings our year-to-date expenditures through the third quarter to $271 million and we still estimate total expenditures for the year including reforestation to be approximately $400 million.
As reported earlier we completed the divestiture of our home building business in early July.
As a result of the transaction we retired approximately 59 million shares of our common stock and received cash proceeds of over $700 million during the third quarter.
These proceeds combined with strong cash flow from operations during the quarter resulted in a cash balance of approximately $1.6 billion as of the end of the third quarter.
Chart 13 details significant actions we are taking to deliver on our commitment to return cash to shareholders.
In August the board increased our quarterly cash dividend by 32% to $0.29 per share or $1.16 on an annual basis.
Based on the closing stock price at the end of the third quarter that equates to a 3.6% yield.
In August the board also authorized a $700 million share repurchase program.
During the third quarter we repurchased approximately 4 million shares using approximately $130 million at an average price of $33.63.
As a result of the WRECO divestiture and of the share repurchase program we reduced our outstanding share count during the quarter by over 10%.
Now I'll turn the call back to Doyle.
Thank you Patty.
As many of you have heard me say over the past few months we are relentlessly focused on performance and capital allocation to grow shareholder value.
The pace with which we have begun to execute our share repurchase program illustrates our commitment to disciplined capital allocation.
Through our operational excellence initiatives we remain focused on driving performance to sustainably grow earnings and cash flow and deliver additional value to our shareholders.
And now I'd like to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on Wood Products.
If I look year-to-date it seems like your third-party sales volumes in lumber and OSB are sort of flat with the first 3 quarters of 2013.
And if I think that housing starts are growing and maybe your operating rates are in the low 90s and you have maybe some room to ratchet them up is there a reason that your volumes in lumber specifically aren't up more year-over-year? And by that same token if we do 1.1 million to 1.2 million starts next year would you expect your volumes to be up in 2015 by a decent amount? Anthony as we look at our volumes for lumber I think year-to-date -- based on year-to-date we were pretty flat as you said.
But I think that the third quarter we probably produced a little bit less than what we thought we would.
And as we look at 2015 I think that we have the ability to increase with the market which as Doyle said we don't have a real robust outlook for housing starts although they will continue to improve as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then Doyle last week one of your competitors in fluff pulp said it was exploring the possibility of putting their mill system in an MLP structure.
And I was wondering obviously Weyerhaeuser's a REIT and the Cellulose Fiber's business is in a TRS.
But is the MLP angle something that you've looked at? Or do you have any thoughts you can share on whether this structure might ultimately be appropriate for Cellulose Fibers? Yes and that Anthony is something we have looked at and I'll ask Patty to give a little bit more color on that because she's coordinating that effort for us.
Anthony we are actively looking at the applicability of the structure.
As you know there are a number of uncertainties and not the least of those is the fact that the IRS has put on pause issuing any additional private letter rulings until they've completed a thorough review of the MLP structure overall.
We don't have clarity on when that will be but we do continue to monitor the situation.
And if we think it will add value we'll move forward with our review.
We have consulted our advisers and we have included their input into our review.
As you probably know a number of years ago there was a private letter ruling for pulp but private letter rulings are fact-specific and technically can only be relied on by the taxpayer that's making that particular application.
And given the fact that the IRS is now undertaking an in-depth review we don't think it would be prudent to move forward without a ruling.
And so we're sort of on pause waiting to see what happens.
We haven't made any decisions one way or the other but we'll continue to monitor the situation.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO.
Doyle Patty.
Doyle the progress that you're making in the Wood Products business is pretty impressive.
I wondered if you could give us a sense of where you think the gains are coming from.
Is it kind of better commercial performance just better operating performance reduced cost? And where do you think you are on a sort of a scale of 1 to 10 in terms of optimizing those wood businesses? So Mark thanks for that comment.
And there is a lot of really good work going on in our Wood Products businesses.
In terms of the progress we're making as we've identified and starting with lumber we said that we think there's $100 million opportunity there and as we've previously said we'll think we'll get $30 million to $40 million of that in 2014.
And then part of what we're going to be doing on December 9 Mark on our Investor Day is being -- laying out more details of what we think the opportunity is and the timing is in that business and our others going forward.
In OSB similarly we've made some progress there.
More work to do but again we've identified 50 to 60 of operational excellence opportunities and more work to do there.
We will get 5 to 10 of that we believe in 2014.
In ELP and distribution where we had in my opinion and I think most people's opinions the biggest opportunity to improve.
As I said in my comments very encouraged by the progress we are making in both of those businesses and we believe we're going to improve.
Despite not great housing starts we think we're going to improve both the EBITDA in both of those businesses by $30 million to $40 million in 2014 versus 2013 and we're on track to do that.
I would tell you Mark to your exact question there's still a lot of work to do in both of those businesses and opportunities.
With the $30 million to $40 million the way we think about it proves that we -- or shows that we've earned the right to be in those businesses and our next step is to show that we can win in those businesses and part of winning of course is earning above cost of capital over the cycle.
So good progress there very encouraged by all the hard work that our employees have done but still a lot of work to do in both of our ELP and distribution businesses.
Okay.
And if I could as a follow-on just for Patty even if we assume the rest of the share repurchase were to happen in the fourth quarter it still looks like you're going to be sitting on over $1 billion of cash.
Can you talk to us about how much cash you want to carry going forward? And just thoughts on the use of that residual cash.
Sure Mark.
In terms of how much cash we carry it's a function of where we are in the cycle it -- we'll use some cash in the first quarter.
At least we hope to use some cash in the first quarter to build some working capital as housing recovers.
So that's one place that we're looking.
We also are continuing to utilize the share repurchase as you said.
As we look at capital allocation our priorities for capital allocation first and foremost has been returning cash to shareholders.
We increased the dividend as we talked about.
Continuing to execute on that share repurchase.
And then we'll also be investing in our businesses in our capital expenditure program.
We'll give you a little more color on that when we get to our December Investor Day and then certainly on our earnings call for the fourth quarter.
I would expect that may be a little higher than this current year not a huge magnitude.
And then obviously as we've said before we're looking to grow our businesses in a disciplined way.
Our first priority there would be in Timberlands but there's no imperative that I have to grow.
So we're being very disciplined about looking at all areas where we would utilize that cash.
In addition we do have the credit line that doesn't expire until September of 2018.
$1 billion that has not been utilized to this point.
So we really feel very good about our opportunities to continue to provide value to shareholders as we go forward.
So it's a nice place to be.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Doyle I guess my first question maybe this is under the category of "no good deed goes unpunished." I mean you've done quite well in Wood Products Mark was noting that in his Q&amp;A.
If we look at Slide 7 of your deck we generally see product prices that are flat to higher on average than where they were last year OSB maybe being an exception there.
We know the progress that you're making in cost reductions and operational excellence.
So I was just curious why if I heard you correctly fourth quarter guidance and EBIT for Wood will be flat year-on-year not to mention the progress you've already made this year-to-date? And then I had a couple of follow-ons.
George I would say just from a seasonal perspective as you know the fourth quarter is the slowest seasonal period.
So that's going to have some pick on -- impact on our performance in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
If you look year-over-year we have made improvements as you've said and part of the year-over-year will be impacted by sales realizations.
We'll -- it remains to be seen what happens in the quarter.
I will tell you currently lumber prices are down roughly $10 in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
OSB down roughly $5 in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
But part of it of course will be if you look at pricing on the chart that you refer to specifically in OSB if you look at it year-over-year levels pricing will be down fairly significantly in OSB fourth quarter of 2014 versus fourth quarter of 2013.
So we'll see how that plays out for the balance of the year but that's the biggest driver of what's going on.
Research Division</strong> Okay and that's fair.
We appreciate the thought.
If we switch gears a little bit but still within Wood Products and I recognize again this is probably going to be something you'll talk more about in detail on December 9 can you give us a little bit of a flavor in terms of what kinds of investments you're making within the mills? Is it similar to what you did at your former shop in terms of automation and improvement of yield? But -- can you give us a little bit more color there? And then my follow-on and I'll turn it over again you're clearly getting improvement in SG&amp;A at least in terms of the numbers that we are seeing across the segment.
Do you worry at all that with the cost reductions and you're on target for your $75 million that at some point in time that begins to impact negatively your ability to be commercially more effective within Wood Products i.e.
you cut a little bit too much on the cost side cut into the bone? Thanks George for the questions.
So in terms of what we're doing in investment in our Wood Products businesses George those are specific investments that will be made to lower our costs.
This is proven technology that's in place in some of our mills and we will be extending that to additional mills.
But again the key focus is on investments improving technology that are focused on lowering costs.
This is technology that we are comfortable with we know how to put it in and are confident as we implement these capital expenditures that we will ultimately get the cost reduction associated with that.
In terms of the SG&amp;A as I said earlier we are on track to achieve the $75 million cost-reduction initiatives in SG&amp;A.
With that said I am not worried at all about that cutting into the bone as you said in Wood Products.
These are cost-reduction initiatives across the entire organization and we are making sure that we are still very well positioned from a commercial standpoint and able to do what is necessary to service our customers going forward.
So no concern regarding that.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Doyle with all of the work on operational improvement do you think we're going to see a faster rate of growth in profits in REIT income or TRS income over the next say 12 and 24 months assuming housing continues the slow recovery? Mark as you know we are looking at operational excellence across the entire organization in our Timberlands business as well as our manufacturing businesses and we've laid out specific targets for both.
We've given an update on where we are on each of those for 2014 versus 2013.
And we'll as I said in December 9 be giving more clarity on what 2015 looks like.
So I think there's opportunity Mark and clearly on the REIT assets on the Timberland and encouraged by the progress we're making there and there's also opportunities on the manufacturing side both in Wood Products and Cellulose Fiber.
If you look at it just from a dollar basis in terms of what we've laid out and add it up the bigger numbers are of course in Wood Products and Cellulose Fibers combined compared with the Timberland business but we're focused on operational excellence across into -- our entire organization including as you'd -- as we just alluded to the $75 million of SG&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one more question.
How much of the improvement that we saw in engineered wood this quarter was attributable to lower OSB prices? And should we assume that that division has already seen the full benefits of the decline we've seen so far? So only a minor part Mark of the -- of what you saw in the ELP was a result of the lower OSB prices.
And yes you should assume -- we'll see what happens to OSB prices from this point forward but yes you should assume most of that benefit has played through the system.
Your next question comes from the line of Tyler Langton with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Yes just given things where housing starts are and where southern sawlog prices are and just with your thoughts on sort of housing starts for 2015 could you share some thoughts I guess on the type of harvest growth you may be planning for in the West and the South as we look out to 2015? Yes.
No on the southern harvest we have kind of been expecting as we've talked to you about a slow steady increase in southern sawlog pricing for 2014.
And that's generally what we've seen up 3% to 4%.
We continue to have consistent demand from our customers.
So we're not planning at this time any type of deferral as we look into 2015.
We'll continue to keep a close eye on market conditions.
Just in terms of how we think about our harvest overall what we look at is the financial maturity of -- and the expected market demand and those are the factors that we use to build our harvest plans going forward and we're working on those for 2015.
We also as you know and we've talked about have the ability to flex some during a year and during a specific quarter.
And you saw some of that earlier this year as we capitalized on stronger export prices in the first half of 2014 and 2015.
And we'll continue to hopefully capitalize on those opportunities in 2015 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then just on the Wood Products side I don't know if you could kind of quantify the type of volume declines you're looking for in the fourth quarter.
And then I mean is this -- are these declines just sort of typical seasonal declines? Or are they driven by I guess a greater-than-expected drop in demand at all? No these -- what we are talking about Tyler is just your typical seasonal-type slowdown in the fourth quarter.
As Patty said in her comments the fourth quarter is typically the slowest seasonal period from a Wood Products perspective.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Maybe tagging on on the question of kind of 2015 outlook and again I appreciate we'll get more either in December or January but given the housing outlook that you put out for 2015 how do you think that affects the trajectory of sawlog pricing in the South? Do you think it's kind of more of the same? Do you see any chance for acceleration? Gail our best guess on southern sawlog pricing is we will continue to see slow steady improvement.
I think the range we gave on housing 1.1 million to 1.2 million; at the upper end of that range I think you could see maybe an acceleration in pricing in southern sawlog even above the 3% to 4% that we anticipate for 2014.
If it's at the lower end of that rage then maybe it's more in the 3% 4% 5% range that we've seen for -- or we anticipate for 2014 versus 2013.
So that's our kind of best guess on southern sawlogs in the near term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you give a little more color on what you're seeing in terms of the log export markets? How severe do you think the inventory situation is in China? How long do you think it would take to normalize? And x the timing of volumes to Japan can you give us a sense of kind of the underlying trend in Japan particularly relative to -- has it fully worked through the consumption tax at this point? Sure Gail.
This is Patty.
As we think about China as I've said inventories are still at higher-than-normal levels and the takeaway is going a little slower than probably what we would have expected last quarter when we were on the call.
But they are working their way through.
That'll probably take through the rest of this quarter.
So we don't anticipate any significant change in direction for the quarter other than what I talked about earlier.
In Japan I think that stepping back from that too you'd have to say there's the Japanese market overall but then there's also the customers that we have.
And the customers that we have worked with as you know for some of them well over 20 years are really talking to us about making sure that they get the volume that they need to support their operations.
So they're large customers.
They have very efficient supply chains both in terms of the supply for logs but importantly as well how they merchandise lumber in Japan.
So volumes in Japan as I said are primarily down because of timing.
We had a little better shipments in the third quarter as Doyle talked about in his remarks.
So we are still confident in our Japan volumes although pricing will be impacted as we go forward based upon what things do overall.
But we do expect our realizations to Japan for this quarter to be up a little bit because we'll have a little bit higher freight to Japan relative.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on engineered wood do you think the volume you saw in the third quarter is reflective of kind of the underlying market? Or was it depressed due to payback from the outside strength in the second quarter? I think the -- we clearly saw as we indicated after the second quarter -- or on the second quarter call Gail some pre-buying in the second quarter due to the price increase that went in late in the second quarter in our engineered wood business.
So I think maybe if you average the 2 that would probably be kind of the normalized rate.
But clearly we had some pre-buying in the second quarter versus the third.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last quick one.
Patty can you possibly quantify particularly since it seems like you're already done what the outage expense would be for the fourth quarter in Cellulose? Sure Gail.
As we looked at Cellulose Fibers if you look at Chart 9 where we detailed the maintenance expense and outage days so in the third quarter we had about 38 days of maintenance downtime.
We would expect because we are now complete that that would be about 14 days for the fourth quarter.
So that's a difference of around 24 days.
And as I've said in the past each day is usually about $1 million.
So it's around a $20 million delta from third quarter to fourth quarter which is the primary difference between our outlook for the fourth quarter as it compares to the third.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Doyle engineered wood products could you just talk about how engineered wood is performing in the marketplace relative to lumber in single-family construction? And any progress if any of those been made in further penetrating the multifamily end market with engineered wood? Sure so in engineered wood we continue to be as I mentioned earlier about the -- encouraged by the progress that we're making.
As you see from our overall shipment numbers we continue to gain in terms of capturing profitable share going forward.
And some of that is coming from multifamily.
Still the -- I don't want to mislead you.
The key driver for engineered wood has been and will continue to be single-family but we have had some successes in moving into multifamily in terms of our engineered wood products.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then at the Analyst Day last year we talked about the performance in engineered wood and distribution that it materially improved and that potentially those businesses will not be part of the portfolio longer term.
Obviously we've seen very meaningful improvement in those businesses.
So are we at a point now where the improvement is enough where we would -- we can say that engineered wood and distribution will be part of Weyerhaeuser for the long term? Alex the way I would answer that is -- and I think I said this earlier is the $30 million to $40 million was necessary to show that we deserve the right to be in those businesses.
I think we are delivering on that.
So our next step now is to show that we can win in these businesses and again we define winning as showing that we can earn above cost of capital in each of these businesses over a cycle.
That's going to take some additional work in each of these businesses going forward but that's what we're focused on doing winning both from a cost of capital perspective and showing that we can be the leader in each of these businesses going forward.
And that's the way we think about it.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
I mean just last one on share buybacks.
So good to see that happen in the quarter.
Should we read into an issue -- in terms of the amount and the timing is that any sort of potential number that we could see consistently on a go-forward basis? Is that some sort of run rate that we can think about on a go-forward basis that you could -- you can buy back? No what I would read into it is the fact that we are committed to executing this share repurchase plan in a -- on a timely basis.
The comment we made when we announced this authorization is this is one we fully anticipated completing on a timely basis.
We will report to you just as we did this quarter the progress we're making going forward.
But I wouldn't read into just to say we're going to do this amount every quarter based on what we did for half a quarter in third quarter of 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Doyle and Patty first question is we've seen a pretty interesting divergence of opinion in the last few weeks.
And one way you guys can of course buy timber is just by buying your own stock and it looks like we've seen 2 of your competitors one step up and pay pretty close to peak prices I guess for southern lands and another of your competitors decided to focus more on not only maybe being buying back stock but actually selling land into The Street to buy back stock.
And I didn't know if you had an opinion on what you thought of land values.
And I'm really thinking of the South at this point where there seems to be a divergence of opinion and whether we would see you step up now or hang back? So Chip I think you can look at our actions in terms of the way we think about things.
Clearly as we've already highlighted we are in the market actively repurchasing our shares.
So we are convinced that we are creating value for our shareholders for doing that.
In terms of actively buying timberland there's no doubt that there are lots of opportunities out there to do that in today's market.
There's also lots of money chasing those deals.
We look at those deals each and every one of them that comes along.
And as we've said before we're going to be very disciplined in what we actually acquire.
And to date we have not made any acquisitions in the South.
The type of transactions we're looking for again actions are the ones that are along the lines of what we did in the Longview acquisition.
And you can look at the type of returns that we are generating from that acquisition that we made last year.
That's not a South-versus-West statement Chip.
We'd look for -- if the right opportunities are there that where we think we can grow value for shareholders we would look at making acquisitions both in the West and in the South.
But we're just going to continue to be very disciplined in the way we look at those potential acquisition opportunities going forward.
LLC</strong> Got you.
That's very helpful.
And just a quick follow-up.
Last year I seem to recall that you all made a point of saying that lumber and OSB were a little bit more strategic and possible areas of growth through acquisition than say EWP and distribution.
And I just wanted to know if you're still open to making acquisitions if the right thing comes along in those 2 businesses that you've mentioned.
And if those other 2 businesses EWP and distribution continue to improve as they've certainly done this year could they also be areas that maybe in a couple of years you could see growing in? Chip I don't specifically remember making the comment that you just referred to but let me talk about how we think about acquisitions generally.
As we've consistently said we think our biggest opportunities for acquisitions are going to be in our Timberland business.
With that said if we can add -- find acquisition opportunities in our Wood Products business or Cellulose Fiber business for that matter that will result in additional shareholder value that's something we would look at.
Now we don't feel compelled to grow any of our businesses.
But again if we can find bolt-on type acquisitions in Wood Products or Cellulose Fibers that we think add value for shareholders that's something we would potentially consider.
But again we think our biggest opportunities for acquisition will be in our Timberland business.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of cleanups.
In engineered wood can you please tell us what your operating rate was in the quarter? And what you expect it to be in 2015? The operating rate in the third quarter Steve continued to be in the mid-7 range -- so roughly 70%- to 75%-type range operating rates in EWP in the third quarter.
And we'll see what happens to housing.
But I don't think that number will -- so I would anticipate if housing continues to improve that number could go up going forward.
Research Division</strong> Yes and I was going to say given that housing has kind of underwhelmed over the last couple of years is it appropriate to budget your production to the lower end of that 1.1 million to 1.2 million range? Maybe particularly with respect to OSB? Well yes.
OSB is a different story of course.
And what I would tell you in OSB is we took 20 days of downtime in the third quarter.
And in the fourth quarter we would anticipate higher amounts of downtime due to normal seasonal factors holiday season and some maintenance and capital projects that are going in place in terms of OSB in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
The final question with respect to your understanding of MLPs is converting logs into lumber panels in EWP also eligible? Or is it just for pulp-based businesses? Steve as I said before that the IRS has a project a very complete project that they've undertaken and it seems they're taking even a little bit longer than maybe what was anticipated when they announced the project which was back towards the beginning of this year.
So I think it's difficult to know really where they'll come out on their deliberations.
What we do know as I said before was a number of years ago they did have a ruling on pulp.
But whether or not they will modify that ruling and application going forward and whether or not they would say anything about the other businesses is still yet to be known.
So tough to give you any more clarity.
I wish we all had a little more clarity at this point but that's sort of what we know as we sit here today.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
I too like George was looking at Chart 7 where you had Wood Products volumes and pricing.
And I had something of a different question and that's the lumber engineered wood and if we threw plywood on here it'd be the same.
Prices have been pretty good over the last 1.5 years.
Obviously OSB has been a very different story.
There was a lot of restarts last year but that was a while ago.
Any thoughts as to why it's taking so long for OSB to regain its footing and what needs to happen for the markets to get into balance and more profitable? Mark I think you said it right.
There was significant additional supply that came online I think in anticipation of maybe stronger housing starts than we've seen occur in the 2014-type time frame.
So I think it's a simple supply-and-demand equation that appears to be out of balance currently and that's what has resulted in the current pricing environment.
Do you think there are any structural impediments though to regaining balance? Because I'm not sure the operating rates in engineered wood are higher or for that matter in gypsum than in OSB.
It just seems to be that the market struggles to adjust to the demand situation.
Any thoughts as to what impediments might be in place? No Mark I don't think there are any long-term structural impediments.
OSB tends to be very volatile as you very well know over a cycle and I think we're just in one of those periods of low pricing currently.
One thing I would say Mark that's different in the 2 technologies.
OSB when capacity comes on the market comes on in pretty big chunks and people seek to run those mills 24/7 because of the type of operation that they are.
So I think when new capacity starts up as we saw a number of mills earlier this year it takes a longer time for the market to absorb it if the housing doesn't recover as quickly as I think what people anticipated as we started the year.
So I think I would point to that as the difference between the 2 technologies.
Lumber similarly also is a more fragmented business that capacity comes on in smaller chunks than what OSB does.
Fair enough.
And certainly I realize it's not your job to be prognosticating on price actions et cetera but given your housing starts forecast for next year is it feasible that OSB gets into balance? Or do you think we're still a ways away? Mark I think as we move through 2015 and housing continues to improve I think they're in the range that we laid out.
You could see an environment -- and again we're not prognosticators of pricing and we'll leave that to others but I think you could see a point where that is more in balance going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes just following up on I think Chip's question on Timberland transactions and trying to get your viewpoint about your actions.
If you could give us a little bit more color on your nonstrategic Timberland sales where are those happening? Is it more West-based than South? And in terms of transaction values are you seeing a steady increase over the last year? Yes so we have those in both the West and the South.
I'll give you an example of one that was in the third quarter.
It happened to be in Oklahoma.
It was a tract that was roughly 760 acres and it sold for $14 000-plus per acre.
So that's an example of what we see occurring out in the marketplace right now.
So some of it's truly nonstrategic some of it's more HBU-type land and that's what we've seen going on and we think will continue to be opportunities for us going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and just getting back to the Q4 outlook on lower lumber and OSB pricing.
Just specifically on the OSB side it looks like those prices bottomed out in September and we've seen depending on the region about anywhere from 10% to 14% price lifts since that point.
What's your level of confidence that prices will be lower quarter-over-quarter? Again we're not better than anybody else in predicting what's going to happen on prices.
The number that I referenced earlier is if you look at third quarter average versus October-to-date prices October-to-date is down roughly $5 for our overall mix.
So that's to give you some sense of where we are today.
Now again that third quarter average you referenced end of the third quarter but if you look at third quarter average versus October-to-date that's where we ended up.
Ladies and gentlemen we have time for one more question.
Your final question comes from the line of Collin Mings with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of cleanups here.
Just kind of a follow-up to Gail's question on Japan.
You mentioned that you're seeing better realizations in 4Q due to mix.
How are like comparable-quality log prices? Are they still falling in that market? Or are you actually starting to see some stabilization and lift on kind of an apples-to-apples basis there? I would say that Japan is stable as it relates to price overall.
And as I said both in terms of the volume to Japan we are also very pleased with the customer relationships that we have that really are focused on making sure that they have adequate supply of Douglas fir logs in order to supply their large operations.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay Patty.
And then as far as the Cellulose Fibers guidance for 4Q could you see as far as from an earnings contribution a bounce back all the way to what you saw in 2Q? Or is it probably going to fall out somewhere between what we had saw in 3Q and -- I'm sorry between 2Q and 3Q? Well I think as you look at that the major difference between the third quarter and the fourth quarter is going to be that roughly $20 million of maintenance expense that I referenced when Gail asked her question.
There are some puts and takes and other -- I said liquid packaging realizations will be down.
Pulp pricing should be pretty stable.
But the major difference between the 2 is that -- 2 quarters is that $20 million of maintenance.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay Patty.
And then just one last big-picture question Doyle and kind of a follow-up to both Chip's and Paul's questions.
Just given the strong bid for timberland right now have you thought about just becoming more aggressive as far as capital recycling within the Timberland business? More specifically are there certain wood baskets in the U.S.
South that you want to try and get more aggressive in and have a bigger presence in and maybe exit some of the regions you are in now? Because just looking at your footprint in the region there are some areas in states where you have a pretty large concentration and then some other areas where we're seeing arguably a little bit better signs of a price recovery in sawlogs that you're not in.
So are you looking at kind of shifting some capital around within Timberland from that perspective? Yes that's a good question.
And as you I think know and as we've talked about before we're always looking to improve through trading and buying and selling the overall quality of our timberlands.
And some of that may include as you alluded to potentially getting in markets maybe that we're not in although we're in most of the markets currently.
So those are things that we are [Audio Gap] to consider going forward.
With that said we have as you know a pretty good footprint in terms of -- both in the South and in the West in terms of where our strategic timberland is located.
And we're convinced that through growing and harvesting trees on that strategic timberland we're going to be able to drive value for our shareholders going forward.
But we're always looking to improve the overall quality of our timberland base and I think we've had some success in doing that historically and we'll continue to look at opportunities to do that going forward.
So as I understand it that was our final question.
As we wrap up this morning's call I want to just remind everybody that we will be holding an investor meeting on December 9.
That's going to be at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel in New York.
Our business leaders will be participating in that meeting.
We're looking forward to that meeting and we look forward to seeing each of you there.
So with that thanks everybody for joining in on the call this morning and we thank you for your interest in Weyerhaeuser.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you and I'd now like to turn the call over to Denise Merle Senior Vice President of Human Resources and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Brent.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Weyerhaeuser's fourth quarter 2014 earnings.
On the call with me this morning are Doyle Simons CEO; Patty Bedient CFO; and Beth Baum Director of Investor Relations.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
Our earnings release and presentation materials can also be found on our website.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during the conference call.
We will discuss non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of GAAP can be found in earnings materials on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Doyle Simons.
Thank you Denise and good morning everyone.
As we enter 2014 we embark in the journey here at Weyerhaeuser to grow at truly great company.
As we said at that time the three primary levers we are pulling to drive shareholders our portfolio performance and capital allocation.
Over the past year we've made significant progress.
Specifically in 2014 we'd divested our home building business to become a focused forest product company achieved our 2014 operational excellence targets and improved earnings from our continuing operations before special items about 22% to $700 million or $1.25 per diluted share compared with $572 million or $0.99 per diluted share in 2013.
In addition we increased our dividend by 32% authorized a new $700 million share repurchase program and within five months completed nearly 30% of that authorization.
Through these actions we demonstrated our commitment to delivering shareholder value and our total share of return for the full year of 2014 exceeded 17%.
Included in these full year results are the strong fourth quarter operating earnings we reported this morning.
We out earned $166 million or $0.31 per diluted for the fourth quarter.
Our net sales from continuing operations of $1.8 billion excluding special items we are into $145 million or $0.27 per diluted share an increase of 31% compared with the year ago quarter.
Special items for the fourth quarter included an ongoing gain from a change to post-retirement health plan and restructuring charges associated with our SG&amp;A cost reductions.
I'll begin the discussion of our businesses performance with some brief comments on housing.
Housing starts showed continued improvement in the fourth quarter albeit at a modest rate.
U.S.
housing starts totalled just over $1 million for 2014 an improvement of approximately 9% compared with 2013.
We are confident that housing markets will continue to strengthen in 2015 at accelerating employment growth; strong consumer confidence low mortgage rates and initiatives to improve mortgage availability should support increased household formation.
We anticipate over $1.1 million housing starts for 2015.
Let me now turn to our business segments starting with timberlands Chart 4 to 6.
Timberlands contributed $143 million to fourth quarter earnings compared with a $136 million in the third quarter.
In the West fee harvest volumes increased as we were able to access tracks that had limited operations during the third quarter's fire season.
Average realizations for Western logs rose due to tighter domestic markets and a favorable export log mix.
Japanese demand remained solid during the quarter.
Chinese demand slowed and prices for Chinese export logs declined.
Although Chinese inventories decreased during the fourth quarter they remained above normalized levels and the weak Rouble improved the competitive position of Russian logs.
Operational excellence initiatives to drag each log to its most profitable customer contributed to the strong performance in the quarter.
[indiscernible] acquisition contributed $44 million of EBITDA in the fourth quarter.
This acquisition has been fully integrated into our Timberlands operations.
In the south fee harvest volumes rose and average realization increased compared with the third quarter.
Fourth quarter earnings included $3 million from disposition of non-strategic Timberlands a decrease of $16 million compared with the third quarter.
Our Timberlands business met or exceeded all of its operational excellence target for 2014 including $194 million of EBITDA from the Longview acquisition against the target of $175 million to $185 million $29 million of synergies against the target of $20 million and over $20 million of operational excellence improvements.
We anticipate an additional $20 million to $30 million of operational excellence improvements in 2015 in this business.
I will turn to wood products Chart 7 and 8.
Wood products contributed $56 million in the seasonally weak fourth quarter down from $105 million in the third quarter.
Earnings for the segment were comparable to the fourth quarter 2013 as benefits from our operational excellence initiatives offset a 13% year-over-year decline in average OSB realizations.
Wood products EBITDA for the fourth quarter 2014 totalled $86 million compared with $135 million in the third quarter.
In lumber EBITDA totalled $65 million average price realizations declined approximately 4% compared with the third quarter.
Log cost of western and southern mills increased and per unit manufacturing cost rose due to seasonally lower production volumes.
In OSB EBITDA decreased by $4 million compared with the third quarter due to a 4% decrease in average realizations.
Engineered wood products reported fourth quarter EBITDA $14 million a slight increase in average sales realizations was more than offset by seasonally lower sales volumes and higher fee manufacturing cost due to reduced production volume.
EBITDA for the distribution business declined $6 million compared with the third quarter but improved by $5 million compared with the fourth quarter of 2013.
In 2014 the wood product segments achieved over $100 million of benefit from operational excellence initiatives including delivering on our commitment to improved EBITDA and engineered wood products and distribution about $30 million to $40 million in each business.
We've made good progress but much more work remains to be done as we continue our focus on operational excellence in 2015.
We have committed to deliver an additional $25 million to $30 million of operational excellence from our lumber business $10 million to $15 million from OSB $15 million to $20 million in engineered wood products EBITDA and $20 million to $30 million of EBITDA from distribution.
Let me know turn to cellulose fibers Charts 9 and 10.
Cellulose fibers contributed $87 million to earnings an increase of $28 million compared with the third quarter.
Fluff pulp markets remain strong in the fourth quarter and average pulp price realizations increased.
Maintenance cost at our liquid packaging board facility declined substantially and production increased volume completion of extended outage that occurred primarily in the third quarter.
As anticipated liquid packaging board realization declined in the fourth quarter due to a temporary shift in mix as we restarted the facility.
Shipment volumes for that product also declined as result of slowdown associated with the West Coast port labour disputes.
The Cellulose fibers business finished the year with strong operational performance with several mills setting annual records for uptime productivity and quality.
The business generated nearly $30 million of operational excellence improvements in 2014 and is targeting another $25 million to $30 million in 2015.
As I wrap up this morning let me touch briefly on SG&amp;A.
At the end of 2014 we had achieved our $75 million run rate reduction targets.
Moving forward we will continue to seek opportunities to simply and reduce cost to ensure that we have the appropriate cost structure require to win.
I will now turn it over to Patty to discuss our first quarter outlook.
Thanks Doyle.
Good morning everybody.
The outlook for the first quarter of 2015 is summarized on Chart 12.
I will begin with discussion with Timberlands.
Fee harvest in the left is anticipated to increase seasonally.
Western domestic prices are expected to move higher and we are shifting supply into those markets.
Japanese volume will likely decrease due to the softer overall Japanese housing demands and seasonal weather conditions.
Sales realizations for China logs are expected to decrease somewhat but the impact softer prices is being partially offset by lower freight cost.
Inventories at Chinese ports have been declining; the take away has not yet been strong enough to bring balances to normal levels.
Demand is not expected to tick up until after the lunar holiday.
Logging and road cost should decrease in the quarter as the results of harvesting lower elevation sites and less road construction activity.
In the South we expect fee harvest to decline seasonally.
We anticipate slightly stronger pricing although realizations will likely be flat due to a somewhat smaller log size.
Earnings from non-strategic land sales are anticipated at around $10 million compared to $3 million in Q4.
We expect earnings in our Timberlands segment to be significantly higher than the fourth quarter and up slightly from the first quarter of 2014.
In wood product we anticipate higher sales volumes in Q1 compared to Q4 due to seasonal improvement and demand slowly improving housing markets.
Fee increase in single-family starts which improves by almost 8% in December on a seasonally adjusted basis compared to a year ago is a positive sign.
Channel inventories are very lean so assuming a more normal strain [ph] buildings season we should see uptick in pricing.
Prices in lumber and OSB however have decreased since year-end but we expect realizations to improve as we progress further into the first quarter.
Average realizations for engineered wood products are anticipated to decrease slightly due to product mix.
However this decrease should be more than offset by higher sales volumes.
Log costs are expected to increase while manufacturing unit cost should be lower on higher production volume.
Resin cost should also decrease as a result of low oil prices.
Overall we expect earnings in our wood product segment to increase significantly in the first quarter compared to the fourth.
In cellulose fibers day supply of global softwood inventory has increased to 31 days as of year-end which is above normal levels.
The combination of a stronger dollar and the usual seasonal slowdown in demand is likely to negatively affect full pricing.
We also expect to incur higher maintenance expense this quarter as our largest fluff mill takes it plants maintenance shutdown.
Sales realizations for liquid packaging are expected to increase this quarter compared to Q4 due to a more normal sales mix.
The problems encountered as a result of the West Coast port slowdown have continued into this quarter.
So far this quarter we have scheduled 13 days of downtime at our Longview liquid packaging board facility due to the port situation.
Although negotiations are underway with the federal mediator the issues have yet to be resolved.
In addition to downtime we are also incurring additional dollars for increased freight and warehousing.
We expect overall earnings in cellulose fibers segment to be significantly lower in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter and likely more comparable to the first quarter of 2014.
Chart 11 shows the detail of unallocated items.
Earnings in Q4 were negatively affected as unallocated items increased by approximately $23 million in Q4 compared to Q3.
The largest increase was the change for profit and inventory in LIFO which accounted for $14 million of the difference.
Higher share-based compensation as a result of the increase in the stock price during the quarter accounted for an additional $8 million of the difference.
Referring to Chart 13 I will catch on some overall financial comments.
Cash flow from operations for the fourth quarter was $304 million.
Major uses of cash during the quarter included capital expenditures of $124 million dividend payments for preference and common stock of $174 million and share repurchases of approximately $80 million.
This brings our total share repurchases for the year to just over $200 million or approximately 30% of our current authorization.
We ended the year with total shares outstanding approximately of 524 million shares down from approximately 584 million at the beginning of the year.
The divestiture of our home building business in the third quarter of last year resulted in retiring approximately 59 million shares.
Total capital expenditures for the full year of 2014 including reforestation was $395 million for 2015 we are expecting expenditures in the range of $480 million to $500 million consistent with the guidance we gave at our investor meeting this past December.
I'll now wrap up with an update on the status of our retirement benefit plans.
The unfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans and post-employment retirement plans increased by approximately $820 million as of the end of 2014 compared to 2013.
This increase in unfunded status was primarily driven by the implementation of new mortality table and decreasing discount rate.
The updated mortality table accounted for approximately $400 million of a deficient increase.
And the majority of the remaining change was due to decreasing the discount rates by approximately 80 basis points for both the U.S.
and Canadian plants.
We did not make any cash contributions to the U.S.
qualified pension plan in 2014 and we don't anticipate any cash contributions for that plan in 2015.
Cash paid for other pension and post-retirement benefits in 2014 was $101 million.
We expect total spending in 2015 to be approximately $90 million.
Our primary contributions in 2015 will again be for our Canadian plants for approximately $40 million with the remainder going to pay for benefits under our supplemental pension plans and other post-employment benefit plans none of which are separately funded.
Chart 15 details pension and postretirement benefit plan expense from continuing operations by segment.
For 2014 the full year net to zero.
Pension and post retirement plan expense for 2015 is estimated to be approximately $40 million.
The increased expense is driven by the adoption of the new mortality table and decrease discount rate.
Now I'll turn the call back to Doyle and I look forward to your questions.
Thank you Patty.
In 2014 we demonstrated our commitment to driving shareholder value by improving performance through operational excellence and returning cash to shareholders.
As we enter 2015 our priorities remain unchanged.
We remain relentlessly focused on driving operational excellence to the fully capitalized on our improving markets and deliver value to our shareholders and wit that; I'd like to open up the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] your first question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning Doyle.
Good morning Patty.
Good morning Mark.
Good morning Mark.
I wondered if the two of you could talk a little bit about the impact of FX move across your overall portfolio you made a couple of references to this in the commentary already this morning.
So Mark let me talk generally about the effect of the stronger dollar across our businesses and then Patty to fill in any of the details but just generally you know stronger dollars generally is not a positive for Weyerhaeuser in terms of Japanese logs what we seen is the demand is not been affected by the strong dollar as I referenced and Patty referenced in our comment but if it continues it could have potentially affect our price.
In terms of Chinese logs what's happened there weak Rouble is making Russian logs less expensive than U.S.
logs that of course reduces the price that the Chinese are willing to pay.
Now with that said as you very well know there is a practical limit on just how much Russia can provide and the other thing we are at prices are not at desirable levels.
We are able to redirect some of our logs to domestic markets there in those domestic markets are holding up very well.
In terms of wood products the Canadian lumber mills are benefitting from the higher margins on shipments to the U.S.
overall and then on Cellulose fibers as Patty alluded to the strong dollar at this point is not effected demand but we do anticipate lower prices due to considerable pressure from Fluff pulp's customer primarily in Europe and currently India's K prices are under some pressure.
So that's kind of the big picture impact of what's happening because of the stronger dollar.
Sure the only other thing that I would add I think Doyle really went through all of the businesses I would just call your attention to Chart 11 that I talked to in my comments and you notice there that there is an FX loss both in the third quarter and the fourth quarter that's really a function of U.S.
Dollar denominated debt that it held by our Canadian subsidiaries.
So as the Canadian Dollar depreciates as it did again the fourth quarter that takes more Canadian Dollar pay off that loan so that's what generates both of that loss there.
Now as you look forward into Q1 the Canadian Dollar to-date I think has depreciated even more than it did in the fourth quarter but that would be driven ultimately by whatever the exchange rate as of the end of the quarter.
Okay and Patty if I could ask just one follow-on I wondered if you could talk a little bit about sort of that big cash position you're sitting on at the rationale for holding so much and kind of tied with that how you think about the completing the remaining share repurchase authorization you have about $500 million out there yet.
Yes so we are very committed to completing that authorization and we have a little under $500 million left to go the other thing I would say is that we think we should have a cash balance somewhere between $300 million and $500 million.
So we do have significant cash yet to create additional value for shareholders and we'll be talking about that as we go into 2015 and have been discussing that but I really don't have anything more to add.
In terms of what we would use that for other than just to reiterate that our priorities for capital allocation are first and foremost concerning cash to shareholders investing in our businesses and maintaining our appropriate capital structure and to that end I should probably add that.
In January we did receive an upgrade in our investments rating to BBB from BBB minus from S&amp;P.
So I think our capital structure is in good shape.
Okay very good.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey good morning this is actually John Babcock [ph] sitting in for George.
How are you doing today? Good how are you this morning? I'm doing very well I just I know you talked a little bit earlier about the performance improvement and for as far as Doyle if you could discuss how everything is going on in that front especially in 4Q and additionally are there any segment performance goals that are looking more difficult to achieve than when you presented back in December.
And then lastly and the with the G&amp;A expense reduction the fourth quarter what was that ultimately focused? Yes so in terms of OpEx targets we continue to make progress in fourth quarter 2014 and ended up essentially in line with what we laid out at our December 9 presentation.
So we're encouraged by the progress we continue to make.
In terms of 2015 as we specifically laid out on December 9 we think there is a lot of additional opportunity.
We identified $20 million to $30 million of additional OpEx opportunity in Timberlands another $20 million to $25 million in lumber $10 million to $15 million in OSB.
In ELP here again the targeted is improving.
EBITDA and that's $15 million to $20 million of EBITDA improvement in $20 million to $30 million of EBITDA improvement in distribution business and then $30 million to $35 million in cellulose fibers.
So overall very encouraged by the progress we're making but still as I mentioned in my comments still a lot of work to do in front of us but we are very focused on getting that to bottom line in 2015.
Regarding your SG&amp;A comment our question if you will re-ask that so make sure I'm more responsive to your question.
I was just wondering it looks like G&amp;A expense to come down in the fourth quarter and I was just wondering ultimately what drove that? When we laid out our SG&amp;A target back at the end of 2013 we said it would take a balance of 2014 to get it fully implemented.
So we continue to make progress in the fourth quarter and about end of the fourth quarter we were at the run rate of above $75 million in terms of our SG&amp;A targets.
So encouraged by the progress we made there and as I mentioned we've achieved that target but we'll constantly be looking for opportunities to make sure we had the appropriate cost structure going forward.
You know actually as you look at Q3 to Q4.
Q4 is up over Q3 and that's really just a function of some of the timing that happened with year-end as well as the additional item in unallocated as I spoke about share-based comp etc.
but as Doyle said we feel very confident about that $75 million reduction run rate.
Okay good.
Thank you for the colour there and then next I guess before I pass it on I was just wondering on the cellulose fibers front.
First of all it looked like liquid packaging realizations were down a little bit in 3Q and I was wondering if most of that was seasonal nature or if there is any impact ultimately from the port disruption and then on top of that how are the mills performing on the 18-month payment schedule? Well as it relates to the liquid packaging realization the decrease in the fourth quarter wasn't driven by the port disruption.
It was driven by the fact that we had we were bringing up Longview liquid packaging as a result of the extended outage that we had in Q3.
So it's just a little mix of lower grade board in the start-up of that facility coming up from the outage.
You'll see in Q1 as I referenced in my comment that the tails realizations will increase in the first quarter more consistent to where we were on the more normal sales mix.
So the fourth quarter decrease is really just a mix issue from the start off the machine.
Okay great and then on the maintenance schedule briefly.
Yes on the 18 month schedule we are on track fully implemented for that.
You know it will vary from year-to-year as 18 months but we're pretty much on schedule to do that.
As I mentioned our largest fluff mill goes down this quarter.
So that's our maintenance outage that we have in the Q1.
Okay great.
Thanks for the colour.
I'll get back in the queue.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you was hoping to get a bit more colour on your encouraging comments on wood products prices expected to go higher as the quarter progresses and maybe it's just kind of contextual why they had been weak quarter-to-date and what you think and what degree of confidence do you have indeed they're going to turn? Mark as you know predicting prices is always difficult currently as we alluded to lumber prices are down slightly versus the fourth quarter average and OSB prices are down about $5 versus the fourth quarter average.
We in talking to customers understand that inventory levels are very lean.
We also believe as we said the housing is going to continue to improve.
So our thought is as we move into closer to the stronger seasonal period that we will see a rally in lumber and OSB prices as we move throughout this quarter.
So our comments to your point our prediction regarding significant improvements in earnings in wood products in first quarter versus fourth quarter are dependent on pricing but we do believe our crystal ball tells us that we will see higher prices as we move through the quarter in wood products but time will tell.
Thank you and do you have any view as to what's been frustrating prices of late there is some weather related issues or is there just I mean obviously seasonally it's not a great time but any added colour you might have that anything unusual going on or just part of the seasonal process? I think it's mostly the seasonal process Mark.
You know there have been some weather related events I don't need to tell you all the north you all lived through one earlier this week.
So I think there have been some isolated weather incidents so far we haven't had the type of weather overall that we had last year first quarter.
So I think it's mostly seasonal I think it is some people being very conservative on their buying as I said inventory levels throughout the system are very lean and that's part of why we believe that prices are going to rally because as demand does pick up as we get to closer to this spring building period.
We believe it's not to take a lot of pick up and demand to have an impact on pricing moving forward.
Okay that necessarily don't make sense and just lastly as you think about the dividend this year.
Can you kind of remind us what the key metrics you'd be looking at that would determine any action you might want to take on the dividend later in the year? Yes let me just make a general comment about the dividend you know it goes back to our overall leverage we pulled in and we clearly understand that the capital allocation is a key lever to driving shareholder value.
You know as we've consistently said over our number one priorities in terms of capital allocation returning cash to shareholders through growing and sustainable dividend.
As you know we increased our dividend by over 30% in 2014 and I'll just tell you we'll be working with our board later this year to determine the appropriate dividend level going forward.
We have given general and I reference it as general guideline of 75% of that over a cycle in terms of dividend level but again that's just a guideline but we do in fact understand the importance of growing our dividend and that's something we intend to do continue to do going forward.
And would it be fair to say that you'd consider 2015 at least the way it looks out to be not an above average year given that housing is still at fairly depressed levels or? Yes that's a fair comment.
I mean as we said we anticipate housing this year will be north of 1.1 but that's still a long way from kind of average 1.4 1.5 and 1.6.
So I would agree with your commentary.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you two things.
Doyle.
First how are you thinking about the relative value of U.S.
versus non-U.S.
Timberlands acquisitions? And then secondly as you think about the targets you're setting for wood products for 2015 is the emphasis different than it was in 2014.
I'm just curious because you achieved a lot so fast in those businesses and I'm wondering if you got to do something different to get to next layer up.
So Mark in terms of the relative value of U.S.
versus non-U.S.
timberlands you know as we've said before we look at all opportunities to grow our Timberlands both domestic and non-domestic.
I will tell you I think our bigger opportunity is going forward probably be in the U.S.
we will look internationally I think one things we would be sure and do when we look internationally is risk adjust based on the international exposure and we'll continue to that going forward.
As you know we have a very good plantation position in Uruguay.
Those trees are we have a very good team there those trees are very well positioned and growing really fast and those markets continue to develop over there but as I tell you we'll look both but I think our bigger opportunities to grow our timberlands will be domestic going forward.
In terms of our wood products operational excellence targets.
Mark thanks for the comment.
We did made good progress in 2014 but if that's it.
We still got a lot of work to do in that business.
Now I'm not going to tell you it's going to be easy.
Yes you continue to make progress on these.
You kind of got some of the low hanging so you've got it remain very focused on delivering that to the bottom line that's why we set very specific targets and have very specific plans on how we're going to get there both from the sales perspective as well as the cost perspective.
So we are very focused on pulling every lever that we can pull to continue to drive OpEx improvements in the wood products business and are confident we're going to reach the targets that we set out in 2015 but your point.
I mean it will get harder as we move forward but I'm confident that we have the team and the focus to accomplish the goals that we set forth.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Gail.
Good morning Gail.
I guess just could I go back to some of the comments about currency and how that might flow into some of the market.
Have you seen can you give any sense of magnitude to the shift that you might have seen in Russia and maybe more detail.
Have you seen any signs of Canadian lumber and being redirected from China into the U.S.
then if so any concerns if that might affect some of the western market? Gail as you would expect it's hard to know exactly what's happening in Russia situation.
Clearly we are hearing and seeing that there is more logs coming from Russia into China.
I think most of that's in northern china as I understand it.
So I think depending on what happens to rule that something that continue but as outlined there are some practical limits based on just how much you can comment just on the infrastructure challenges that Russia has had historically and we believe will continue to have going forward.
Patty do you have any thoughts on the Canadian question and any redirects some lumber coming from anything going to China that's been redirected otherwise? I think that is something that is happening we haven't seen a big company lumber volumes overall again.
So I think the extent that we'll see it more as bringing building season continue.
So it will be something that will impact us going forward.
We do have some Canadian operations ourselves as well and Gail you referenced the western prices I think that's also Canadian lumber coming in puts pressure on the U.S.
South as well but so far it's not been a huge piece.
Okay can you give any insights on to how your oil and gas income might be impacted by the recent collapse in oil prices? And so let me give you a couple of sensitivities to that I think we've done some work on that exact issue.
So as you think about oil and gas prices and specifically oil prices going down there is some give and take as you would expect but as we think about sensitivity specifically to diesel prices and how that slows through I would tell you that we think there's probably $4 million to $5 million benefit in our earnings in fourth quarter 2014 as a result of lower diesel prices and that's probably $2 million to $3 million in Timberlands a $2 million in Timberlands $2 million in wood products and maybe a $1 million in Cellulose fibers.
Going forward we would tell you that every roughly $0.10 decline in diesel prices flowing it through the system would result in somewhere in the $5 million benefit again with the relative ratios kind of like outlined earlier in terms of various businesses.
So in annual basis every $0.10 reduction in diesel prices will have a bottom line $5 million impact.
Now there are some offset as you just alluded to one of them is we continue to face increasing base rates for trucks and rail carriers as those continue to be tight so that will somewhat offset some of the benefits I just outlined and then to your point.
If oil prices remained at the levels that they're currently it will take a little time but that would have a negative impact on our mineral income going forward.
Just how much is hard to know we haven't seen a big impact so far but again if oil prices stay 50 or south of 50 that would have some impact going forward as we continue to look at ways to maximize the value from our mineral resources.
Okay thank you and just one last quick one.
Patty can you spot us or give us any perspective on how much pulp maintenance will be in the first quarter? I think that will have an additional in the fourth quarter somewhere I would expect around $10 million to $15 million in additional maintenance expense.
We'll have some decrease as a result of the effect of less productivity because of maintenance.
You know as I said as you think about the overall earnings for the pulp segment or say about fiber segment it's a little difficult to project.
So we try to give you a little more colour in that we said it would be significantly lower than the fourth quarter but probably comparable to the first quarter of 2014 which I think was somewhere a little bit north of 50 maybe 54.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning this is James Armstrong sitting in for Chip.
Good morning James.
Morning James.
First question is in wood products with oil prices down significantly.
How much impact have you seen in resin and chemical cost so far and could you remind us of the cost buckets for that business? Yes so James the sensitivities that I just outlined for Gail that we just outlined for Gail in terms of diesel prices includes the improvements in resin but you're exactly right that's where the biggest opportunity is in terms of the lower oil prices is in the resin that we buy for OSB and ELP businesses.
So the biggest component of what I just outlined is prices as oil prices move down resin prices are moving down and the sensitivity I gave earlier is making the correlation between diesel and resin and then flowing that through to the bottom line.
Okay that's also lot and then switching gears.
Any chance to retire debt in the next year I was just wondering if there are any lockups or what's going on the? Sure as you think about the debt we don't have any maturity due until 2017 and for us to retire that debt in terms of premiums we would have to pay really don't make it very economics to do that depending upon the issues it's probably premium of somewhere between 75% 30% slot.
So we do continue to look at it but it doesn't really seem to make a lot of sense to us at this point.
Perfect and then lastly could you just give us a update on what you expect the 2015 tax rate to be? Sure the tax rate always is dependent upon the mix of weak income which the tax rate is zero and GRS income which is be somewhere around 33%.
So there are two things that drive that one is rate overall which is dependent upon the mix but we would expect that we'd beat somewhere around 18% to 20%.
Okay that helps.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Tyler Linton [ph] with J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yes thanks good morning.
Good morning Tyler [ph].
I was just wondering in the west for Timberlands I know it's still early but do you think domestic demand at this point is still strong enough to offset the weaker demand that you're seeing sort of the export markets as this time? As we talked about at least in the first quarter we anticipate that we will have higher earnings in Timberlands and clearly a component of the higher earnings versus the fourth quarter Tyler [ph] our higher price and that's primarily due to domestic prices being higher as you just alluded to and some mix issue.
So we'll see how it plays out going forward but as we said domestic prices are in good shape and we think that it continue we'll just have to see what happens in terms of I think the biggest challenge as we talked about in the Chinese markets will get through the lunar holiday as we talked about inventory has come down and not back to where normal is but they have come down.
So our guess is those markets will stabilize in the second half of the year as well.
Okay then I was in terms of your export log volumes.
I guess China has slipped they had been kind of pulling around 30% of your volumes and they were around 25% this quarter.
Is that anything is that like a deliberate effort on your part just given the weakness over there? Or really that's just function of demand from China has just slowed lot more than the demand slowed out of Japan? I would say both Tyler [ph].
I mean part of it is we have seen a little bit of fall off in demand in China as we alluded too but we also made the conscious decision to redirect some of those log domestically because of the strong prices that we're seeing on the west coast.
So it's the combination of both things.
Got you and I think it's finally engineered wood products side I think you've had two quarters of pretty significant production declines.
Have these been more sort of temporary cuts and do you think volumes are little bit down more towards the level that we saw in the first half of 2014 or dipping in the volumes to kind of grow more in line off of this lower base any thoughts on that going forward? Yes I think the declines one of them was kind of it happened because of the second or third was as we put in a price increase and moving some volume forward to the second versus the third and then the follow-up in the fourth quarter from our perspective was purely seasonal.
So as we move into the stronger seasonal period first quarter and then second quarter we would anticipate a nice rebound in volumes in our engineered wood products business.
Very great thanks so much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yes thanks very much and good morning.
Good morning Paul.
Yes just two easy questions today.
Just one is you referenced opportunities in Timberland in North America just wondering if you could comment on that competitive landscape out there whether you're looking at bigger things or smaller things? Yes so as you know it's been pretty active in terms of activity in both the south and the west.
In terms of the competitive landscape I still think there is a lot of money out there that is looking to invest in this asset class.
In terms of the way we look at it our key criteria or we clearly are looking for opportunities that generate appropriate returns and cash flow both short-term and long-term.
We look for opportunities where we can strengthen our access to strategically important markets for us or move into new markets that we may not be in although we are in most markets as you know.
Also looking for opportunities where we can get synergies and I think Longview is a very good example of where we were able to do some things to get some mix synergies and then finally to your point.
We are looking for scale opportunity.
Now that doesn't mean we wont do some small deals and we're always in the market doing some small deals we're really looking for some scale opportunities to continue to grow our timberland if we can find those right opportunities going forward.
So that's kind of the way we think about it.
Okay great and then turning over to the SoftWood Lumber Agreement.
One of your competitors on a timber REIT side this week said that he talked to Softwood Lumber Agreement served its purpose and really no longer needed.
I'm just wondering what Weyerhaeuser's position is are you happy with the current agreement do you want to see higher import duties or is it the latter that no longer needed? Yes I wouldn't say some type of agreement is no longer needed.
As you know as we've talked about the agreement set to expire later this year.
I can tell you there is a lot of discussion from folks on both sides of the border discussing options for renewing that agreement and also to tell you that we are very actively involved in those discussions.
Okay that's all I had thanks a lot.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have time for one additional question.
Your final question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi I've a question on cellulose fibers.
Given we've seen a slowing of emerging market economies and a very strong dollar.
I was wondering as we start the year putting aside the west coast port issues.
Are you seeing any change in customer buying behaviour or any slowing of demand for fluff and then a related question.
You have a competitor who's talked about converting a fair amount of new fluff capacity next year and I think you've debottlenecked some capacity as well.
I was just wondering how you're thinking about the fluff supply-demand balance over the next year or so? Sure Anthony.
You know as it relates to demand for the product.
Demand has continued to be very strong having said that I think that we will likely have some downward pressure potentially on price just given what's happening with the economies in Asia as well as just currency flows.
So far we've been very pleased with the demand outlook for fluff it is thus continue to grow but depending upon what's happened with some of those developing economies we could see some softening a little bit there but really haven't seen it after a point.
As it relates to conversion I wouldn't want speculate too much because it will take some time for any conversion to come in to place and then it will just be a function of what the overall market is at that point in time.
One thing I would say is that as we talked about before the higher quality fluff product which is where we play primarily does have a consumer product companies like Procter &amp; Gamble who are pretty picky about the quality.
So not only does it it take time to actually do the conversion to the product it also takes time to qualify that product.
So it's something we are watching very carefully and being very thoughtful as we go forward but the current state is that the demand which is pretty solid.
Okay that's very helpful and then maybe just switching to wood products.
Youve made some very impressive performance improvements in distribution this year or last year.
I think you referenced to $20 million to $30 million improvement target for 2015.
Can you drill down a little bit on the kind of the leverage you're going to pull to drive that EBITDA improvement and distribution this year and can you talk a little bit about the strategic importance of distribution as part of the broader wood products portfolio? Yes so in terms of the leverage that we're going to pull.
There seems to be the same levers that we pulled in 2014 it's just continuing to be focused on that.
As Cathy Slater talked about it in our December 9 presentation it's really a focus on what we call the five S's which is sourcing selling stocking storing and shipping.
So it's basically the blocking and tackling of making sure we're continuing to do things to drive down our cost structure where it needs to be and then making sure we are doing things on the sell side to maximize the profit margins of what we run through our distribution system.
In terms of how we think about distribution as I've said before  thats a business where frankly we've underperformed for a number of years.
We needed to show that we could make dramatic improvements in that versus in terms of overall EBITDA improvement and where we stack up competitively.
We started to do that in 2014 but still a lot of work remains to be done in terms of how we think about it going forward that's business we need to show that we can win by out-executing the competition and generate returns well in excess of our cost of capital over a cycle and that's what we are focused on doing currently.
Okay that's helpful.
I'll turn it over.
Great.
Thank you.
Okay so I understand it that was our last question.
So I would just like to end by saying thank you everybody for joining in this morning.
More importantly thank you for your interest in Weyerhaeuser.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference c all.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Denise Merle Senior Vice President of Human Resources and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead maam.
Thank you Brad.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Weyerhaeusers first quarter 2015 earnings.
On the call with me this morning are Doyle Simons CEO; Patty Bedient CFO; and Beth Baum Director of Investor Relations.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
Our earnings release and presentation materials can also be found on our website.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during the conference call.
We will discuss non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of GAAP can be found in earnings material on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Doyle Simons.
Thank you Denise and good morning everyone.
This morning Weyerhaeuser reported net earnings for the first quarter of $90 million or $0.17 per diluted share on net sales of $1.7 billion.
Excluding a $9 million after-tax charge related to a non-strategic asset we earned $99 million or $0.19 per diluted share.
We were pleased with our first quarter performance in timberland and wood products as our operational excellence efforts enabled both businesses to improve earnings compared with the fourth quarter despite weaker market conditions.
Our cellulose fiber business faced several challenges in the quarter including ongoing West Coast port disruptions a strengthening U.S.
dollar and the slower-than-expected restart of our largest fluff mill following a scheduled maintenance outage.
Our earnings before special items also included non-cash foreign exchange losses of approximately $0.04 per diluted share related to debt held by our Canadian entity.
We continue to aggressively execute our share repurchase program.
During the first quarter we repurchased over $250 million of common shares.
Thats $250 million of common shares.
In total through the end of the first quarter we had repurchased over $450 million or 65% of our $700 million share authorization.
I will begin the discussion of our business results with some brief comments about the housing market.
U.S.
housing activity paused in the first quarter as severe winter weather delayed the spring selling season and disrupted construction activity throughout much of the country.
Although reported new home sales were lower than anticipated in the first quarter we are encouraged by the recent positive homebuilder sentiment regarding an improving spring selling season.
Employment growth strong consumer confidence and historically low mortgage rates should support improvement in new home sales this year.
Our outlook for 2015 remains unchanged at approximately 1.1 million starts.
Let me now turn to our business segments starting with timberlands Charts 3 to 5.
Timberlands contributed $162 million to first quarter earnings an increase of $19 million compared with the fourth quarter.
Operational excellence initiatives related to cost efficiencies and log merchandising more than offset the effect of softening Western markets and unusual winter weather.
In the West average log sales realizations declined.
This decline is primarily due to a shift in mix as we sold fewer logs in the export markets as the continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar pressure demand and pricing for our export logs.
Sales volumes to Japan declined due to seasonally weaker demand in a slightly softer housing market following last years increase in the consumption tax.
However average sales realizations for our Japanese logs improved slightly due to favorable mix.
Chinese demand remains slowed throughout the extended lunar period and inventories remained at elevated levels.
The combination of lower export log demand and unusually favorable logging conditions generated an oversupply of logs in Western domestic markets and domestic log pricing weakened during the quarter.
In the South unusually wet weather slightly amplified our normal seasonal decline in fee harvest volumes.
Average sales realizations for Southern logs were comparable to the fourth quarter.
First quarter included earnings of $17 million from disposition of non-strategic timberlands an increase of $14 million compared with the fourth quarter.
The timberlands business continues to expect $20 million to $30 million of operational excellence improvement in 2015 from efforts related to log merchandising harvesting transportation and silviculture efficiencies and non-timber revenues.
Wood products Charts 6 and 7 wood products contributed $62 million to first quarter earnings an improvement of $6 million compared with the fourth quarter.
EBITDA increased to $88 million.
Results were comparable to the first quarter of last as benefits from operational excellence initiatives helped the business offset lower year-over-year sales realizations of nearly 15% in OSB and 7% in lumber.
In lumber EBITDA was unchanged compared to the fourth quarter as the business fully offset a 3% decline in average sales realizations with benefits from operational excellence initiatives to reduce manufacturing costs net of logs and overhead expenses.
In OSB EBITDA decreased by $3 million.
Average sales realizations declined 5% compared with the fourth quarter.
This decline was largely offset by reductions in manufacturing cost.
Engineered wood products reported first quarter EBITDA of $26 million an increase of $12 million compared with the fourth quarter and $18 million more than the first quarter of 2014.
Sales volumes rose across all product lines primarily due to stronger demand in the West and per unit manufacturing costs improved due to higher production volumes and operational excellence initiatives.
EBITDA for the distribution business declined by $2 million compared with the fourth quarter but improved $2 million compared with the first quarter of 2014.
This business remains focused on improving margins and lowering cost.
Our wood products businesses continue to target 2015 operational excellence improvement of $20 million to $25 million from lumber $10 million to $15 million from OSB $15 million to $20 million of additional engineered wood products EBITDA and $20 million to $30 million of additional EBITDA from distribution.
Cellulose fibers Charts 8 and 9 cellulose fibers contributed $33 million to earnings compared with $87 million in the fourth quarter.
The West Coast port disputes significantly affected our cellulose fiber business throughout the quarter.
Although a tentative contract agreement was reached in late February productivity at the ports of Seattle and Tacoma remain well below normal due to continued congestion at the container terminals.
Both ports are also absorbing volumes from carriers that have canceled service at the Port of Portland.
As a result of the disruption we incurred 13 days of downtime at our liquid packaging facility as well as incremental warehousing and transportation costs throughout the segment.
In total the port disruption affected segment earnings by approximately $15 million in the quarter.
This was significantly more than we had originally anticipated.
Turning to our pulp mill systems pulp markets weakened during the first quarter as global inventories remained above balanced levels and a strengthening U.S.
dollar pressured broader market pricing.
Average pulp sales realizations declined due to slightly softer pricing for pulp weaker pricing for our premium towel and tissue grades and an unfavorable product mix.
First quarter also included higher maintenance expense for a planned outage at our largest fluff mill.
The restart of this mill took longer than anticipated resulting in lower production and higher per unit manufacturing costs.
This mill is now running well.
The cellulose fiber business remains relentlessly focused on delivering operational excellence improvements of $30 million to $35 million in 2015.
I will now turn it over to Patty to discuss our second quarter outlook.
Thanks Doyle and good morning everybody.
The outlook for the second quarter is summarized on Chart 13 and I will begin the discussion with timberlands.
In the West log export volume is expected to improve from Q1 consistent with higher seasonal construction activity.
Log prices are likely to remain under downward pressure due to the combination of currency headwinds and higher-than-normal inventories in China.
Western domestic log prices and volumes have continued to decrease through the first part of this quarter but we anticipate they will stabilize as housing activity begins to improve and mill inventories come back into balance.
Fee harvest in the West will decrease slightly and road costs are expected to increase seasonally.
In the south we anticipate pricing consistent with first quarter levels.
We expect typical seasonal increases in fee harvest and silviculture costs.
In Q1 the gain on non-strategic land sales was $17 million.
We anticipate only minimal land sales in Q2.
In total we expect that earnings in our Timberlands segment will be lower in the second quarter compared to the first.
Moving to wood products thus far in the quarter prices for lumber and oriented strand board have continued to soften and are currently below the average sales realizations for last quarter.
However we do expect this trend to reverse as weather improves and building activity picks up.
As a result we anticipate that average realizations in the second quarter for both lumber and OSB will be similar to Q1 on seasonally increased volumes.
Volumes in engineered wood products are expected to increase significantly with little change in pricing.
Western log prices should decrease compared to the first quarter and per unit manufacturing costs will likely be lower due to higher operating rates and our operational excellence initiatives.
Overall second quarter earnings in the wood products segment are expected to be significantly higher than Q1.
In cellulose fibers pulp prices have been negatively affected by foreign currency exchange rates and higher than normal inventory levels.
Second quarter average sales realizations are anticipated to be lower than the average for Q1.
The effect of lower realization should be partially offset by increased sales volume.
While the disruptions caused by the West Coast port dispute have lessened we continue to have some negative effects in the second quarter.
We will have an extended outage at one of our southern fluff mills in order to perform scheduled maintenance and to install energy-related capital improvements.
These improvements include installation of a turbine generator and upgrades of the boilers and steam and power systems.
Benefits include lower manufacturing costs through improved reliability improved energy efficiency and increased outside power sales.
This second quarter outage is anticipated to result in more than twice the number of outage days compared to the 17 days in Q1.
We expect maintenance expense will be approximately $15 million higher in Q2 compared to Q1.
As a result of this extended outage overall earnings in the cellulose fibers segment are expected to be lower in the second quarter compared to the first.
We have only one mill maintenance outage scheduled for the second half of the year and therefore earnings in the second half of the year should be significantly higher than the first.
Chart 10 details the major items of unallocated costs.
Q1 expense before special items increased to $41 million from the fourth quarter level of $13 million.
As Doyle mentioned the major item was the non-cash foreign exchange impact of $29 million resulting from the weaker Canadian dollar.
In Q2 we expect that the total expense for unallocated items will be closer to the fourth quarter level before considering the effect of foreign exchange rates.
Now I will wrap up with some overall financial statement comments.
I will refer you to Chart 11 for this discussion.
Cash for the quarter decreased $422 million.
Cash flow from operations was $77 million.
As you can see from the chart the first quarter is typically our lowest quarter due to seasonality.
Major outflows in the first quarter were as follows.
Capital expenditures were $89 million.
We continue to expect that total capital expenditures for the year will be approximately $500 million.
We paid $152 million in dividends and repurchased shares for $253 million.
The share repurchase activity is summarized on Chart 12.
As of the end of the first quarter we had just over $240 million remaining on the $700 million authorization that we announced last August.
Now I will turn the call back over to Doyle and I look forward to your questions.
Thank you Patty.
We are optimistic housing markets will strengthen throughout the remainder of 2015 and look forward to improving demand as the spring selling and summer building season progresses.
Going forward our priorities remained unchanged.
We are relentlessly focused on improving our performance through operational excellence and delivering on our priorities for capital allocation.
And now I would like to open the floor for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
I just wanted to focus a little bit more on the Cellulose Fibers segment just to make sure I understood what was said I believe you said that the maintenance costs would be as much as $50 million higher second quarter versus first quarter? Thanks for asking that question Mark.
Its $15 million.
Okay alright.
That changes things all those questions throughout the window.
Shifting gears then when looking at the first quarter I think you originally were anticipating that you would see lumber and presumably OSB pricing come back and it didnt do you think that was more a function of the demand or supply side issues maybe if you could delve into that a bit? Mark as you know historically we have experienced price increases in the first quarter and the fourth quarter in lumber.
As you highlighted we thought that would happen again this year it did not.
And to your question I think there were two drivers.
Number one is while January was okay from a weathers perspective February and March were not.
So clearly from a demand perspective the lack of construction activity due to the severe weather had an impact on the demand side of the equation.
I think there was also some impact from additional supply of lumber coming from Canada due to the currency situation.
So I think it was a combination of both of those things that resulted in pricing not improving to the level that we had anticipated when we had the fourth quarter call.
And so is it fair to say that the demand side should take care of itself assuming housing continues to improve and how do you feel of the supply side is the stronger dollar  does that change the playing field a bit on a go-forward basis or does  are there reasons why that will come back to normalized and the supply issues disappear? Yes I think its the latter Mark.
I think the demand side will clearly take care of itself.
And fortunately we are starting to see some real signs of improvements there.
On the supply side I think that takes care of itself over time as well.
As you continue to see improvement in export markets for lumber and as we also know there is just a natural constraint on how much lumber can come from Canada on an ongoing basis because of the pine beetle situation.
So I think both supply and demand work temporary phenomenon in the quarter and will take care of themselves over time.
Okay I will get back in queue.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Tyler Langton with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yes.
Good morning.
Thanks.
I guess just timberlands Doyle I mean I think you mentioned kind of touched on that in your opening remarks but I guess in general revenues were down but profits were up could you just talk a little bit about how much sort of mix may be contributed operational excellence.
And I guess applied on the wood products side because there is sort of a similar trend there as well.
Yes.
So its referred to in the comments.
We clearly saw some benefit from operational excellence in both the timberland business and the wood products business in the first quarter.
And timberlands to your point basically what happened there is we had lower price and volume as we talked about but that was more than offset by lower cost in the quarter the lower costs being both in the west and in the south in the lower price and volume of course being primarily in the west.
In addition we had some benefit from higher land sales but thats what got us to the improvement in the first quarter versus fourth despite the fact that we had weaker market conditions specifically in the west.
On the wood products side I would say we were pleased with the fact that we clearly saw OpEx improvements in our results in the first quarter.
Because as we talked about we did in fact have resident higher prices we had lower prices pretty much across the board.
So I would tell you our continued effort for example in lumber to reduce our cost net of log.
We saw benefit there in OSB lower manufacturing cost.
And then in ELP where we saw a nice improvement really what  the key driver there was we had lower price kind of offset by higher volume but the  we had overall lower manufacturing cost due to favorable resins less maintenance downtime in the quarter but frankly before I was just running better as a result of our OpEx effort.
So thats kind of how what we saw play out in the first quarter versus fourth.
And then I guess do you think you are on track with your operational excellence goals to exceed the targets for this year or are you generally sort of in line? Yes I would say we are on track in both timberlands and in wood products.
We got some catching up to do in cellulose fiber.
Got it.
Okay thanks so much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
Its actually Usha Guntupalli on for Alex.
How are you? Good.
How are you this morning? Good thanks.
Just following up on the operational excellence program as you are working through this program has execution proved a bit more difficult than original expectations for any of the segments or maybe are you even seeing opportunities for further savings in any segments? I would say generally and made this comment before as we get deeper into our operational excellence program its harder work to get it done.
But with that said as I just referred to very pleased with the progress that we made in our timberlands business and our lumber business  I mean timberlands business and our wood products business in the fourth quarter still some additional work to do in cellulose fiber but we are very encouraged by the progress we made.
And I can tell you our folks are working really hard everyday to deliver against those targets and we are confident that we will reach those targets in 2015.
The one thing that I would add is on the  Doyle did a nice job of walking through the operational excellence on the businesses.
One of the other areas that we had was our G&amp;A targets  SG&amp;A targets.
And as we said at the end of the year that we had identified the things that we needed to execute on to get that and you can see in the results year-over-year the improvement is coming through there.
So we are also equally pleased on that front.
And just a quick one on FX are you seeing a major impact on trade flows for the log market given all the FX slows around the world? I am sorry will you repeat your question please? Yes.
Could you talk a little bit about the FX impact on the log market like are you seeing major changes in trade flows around the world? Yes.
So as we talked about we did see some impact on the trade flows in terms of our export volumes in the first quarter.
As we stated volumes were down both into Japan and into China.
And as a result there was additional trade flow that came into the domestic market and that was part of the reason for the lower cost  lower priced logs.
Overall lower price realizations in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yes.
Good morning Doyle and Patty.
Good morning.
Good morning Chip.
First question is on the  just to make sure I heard this right.
I know that timberland I think sales were top line $25 million in the first quarter did you say that earnings impact was $18 million? Are you talking about the gain on non-strategic land sales in the Timberland segment? Yes that will go away in the second quarter? Yes.
Yes.
The gain was in the first quarter was $17 million in total and that was an increase of $14 million over the fourth quarter.
And we really dont expect anything of any significance in the second quarter.
Okay.
So if thats true that will impact our Timberland earnings without $17 million.
And we would expect that thats probably half of the decrease of Q1 to Q2.
The other piece would be primarily Western logs.
I see.
Okay thats helpful.
Now switching gears Doyle you had mentioned coming in back in December of 13 that the two businesses within wood products that you really wanted to see that needed to improve the most were engineered wood and distribution.
And it looks like at least like in the first quarter and just kind of watching that trends of the engineered business engineered wood products is doing great compared to what it had done but it also on the same token looks like distribution is kind of still well better its still bumping along breakeven and how would you sort of look at those businesses strategically over the next year or 2 years.
And has for example engineered kind of earned its right to grow yet and what has to change in distribution? Yes.
So to your point Chip we did make the comment that we needed to significantly improve the performance in both of those businesses.
And in 2014 as you will recall we improved earnings in each of those businesses  both of those businesses by $30 million to $40 million so real progress.
At the end of 2014 as you also recall Chip we made the comment that that was good progress but we still have a lot of work to do to get these businesses to where they need to be long-term.
Thank you for your comment on the progress that we made on ELP in the first quarter and we were pleased with that more work to do.
And on distribution we did made slight improvements there.
But what I would tell you is we set goals  OpEx goals for ELP of $15 million to $20 million for 2015.
And we are on track and maybe a little bit ahead of schedule to deliver on that and then on distribution $20 million to $30 million.
And I am still confident that we will accomplish that going forward.
So I would say progress in both businesses still work to do.
And ultimately as I have said we just got to show that we can in both of those businesses earn above our cost of capital over the cycle and sustainably and maybe more importantly how to execute our competition so still more work to be done.
But thanks for your comment on the progress.
And then I guess the last question is just you have certainly executed on the buyback as you said you would back in last August in the wake of the building  homebuilders sale homebuilding business sale.
As we get out I would imagine to the next  to this summer or maybe early fall and assuming you have worked through the remaining authorization what is your sort of your view then are you going to take another look to see if you should continue a buyback.
I know that obviously a lot of these  this buyback was funded by the sale of homebuilding business.
And you also  I am sure what would fit your thinking is your view towards opportunities in timberland acquisitions although we keep hearing there is really not much on the market so what  any early thoughts on those issues? Chip as you know we spend a lot of time focusing on capital allocation around here and we are constantly reviewing our various alternatives.
To your point as we approach the completion of the current repurchase authorization we will work with our Board regarding the best use of our cash going forward.
As we have previously stated long-term we believe the appropriate level of cash in our balance sheet is in the $300 million to $500 million range.
And even with the completion of the current share authorization we will be well in excess of that.
So something we are spending a lot of time working on thinking about and we will make some decisions as we move forward.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning Anthony.
Regarding the West Coast port strike I think you indicated it was $15 million in 1Q.
And I think Patty said that there was you are still kind of feeling the effects of that this quarter.
Is there any way to size what the impact of West Coast port strike might be this quarter? And then I think you indicated the oversupply of Western logs that you saw in 1Q you have had some level of confidence that might sort of work itself out domestically as demand improves.
I am just wondering the inventory situation in China and the oversupply in China do you have any view as to what  when that situation sort of normalizes? Okay.
So in terms of the port situation that has been  as we said in our comments has taken longer to get resolved than we had originally anticipated.
There are still some congestion at the port.
We had no situation in Portland in some of the traffic there moving to Seattle and Tacoma.
But to your point Patty I did say that it was $15 million impact in the first quarter and we would expect that to be $5 million or less impact in the second quarter.
I think it could be $5 million to $10 million in the second quarter.
Okay.
And then the  your question regarding  lets talk a little bit about kind of how we are viewing the export markets and the overall markets for our timberland for our logs.
In Japan what we have seen there is we talked about reduced log demand by lower housing activity.
The strong U.S.
dollar is impacting the pricing as our customer competes with other alternatives from Europe due to the comparative FX rates and Q2 log shipments as we said should be up seasonally compared with Q1 but the price we anticipate will be down and we expect prices to stabilize as we go out of the second quarter into the third quarter.
China there we are having the strong U.S.
dollar is having a negative impact on the U.S.
log demand and pricing relative to imports from New Zealand and Russia.
Log inventories as everybody know remain elevated at approximately 4.5 million cubic meters.
We expect our shipments to be higher in the second quarter compared with the first quarter due to the Chinese building season.
We expect continued downward pressure on pricing in 2Q.
And here again we expect prices to stabilize in the second quarter moving into the third quarter.
I would make the point on China despite the current situation if you take a little bit longer term look we believe China will continue to be a key market for us due to continued growth in middle class in China and the limitation  the natural limitations on additional wood supply from Russia and New Zealand but China has been volatile in the past and we think we will continue to be volatile going forward.
And then finally if you look at it at the domestic markets I think to your specific questions we think the  the volume and prices that we see there will flatten its housing activity accelerates especially in California and we are starting to see some of that.
And as log inventories normalize a part of why the log inventories got to the condition there is because of the very favorable logging conditions that occurred in the first quarter.
Okay thats very helpful.
I will turn it over.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Please go ahead with your question.
Mark please make sure that your line is not on mute.
Mark are you there? Sir would you like to go to the next question? Yes.
And your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Gail.
Doyle and I guess in one of your responses to your question you referred to seeing some positive signs of improvements I guess we are in May it wouldnt be a surprise but I was just wondering if you could put a little bit of color behind that where are you seeing the improvements and how would that compares to this time last year? Gail I am sorry.
You cut out a little bit on our end.
So if you can repeat your question for us please? Sure.
In response to your earlier question you referenced seeing some positive signs of improvement so and it wouldnt be a surprise we are into May but I am just wondering if you could put a little bit of color behind that exactly where you are seeing it and how would it compare to this time last year? Yes.
So as I said we are seeing signs it comes partially from discussions that are ongoing with our customer base.
We are also encouraged by the commentary thats coming out of the home builders that we talk to.
And their commentary is a lot more people are showing up.
Even some commentary that first time homebuyers are starting to show up.
So it just feels like its the spring selling season is starting to shape up well.
As we have said it was deferred because of weather.
But all in all with  almost without exception our customers and others that to are saying the demand is there folks are interested.
And if you really look at it that makes sense.
I mean you have got full-time employment its the highest level its been in many years.
You got consumer confidence you got gas prices that are down over 30% year-over-year.
You still got very low rate mortgages.
You got the FHA and heard working together to try to bringing the first-time homebuyers so a lot of very positive things.
And we are seeing it in the sentiment that we are hearing and from our customer base.
Okay.
And can you talk a little bit about what you are seeing on the cost environment you had put out some targets based on where oil prices are are things targeting in that level.
And maybe specifically are you seeing any offset in terms of ocean freight to offset maybe some of the pressure you are seeing in export market? Yes.
We  as you referred to Gail we did give some guidance on what we thought the positive impact would be from lower diesel prices.
We saw some of that in the quarter.
Overall I would say the benefit was roughly $5 million because of the lower diesel prices in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter.
That has helped on the ocean freight and that has partially offset some of the pressure thats been on pricing.
The other thing I would say and I think you asked this question last time we are seeing partially offsetting that we are seeing some negative impact from our oil and gas revenue from our timberland side.
Our best guess is that will be down somewhere to $5 million maybe $10 million in the  in 2015 versus 2014 if we kind of continue at these oil prices going forward.
Alright.
And just one last question on the fluff pulp market we have seen another really large supply announcements you have got a company looking at doing hardword based fluff down in Brazil and another one doing softwood in Brazil in addition to projects here has any of this changed your outlook are you hearing anything from your customers that would kind of make you worried as you look at some of that supply coming on next year? Gail as we look at that market the demand for that is growing.
And thats why we do need more supply overall to meet that demand.
The unfortunate part is that oftentimes when it comes on it comes on in chunk.
So it takes a while for the market to absorb it.
I think the good news that we are hearing from the folks who are bringing that supply on is they do have the opportunity to produce both paper grade as well as fluffs.
And so I suspect that that will come in over the course of time.
But there is no question that as we look at our own demand growing and their customers growing that there is just more demand for fluff both in the emerging markets and also in the adult and continent here domestically.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yes.
Thanks very much.
Lot of questions here have been answered but just overall guidance you guys sort of guided after the Q4 call that this quarter would be a little bit better just wondering how you think about that when you are seeing prices lower than your expectations do you  was there a thought to revise the guidance at some point in the quarter and is that your  what is you current thinking? I want to make sure I answer your questions so restate that Paul just Well if go back to the Q4 guidance for Q1 it seemed a lot more bullish than what you are able to achieve and a lot of things moved in the quarter I mean its the best guess at the time.
Just thinking about I am just wondering how you are thinking about that.
When you see prices like say for example lower lumber and lower OSB prices when you guided materially higher pricing its a real improvement in wood products.
Would you look at revising that guidance or is that something thats a point in time in your way for the quarter? Yes thats a really good question.
And the way we think about it let me talk specifically about wood products is we did say that we anticipated prices going up in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter.
That was based on what we were seeing in January when we did that.
And as I mentioned earlier January was a good month and we were right on track.
Some things happened in February and March.
That on the demand side primarily as we talked about that impacted lumber and OSB prices.
We also did make the comment on the first quarter call that those were our best guesses and we would all watch lumber and OSB prices together and see what happens.
So our sense is that thats something that not unique to us.
Its being  is able to be tracked by our analysts and investors and can make adjustments accordingly.
So if it was  what our experience was was dramatically different than whats happening in the marketplace.
To your point at that point we would consider officially revising guidance but if its just something thats public in whats happening in the marketplace we typically would not revise guidance just based on that because there is a lot of visibility to those prices in the marketplace.
Okay thats very helpful.
And then just additionally on cellulose fibers it looks like you had some operational hiccups in Q1 and probably a drag on this West Coast port issue in Q2 and maintenance.
Just wondering how much better the second half of the year is going to look? I mean it looks quite a bit from my standpoint just trying to get some color from you guys.
Yes.
As Patty alluded to in her comments we anticipate that the second quarter will be significantly higher than the first quarter.
To your point we have got a lot of maintenance in the first half of the year both in the first quarter and then we have doubled the amount of maintenance in the second quarter.
We also had some  to your point some headwinds and small operational issue in the first quarter.
All of that should be behind us.
So we would anticipate significant improvement in our cellulose fibers business in the second half versus the first half.
Great thanks very much.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover from D.A.
Davidson.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning everyone.
These are kind of cleanups at this point but could you please expand on your comments on engineered wood.
I think you said flat pricing maybe you can tell us what the operating rates are and when you expect to see some tension kick in to justify higher prices? Yes.
So we do anticipate  or we did have  I am going to start with the operating rate.
Operating rates in the first quarter were in the low 70s in terms of ELP.
In terms of pricing you are right we said that was roughly flat currently versus the first quarter.
There has been a price increase announced in Canada and for ELP roughly 5% or a little more and we think that could pass through.
We wont see the full benefit of that until the third quarter.
Okay.
And then clearly you think that housing was going to get better and Q1 was just basically seasonal.
Do you think that your pulse on the market is as accurate today as it was when you owned RICO? And what is your full year view for starts? Yes.
I would say the first quarter was more  first quarter is always slower seasonally but I would say it was even worse than the normal seasonal because of the weather impacts again in February and March.
As I said earlier January was a pretty good month and then February and March were difficult due to the weather situation.
In terms of our visibility into housing our crystal ball is not necessarily any better than anybody elses but we have a lot of customers that we talked to on a very regular basis.
So I would say we have got good visibility into housing going forward.
I would say in terms of what our forecast is for starts it is unchanged at $1.1 million.
And actually we are really encouraged by what we have seen over the past few weeks in terms of again talking to customers and their overall sentiment for housing.
And if you really step back and look at and it and I have talked about it earlier there are a lot of really things  positive things happening which should continue to drive household formation.
The employment level the consumer confidence the lower gas prices where mortgage rates are  the availability is improving in terms of mortgage for first time homebuyers.
So a lot of encouraging things there that we think will continue to drive housing going forward.
I agree with you actually.
So thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes in the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning Doyle and good morning Patty.
Good morning Mark.
Good morning Mark.
I got a lumber question and I got a timberland question.
My lumber question Patty is kind of two pieces.
One is typically I think of you guys lagging what we would see in terms of random lengths in terms of lumber realizations you report every quarter.
And I just want to kind of confirm that and see how we reconcile that with your assumption that price will be flat kind of quarter-to-quarter.
And also within lumber it looks like Southern lumber prices are starting to come down now even while we are seeing a little pickup in West Coast lumber prices so how will that affect you guys sort of Southern prices versus Western.
And then just the lag between reported prices than what you realize? Sure.
I think as you think about what we report against the random lengths framing composites for lumber the framing composite has made up a number of different grades and it doesnt equate exactly to what we are manufacturing.
So sometimes we lag sometimes we are a little ahead.
So I dont know that I would say we always have that same relationship.
As you think about what happens in the South versus West of course we have operations in both our southern system is larger than our Western system.
One other things that I think will help our Western system for lumber in the second quarter is the log prices coming down.
And as you know log prices are a big or log costs are a big cost of producing lumber.
So the West will get a little help on that.
And in the South we would expect that those log prices will be unchanged as well.
So little more important to us in the South just based on the size of the system but both geographies are important to us.
Okay.
And then over on to timberlands I wondered Doyle if you can just talk a little bit about sort of what you see out there in terms of the timberland acquisition markets how you are kind of seeing values right now.
And just how you think about Weyerhaeusers timberland portfolio going forward you are pretty heavily skewed right now in terms of your earnings to the Pacific Northwest you want to shift that over time? So Mark in terms of the deal flows overall it was low in the first quarter in both the South and the West as we have previously said we expect that to increase as we move through the year.
And I will tell you there is still a lot of money chasing deals going forward.
In terms of our specific portfolio as you know we have got 4 million acres in the South 2.7 million acres in the Pacific Northwest.
We would like to grow both areas.
We like the positions where we are.
We will look at growing both the South and the Pacific Northwest.
But with that said we are going to continue to be very disciplined in terms of our approach and make sure that any acquisition opportunity that we look at meets our specific criteria of having appropriate cash flow on returns both in the near-term and long-term strong market access and ability for us to add value or synergies and I think the Longview acquisition is a good example of where we were but able to add synergies as a result of that transaction.
So we will look to grow both in the West and in the South we like our position in both of those but we will be very disciplined in the approach that we take.
And Doyle how do you think about international timberlands because at one point this was a big growth focus for Weyerhaeuser and I think you have peeled that quite  back quite a bit how does that sort of fit in the situation now? Yes.
I think our biggest opportunities for growth going forward Mark will be domestic.
We will continue to look internationally.
As you know we have Timberland Uruguay.
That is a really good timberland.
We have got a good team in place there.
The growth rates there are really encouraging.
So we understand international timberland but I think on a risk-adjusted basis I think our bigger opportunities going forward will be domestic as opposed to international.
Okay thats helpful.
Thanks very much.
Good luck in the coming quarter.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning George.
How are you doing? A lot of my questions have been asked already.
So maybe a couple of bigger picture questions and not necessarily to pick on cellulose fibers I guess first of all Doyle if we look at the portfolio my guess is your strategy  your strategic view wouldnt have changed a whole heck of a lot since December presentation but certainly cellulose fibers does operate to a different cycle than your classic housing related businesses.
And so can you update us on your thoughts in terms of how C fibers fits within the whole portfolio and why it fits well? And then separately within cellulose fibers you mentioned that you are relentlessly focused on operating excellence over the balance of the year which suggests that you perhaps wanted to improve performance of maybe some things that didnt go as well as you would have liked in the first quarter.
Obviously you cant control the port situation or maybe you could have where there are some things with the port and the situation your reaction to it as a company that you thought you could have done better and the mill outage in coming back from that again lag a little bit.
Is that a reflection at all of the new maintenance schedule or totally not related at all? Thanks and good luck in the quarter.
Thank you George.
And I am going to take your second question first and then I will come back to the bigger question.
So in cellulose fibers in the quarter we did not see much benefit from operational excellence.
In terms of the start up of the mill that was down thats something that we could have done better.
In terms of the port situation and the FX situation those are just were what they were.
I was actually really proud of the way our team managed through the very difficult port situation from the fact that it really did  it had a really significant impact on our ability to ship product.
We had to move things around.
We had additional transportation costs.
We had warehouse costs.
A lot of moving parts there in our team was on top of it and did a really nice job of managing through that and has continued to do that as we move forward.
So comment on the $30 million to $35 million of OpEx I am absolutely convinced we are going to get that for the year.
There was not much that showed up in the first quarter in our cellulose fiber business unlike out other two businesses where it did show up but we have got a good team in place we have got the right strategy and the mill outage.
When you take those down you start them back up it doesnt always go as well as you had hoped.
That happened this quarter and we will manage that better as we move forward.
In terms of the strategy overall for cellulose fibers as you alluded to we talked about that at our December meeting.
And we like having cellulose fiber business as part of our overall portfolio partly because of the reason you said.
It does tend to be countercyclical to some of our other businesses but much more importantly we like the cash  the very strong cash flow generation that we have historically received from that business and we are convinced we will continue to generate significant free cash flow going forward.
We like that because that ties to our number one capital allocation priority of having a growing and sustainable dividend and we believe the cash flow that we generate from that business will continue to allow us to grow our dividend going forward.
And Doyle.
One of the projects that will significantly improve our operational excellence going forward was as Doyle said we didnt have in the first quarter and we wont have the full benefit in the second quarter but is that energy installation and boiler upgrade that we are doing in one of our fluff mills in the second quarter.
So we are excited about the additional power generation sales that we will have from that upgrade but also it will significantly improve the reliability of that mill and thereby lower our cost going forward as well.
So thats just one example of an operational excellence focus that you havent seen show up on the bottom line yet but we will start to see some of that improvement later in the year.
Thanks for that Patty.
Doyle I guess the fact that you didnt mention it means it wasnt an issue but you have not seen the new maintenance schedule affect your ability to bring mills back up in a timely way or have you? Again thanks and good luck in the quarter.
No.
George and you are right I didnt mention it because it did not have an impact.
That was a mill that went down.
And as we said when you start mills back up sometimes they dont start up as well as they should thats what happened on this occasion.
And we will work to make sure that doesnt happen going forward.
Its tougher than running a spreadsheet I guess.
Have a good quarter.
Thanks George.
Thanks George.
Ladies and gentlemen we now have time for one additional question.
Your final question comes from the line of Collin Mings with Raymond James.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning Doyle good morning Patty.
Just a couple of questions here first Patty and I may have missed this but again despite some of the pricing headwinds and given some of the operational improvements you are seeing the lower log cost could you see wood products earnings bounce all the way back up to year ago levels or is that a bit too optimistic? I think that we would certainly see our second quarter significantly higher than the first quarter as I said.
To get to the roughly a little over $100 million of a year ago quarter we are going to have to see some really significant turnaround in prices that we havent seen yet.
So I am pulling for it but its unlikely that we ill get there unless as I said pricing just really significantly has an inflection point from here.
But it will be somewhere south of that but still significantly higher than what we saw in Q1.
Okay thats helpful.
And then again you talked a little bit about as far as acquisition priority if you guys stop being on the radar but maybe just provide a little bit more of an update of what you are seeing as far as sawlog price improvement in the region if any I know I think in 2Q you are looking for flat pricing but just the outlook in that market.
I know some of your peers have kind of suggested that given some of the weakness in Asia that that tipping point as far as the supply demand in that region may have been pushed out even further so can you just maybe update us on what you are seeing in that region? Yes.
So in the South we continue to anticipate that Southern sawlog prices will be up 3% to 4% in 2015 versus 2014.
Thats kind of what we saw in Q4 14 versus 13.
We think that trend is going to continue.
Its hard to know exactly what the tipping point is going to be to your question.
And China as I mentioned earlier is going to be volatile.
So I dont get too concerned about that component of it.
I think as housing continues to improve thats going to help on the demand side and then overall on the supply side the constraints that Canada has in place because of the pine beetle situation will be a key driver there.
So we are not yet to the tipping point I think its still in front of us and the key driver there is going to be what happens with U.S.
housing and as I mentioned earlier we continue to be encouraged by the progress there just had to pause in the first quarter but the fundamentals are clearly in place for a continued improvement in housing as we move forward.
Okay thats helpful.
And then I guess just following up really quick and as far as the Pacific Northwest is there a good way to think about as far as you are looking at 40% year-over-year decline as far as on log export revenue I know there are a couple of moving pieces there but can you maybe give us some sense of how much of that was pricing versus volume? Yes.
I would say the biggest component and I dont have that exact breakdown in front of me but the biggest component of it was the volume as we talked about Japan slows down due to just the general slowdown in housing.
And then we all know what happened in China.
So clearly both were components.
But I would tell you volume was the bigger component of the decrease that was experienced.
Okay.
And then just one last one and Doyle just as you think about that headwinds in the Pacific Northwest.
I mean again I recognized that you think are optimistic that pricing is going to stabilize as you go through 2Q on the domestic front but is there a point where you really started to ratchet down the harvest activity in the region just with the thinking that may be prices have over corrected here given some of the currency headwinds and the slowing in China and the inventory there? Collin as you know we do have the ability to flex up and down depending on whats happened on market conditions.
We will see how things play out going forward do not have any intention to do that at this point but that is something that we have done historically and we have the ability to do as we move forward.
Okay well thanks for all the detail.
Good luck during the quarter.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And I would now like to turn the call back over to Doyle for any closing remarks.
Thank you and thanks to everyone for joining us this morning.
And most importantly thank you for your interest in Weyerhaeuser.
Thank you.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to Weyerhaeuser Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Denise Merle Senior Vice President of Human Resources and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Brent.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Weyerhaeuser's second quarter 2015 earnings.
On the call with me this morning are Doyle Simons CEO; Patty Bedient CFO; and Beth Baum Director of Investor Relations.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
Our earnings release and presentation materials can also be found on our website.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during the conference call.
We will discuss non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of GAAP can be found in the earnings material on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Doyle Simons.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Denise and welcome everyone.
This morning Weyerhaeuser reported second quarter net earnings of $133 million or $0.26 per diluted share on net sales of $1.8 billion.
Each of our businesses delivered solid operating results as operational excellence efforts helped mitigate the delayed arrival of the spring building season and the continuing challenge of a strong U.S.
dollar.
In addition we returned over $150 million of cash to shareholders in the quarter through repurchase of common shares.
Cumulative repurchase at quarter end totaled $610 million as we near completion of our existing $700 million authorization.
I will begin this discussion of our business results with some brief comments about the housing market.
Housing indicators remain choppy and the spring building season was slow to gather momentum in the second quarter as weeks of heavy rain and flooding in the South hampered building activity.
However markets gained momentum late in the quarter as the weather abated and our outlook for 2015 remains unchanged at approximately 1.1 million housing starts which represents a 10% improvement compared with 2014.
We continue to be optimistic about the longer-term prospect for housing as rising employment strong consumer confidence historically low mortgage rates and signs of increased participation by first time home buyers should support continuing improvement in the U.S.
housing market.
In addition builder sentiment in July was at the highest level in 10 years and our customers continue to tell us they expect increased housing activity in the second half of the year.
Let me now turn to our business segments starting with Timberlands charts three to five.
Timberlands contributed $127 million to the second quarter earnings compared with $162 million in the first quarter.
Lower average sales realizations for western logs and lower earnings from timberlands dispositions more than offset seasonally higher sales volumes.
In the West export log prices remained under pressure due to the continued strength of the U.S.
dollar.
However export volumes increased substantially compared with first quarter due to seasonally improved demand from our Japanese and Chinese customers.
Domestic log sales realizations declined throughout the quarter as log markets remained well supplied due to favorable market conditions in the first half of the year.
In the South fee harvest increased seasonally as we were able to flex harvest settings around the second quarter's extreme wet weather.
Average sales realizations for Southern logs were comparable to the first quarter.
Second quarter included earnings of $5 million from disposition of non-strategic timberlands a reduction of $12 million compared with the first quarter.
The Timberlands business continues to benefit from operational excellence initiatives and remains on track to meet its OpEx targets for 2015.
Wood Products charts six and seven.
Wood Products contributed $71 million to the second quarter earnings an improvement of $9 million compared with the first quarter.
EBITDA increased to $98 million.
Improved sales volumes and reduced operating cost enabled the business to overcome lower average realizations for lumber and oriented strand board.
In Lumber EBITDA declined $6 million compared with the first quarter a 5% decline in average sales realizations was mostly offset by seasonally higher sales volumes lower Western log costs and operational excellence initiatives to reduce manufacturing cost.
In OSB EBITDA decreased by $4 million due to a 3% decline in average sales realizations.
I was particularly pleased with the performance of engineered wood products in the quarter as we reported EBITDA of $38 million an increase of $12 million compared with the first quarter.
Sales volume rose seasonally across all product lines and per unit manufacturing costs improved due to higher production volume and operational excellence initiatives.
EBITDA for the distribution business increased by $5 million compared with the first quarter due to improved sales volumes higher product margins and lower overhead cost.
Our Wood Products businesses remained relentlessly focused on operational excellence.
Lumber and OSB are on track to achieve their 2015 targets.
Engineered wood products is tracking significantly above its full-year EBITDA improvement target up $26 million year-to-date compared with 2014.
And our distribution business has been challenged by the severe weather in some of its key markets in the first half of the year and has work to do to achieve its target.
However this business is well-positioned to capitalize on the expanded building activity we expect during the second half of 2015.
Cellulose Fibers charts 8 and 9.
Cellulose Fibers contributed $27 million to earnings compared with $33 million in the first quarter.
Pulp market stabilized during the second quarter as global inventories declined to more balanced levels.
Average pulp realizations were down compared with the first quarter.
As expected maintenance expense increased significantly in the second quarter as we completed a planned extended outage at our Flint River Georgia mill.
The outage included scheduled maintenance and installation of energy-related capital improvements.
The West Coast port disruption resulted in approximately $8 million in lingering logistics costs in the second quarter but we anticipate minimal effects going forward.
The Cellulose Fibers business made good progress on operational excellence initiatives in the second quarter including the successful startup of a turbine generator that significantly reduces energy cost at our Flint River mill.
This business remains on track to achieve its 2015 operational excellence target.
I will now turn it over to Patty to discuss our third quarter outlook.
Thanks Doyle and good morning everyone.
The outlook for the third quarter is summarized on chart 13 and I'll begin my comments with Timberlands.
In the West sales realizations for export logs to Japan are expected to improve slightly due to increased housing demand.
Although China inventories have decreased from earlier in the year they remain at above-normal levels putting continued pressure on prices.
Domestic log realizations are anticipated to increase as a result of constrained supply due to fire-related harvest restriction.
Fee harvest volumes are expected to decrease accordingly.
In the South average sales log sales realizations are anticipated to be comparable to Q2.
Fee harvest volumes are expected to increase on a slightly lower grade mix as Q3 typically carries a greater percentage of thinning volume.
Silviculture costs are anticipated to increase both seasonally and because some activities had to be deferred from Q2 as a result of wet weather.
Earnings from non-strategic land sales are projected to be around $10 million compared to $5 million in Q2.
Overall earnings in our Timberlands segment are expected to be slightly lower in Q3 compared to Q2.
Turning to Wood Products.
Although lumber and oriented strand board prices have decreased during the month of July the average sales realizations for this month are still higher than the Q2 averages.
We expect prices for both lumber and OSB to increase in the remainder of the quarter from today's level.
We anticipate average sales realizations for engineered wood products in the third quarter to be comparable to the second quarter.
Sales volumes are anticipated to be seasonally higher across most product lines.
Western log costs are expected to be modestly higher than Q2.
We will be taking some annual maintenance downtime in our engineered wood products facilities which will negatively affect manufacturing costs for the quarter.
We expect continued improvement in the results of our distribution business.
Overall we anticipate that third quarter earnings in our Wood Products segment will be higher than the second quarter but likely lower than the third quarter of last year.
Moving to the Cellulose Fibers business global softwood pulp inventory levels decreased during the second quarter and we were basically in balance at the end of the quarter.
However because the industry typically plans fewer maintenance outages in the third quarter combined with uncertainty around demand from China inventory levels could tick up leading to some softness in pulp prices in the third quarter.
We expect higher sales volumes to partially offset the potential effect of lower sales realization.
We anticipate substantial cost improvement in the third quarter.
During the second quarter we had 46 maintenance-related outage days.
And this quarter we have only minimal days planned.
As a result we will have lower maintenance expense and higher productivity.
In addition now that the West Coast port dispute has been resolved we do not anticipate a repeat of the $8 million negative effect that we experienced in Q2.
Overall third quarter results in our Cellulose Fibers segment should significantly increase compared to the second quarter and exceed the third quarter earnings of last year.
Chart 10 summarizes the results of unallocated items.
Before special items total cost decreased by just over $60 million.
The largest item making up this variance was foreign exchange as the Canadian dollar appreciated from approximately $0.79 at the end of the first quarter to $0.81 at the end of the second quarter.
For modeling purposes every penny in the exchange rate is roughly $4 million on a pre-tax basis.
The other large item was the elimination of intersegment profit in inventory and LIFO.
This item is difficult to predict as it fluctuates based on the level and mix of inventory from quarter-to-quarter.
However we do not expect the change of this magnitude in the third quarter.
Now I'll wrap up with some overall financial comments beginning with chart 11.
Cash flow from operations for the second quarter was $366 million or an increase of $289 million compared to the first quarter.
In addition to increased earnings large positive variances included lower working capital and lower interest payments compared to the first quarter.
Capital expenditures for the second quarter totaled $108 million bringing our year-to-date expenditures to $197 million.
We continue to expect total expenditures for the full year to approximate $500 million.
We do not have any debt maturities until 2017 and have no borrowings outstanding under our $1 billion line of credit.
As detailed on chart 12 during the second quarter we used $154 million to repurchase our common stocks.
And at the end of Q2 we had approximately $90 million remaining under our existing authorization.
Now I'll turn the call back to Doyle and I look forward to your questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Patty.
The housing market continues to gather momentum and building activity is increasing although it has come this year in fits and starts.
Looking forward we are well positioned to capitalize on its improvement.
And we remain relentlessly focused on driving value for shareholders through operational excellence and disciplined capital allocation.
Now with that I'd like to open up the floor for questions.
Thanks a lot.
Your first question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with The Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Doyle you'd made a comment or Patty that you are expecting lumber and OSB prices to pick up as the quarter progresses.
I was curious what informs that view whether it's a sense of where inventories are in the channel? Is at sense that demand is going to be getting better? What would be the drivers that you are expecting to help us see lumber and OSB start moving in the right direction? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Mark it's a combination of those factors.
As I mentioned in my prepared comments and talking to customers they continue to be very optimistic about housing activity.
In fact I was talking to Adrian Blocker just this morning.
He was with customers as recently as yesterday and just very optimistic about activity out there.
In addition in terms of inventories as you mentioned I would tell you inventories are fairly lean at this point in time.
So I think what's happened is there's been a confluence of events from the supply side Mark as you're very well aware of in terms of the Canadian dollar and that's resulted in additional volume coming into the U.S.
The weakness in the export  Asian export markets has resulted in an increase coming in to the U.S.
That at a time when we had a delay in the spring building season all resulted in prices having some pressure on them.
I think as demand continues to improve supply and demand will get back in balance and hopefully we will see some improvement in lumber and OSB prices as we move through the balance of the quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And one quick follow-up.
Do you have thoughts on the potential expiration of the softwood lumber agreement and what type of implications that might or might not have for lumber markets as we go forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So in terms of the softwood lumber agreement as we've said previously this is an important issue to Weyerhaeuser.
There's a council of industry leaders that are discussing options for renewing the agreement and Weyerhaeuser is actively participating in those discussions.
And we're very hopeful that we can reach an agreement and avoid trade litigation going forward.
In terms of the implications if it runs out in October Mark there's two trains of thought.
One is that when that occurs that additional supply comes on from Canada because there won't be any tariffs in place.
But there is also the thought that that will not occur because of the implications that it could potentially have in trade litigations down the road.
So don't know how to play out.
And again two different trains of thought and we'll just have to see what happens if we're not able to get a resolution in place prior to that which I think everybody is working towards.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Anthony.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Could you talk about the movement of Western export log prices as you move through Q2 and then into July and are you seeing any inflection point there? And then maybe just a related question.
We've heard a lot about the risk of fires in British Columbia and the Pacific Northwest.
Is that something that's actually impacting prices and volumes right now or is that just something that we need to kind of keep an eye on in August and September? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So both important issues and let me address each of those.
In terms of export markets let me break it down by market.
In Japan we saw prices bottom in June and prices have started to move up in July.
And this has been due to the improved Japanese housing demand.
And to your second question I'll get into more details on this in just a minute the lower log supply due to  primarily due to fire restrictions.
In terms of what we're seeing in China the log takeaway from Chinese ports picked up in the second quarter but remains at relatively low levels.
Log inventories  I mean log inventories moved down to about 3.8 million cubic meters in the second quarter but has since climbed back up just above 4 million cubic meters.
And I can tell you the softwood log imports from all regions into China are down but as I said the inventories remain high and we think there continue to be pressure in China in terms of pricing.
Related to that in domestic markets in the West we think domestic prices are going to rise due to the fire season.
And our volumes as Patty mentioned our harvest volumes are projected to be down in the third quarter versus the second because of the fire restrictions.
Now let me turn to the current fire situation.
And I can tell you just drive around the Pacific Northwest it's dry out there.
It almost looks like you're in Arizona as opposed to the normally wet Pacific Northwest.
In terms of what's happening the fire season started earlier this year and at least at this point it looks like it's going to last longer than normal.
If you look at the level of rainfall it's one of the lowest levels in the last 70 years.
And I can tell you most Western acres are currently under either what's called level 2 level 3 or level 4 fire restrictions.
These are restrictions that are put on placed by outside regulators.
Just to give you a sense level 2 requires most operations to cease by 1 PM.
Level 3 requires all operations to cease by 1 PM and further restricts certain harvest activity such as using power saws and cables cable yarding at all times.
And then level 4 restrictions are complete ban on entry to the forest.
Just a couple of days ago in Oregon a level 4 restriction was put in place in portions of Oregon.
There's not been a level 4 restriction in place since 1988 just to put it in context.
And that restriction impacts about 15% of our Western Timberlands.
Now that can change overnight if we get some rain or temperatures cool down and all those things.
But that is the current state.
And to your question we do anticipate lower harvest in the third quarter versus the second as a result of these fire restrictions and we'll continue to monitor them and see how they play out going forward.
Maybe just to add to that a little bit as Doyle said the fire restrictions or the fire concern happened earlier in the Pacific Northwest than normal.
And people anticipated that this may happen in some of the drier conditions as you heard us talk about in the second quarter led many of the mills to and I'm talking industry now to put in a few more logs.
So we haven't seen closures of mills at this point because of out of log downtime because they still have some inventory of logs.
But I think as we get into August and into the middle of August we'll see more of that concern as Doyle said if we don't get more rain in the Pacific Northwest which isn't the forecast as we sit here today.
I think it'll be something that we'll see more in the month of August than we've seen thus far in July.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay that's very helpful detail.
And then maybe just one follow-up on timberlands.
During the quarter we saw announcements from a few large timber owners that they would put large properties on the market.
I wonder generally are you seeing any change in institutional interest for timberlands? Is it becoming a little bit more of a buyer's market? Are you seeing any trends in prices changing? And is there an opportunity for Weyerhaeuser as a buyer or a seller especially in the South? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And so I would say overall when you step back Anthony the amount of activity still is generally low in the South and the West.
As you mentioned there were some facts that came on became available in the first half of the year.
I would say most of those have some unique challenges that people will have to work through in terms of how they're going to value those.
I would say we expect more activity in the second half of the year and I can tell you there's still a lot of money chasing deals.
So no I don't see any downward pressure on timberland prices at this point in time.
In terms of Weyerhaeuser specifically as we've consistently said we're always looking to grow our timberland but we will continue to be very disciplined and make sure any acquisition that we make meets our appropriate level of returns and drives value for our shareholder.
So we look at everything that comes across or most everything that comes across.
And we are interested in growing but we'll continue to be disciplined.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I'll turn it over.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Gail.
Good morning.
First just picking up on a couple of things that have been asked looking at the Canadian trade situation maybe shorter term tariffs are set to go down fairly significantly in August.
Do you have any concerns there that that might put incremental supply in the market and weigh on pricing? If not it doesn't look like you do so why not? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
As we alluded to tariffs are scheduled to go down from 15% to 5% in August.
We don't anticipate that that's going to have a big impact on the supply side of the equation but I guess we'll just have to watch it together.
But our sense is that it hasn't been a the 15% even with the 15% we've seen we continued to see supply come in from Canada so we don't see we don't anticipate a significant change when the tariff changes on a monthly basis.
Okay.
And just quickly following up on the view on western logs and the fire restrictions can you give maybe a sense I mean have you started to see any tension in the markets at all yet? I appreciate what you are saying that it will play out more in August but can you give a sense maybe your July pricing versus your second-quarter average? Has there been any movement yet? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It takes a little bit of time for that to flow through Gail but I don't think there's any doubt that there is tightness in the market.
And that's just going to increase as these fire restrictions continue.
So as we said as Patty said and I alluded to both in Japan and in western domestic we anticipate prices increasing in the third quarter versus the second.
And we're starting to see signs of that.
Okay.
And just switching gears to capital allocation you have obviously exhausted basically 85% of the existing buyback authorization.
Can you just give us some thoughts and perspective on how the board might be thinking about incremental allocation dividend buyback moving forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah so in terms of capital allocation first and foremost our number one priority is returning cash to shareholders.
As we've said that's primarily going to be through a growing and sustainable dividend.
In addition we'll look to use share repurchase as a tool where appropriate.
As we look forward we'll continue to work with our board regarding our dividend.
I can tell you as you know we've constantly raised our dividend over the past few years.
And as I said we'll work with our board to determine the appropriate dividend level going forward.
In terms of share repurchase as you said we are approaching the completion of our $700 million authorization and we'll work with the board on that issue going forward.
As we've also said we think long term the appropriate level of cash on our balance sheet is somewhere in the $300 million to $500 million range and we are significantly above that at this time.
Okay.
Just one quick follow-up on that.
With the recent share price decline do you think that's something that the board may kind of factor into its thinking? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the board looks at lots of factors in determining the appropriate balance between dividends and share repurchase.
And that clearly would be a factor that the board would in fact consider.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ketan Mamtora with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I just wanted to come back to wood products.
Your lumber EWP margins look quite good especially relative to peers.
Can you talk about what you're seeing and what has been the key driver there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm sorry.
I might have to ask you to repeat the question.
You're cutting out a little bit on our end.
I'm sorry.
I wanted to ask about the lumber EWP margins.
They look pretty good relative  especially relative to your peers this quarter.
So I just wanted to understand what has been the key driver and what you are seeing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So in terms of lumber we were encouraged by the margins this quarter.
And I think what you saw there is a combination of OpEx efforts and lower log cost that pretty much are almost  completely offset the decline in prices in the quarter.
So we're continuing to make progress on our OpEx and that is showing up in our bottom line.
And we saw some of the benefit of that in the second quarter That's helpful.
And just one more switching gears to timberlands.
Can you talk a little bit about your offshore timberlands in Uruguay and how you think about it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
So we have 300 000 acres of timberlands in Uruguay.
It's about half pine and about half eucalyptus.
I was down there not too long ago and very fertile ground and the trees grow very quickly.
So it's been  we don't have many mature trees at this point.
It's still fairly early in the rotation and we're spending a lot of time figuring out exactly the best way to monetize those trees through manufacturing going forward.
Okay.
And that's helpful.
I'll turn it over.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Chip.
Doyle I would imagine you and Patty all of you all are pretty pleased with the engineered wood products result.
Would you say it's kind of gotten into the zone of where you were hoping it would be when you embarked on a lot of your initiatives a couple of years ago and if not how much further do you think we need to see that improve? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Thanks for your comment Chip.
And we are pleased with the progress that we've made in EWP.
But we still have more work to do.
But the key three  three key drivers that we've seen to get us to where we are today is continuing to reduce our controllable manufacturing costs through OpEx some lower SG&amp;A cost and then growing profitable sales.
So to your question we are absolutely very pleased our team they have done a really nice job.
But we're not taking our foot off the accelerator.
We're going to continue to do things to improve that business going forward.
Got you.
And then when you look at the Distribution business I know it tends to not really  it tends to always below margin but sometimes it's hard to know what's going on below the surface.
Would you say that's equally along the path as EWP is or does it still maybe have a little bit further to go versus EWP? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
It clearly has further to go Chip versus EWP.
So we are making a progress there.
But frankly we're behind schedule.
I can tell you a portion of that was primarily due to some adverse weather we had in some of our key markets like Texas and Denver.
But get to our OpEx goals for the quarter we're going to have to hustle.
We're going to have to have good execution in the second half of the year.
And we're well positioned to capitalize on markets as they continue to improve.
But clearly we're not as far along in distribution as we are in EWP and still have some work to do.
Great.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for all the details and congrats on the operational excellence again.
I guess the first question I had can you comment as to what roughly you would have in your guidance thus far for the third quarter for wood product pricing? Would prices have to rise above the current run rate or the  clearly the second quarter average and if so could you put a bracket on what kind of growth rate we'd need to see in pricing from here? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> George where we are currently is  prices are up.
So quarter-to-date prices are up versus the second quarter average.
So lumber prices for us are up roughly $10 versus the second quarter average.
And OSB prices are up roughly $5.
As Patty said in her comments we anticipate prices will move up from this point forward but we'll all watch that together.
But because of the reasons I've said earlier primarily driven by improving demand is our best guess and it is a guess but it's our best guess that we'll see prices move up for the  somewhat for the balance of the quarter versus where they are today.
But we are currently higher than where  than the second quarter average.
Fair enough Doyle.
Yeah.
And I think the price...
Hey Patty.
How are you? Yeah.
When you think about prices in the month of July they actually came down.
So we had a little bit of rally late in the second quarter in June and then about after the 4 of July holiday prices started to tick back down.
So the average that Doyle was giving you for July is actually a little higher than where they would be with midweek print randomly.
But we do anticipate for all the reasons that Doyle said that those prices will be going back up.
So to summarize third quarter is a decent start on an average basis but the markets would need to see more movement more progress relative to what you have embedded in your guidance.
Is that fair? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's generally fair.
Yes.
Okay.
All right thanks Doyle.
In terms of the mills can you tell us where you think you are on the cost curve? Recognizing that we're not at  hopefully at the precipice of a recession.
I know one of the goals in the past has been to get all the mills in the Wood Products business as much as possible to cash break even so that when you do get into a downturn you won't be losing cash.
So where do you stand in terms of getting the mills to where you want them to be on the cost curve and positioned both versus competitors and versus the macro? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
So as you said George our goal is just as we say around here be black at the bottom and that's the cost structure that we're putting in place in our Wood Products facilities.
We've made progress but we've still got work to do.
We've laid out specific OpEx targets.
And like I said we're making good progress on those but by the end of this year we'll met our 2015 targets but we've still got additional work that needs to be done over the next two to three years to get our cost structure where ultimately it needs to be to be black at the bottom fully capitalized on the this upturn and maybe most importantly outperform our competitors on an ongoing basis going forward.
So progress made still lots of work to do.
Fair enough.
Doyle last question and then I'll turn it over.
If we look at the pulp mills and again we're down the pike in terms of the 18-month maintenance cycle being brought in now maybe a couple of years what continue to be the learnings that you are getting from this? How the mills come up after maintenance? Anything that you would tweak with the strategy on a going-forward basis? Any thoughts there would be helpful.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
So George I would tell you that the 18 month outage plan has been a success for us.
When you take mills down it can be difficult to bring them back up.
We saw that in the first quarter as we talked about.
But that occurs whether it's down over 12 months or down every 18 month.
So we are encouraged by the progress we're making on the 18 months schedule and we think that has been a net benefit to our company and to our shareholders.
Is there a particular challenge when you go up 18 months versus 12 months or really no difference? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You know I wouldn't say there is no difference George but you still got to take  as you and I talked about last quarter taking these mills down and starting them back up there is always challenges associated with that and it may be a little more challenging if it's 18 versus 12 but we haven't seen anything systematic or systemic that makes it harder.
You just got unique challenges with each one of these mills as you take them down and bring them back up.
And some of them go really really well.
And some of ours have gone well and some of them you have challenges.
All right.
Well thanks.
Congrats  go ahead Patty.
George when we look at our  and I think Flint River is a good example of that.
It was not only a factor of taking a mill down for maintenance but we were also installing some really very beneficial equipment around energy costs.
And so it's the combination of all those things.
But I think it is important to your question that as we've gone through this process there are learnings and I would call them only tweaks that you get from just the maintenance which is a very important piece in our Cellulose Fibers business.
So we are capitalizing on looking at the learnings as we take a mill down and bring it back up to factor that into our maintenance going forward and that's part of our operational excellence.
All right.
Thanks for the thoughts.
Congrats on the quarter and good luck going forward.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you George.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Mark? Mark please make sure your line is not on mute.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hello Mark.
Why don't we take the next question? Your next question comes from the line of Tyler Langton with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning.
Thanks.
I just had a question I guess lumber and OSB prices.
I guess they ticked down recently.
I know it's not a big decrease but is there anything you can point to that's maybe driving that drop? You know I think it really is just the factors that Doyle went through.
We've had weaker demand from Asia which impacts the exports that come out of Canada.
We've had some changes in currency that put some headwinds there.
And then I think notwithstanding the fact that housing has been ticking up of late in terms of people have reiterated their full-year guidance for the year.
The first half was a little disappointing in terms of where we thought things would be.
So as we look at housing for the second half our guidance really hasn't changed.
And since we didn't have a great response in the first half that would bode for the second half being better.
But as Doyle said we'll have to wait and see.
There's just a lot of moving parts out there with all of this so.
Okay great.
And then just I know it's still early but I think you mentioned CapEx of $500 million this year.
Can you give a rough sense of a range where it could be for next year? We really don't have a range for next year that we would give in terms of guidance at this point Tyler.
We'll do that as we approach year-end.
But one thing that I would say about the projects that we're putting in and the $500 million is a little higher than where we've been historically.
But we've got some great Wood Products projects that are underway that I think will pay additional dividends as we look at bringing our costs down across that system.
So really excited about the projects that we are spending that money on but a little too soon to tell you exactly what we'd be doing for next year.
And then just a last question southern seller prices I know I think last quarter you were looking for maybe a it was 3% to 4% increase.
Prices have been generally flat.
Do you think it's more realistic that prices are flat for this year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Tyler we still anticipate that southern prices will be up kind of in line with what they've been up over the past couple of years which would be somewhere in the 2% to 3% range year-over-year.
Got it.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Steve.
Hi Steve.
So if I'm not mistaken the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade negotiations should conclude today and I don't think it's a highly visible piece of the puzzle but Canada's effective ban on log exports is part of the equation.
That's mainly BC obviously.
So but if BC was compelled to export logs can you tell us how that would impact your Pacific Northwest operations? As we look at that Steve we'll just have to see how that actually plays out in terms of what the final resolution will be.
So difficult for us really to tell what that result is.
Has it been on your radar clearly Canada is a big supplier of sawn lumber.
So are there ports for instance conducive to log ships as opposed to lumber ships? It is something that we have tracked but it's not something that I would say we have a comment that we'd make about in terms of ports at this point.
All right.
Thank you Patty.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Hopefully you can hear me this time.
I apologize.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We can hear you.
Go ahead.
Great.
So first question is it's around but not really about transfer pricing.
I'm curious whether your internal log prices to your West Coast lumber operations were up a similar amount to your outside log sales.
Obviously there's going to be a mix and other difference.
I'm just curious how they tend to track understanding mix and geographic differences.
So Mark just to be clear your question is related to how we do transfer pricing to our docks? Well you mentioned that external log sales realizations are up.
And I'm curious whether your internal log costs are up by a similar amount and whether those two things tend to track over time.
I'm not asking whether you do transfer pricing honestly.
Obviously you do.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Actually they are correlated because they all come from the same geographies.
There is a different mix however as you think about what we would send exports for example to Japan versus the grade that our domestic sawmills would use.
So directionally they usually do track but they will not be similar absolute pricing because of the grade mix.
Okay that's very helpful.
It's just what I was looking for.
And second quick question.
Does the U.S.
dollar strength increase your relative interest in overseas timberland acquisitions? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Mark as we've said before we are looking to grow our Timberland.
We think our biggest opportunities will be domestic whether it'd be in the South or the Pacific Northwest.
We'll also continue to look internationally but we're going to make sure that we appropriately risk adjust any acquisition that we would make internationally.
So that's kind of generally the way we think about it.
Currencies don't move up.
Currency is going to move down.
So we won't overemphasize that in any decision we may make versus acquisitions.
Very helpful Doyle.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Collin Mings with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning Doyle and Patty.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Collin.
Inc.</span></strong> I guess my first question just Patty as it goes back to the guidance significantly increased results in the Cellulose Fibers business.
I think Patty you indicated in the prepared remarks that would be above last year's 3Q so could we see that bounce all the way back up to call it about the $90 million or so figure that you posted a few quarters last year or is that a bit too optimistic? You're probably just a little optimistic there Collin.
If you kind of think about guidance for the Cellulose Fibers business we were at $27 million I believe in the second quarter.
We've got 46 days in the second quarter and probably less than a handful in the third quarter.
So between the maintenance expense and better productivity as we run more days I would say that's probably going to be around just to give you some sense around the $45-ish million number.
We said we will have likely lower realizations.
But I would expect that to be offset by some higher volumes as well as some additional potential for cost improvement in other ways.
So I think that will help you get a little bit in the ZIP code.
I think $90 million  love to have $90 million but that might be a little optimistic at this point.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
No.
That's very helpful.
And I guess also Patty just going back to Tyler's question just thinking about the CapEx I know it's obviously too early for 2016 but the comments as far as kind of the ramp-up over the last couple of years should we view the $500 million as kind of a high-watermark or do you think there's still the potential to see a higher number at some point as you continue to invest in your mills? Yeah I think you would think about $500 million as being closer to the high watermark Collin.
I don't think we'd be looking at something that's significantly above that.
I think last year in 2014 we were around in the $400 million maybe $450 million.
So we have ramped that up a little bit.
But I wouldn't see us being significantly above $500 million for 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then I guess just the last question kind of going back to Gail's question earlier just about the share repurchases.
One thing that surprised me a little bit during the quarter was that there was a moderation in repurchase activity relative to 1Q particularly in context of the drop in the share price.
Anything that we should read into that or any sort of restrictions on preventing you to buy back stock during a period of the quarter? Or just can you put any additional color around that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Collin there is nothing that should be read into that.
That's just where it ended up for the quarter under our program and we'll continue to report on a quarterly basis our progress going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Good luck during the quarter guys.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning Doyle and Patty.
Just a question for Doyle.
You've been running Weyerhaeuser for a couple of years now and you've had operational excellence in place for quite a bit of that time.
Just wondering if you're happy with the current portfolio of assets? And besides timberlands what business segment looks good for growth? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So Collin on  I mean Paul on your first point on OpEx we're encouraged by the progress we've made there.
Still more work to do.
In terms of opportunities to grow our portfolio going forward.
We've consistently said I think now over the last couple of years that we think our biggest opportunity to grow will be in Timberlands.
But we would look at growing other parts of our company as well if we can find appropriate growth opportunities that meet our hurdle requirements and drive value for shareholders.
So that's generally how we think about growth going forward.
The beauty of it is we don't have to grow to be successful.
But if we  so we can be very disciplined we have been and will continue to be.
But if we can find the appropriate opportunities to grow this company that's absolutely something we'll look to do to drive value for our shareholders going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Best of luck.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Paul Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Doyle for any closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> As I understand it that was our final question.
And I would just like to thank everybody for joining us this morning for our call.
And more importantly thank you for your interest in Weyerhaeuser.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Denise Merle Senior Vice President of Human Resources and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Brent.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Weyerhaeuser's third quarter 2015 earnings.
On the call with me this morning are Doyle Simons CEO; Patty Bedient CFO; and Beth Baum Director of Investor Relations.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
Our earnings release and presentation materials can also be found on our website.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during the conference call.
We will discuss non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of GAAP can be found in earnings material on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Doyle Simons.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Denise and welcome everyone.
This morning Weyerhaeuser reported third quarter net earnings of $180 million or $0.35 per diluted share on net sales of $1.8 billion.
I'm very pleased with our third quarter performance as each of our businesses capitalized on operational excellence improvements to deliver strong results despite some market and global macroeconomic headwinds.
In addition we continued to deliver on our commitment to return cash to shareholders.
We have completed the $700 million share repurchase program authorized in 2014.
In August our board supplemented this program with an additional $500 million share repurchase authorization and also increased our quarterly dividend by 7% to $0.31 per share.
This illustrates our confidence in our ability to continue to execute our operational excellence initiatives and capitalize on market improvements going forward.
I'll begin the discussion of our business results with some brief comments about the housing market.
The U.S.
housing market continued to advance in the third quarter following choppy activity in the first half of the year.
Total housing starts as of September has improved 18% compared with 2014 and single-family starts are up 12%.
We continue to anticipate just over 1.1 million starts for 2015.
Our customers tell us they expect strong year-in activity for as long as weather conditions remain favorable.
With rising employment strong consumer confidence historically low mortgage rates and builder sentiment reaching all-time highs we continue to anticipate steady improvement in the U.S.
housing market.
Let me now turn to our business segments starting with Timberlands charts two to four.
Timberlands contributed $126 million to third quarter earnings comparable to the second quarter.
Strong cost controls and operational excellence initiatives offset the effect of reduced Western fee harvest volumes and lower average sales realizations for Western logs.
As expected Western fee harvest volumes declined by 5% compared with the second quarter due to buyer season logging constraints.
This year's buyer season was exceptionally severe due to record breaking temperatures and unusually low rainfall.
Our employees did an exceptional job of protecting our Timberlands and flexing harvest settings to adjust the changing logging constraints and market conditions.
Our tree farms experienced virtually no fire damage with only about 150 of our 7 million acres affected less than 100 of 1%.
Average realizations for Western domestic logs improved slightly in the third quarter as fire season restrictions resulted in tighter log supplies especially in Southern Oregon and we benefited from an improved mix.
Turning to the export markets Japanese demand remained strong and pricing for our Japanese logs was up slightly in the quarter.
After peaking in August log inventories at Chinese ports have declined as supply has fallen in response to lower pricing.
However Chinese demand in pricing remained challenging due to continued slow construction activity and we flexed volume into more profitable domestic markets.
Overall average realizations for our Western logs declined compared with the second quarter primarily due to the higher proportion of domestic log sales.
In the South fee harvest volume increased and average log sales realizations improved slightly.
Third quarter included earnings of $13 million from disposition of non-strategic timberlands an increase of $8 million compared with the second quarter.
Operational excellence initiatives contributed to Timberlands' third quarter results as efforts to optimize harvest settings and road and silviculture expenditures resulted in continued cost improvements.
The business remained on track to meet or exceed its OpEx target for 2015.
Wood Products charts five and six.
Wood Products contributed $85 million to third quarter earnings an improvement of $14 million compared with the second quarter.
EBITDA increased to $111 million as improved sales volumes and lower operating costs enabled the business to overcome the drag of lower average lumber realization.
In Lumber EBITDA declined $4 million compared with the second quarter.
A 3% decrease in average sales realizations was mostly offset by seasonally higher sales volumes and improvements in logs and other costs.
In OSB EBITDA improved by $12 million due to a 2% increase in average sales realizations and reduced manufacturing and log cost.
Engineered Wood Products reported third quarter EBITDA of $36 million compared with $38 million in the second quarter.
Slightly improved sales volumes and realizations for several products were offset by higher manufacturing cost due to planned maintenance downtime.
EBITDA for the distribution business increased by $7 million compared with the second quarter due to improved sales volumes and lower overhead cost.
Our Wood Products business remains relentlessly focused on operational excellence.
Lumber and OSB are on track to achieve their 2015 targets.
Engineered Wood Products is tracking significantly above its EBITDA improvement target.
Year-to-date the business has generated EBITDA of $100 million a $35 million improvement compared with a target of $15 million to $20 million.
We made significant progress in our distribution toward our OpEx target in the third quarter as EBITDA improved to $9 million and we expect continued progress in the fourth quarter.
At this point however we're unlikely to reach our full $20 million target for the year.
With that said I'm encouraged by our level of improvement in the third quarter and this business is highly focused on continuing to improve bottom line performance going forward.
Cellulose Fibers charts seven and chart eight.
Cellulose Fibers contributed $79 million to third quarter earnings compared with $27 million in the second quarter.
Pulp market softened in the third quarter due to rising global inventories and the continuing challenge of a strong U.S.
dollar.
Average pulp realizations declined slightly compared with second quarter.
Earnings for this segment increased significantly as maintenance expense declined and pulp production improved due to fewer scheduled maintenance outage days.
The third quarter included only four days of scheduled maintenance outages compared with a 46-day extended outage completed in the second quarter.
The Cellulose Fibers business continues to make good progress on operational excellence initiatives as well.
Third quarter results benefited from initiatives to reduce energy costs and chemical costs and usage.
Cellulose Fibers business remained on track to achieve its 2015 operational excellence target.
I will now turn it over to Patty to discuss our fourth quarter outlook.
Thanks Doyle and good morning everyone.
The outlook for the fourth quarter is summarized on chart 12 and I'll begin my comments with Timberlands.
In the West export log volumes to Japan is expected to increase during the fourth quarter as a result of an active Japanese housing market and we anticipate a slight improvement in prices.
Although construction activity in China is still slow inventories at Chinese ports started to decline during Q3 and are expected to decrease further this quarter.
As a result we see fourth quarter prices stabilizing.
Average sales realizations and volumes for Western domestic logs are expected to be comparable to Q3.
Fee timber harvest in the West is anticipated to increase slightly as fire-related logging constraints have been lifted.
In the South fee harvest volume is expected to be in line with the third quarter and we anticipate roughly similar average sales realizations.
Silviculture and logging costs will likely increase seasonally.
Overall fourth quarter earnings in our Timberlands segment are expected to be comparable to Q3.
In our Wood Products segment the fourth quarter is typically the seasonally weakest quarter of the year.
Because of the seasonal slowdown we expect lower sales volumes.
Although we have seen an increase in lumber prices thus far in the fourth quarter average sales realizations for Q4 are expected to be lower than the average of Q3.
We expect higher average sales realizations for oriented strand board in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter and we anticipate that Engineered Wood Products' average sales realizations will be relatively flat.
Production volumes in the fourth quarter are expected to decline due to the holiday season and scheduled downtime to complete maintenance and capital projects.
This downtime will result in higher per-unit manufacturing costs.
Consistent with the normal seasonal patterns we expect fourth quarter earnings in our Wood Products segment to be lower than the third quarter and slightly lower than the earnings of Q4 of last year which had much higher pricing.
Our Cellulose Fibers business is continuing to experience currency headwinds due to the strong U.S.
dollar.
Worldwide inventories for softwood pulp stood at 30 days at the end of the third quarter.
Typically industry supply increases during the fourth quarter as there is seasonally not as much maintenance downtime in the colder winter months.
As a result we expect weaker average sales realizations for pulp in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter.
Our final planned maintenance outage for this year was completed earlier this month.
The mill is back up and running well.
Due to this outage we will have more planned maintenance phase this quarter as a result expect that overall maintenance expense will be approximately $10 million higher than Q3.
In addition we expect seasonally higher fiber costs.
We anticipate that overall earnings in our Cellulose Fibers segment will be approximately $20 million to $25 million lower in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter.
Chart nine summarizes the results of unallocated items.
Unallocated items moved from a positive earnings impact of $20 million in Q2 to a negative $27 million in Q3.
The largest change was the result of a non-cash charge for the weakening of the Canadian dollar.
As we've said in the past every $0.01 change in the exchange rate is roughly $3 million to $4 million on a pre-tax basis.
The other large variance was a lower positive effect for the elimination of intersegment profit in inventory and LIFO.
Now I'll wrap with some overall financial comments.
Income taxes for the quarter resulted in a tax benefit of $16 million.
This was due to a true-up of the effective tax rate for the year which is now estimated to be lower based on the higher mix of REIT income relative to the taxable REIT subsidiary.
In addition there were discrete items booked in the quarter of approximately $9 million; the largest item being a positive resolution of uncertain tax positions.
Now I'll refer you to chart 10.
Cash flow from operations for the third quarter was $282 million or a reduction of $84 million compared to Q2.
The change was primarily the result of a large working capital reduction in Q2 and normal timing of interest payments.
Capital expenditures for the third quarter were $112 million bringing our total expenditures for the first three quarters of the year to just over $300 million.
We still anticipate total expenditures for the year to approximate $500 million.
There was no change to our scheduled debt maturities and as you can see from the chart the first maturity isn't until 2017.
Chart 11 details our share repurchase activity and we have now completed our $700 million 2014 share repurchase authorization.
And as mentioned earlier in August the board authorized an additional share repurchase program for $500 million.
Now I'll turn the call back to Doyle.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Patty.
We are encouraged by the positive trend in housing and the optimistic tone we are hearing from our customers.
Going forward we remain relentlessly focused on operational excellence and disciplined capital allocation.
By relentlessly driving operational excellence in each of our businesses we are laying a foundation that enables us to take full advantage of market opportunities.
Our recently announced dividend increase and share repurchase program illustrate our confidence that we will continue to grow shareholder value by capitalizing on these activities going forward.
And with that we'd like to open the floor for questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Maybe a little bit of a detail question but on the tax rate well maybe the easiest way to ask what type of tax rate should we be anticipating for the fourth quarter? Kind of looks like you're 5% to 10% even after making all the adjustments for the first three quarters.
Is that what we should expect for the fourth quarter? Yeah.
Mark that's our outlook for the full year and of course the fourth quarter will be the last one.
As you mentioned we had a number of things in the third quarter just to true up the rate for the full year but we'll be over 5% for the fourth quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And also maybe a little bit of help if we look at lumber pricing which has started to move quite positively of late one could certainly see scenarios where at least the random length average would be higher in the fourth quarter than it would be in the third quarter.
Maybe a little bit more color of  your comments on why you'd expect it to be lower recognizing maybe you sell more in October and things like that but if you could give us a little bit of help in understanding how to think through fourth quarter lumber realization that would be great.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
And Mark we agree with you.
There is a scenario where lumber prices could in fact be higher in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
But let me kind of give you the facts of where we are currently.
If you take fourth quarter-to-date average it's still about $15 below the third quarter average.
Now if you take current prices today for lumber it's basically in line with the third quarter average.
So to your point it's all dependent on what happens from this point going forward.
We may be being conservative in terms of what we're assuming for lumber prices but we all know that as Patty mentioned the fourth quarter is typically a slower seasonal period and we'll just have to see what happens in the month of November and December.
So that's the way we see it at this point and we'll just watch together because our  it's nothing but a guess as to what we think's going to happen in the fourth quarter and we'll just have to see how it plays out as we move through the next couple of months.
Inc.</span></strong> Understood and totally fair enough.
And just any color though in terms of why you think lumber has come back as nicely as it has in the last several weeks? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
I think there's a number of things that have played into that.
I think what we understand in talking to our customers and buyers I think there were very very low inventories in the system partially waiting to see what happens when the Softwood Lumber Agreement expired.
When that did happen there was not a lot of lumber that came on.
So I think part of it has been a building back of inventories in light of that.
I think there have been some slight improvements in the Chinese markets.
And our take is as long as the weather holds as I said in my comments we're hearing very positive commentary from our customers in terms of demand in building season.
So that's I think what's happened to drive the lumber prices up over the past few weeks.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Anthony.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> A number of producers seem to have adjusted their production schedules in 3Q given weaker Wood Products prices.
I was wondering what your operating rates were in the quarter across lumber OSB and Engineered Wood Products? And if you took any kind of market downtime or cut shifts in 3Q or expect anything like that in 4Q? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So in terms of operating rates lumber was right at 90% OSB mid-90%s and ELP in the mid-70%s in terms of operating rates.
And I'll let Patty because she alluded to it in her comments talk about the fourth quarter and some of the maintenance downtime we have planned for the fourth quarter.
Sure.
As you think about the fourth quarter the fourth quarter is typically when we do our maintenance as well as install capital projects and most of that will happen in the Wood Products business.
And it's really across the board.
As you think about OSB for example we're installing some  not huge capital but we will take advantage of putting in things across the system.
ELP will have some as well lumber has some capital projects and also we have holiday downtime that happens in the fourth quarter.
So if I think  as we think about our operating rates for OSB in particular I think as Doyle said we were in the mid-90s for the third quarter we would expect below 90% for the fourth quarter.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then just switching to the dividend I mean historically you've targeted 75% of FAD over the cycle.
And this year you raised the dividend while your earnings should be down year-over-year maybe double digits on a percentage basis.
I'm just wondering if you could talk about dividend coverage and prospects for continued dividend growth and maybe the confidence that you have going into 2016 that you're going to see earnings growth next year given we've got a strong dollar and some of these headwinds in Asia that you called out earlier as well? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Anthony as you alluded to our guideline and it is a guideline is 75% of FAD over the cycle.
I think the "over the cycle" is an important component.
To your point we feel like we are still early in the housing recovery cycle and as mentioned in my comments we're optimistic that housing will continue to recover and will be 1% to 1.25% in 2016.
As a result of that we think we have a lot of opportunity to continue to grow earnings and cash flow going forward and are confident that we will continue to do that as housing continues to improve going forward.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just in terms of next year is your view not only that you're going to see a volume recovery with starts going higher but that will be a accompanied by price recovery as well or price improvement year-over-year in 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Pricing as we all know is difficult to predict.
But following up on the conversation we had earlier on lumber we are encouraged that lumber prices are improving in a slower seasonal period.
And our take is as we move into the strong building season next year again assuming housing's at the 1.2% to 1.25% range we think that will be very constructive for Wood Products and frankly Timberland prices moving into 2016.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I'll turn it over.
Your next question comes from the line of Tyler Langton with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
I think just with the domestic West Coast prices I think Patty you mentioned that the fires were a little bit beneficial for prices this quarter.
Could you quantify that a little bit? I don't know is there any risk that with the fire season going away that prices could slip a little bit this quarter or do you think they should be sort of pretty stable? Tyler we did talk about the fact that we expected to have a little more fee harvest volume in the West but it's not a huge amount and even in the third quarter we didn't see as much benefit from the fire restriction as probably many expected because of the fact that many of the mills had already seeing the fact that the fire season was going to be so severe had done some additional things as far as their own log supply.
So I don't see a huge risk related to that but the increase that I mentioned in our fee timber harvest in the West is not a huge increase.
I don't think it will have that significant of an impact.
Okay.
Great thanks.
And then just switching to Wood Products.
Could you quantify and I think you said the lower earnings in the fourth quarter was coming from sort of lower sale volumes reduced operating rates and some of the maintenance in OSB.
Could you kind of roughly break out how much each of one of those would contribute to the decline? In terms of the overall impact I would say that there the biggest impact of third Q compared to fourth quarter really does come from sales volumes.
As we talked about seasonally the fourth quarter is a lower quarter for volume and that's really a statement across most of our product lines lumber OSB and ELP.
And certainly in distribution as well we were very pleased with the improvement in distribution for the third quarter but they will likely be impacted as well from the seasonal volume fall off.
Now having said all that as Doyle talked about we are pleased to see that prices in lumber especially and OSB have been coming up in the quarter.
Its pricing can be very volatile and we'll just have to see how it all plays out.
But I would say across the board the biggest negative compared to the third quarter is in sales volume.
And actually we're very pleased when you think about quarter-over-quarter last year in the fourth quarter we had much better pricing than what we're anticipating for this fourth quarter and earnings are roughly  maybe a little lower or could be even comparable depending upon where prices are.
So I think you start to see the impact of our operational excellence initiative kicking into that.
Okay.
Great.
And just final question with the distribution you mentioned a nice increase in earnings.
Can you just provide a little bit more detail about sort of what drove that and sort of how sustainable it is going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So what I would tell you is that it's  what we've been working on is the basic blocking and tackling of running a distribution.
It's making sure we have the right warehouse and cost in places making sure we're growing profitable sales.
So as Patty said we were very encouraged by the progress we made in the third quarter but more work to do.
But we are pleased that we  on the trajectory that we saw in the third quarter and the changes that we're making in that business to position it for success in the future.
So progress more work to do but are confident in the plan that we have in place will get us to where we need to be in that business.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Glazerman with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Gail.
Well can you just offer some broader perspective on the Softwood Lumber Agreement? I guess we obviously haven't seen much impact in October but just how you see it playing out I guess over the next year while the standstill is in place? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So as we all know the Softwood Lumber Agreement expired on October 12.
Just in terms of what's happening on that there are ongoing discussions between participants on both sides of the border regarding renewing the agreement.
As well as you all know this is ultimately a government-to-government negotiation and election season has hampered the ability to have those discussions.
But we are looking forward to both governments having an opportunity to engage and it's my take our take that there is a possibility of reaching an agreement prior to the one year standstill playing out.
Okay.
And in terms of flows do you think recent activity is a pretty good indicator that that probably won't have a major impact in terms of flows in the market? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah.
I think that's exactly right.
I think what's happened over the past two weeks or three weeks was in line with what we anticipated but you never know but I do think that does show that there wasn't a significant impact in terms of flows when that agreement expired.
All right.
And just in terms of the current market you talked about customers having pretty low inventories and reporting the recent rally.
Do you have any view has buying activity over the last couple of weeks been enough or do you think inventories are still light? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
What we think is inventories continue to be lean especially in lumber and OSB.
So yes there has been increased buying activity as you alluded to and we stated but it's our stance that inventories continue to be on the lean side.
All right.
And you guys have a lot of  I mean Patty alluded to some smaller stuff going on on the capital side.
But you guys do have a few larger capital projects going on at at least a couple of your sawmills.
I was just wondering can you give some  just kind of walk through what you're doing and actually there is $190 million going on at one project.
Can you just walk through some of your bigger projects whether they're fourth quarter 2016 event? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Fourth quarter 2016 I mean...
Yeah.
I am just saying just walk through some of the bigger projects that you have going on...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
And what are the OpEx program? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah.
You're exactly right.
We are as we have been talking about for a period of time now spending capital specifically in our lumber operation to support our OpEx initiatives and to drive down our overall cost structure.
So that's happening at a number of mills each of our mills has a specific roadmap that's what's needed to get them to be in lowest cost quartile and we have specific projects going on.
One of the projects to give you can example is our Dierks sawmill.
Our Dierks sawmill has been a very good sawmill for us for a long time.
It's located in a fantastic wood basket.
It's close to very good end market but is a very old mill with an odd configuration.
We are basically rebuilding that mill.
We are rebuilding that mill on site.
As we looked at all the different opportunities to make that mill more cost efficient that was the one that made the most sense.
But to your question Gail every project that we're doing the whole focus is to drive down our overall cost structures and that we will have low cost sawmill operation and we'll be able to deliver on our OpEx initiatives.
As we said we're going to spend roughly total company-wide $500 million in capital that's inclusive of what we're spending in lumber and would anticipate the capital spend as Patty said on the last call will be in that range for next year as well as we continue on these projects.
Yeah.
Gail the only other thing that I would add is as you look at the fourth quarter spend it will be our highest spend for the year and as Doyle mentioned the biggest piece of that will be in the lumber business in addition to the things that he talked about there are projects that many of the mills really focused on lowering their cost structure.
One piece for example is in our CDKs that we're putting in the continuous drive kilns at a couple of locations both to address boiler MACT as well as bringing down drying cost which is a significant cost.
We've got some edger projects those types of things that really will improve recovery but they really are focused on lowering the overall cost structure.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Doyle.
Good morning Patty.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Mark.
Doyle you've really made some impressive progress in all these Wood Products businesses I wondered just if you looked at the engineered wood business that's had particularly nice gains will there be kind of two or three key issues you'd point to that have driven that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Mark thank you for your commentary and our employees have done a nice job of making improvements and more work to do.
In terms of EWP specifically it's really boils down to three things.
One is reducing manufacturing cost and specifically controllable manufacturing costs and that's something we're focused on every day.
We've also driven down our overall SG&amp;A cost in EWP business.
And then finally we're really focused on growing not only just sales but growing profitable sales.
So those are the three key levers that we've been focused on in EWP and have been encouraged about the progress that we've made there and we're focused on continuing to improve that operation going forward.
Okay.
And over in the OSB business are there any debottlenecking opportunities there similar to sort of some of the capital that you're putting in the lumber to improve the lumber operations? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Mark I would say in OSB the projects that we're doing some of it involves debottlenecking but more than that it's just figuring out a way to continue to improve reliability and drive down cost.
As we've talked about we've got a couple of mills that are world-class and we've got opportunities to improve some of our OSB mills to those same type of levels in terms of reliability and cost structure and that's what our capital expenditures are focused on.
Okay.
Fine.
Last question I had Doyle back in September we had one of your peers announce kind of an interesting transaction with a group of institutional timber investors.
Can you just talk about sort of the applicability or non-applicability of that kind of structure at Weyerhaeuser and maybe tie that in with how you're thinking about sort of growth in your Timberlands business over the next few years? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
So we thought that it will increase transaction that you're referring to was a very creative transaction and especially did a nice job of highlighting the underlying value of high quality Southern Timberlands.
If we were at some point to conclude this type of transaction in the best interest of our shareholders it's something we would consider.
In terms of growth overall markets we said we are interested in growing our company.
Primary opportunity we think will probably be in Timberlands but we'll continue to be very disciplined in looking at acquisitions opportunities as we move forward.
Okay.
Good enough.
Good luck in the fourth quarter.
Doyle good luck next year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks everyone.
Good morning.
I appreciate the details and congratulations again on all the progress on the costs and OE.
Maybe piggybacking off the last two questions from Mark and Gail  Doyle I think what you'd have left in terms of projects and OE benefit s we head into 2016 is something north of $100 million.
I know you'll probably want to talk a little bit about this in December at your Analyst Day but is there a way to at least catch us upon maybe the opportunity for more OE benefit and is there a way to talk to what you achieved in OE in the third quarter across the segments? If you had it I'd missed it in the deck or in your comments.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So George to your point we will be updating exactly our progress in 2015 later this year and giving more specific guidance on the opportunities that are still in front of us but to your point we have made good progress.
What I'm most encouraged about is this is now becoming bottom up driven in our organization as people are really understanding what we're doing in OpEx and finding additional opportunities.
So we will be giving further update on that going forward.
In terms of quarter-to-quarter clearly if you looked at price and volume and what that would result in terms of earnings that's one number in our earnings and each of the businesses are higher than that.
That delta is primarily due to OpEx.
Looking at it I'll just give you an example if you look at this morning I actually looked at some numbers and I looked year-to-date 2015 versus year-to-date 2014 because I think it's hard and things move around a lot on a quarterly basis but just looking at Timberland for example year-to-date 2014 our earnings in 2014 were $470 million.
You look at lower price lower volume that would have  you would have thought just backing in those two things our earnings would have been $370 million year-to-date 2015 and in fact they're $415 million.
So that delta not all of its OpEx but a big portion of that is OpEx.
Similar type numbers for lumber OSB ELP.
So that's the way we think about it just taking out the thing the volume the price components of it and that's how we know it's showing up in the bottom-line.
So could you remind us as you look out and do the buckets for OE change the deeper we go into this decade or will it be pretty continuous or pretty equal contribution across the various categories for the various businesses? And that's a broad question but if you give us a bit of a feel there.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I wouldn't say changes substantially George.
We will identify broader opportunities as we move forward.
As I said the encouraging part about this is it's becoming part of our culture it is being bottom up-driven.
So things that frankly I would have never thought of as opportunities our employees are bringing up as opportunities to continue to drive down our cost structure improve our profitability.
So again we'll get more clarity on that as we move forward.
But it really does boil down as I mentioned earlier to the basic blocking and tackling of running these businesses but we are encouraged by the opportunities that we continue to unearth to drive our OpEx initiatives.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning Doyle and Patty.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Chip.
Morning Chip.
Yeah.
First question we haven't talked about Cellulose today and I was just wondering what you're seeing in that marketplace in terms of there's a very small player that's kind of working hard to fill up their mills because things haven't turned out the way they planned.
And then you've got obviously two competitors who are involved in conversion projects next year.
And could you just give me a feel for how that may or may not impact you in terms of your contracts and what you see for the marketplace? You might imagine Chip we're right in the middle of that process.
So let me just give you a little bit of color.
I would say that we are very pleased with the demand that we're seeing for our products from our customers.
We've got as you know very long customer relationships.
So on the volume side feeling good about  it's still just the fourth quarter we're not into 2016 until next year and we'll give you more color as we get a little closer.
Having said that I do expect that there will continue to be some price pressure as we  moving forward into 2016 as you see supply and demand.
But I would say at this point we are very pleased with where we are on that front but more to come.
And regardless of the supply side would you still characterize the market globally as still a low to mid maybe even a mid single-digit growth are you seeing that kind of growth rate? And I know it's very early days but what do you think this change in policy in China can mean for demand on going from one child to two children? Well more babies mean more diapers which means more fluff pulp.
So hard to factor that into the cash flow stream but I know what the direction would be.
So I think from that perspective we feel good about that piece but I don't know how to quite model that at this point.
Okay.
And then just on a separate note I noticed the  and this would be on I guess page eight of the financial package but the other unallocated expense which isn't tied to FX or LIFO was a pretty high number $23 million.
And maybe I missed it but what was that? And I know it jumps around but what should we expect that to do from third quarter to fourth quarter? Sure.
We did true up some of our environmental reserves which is probably the biggest piece of that it's not all of that by any matter of means we have a number of things that you saw in the second quarter.
The number was I think about $13 million went to $23 million.
The biggest difference really was for a true-up of some environmental reserves that are old reserves and it's just a function of  this is kind of the time that we go through that process.
There are probably some other small reserve true-ups but that's the biggest number.
Going forward into the fourth quarter I wouldn't expect that that number would be as large as you see it.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Chercover with D.A.
Davidson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I had a couple of questions on EWP first of all.
Have you seen any significant pressure from the decline in solid wood because it seems like your prices were holding in pretty well? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Steve.
And good morning Steve.
As you would expect we have seen a little bit of pricing pressure as the saw log prices have come off.
We anticipate as we mentioned earlier as saw log prices go up some of that pressure will abate.
So to answer your question I would say yes we've seen a little bit of pressure nothing significant and not something we're concerned about in the long term.
Okay.
And do any of the Trus Joist facilities have the ability to participate in this cross-laminated timber market that seems to be emerging? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We are really encouraged by the cross-laminated timber emerging market.
And more and more buildings as we all know are using wood.
And yes we are positioned to participate in that as we move forward and there are some big initiatives as you know to continue to encourage those efforts going forward.
Yeah I think it's a great opportunity.
And then I have one question on Cellulose.
A couple of years ago when viscose was really really strong you introduced your Pearl product that I believe was marketed as an extender but I don't think you've spoken about it recently.
So I was just wondering is it growing is it lucrative and are prices moving one way or another? Yeah Steve it's Patty.
It is a smaller part of the overall portfolio but we are producing the Pearl product primarily in our Port Wentworth facility and that does help the overall supply that comes into the fluff market.
So it is still a meaningful part for Port Wentworth still a small part as it relates to the overall pulp manufacturing and supply.
But your expertise in any future growth would be more in fluff than in the extenders is that correct? Well the biggest impact for sure would be in fluff just based upon the size of both that market and our capacity but I wouldn't discount the importance of the Pearl product especially as a result as I said to both the price as well as additional capacity for Port Wentworth.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Hey everyone.
This is Scott Lehmann (47:01) in for Mark Connelly.
Good morning.
Just two quick questions.
The first one is if you guys see these FX conditions persist for the next year how would you expect that that would affect the mix of wood that you guys are shipping? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let's talk just a minute about what we're seeing in the export market.
As we mentioned we are very encouraged by what we're seeing in Japan.
Housing continues to improve there.
And as a result we expect improved shipments into Japan in the fourth quarter and would expect that trend to continue next year.
In terms of Chinese markets as we referred to earlier inventories are returning trending back toward normalized levels.
And we think as a result prices are stabilizing and getting inventories back toward more normalized levels by the end of this year we think positions China to be a improving market as we move into next year 2016.
Okay.
And then just the second and last question.
It looks like your price realizations for Engineered Wood Products were both up in the quarter.
Do you think that those markets are tight enough to allow you to pass along higher OSB prices if OSB prices do continue to move higher over the next six months? We'll have to see how that all figures out.
As we said for the fourth quarter which is really on a pricing guidance what we give think that realization will be basically flat into the third quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning Doyle and Patty.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Alex.
A couple of ones for you.
So you and others or U.S.
based pulp producers have talked about the potential impact of a strong dollar on pulp pricing assuming the dollar does stay strong.
How do you sort of handicap the potential impact to margins in pulp from that? Well I think as Doyle talked about in his comments on the FX a strong dollar is not a positive business.
But I think as we look at the euro right now if you look year-over-year it has weakened considerably compared to the U.S.
dollar.
So I wouldn't necessarily see that it will be significantly weaker from where it is today.
Okay.
Thanks a lot Patty.
And then just thinking about the manufacturing portfolio.
So a few years back we were talking about engineered wood distribution is businesses that you would potentially exit unless there was material improvement in the profitability which we've absolutely seen.
So is there any interest in growing those segments through M&amp;A now that we have seen a very nice improvement in the profitability there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you for your comment regarding the improved profitability and as I mentioned earlier a lot of good work from our employees.
With that said in both of those businesses we still got more work to do.
In terms of growth generally we said we would like to grow our company.
We'll be very disciplined about how we do that.
We think our largest opportunities will be in Timberlands.
But if we can find bolt-on type acquisitions and our other businesses that makes sense and drive value for shareholders that's something we would consider.
But our primary focus especially in the two businesses that you just highlighted continue to improve our existing operations.
Thanks Doyle.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of Collin Mings with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning Doyle.
Good morning Patty.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Collin.
Good morning Collin.
Inc.</span></strong> Just first on the capital allocation front.
Going back to  when you announced your $700 million buyback I think you guys made it pretty clear that you fully intend to utilize that in context of the TRI Pointe deal.
How should we be thinking about really this latest share repurchase announcement? Just given where your cash balance is now should we view that as you're going to fully execute that or is it just kind of a tool you want at your disposal? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think when we announced the share repurchase our intent when we announced it is to fully execute it.
So we'll continue to update everybody on exactly where we are on a quarter-to-quarter basis but our intention would be to execute the share repurchase over time.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Yeah no it just looked like you had  there was a little bit of a pause if you completed the full $90 million in the third quarter and there wasn't really anything incremental for the remainder of the quarter.
So that was kind of the  where the question was coming from...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah there was nothing to be read into that Collin.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just I'm curious if you can talk a little bit more about  there have been a few lumber production curtailments announced in the U.S.
South recently and obviously in response to where lumber pricing was in the third quarter.
And just maybe what have you seen in terms of your Timberlands business as it relates to that? Have you had to get back at pricing at all have you lost a little bit of volume to a couple mills just maybe update us in context of some of the announcements in the third quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
In terms of our Southern Timberlands I would say are  whether all these  are these one off.
Our demand has been continued to be fairly consistent and pricing in the third quarter was up slightly versus the second quarter.
And for 2015 versus 2014 our best guess is prices will be up somewhere in the 2% to 3% range as we had indicated earlier this year.
So yeah was there some impact from those announcements? Yes.
But it had any significant impact on our Timberlands either volume or pricing? No.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just bigger picture I know you've mentioned a couple of times on this call again Doyle just the focus on looking at growing potentially that Timberland platform maybe more opportunities in the U.S.
South.
But can you just talk about given that we've now seen two of the larger deals that were out there this year either cleared or are in the process of clearing the market just what you're even seeing in terms of opportunities right now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> There's not a lot out there right now Collin.
I would tell you especially for higher quality Timberlands when something does come become available there's a lot of interest a lot of competition and still a lot of money out there interested in investing in this asset class.
But in terms of specific opportunities other than the two that you just mentioned not seeing a lot of activity in terms of availability.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just one last one and then just kind of piggybacking off of couple of the other questions.
Just  again congratulations on all the progress particularly on the Engineered Wood Products business.
Should we think about just given that there still sounds like some other opportunities you want to explore there on cost savings over time.
Do you think about this as now being kind of a minimum of $140 million to $150 million a year in terms of EBITDA business? I mean just maybe speak to the sustainability of the improvement that we've seen here particularly over the last couple of quarters? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We do think the improvements that we've seen are sustainable.
I do believe that we have as I alluded to earlier additional opportunities to improve that business going forward.
So to your point very encouraged about the progress very encouraged about the work of our employees in that business.
And there is no reason to the things that we've done aren't sustainable and that there aren't additional opportunities to improve that business going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Collin.
Thank you.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Doyle for any closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Let me just close by saying thanks everybody for joining in this morning.
And more importantly thank you for your interest in Weyerhaeuser.
And everybody have a good day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weyerhaeuser Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Denise Merle Vice President of Human Resources and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Brent.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Weyerhaeuser's fourth quarter 2015 earnings.
On the call with me this morning are Doyle Simons CEO; Patty Bedient CFO; and Beth Baum Director of Investor Relations.
This call is being webcast at www.weyerhaeuser.com.
Our earnings release and presentation materials can also be found on our website.
Please review the warning statements in our press release and on the presentation slides concerning the risks associated with forward-looking statements as forward-looking statements will be made during the conference call.
We will discuss non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of GAAP can be found in the earnings material on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Doyle Simons.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Denise and welcome everyone.
For the past two years we've been relentlessly focused on making Weyerhaeuser a truly great company by pulling three key levers to drive value for shareholders: portfolio performance and capital allocation.
In 2015 we've made significant progress in each of these areas.
We announced two transformational portfolio changes a merger with Plum Creek that will create the world's premier timberland and forest products company and the exploration of strategic alternatives for our Cellulose Fibers business.
We maintained a relentless focus on improving our relative performance and delivered on our second set of annual operational excellence targets.
And importantly we delivered on our commitment to return cash to shareholders.
We increased our dividend by 7% and we repurchased nearly $520 million of common shares in 2015.
Despite ongoing headwinds related to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar and global macroeconomic uncertainty we remain focused on what we could control.
And for the fourth quarter our business has once again delivered solid operating results.
Weyerhaeuser reported fourth quarter net earnings of $59 million or $0.11 per diluted share on net sales of $1.7 billion.
Excluding special items we earned $121 million or $0.24 per share.
Our primary special item for the fourth quarter was a non-cash asset impairment in our newsprint equity affiliate.
Additional items included costs for the Plum Creek merger and the closure of several distribution centers and a tax benefit from the expiration of our built-in gains period.
I will begin the discussion of our fourth quarter business results with some brief comments about the housing market.
The housing market maintained positive momentum in the fourth quarter as favorable weather conditions enabled building activity to continue through December in many areas of the country.
Single-family housing starts improved in the quarter and ended the year up 10% compared with 2014.
Total U.S.
housing starts ended 2015 at just over 1.1 million an improvement of 11% compared with last year.
For 2016 we expect steady moderate growth in the U.S.
housing market.
We are planning for just over 1.2 million housing starts in an increasing single-family share.
With improving job growth and historically low interest rate U.S.
economic fundamentals support a continuing recovery.
Despite some headwinds from labor constraint and falling oil prices builder sentiment remains extremely strong.
Most of our customers tell us they are planning for 2016 growth rate in the low-double digits.
Let me now turn to our business segment results starting with Timberlands charts 3 to 5.
Timberlands contributed $134 million to fourth quarter earnings an improvement of $8 million compared with the third quarter.
In the West fee harvest volumes rose seasonally as we exited the third quarter fire season and average log realizations increased due to a greater percentage of export sales.
Each of our export markets improved during the quarter.
Log sales volumes to Japan increased and prices rose modestly as a solid Japanese housing market continues to drive demand.
So the full-year 2015 Japanese win housing starts grew by 3%.
In China log inventories at the ports declined throughout the fourth quarter as many suppliers curtailed shipments in response to weak third quarter pricing.
Although overall Chinese market demand remained relatively flat compared with the third quarter average realizations for our China export logs increased and sales volumes rose as we flexed volume to take advantage of opportunities created by the tighter Chinese inventory situation.
In Western domestic markets log supply and demand remained balanced during the quarter.
Realizations for our Western domestic logs declined slightly to a greater mix of hemlock and other whitewood.
The flooding experienced in some regions of Washington and in Oregon during December had no significant effect on our operations or infrastructure.
In the South heavy rainfall did affect harvest operations in select wood baskets but fee harvest declined only 3% compared with third quarter as our Southern Timberlands teams did an outstanding job of flexing harvest settings in response to weather conditions.
Although overall market conditions were stable realizations for our Southern logs declined slightly due to a shift in geographic mix.
Silviculture and forestry expenses declined due to cost control initiatives and weather-related constraints.
Fourth quarter included earnings of $19 million from disposition of non-strategic timberlands an increase of $6 million compared with the third quarter.
Wood Products chart six and seven.
Wood Products contributed $48 million to fourth quarter earnings before special items compared with $85 million in the third quarter.
Special items for the fourth quarter included a pre-tax charge of $8 million for the closure of four distribution centers as we continue to improve the cost structure of that business.
Adjusted EBITDA before special items for the Wood Products segment declined to $75 million in the fourth quarter as seasonally lower sales volumes and lower operating rates more than offset improved realizations for oriented strand board.
In lumber EBITDA was $22 million lower compared with the third quarter.
Average realizations declined 3% and sales volumes fell 9%.
Operating rates declined and unit manufacturing cost rose due to increased downtime primarily for installation of capital projects that will continue to reduce cost within our Southern lumber system.
In OSB EBITDA improved by $13 million primarily due to a 14% increase in average sales realizations.
This improvement was partially offset by a 7% reduction in sales volumes and higher unit manufacturing costs due to planned maintenance downtime.
Engineered Wood Products reported fourth quarter EBITDA of $14 million compared with $36 million in the third quarter.
Operating rates declined due to downtime for major maintenance capital projects and seasonal holiday shutdowns.
Sales volumes declined seasonally and average realizations were lower due to mix.
EBITDA for the distribution business declined compared with third quarter due to seasonally lower sales volumes.
Cellulose Fibers charts eight and nine.
Cellulose Fibers contributed $64 million to fourth quarter earnings before special items compared with $79 million in the third quarter.
Fourth quarter results included a non-cash pre-tax charge of $84 million for the asset impairment in our newsprint equity affiliate.
Pulp prices remained under pressure during the fourth quarter due to continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
Average pulp realizations declined compared with the third quarter and maintenance expense increased due to additional scheduled maintenance outage dates.
Fourth quarter included eight days of scheduled maintenance outages compared with four days in the third quarter.
These factors were partially offset by improved sales volumes and strong operating performance.
Pulp production rose compared with the third quarter despite the increase in scheduled maintenance outage days and several of our mills set operating records.
For example our Columbus Mississippi mill operated at nearly 100% reliability in the quarter.
I will now turn it over to Patty to discuss our first quarter outlook and then I'll follow up with some specific comments on operational excellence.
Thanks Doyle and good morning everyone.
The outlook for the first quarter is summarized on chart 12.
Now this outlook does not incorporate the merger with Plum Creek.
We'll include Plum Creek results after the transaction closes.
I'll begin my comments with Timberlands.
In the West export demand from Japan is expected to remain strong and we anticipate a slight improvement in pricing.
The strength of the U.S.
dollar continues to dampen significant price increases.
Sales volumes to Japan are expected to increase more than 5% in the quarter.
Our volumes and realizations for log sales to China are anticipated to increase modestly.
We anticipate a slight increase in Western domestic sales realizations as lumber prices are expected to improve later in the quarter.
Fee harvest in the West is expected to be comparable to the fourth quarter.
In the South sales realizations are expected to decrease slightly due to mix.
Sales volumes will be lower as wet weather contributes to the typical seasonal decline in fee harvest.
Earnings from non-strategic land sales are anticipated to be roughly $10 million lower than the fourth quarter.
Overall we expect earnings in our Timberlands segment to be comparable to the fourth quarter.
In Wood Products lumber average sales realizations are anticipated to increase in the first quarter compared to the fourth although prices have not improved thus far.
Realizations for our other product lines as well as overall sales volumes are expected to be roughly comparable to last quarter.
We expect less downtime from planned maintenance and capital projects compared to the fourth quarter.
And as a result average unit manufacturing cost should decrease.
Channel inventories remain low with customers generally purchasing for immediate needs.
As we enter the spring building season we do expect to see business improve.
We anticipate that overall earnings on our Wood Products segment will be higher in the first quarter compared to the fourth and slightly higher than the first quarter of 2015.
In Cellulose Fibers global softwood pulp inventories as of the end of the fourth quarter were at 29 days down slightly from the 30 days at the end of the third quarter.
This is at the high end of balanced inventory levels.
We expect that average sales realizations and volumes for our pulp products will weaken during the first quarter due to continued currency headwinds and the normal effect of the Chinese New Year.
Our liquid packaging operation will begin its planned maintenance outage this quarter and as a result we expect maintenance expense for this segment will increase significantly compared to the fourth quarter which had fewer overall maintenance days.
We anticipate that earnings in our Cellulose Fibers segment will be significantly lower than the fourth quarter of 2015 and roughly comparable to the first quarter of last year.
Now I'll wrap up with some overall financial comments and I'll refer to chart 11 for these discussions.
Cash from operations totaled $339 million in the fourth quarter an increase of $57 million from the third quarter.
Capital expenditures for the fourth quarter were $174 million bringing our total expenditures for the full year to $483 million well within our earlier guidance of $500 million.
Looking ahead to 2016 we expect total expenditures for the full year to be down slightly from 2015 subject to the outcome of the strategic review for Cellulose Fibers and the transaction with Plum Creek.
At the end of the quarter we had cash of just over $1 billion and we do not have any scheduled debt maturities in 2016.
Now I'd like to update you on the status of our retirement benefit plans.
The year-end 2015 funded status of our defined benefit pension plans and post-employment retirement plans improved by approximately $400 million compared to year-end 2014.
This improvement was primarily the result of the increase in discount rates.
We did not make any cash contributions to the U.S.
qualified pension plan in 2015 and we don't anticipate any cash contributions for that plan this year.
Cash paid for all other pension and other post-employment retirement plans in 2015 was approximately $80 million.
We expect spending in 2016 to be approximately $60 million.
Chart 14 in the appendix details the pension expense by business for 2015.
Total expense in 2015 was approximately $42 million and in 2016 we expect the total amount will be income of approximately $5 million.
So with that I'll turn the call back to Doyle.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Patty.
I'd now like to switch gears and provide an update on our operational excellence efforts.
Throughout the year each of our businesses remained relentlessly focused on achieving their respective operational excellence targets.
Achieving these targets is not easy.
They're designed to stretch a business to deliver a step change and relative performance and that's exactly what is happening through a lot of really good work by our employees.
Chart 13 highlights our OpEx accomplishments for 2015 and our annual target for 2016.
The Timberlands business delivered $39 million of operational excellence improvement in 2015 exceeding its target of $20 million to $30 million.
These results were primarily driven by cost efficiency in three key areas.
First harvest and haul cost.
We're continuing the implementation of centralized dispatch systems to improve the efficiency of logging and trucking contractors and replacing costly cable logging with steep slope technologies.
Second spending on forest roads.
We're adjusting the volume of rock relay during road construction and the level of road maintenance to match expected vehicle travel patterns and local weather conditions.
Finally silvicultural cost.
Data we have collected on tree stand growth patterns enable us to custom-tailors silviculture prescriptions to apply pruning and hardwood control only to acres where those activities generate an optimal financial return.
With total OpEx improvements of $64 million since 2013 the Timberlands business has achieved the $50 million to $70 million improvement goal we established two years ago.
However we are not done.
For 2016 we are targeting an additional $20 million to $30 million of OpEx improvements from our existing Timberlands holdings.
This does not include the benefit we will get from applying our OpEx efforts to over 6 million acres of Plum Creek lands.
The Lumber business achieved $21 million of improvements in 2015 meeting its target of $20 million to $25 million.
Primary drivers include improvements in reliability and process efficiency and rigorous cost management as we continue to drive down our cost net of logs.
Each mill is focused on maintaining consistent throughput and improving uptime by resolving process and equipment issues that create bottlenecks or stop production.
Capital expenditures for the Lumber business increased in 2015 as we invested in low-risk high-return projects to further improve the cost structure of our mills.
These projects include auto graders and continuous dry kilns.
We will capture the full benefits from several of these investments in 2016.
With cumulative improvements of over $40 million since 2013 the Lumber business is nearing halfway on its journey to $100 million of controllable manufacturing cost reductions.
For 2016 the business is targeting OpEx improvement of $15 million to $20 million.
Oriented strand board delivered $24 million of OpEx improvement in 2015 exceeding its target of $10 million to $15 million.
Results were driven by improving reliability as our mills focused on eliminating sources of downtime and recovering efficiently from outage events; lowering wax and resin costs as we optimize recipes for multiple products; and increasing our mix of higher-margin products such as flooring.
With cumulative improvements of $34 million the OSB business is more than halfway to its $60 million goal.
The business is targeting another $15 million to $20 million of OpEx improvements in 2016.
For Engineered Wood Products and Distribution we set specific bottom-line EBITDA improvement target for 2015 as those businesses remain focused on turnaround performance.
Engineered Wood Products improved full-year EBITDA by $35 million compared with 2014 significantly exceeding its $15 million to $20 million target.
Each mill maintained a rigorous focus on reducing unit manufacturing cost for all products.
For example maintenance team shared best practices across the mill system increasing reliability and reducing cost.
Engineered Wood Products has made a substantial improvement since 2013.
Over the past two years this business has increased annual EBITDA by almost $70 million proving that it has the ability to perform.
Our focus now is continuing to improve relative performance versus the competition.
The 2016 goal for this business will not be a bottom line EBITDA target but an OpEx improvement target of $10 million to $15 million.
Distribution improved full-year EBITDA by $8 million in 2015.
The business fell short of its $20 million to $30 million improvement target as it was unable to overcome between effect of severe winter weather early in the year and lower than expected demand in the first half of 2015.
2015 OpEx improvements were largely attributable to improved product margins and reductions in head count warehouse and delivery expenses.
Improvements made to the Distribution cost structure during 2015 have created a stronger foundation for better operating performance next year.
In 2016 the distribution business is targeting bottom line EBITDA improvement of $15 million to $20 million.
Cellulose Fibers.
Cellulose Fibers delivered operational excellence improvements of $47 million significantly exceeding its $30 million to $35 million target.
Improvements were primarily attributable to lower energy costs driven by our new turbine generator at our Flint River mill and a boiler conversion at Columbus and reduced usage of key chemicals as several mills-adjusted processes are tied to their digesters and bleach plants.
During 2016 Cellulose Fibers is targeting improvements of $40 million to $50 million.
With OpEx improvements of $75 million to-date this would enable the business to exceed the $100 million goal established in 2013.
I'll also mention the reduction in our SG&amp;A.
Part of our commitment to operational excellence is having the right cost structure across our company.
Two years ago we committed to reduce SG&amp;A about $75 million and achieve that run rate by the end of 2014.
Last year we told you we had delivered on that commitment and you can see our performance in this year's results.
Compared with 2013 we have reduced our SG&amp;A by over $100 million.
Success in achieving our OpEx target was a critical component of Weyerhaeuser's 2015 financial performance enabling us to offset pricing headwinds in many of our markets.
In Timberlands weaker year-over-year pricing for Western logs created a headwind of over $100 million.
By exceeding its operational excellence target the Timberlands business was able to overcome nearly half of that deficit.
Lower year-over-year realizations of 11% for lumber and 9% for OSB created a headwind of over $250 million for Wood Products earnings.
However the segment captured nearly $100 million of operational excellence improvement significantly mitigating the effect of these lower prices and earnings for Wood Products declined less than $70 million on a year-over-year basis.
Cellulose Fibers made the headwind of over $100 million from declining pulp prices higher fiber cost and the effects of the West Coast port slowdown.
The business offset nearly half of this amount through its OpEx efforts.
Looking forward to 2016 our relentless focus on operational excellence remains a key component of our commitment to improve our relative performance and drive value for shareholders.
I will close this morning with some brief comments on our merger with Plum Creek and the strategic review of our Cellulose Fibers business.
The joint proxy and registration statement associated with our announced merger with Plum Creek was declared effective by the SEC on December 28.
Both ISS and Glass Lewis have recommended that shareholders vote in favor of the proposals.
The shareholder vote will be held on February 12 and we anticipate closing the merger in the first quarter.
Our joint integration team is making excellent progress as we define staffing needs establish plan for cost synergy and position the merged company for a smooth and successful day one.
The review of Cellulose Fibers is proceeding well and we look forward to sharing more information with you when that review is complete.
As we enter 2016 I'm excited about the opportunities in front of us.
Although the first few weeks of the year have been characterized by market turbulence and global macroeconomic concerns I am encouraged by the positive trend in U.S.
housing and the optimistic tone we are hearing from our customers.
Our portfolio changes and operational improvements are positioning Weyerhaeuser to drive long-term value for shareholders.
We will remain relentlessly focused on operational excellence and disciplined capital allocation and I look forward to sharing our continued progress with you.
And now I'd like to open up the phone for questions.
Thank you sir.
Your first question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Anthony.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> In Cellulose Fibers your average prices were down I think around 10% year-over-year which is maybe a little bit sharper than the list price decline.
Can you remind us was there any mix issues there or kind of what was driving the price decline? It seemed a little bit sharper than what we might have expected? And then just related to Cellulose Fibers you're targeting an acceleration of OpEx improvements in 2016 and I'm just wondering if you could give a little color on what's driving that kind of year-over-year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me start.
I'll address your second question with OpEx and then I'll ask Patty to address your first question.
And what I would tell you on OpEx is we're gaining a lot of traction across our businesses and specifically in Cellulose Fibers.
What we found there through Cathy Slater's leadership is an abundance of ideas that are percolating up from a bottoms-up approach in terms of continuing to drive down our overall cost structure.
The encouraging thing about OpEx overall Anthony that we've seen is it started off as a top-down effort.
But as we defined winning defined exactly what we mean by OpEx and people are incented to drive OpEx we are having just more and more ideas bubble up in terms of the opportunities and Cathy has a full slate of those outlined and proved in 2015 the ability to execute on those and more to come in 2016.
So it's across the board lower energy lower chemicals better reliability all the safety blocking and tackling of running a Cellulose Fibers business.
Yeah Anthony.
This is Patty.
Your question on Cellulose Fibers was it fourth quarter of 2014 to fourth quarter of 2015 in terms of...
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah.
Year-over-year.
Yeah.
It really isn't anything significant as it relates to anything out of the ordinary.
As you know we do have a different mix in terms of both our product within our fluff mill as well as our NBSK mill in Grande Prairie.
But I wouldn't say there's anything out of the ordinary or strange about the pricing itself.
It's just that the mix can change.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just shifting to Wood Products can you share your operating rates across the three businesses? And I'm sorry if I missed this but with OSB can you just repeat kind of the trajectory of pricing that you're expecting into the first quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure Anthony.
So in terms of operating rates in the fourth quarter Lumber was in the high-80s OSB was in the low-90s and ELP was in the low-70s.
In terms of pricing for OSB if you look at its current or first quarter to-date average to-date is down about $7 versus the fourth quarter in terms of the OSB pricing.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I'll turn it over.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for all the details.
Congratulations on the year.
Doyle if we can talk about operational excellence first.
So you're two years into the program you're more than achieving your goals.
I'd have to imagine that you're getting to the proverbial fruit that's maybe hanging higher on the tree.
So do you need to have a larger funnel to get to the goals in a year like 2015 relative to what would have been the case in  excuse me 2016 relative to 2015 or 2014? And then the related question ultimately running a business is a lot easier than running numbers on a spreadsheet if you're an analyst.
But what's been so difficult about getting the OE benefits to the bottom line and distribution? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Yeah thanks for the question George.
On OpEx I think you said it exactly right.
It does get more difficult as you move forward.
But as I said in response to the earlier question what I'm really encouraged about and why we're confident we're going to  be able to continue to deliver on OpEx targets is because it has become part of who we are.
It is being done much more from a bottoms-up approach George.
So whereas previously you would think that we're identified at the top and kind of driven down and now more and more of these ideas.
To your point it's a larger funnel.
More and more of our ideas are coming from our employee base which they are the ones out there doing the hard work every day.
When they understand what the opportunities are recognize that they are empowered to go do something at those and then send them (31:33) to do that it's amazing what can happen.
So you're right it is a different approach but very encouraged by the progress.
And most importantly it's becoming part of our culture and that's why we're year-after-year we believe we're going to be able to continue to drive operational excellence as we move forward.
In terms of distribution George it's been  while we have made  and I think it's important to highlight we have made an improvements there.
And if you look at it we've made $40 million plus improvements over the last two years in bottom line distribution EBITDA but we're still not where we need to be to your point.
This year I hate using weather but weather did have an impact in the first half of the year slower than the expected demand and then the fact that we had kind of eroding commodity prices throughout the year limited the ability to leverage the margin improvements.
As we said we made some significant changes to the cost structure by closing four sites to reduce the footprint the cost structure and really focus on our growth markets going forward.
And I'll tell you with those changes we are confident that we're going to be able to continue to improve our distribution business.
But still a lot of work to do there and still have work to do frankly to prove that we deserve to be in this business long term.
With good progress and again with the structural changes we made in the fourth quarter optimistic about that business going forward.
Okay.
And my last question and I'll turn it over two-part unrelated I guess that's two questions.
First of all what kind of pricing are you expecting on average for wood sequentially versus fourth quarter to hit your guidance? And then in SG&amp;A you've more than achieved your target.
Should we assume that SG&amp;A is now flat on a going-forward basis? Thanks guys.
Good luck in the quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you George.
In terms of pricing as Patty outlined we anticipate prices will in fact be higher in Lumber in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter.
However that's still in front of us.
If you look at it currently quarter-to-date prices for Lumber are down approximately $7 versus the fourth quarter average.
Encouraging prices were up $4 or $5 this week.
So we'll see where it plays out.
But normally you start to see an inflection point in Lumber prices mid to late-February as the spring  as building season kicks in.
And we would hope to see the same type of price inflection or improvement in OSB as we move through the quarter as well.
And that's what's baked into  generally baked into our guidance for the first quarter.
Yeah George.
As you think about Wood Products the primary price increase quarter-over-quarter that we have baked into our guidance is in Lumber and I would say we're looking for something low-single digits in Lumber.
And OSB and Engineered Wood combinations of those two probably the results would  in our guidance would be roughly flat from a pricing perspective.
But as Doyle has said thus far for January one month does not a quarter make but we are down from the guidance that we have baked into the quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And in terms of SG&amp;A George we're always looking to drive down our SG&amp;A costs and as we complete the merger with Plum Creek as we already identified there will be at least $100 million of hard dollar cost synergies.
Most of that will be SG&amp;A they did and then of course operational synergies on top of that.
So like I said we're never done on SG&amp;A and the focus after the closure of the merger will quickly turn to the  to hard dollar cost synergies that we outlined when we announced that merger.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Collin Mings with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning Doyle.
Good morning Patty.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Collin.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> First question.
I just wanted to follow up on George's question.
Just as it relates to closing the four distribution centers can you quantify how much of a lift and run rate as far as EBITDA within the distribution business? How much that specifically will provide a lift in 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well as we said we did close four sites.
These were markets with limited growth potential and high cost.
And we think as a result of that we've laid out our OpEx target for 2016 and we are confident with these changes Collin that we will meet these specific targets that we laid out for 2016 in terms of bottom line EBITDA improvement of $15 million to $20 million in that business.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I'll just  is there any way to think about how much of a drag maybe those facilities were in 2015 or you don't really break it out that way? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We don't really break it out that way Collin.
I'll just tell you it does significantly improve our cost structure.
It gets us focused on the markets that we need to be focused on.
And I think it's going to be a big benefit as we move in to 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Then moving to Timberlands just maybe as we enter the year here just update us on your latest thinking as it relates to the potential improvement in sawlog prices in the U.S.
South this year? What are you thinking about for 2016 and then just more broadly (37:09) continue to extend just how you're thinking about the price recovery in the South? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
So if you think about Southern log prices Collin our prices were up a couple of percent in 2015 versus 2014 and we would anticipate a similar increase in 2016 versus 2015.
From a broader picture if U.S.
housing starts continue to improve demand for lumber will rise.
And we expect the tension and rising prices across the Southern log markets we are confident that's going to continue to pay out.
And frankly the additional mills whether it be the Canadians coming down and investing in mills and increasing the productivity of those mills or Klausner adding the three mills that they're adding that's all positive from a demand standpoint for Southern sawlogs as well.
So we are  we remain confident that we're going to reach that inflection point and see Southern sawlog prices begin to rise on a more aggressive basis than the 2% that we've seen over the last couple of years.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then switching gears and recognizing there are some limitations I recognize what you can say is related to disclosure.
But I do want to touch on the financial projections in the proxies internally within Weyerhaeuser.
I was curious if you could provide any color on the kind of a drop in expected EBITDA and expected FAD reference between 2016 and 2017 on really Weyerhaeuser on a standalone basis.
Any additional color you can provide on that? No I don't think there's anything additional that we can say about that at this point.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
I'll turn it over.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hi.
Good morning Patty and Doyle.
First question is on the  thanks.
As you think about the analysis with the Cellulose division I understand since most of its legacy proctor (39:22) properties bought 25 years ago the basis is low.
And I guess the way we need  would help me to think about this obviously if you do a spin you would avoid some capital gain tax I believe.
But on the other hand if you do the spin there's a lot of cost I guess in terms of setting up a public company that you would not have to incur if you're just doing a direct sale of the assets.
And I guess can you give me some feel for the trade-off of that? I mean can you actually put a rough dollar cost of pursuing a spin versus just a sale? Yeah.
Chip this is Patty.
I think as we think about Cellulose Fibers strategic review we're looking at all of those alternatives and evaluating them.
I couldn't put any dollars on them at this point.
You are correct in that the tax basis for Cellulose Fibers is low.
And so we would have on a cash sale a tax a gain but we would have to compare that to what we would get in terms of a spin and both in terms of time as well as cost of setting up a separate company.
But as we have done with all of our other strategic reviews over the course of time we are looking at a broad range of options at this point.
Okay.
And when you look at the distribution business I know that it's really nice to see how every business has hit their targets obviously Doyle the last couple of three years except for that one.
And I didn't know if you were  just sort of give us an update on your thinking in terms of sort of how much more of time do they have before you might consider strategic review of that business.
And then maybe just more broadly is your thinking toward all the Wood Products segment all the manufacturing has that changed at all in light of the Plum Creek deal in terms of would this be an area that you  in other words do you want to be a pure Timber play and maybe it's not as strategic? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So Chip let me  since it's Super Bowl weekend let me use a football analogy on distribution.
Yeah.
But you guys aren't in it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I guess (41:45)...
Yeah.
Sorry.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> ...
rough around the air (41:45).
Don't remind us Chip.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Everybody's walking around with a frown on their face.
But in terms of distribution Chip I would tell you as I mentioned earlier we have made improvements in that business.
I think the business has earned the right to continue to be on the field at this point but has not earned a spot on the roster.
So like I said earlier still more to do encouraged by the progress.
Like I said we made some significant changes in the fourth quarter of 2015 and we're confident that that's going to help us accelerate progress in distribution going forward so more work to do.
In terms of Wood Products overall Chip as you've heard us say and me say historically we believe that this can be a very good business and create a lot of value for shareholders over a cycle assuming that you run it effectively and get the cost structure to where it needs to be where you're back at the bottom and that you're fully capitalizing on the upturn in housing that we still have in front of us.
We're encouraged by the progress we've made on the overall cost structure and our OpEx improvements and still more to come and like I said very well positioned to continue to capitalize on the improvement in housing as we move forward.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Connelly with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Two things.
The rating agencies have said that given the terms of the deal they'd probably downgrade Weyerhaeuser.
Since you've said you want to remain acquisitive would it make sense to scale back or slow down the buybacks to keep the agencies happy? And the second question is maybe a little more theoretical WestRock has said publicly it wants to get out of its land deals faster.
Would that be something that might fit with your priorities? You've talked about wanting to expand but is cleaning up those JVs something that might be attractive to you? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So let me talk about the acquisitive part and I'll turn it over to Patty to talk about the rating agency.
Mark we have said that we would like to grow the company.
We said that our primary opportunities were in Timberlands and thus the Plum Creek transaction.
I'll tell you in the near term our focus and maybe our singular focus is going to be on fully integrating Plum Creek and making sure we fully realize the synergy and the value of that transaction.
So in the near term that's going to be our primary focus and our plate's full on that.
Longer term as we integrate that and get the full benefit continuing to grow the company assuming we can find the right opportunities is something we would consider but right now our focus is on Plum Creek and the integration thereof.
And Mark as to your question about the rating agencies S&amp;P did write that based upon their understanding of what the leverage would look like after we close the transaction in order to repurchase the shares as we've talked about that the leverage will be certainly higher than where we have historically been.
And so based upon their understanding at this point they would expect that they would downgrade us from BBB to BBB minus so still investment grade.
We are focused on bringing that leverage down as we go forward.
We are still committed to the $2.5 billion of share repurchase but certainly mindful that we'll need to bring the leverage down going forward and we think we'll have good opportunities to do that both with respect to the broader portfolio of 13 million acres of timberland as well as depending upon the outcome of the strategic review of Cellulose Fibers.
Super.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Doyle.
Good morning Patty.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Mark.
The whole Weyerhaeuser team has done an impressive job over the last couple of years.
I had a few questions.
One Doyle can you just clarify for us on the review of Cellulose especially does that include things like the NORPAC joint venture and the bleached board mill at Longview? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
So first let me say thank you for those comments Mark.
And then secondly yes the strategic review of Cellulose Fibers includes all of the businesses in Cellulose Fibers.
Okay.
And then to kind of follow on on Mark's question about the rating agency I mean there are some other things that you could look at divesting like the business down in Uruguay which is still not generating a lot of cash.
Any thoughts on that Doyle? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> As we've said as part of the integration process we'll do a thorough analysis of all 13-plus million acres with 13-plus million acres and the fact Mark and I think this is an important one to highlight with the recent tax extender package reducing the build-in gains period permanently to five years we no longer have that constraint.
So 13 million acres with  plus no longer being under the built-in gains tax.
We have lots of flexibility in terms of what we could do going forward.
Okay.
Now last question I had is to kind of come back to something Collin Mings raised and that is you've got a lot of capital tied up in Southern timberland and you're going to commit a lot more capital here pretty quickly to Southern timberland.
But if we look at the cash returns on Southern Timber they've been pretty anemic for about a decade now.
What gives you the confidence that these returns are going to improve significantly over the next few years and what do you think that trajectory looks like? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Mark what gives me confidence and gives us confidence is basically supply and demand.
And as you know ultimately that works.
And if you just look at it from a housing continuing to improve and housing has improved it's been slow but steady.
So I think that's going to be what's going to happen on the demand front.
And on the supply front if housing continues to improve the supply is not going to come from the Pacific Northwest the supply is not going to come from Canada.
Yeah we see a little influx now because of exchange rates in China but ultimately they being Canada are limited because of the pine beetle situation as to what they're going to be able to provide.
So supply and demand works.
We're going to reach that inflection point.
And when we do that's when we're going to see a significant change in Southern sawlog prices.
So yeah it comes slower than any of us would have expected or hoped but if you just look at the basic supply and demand we remain confident that we will in fact see improved prices for Southern sawlog just like we have historically.
And Doyle just to follow on this we all I think buy into supply and demand.
But on the supply side it seems like for many years here because of the weakness in housing we've really been under-harvesting the growth rates down in the South.
So we've got some accumulated inventory and I just wonder how that accumulated inventory affects the rebound in pricing.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Mark that's a really good point and there's no doubt that there is some accumulated inventory as housing has improved over the last couple of years we have started to work through some of that accumulated inventory but there's still some out there.
So that's why I'll say there's still a little bit of time if housing continues to improve to work through accumulated inventory.
But once we do that you can hit that inflection point of supply and demand and that's where you start to see the significant increase in pricing.
Okay.
I'll turn it over.
Good luck in 2016 Doyle.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Mark.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
First a numbers-oriented question.
Just on the Cellulose Fibers business can you provide us with at least preliminary estimates on the maintenance expense and scheduled maintenance outage days for the  for 2016 by quarter if possible? Is that something you have handy? No we can't give it to you by quarter Mark.
I can tell you that as you think about fourth quarter to first quarter and the guidance that there's about roughly $10 million of additional maintenance expense in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then maybe just as a follow-on to that the $40 million to $50 million of OpEx improvement in Cellulose Fibers does much or any of that come from being able to effectively reduce maintenance outage expenses? So will we see it in not variable year-to-year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That is not a key driver of the OpEx improvement that we laid out Mark.
There is of course some benefit as we go into the 18-month schedule but that's not the big driver of what we saw in 2015 versus 2014 nor we'll see in 2016 versus 2015.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then maybe lastly kind of following on Mark Wilde's question a little bit.
One of the components of the bullish lumber as well as log story has been the expected reduction in supply coming from British Columbia related to the beetle et cetera.
It doesn't seem to have happened yet and lots of reasons maybe that (51:48).
Are you still of that view that we will see a reduction and any color you can provide on how that might play into the market? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes Mark.
We are absolutely confident that that's going to happen and all you have to do is spend some time in that area and see the devastation that the pine beetle has in fact caused.
You're starting to see some announcement as you know of some lumber mill closures because of that.
I think what's happened is part of that has just been distorted by the fact that there's been less demand from China.
So some of the impact from lumber that would normally would get on to China has come to the U.S.
and that has temporarily offset the pine beetle situation.
But if you just look at what the allowable cuts are if you look at just the overall fiber situation in Canada we are confident that the pine beetle scenario is going to play out.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
And we have time for one more question.
Your final question comes from the line of Paul Quinn with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks very much.
Just looking at your overall volumes in both Timber well I guess Timber Lumber and OSB.
What are you planning for 2016? I noticed 2015 Timber volumes were down but you had gains in Lumber and OSB.
Just wondering at a higher level what the plan is.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So we would say unit for 2016 in terms of sawlogs overall we would then anticipate volumes from being flat to maybe down just very slightly.
In terms of Lumber and OSB part of that of course will be dependent on markets.
But as we continue to improve our reliability we would think Lumber and OSB volumes will be up slightly in 2016 versus 2015.
Okay.
And just a follow-up just a flat to down on the log side is that related to not so robust markets or is that because you're logging at a sustainable level? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think it's more related to the fact that we're logging at sustainable levels.
As we said we have the ability in any given year to flex 5% or maybe a little more depending on markets.
So we'll see how that plays out and that will ultimately determine what the harvest levels are.
But basically we are harvesting at sustainable levels.
Great.
That's where I'll put the vote.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Doyle for any final remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you and thank you for everybody's interest today.
Before I  or in closing today I want to say some words about Patty as this will be her last earnings call on behalf of Weyerhaeuser as she will retire later this year.
Specifically I want to acknowledge her outstanding work as the CFO since 2007 and personally thank her for partnering with me over the last couple of years as we've taken significant steps to make Weyerhaeuser a truly great company.
Thank you Patty for all you've done for Weyerhaeuser.
Well Doyle let me just before you close the call interject one additional thank you to the analyst community on the call.
We are very fortunate as a company to have a whole host of very knowledgeable people and I've enjoyed the dialogue over the years.
And as I do retire from Weyerhaeuser now I feel very confident in the management team going forward really pleased with the progress that we've made on portfolio performance and capital allocation and couldn't be more pleased with my successor once we close this transaction Russell Hagan.
I think that as we go forward since I will continue to be a significant shareholder I think that we have a lot of additional capabilities and levers to pull to create ongoing value for shareholders.
So Doyle thanks to you and thanks to the whole senior management team and employees of Weyerhaeuser.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Patty and thanks everyone for joining us this morning and thank you for your interest in Weyerhaeuser.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.