Good afternoon.
My name is Molly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Cimarex First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mark Burford.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you very much Molly.
And thank you everyone for joining us today on our first quarter conference call.
We did issue our financial and operating results news release this morning a copy of which can be found on our website.
I will point you to the end of this news release which discloses our forward-looking statements disclaimer.
And we will be making forward-looking statements on today's call.
Here in Denver we have Mick Merelli Chairman and CEO; Joe Albi Executive Vice President of Operations; Paul Korus Senior Vice President and CFO; and Jim Shonsey Vice President and Controller.
Unfortunately today Tom Jorden is not available.
He's traveling today so he won't be with us covering the details of the call here in Denver.
But we'll go ahead.
We've got quite a bit of information to cover so I'll go ahead and jump into the call and turn the call over to Mick Merelli.
Thanks Mark and thank all of you all for joining us here today on the call.
To add a little bit of color to what Mark has said about Tom he had his -- he promised I guess his family he'd take them someplace on his anniversary.
So as far as I know he's headed back to Denver from someplace like Fiji or something here this weekend.
And so we'll have him back working next week.
Our net income totaled $118.2 million or $1.37 a share for the quarter.
Cash flow from operations for the quarter was $305 million.
Our daily production average 590 million cubic feet equivalent per day this quarter it was comprised of 328 million cubic feet a day of gas and 43 735 barrels per day of liquids.
So that works out 50% -- 56% gas and 44% liquids using a 6:1 conversion.
On a revenue basis 32% of the revenues were from gas while liquids accounted for 68% of the revenues.
Production was up 1% over last year and flat with the fourth quarter.
Joe's going to cover our production in more detail but I want to point out just a couple of things.
First of all you know that we had some weather issues us and many other companies.
We had weather issues in the Permian and the Mid-Continent that hurt our production this quarter.
But also influencing some of our production was an increased backlog of uncompleted wells.
Joe will be addressing this later but just what's really happened is we have about 31 wells waiting on completion.
That's a little bit bigger backlog than what we're used to seeing.
And one of the reasons for that is it's kind of a combination of 2 things.
It's a combination in a couple of our project areas both in Cana and in the Permian where we have larger project areas.
We tend to frac a well and we tweaked the frac and then we decide did it work or not and what else will we do on the next one.
Sometimes it kind of slows us down.
But what really slowed us down in addition to that was this year we tried to -- we recognized that there was a potential for some improvement by using slow flow.
The problem with slow flow is that it takes us longer to figure out whether or not the way we treat the fracs are working.
So anyway a combination of those things slowed us down and got us into a backlog.
I think they feel pretty good about what they're -- where they're at with their frac jobs now and they're going to pick up the pace next quarter.
In the Gulf Coast production adds from our drilling program are also delayed in quarter one.
We drilled some dry holes and we drilled some producers.
And our problem there is we never -- when we drilled and when we start the wells we never know which way they're going to be.
So it worked out that the main well's a dry hole so it was one of the first wells we drilled.
In addition to that we took our rig we had a mechanical problem at Jefferson Airplane so we moved our rig over and sidetracked an existing producing well and took the rig out of our drilling order.
I think Joe will be talking a little bit about the fact that we're going to add a couple of rigs and maybe go up to -- well we will go up to 3 rigs in the Gulf Coast.
In terms of our future forecast we're forecasting solid production growth on both the Permian and Mid-Continent.
And of course this will -- we still have Gulf Coast declines that we'll have to overcome.
I guess -- I'll try to be a little brief here and turn this over to Joe.
But really what we track and what we focus on so much is the drilling program and whether what kind of return we're getting on that program.
Our first quarter capital investment was $337 million.
It was funded out of our cash flow and cash on hand.
That program looks very solid to us in terms of the return and the quality of the wells that we drilled.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Joe and he can kind of take over for some of the stuff that Tom usually talks about the production stuff that he normally talks about.
Joe? Thank you Mick and again thank you all for joining us today.
As Mick mentioned with Tom out of the pocket I'll cover not only our operations update but I'll hit on this year's joint program and capital as well as I go through and integrate the 2 reports we typically give you.
Our first quarter production came in as anticipated with average reported net equivalent production of 590 million a day.
We came in just about at the midpoint of our guidance which was 582 million to 602 million.
As expected our Q1 production was impacted to the tune of 10 million to 15 million a day from our early February weather-related shut-ins as well as about 4 million a day from our late 2010 early 2011 property sales.
Despite the weather delays we saw year-over-year total company production gains with our Q1 '11 production of 590 million a day beating our Q1 '10 production of 584.5 million a day by 4.5 million a day.
When comparing Q1 '11 to Q1 '10 a combined year-over-year production gain of 46 million a day from the Permian and Mid-Continent more than offset the sharp 41 million a day drop that we forecasted and actually saw in the Gulf Coast.
Approximately 2/3 of our weather-related downtime occurred in the Permian.
And despite the downtime our Permian Q1 '11 average equivalent basis of 174 million a day was up 12% or 20 million a day from our Q1 '10 average of 154 million a day.
All the while our Q1 '11 Mid-Continent average of 266 million a day was up 11% or 26 million a day from our Q1 '10 average of 239 million a day.
As I just mentioned the combined 46 million a day year-over-year increases in the Permian and the Mid-Continent they offset the 41 million decline or 22% drop that we did anticipate and saw in the Gulf Coast which fell from 190 million a day in Q1 '10 to 149 million a day in Q1 '11.
The bottom line to our Q1 production is that despite the weather interruptions the Permian and Mid-Continent programs continue to exhibit the consistent production growth that we've seen quarter to quarter and they offset the decline that we saw in the Gulf Coast.
This has been a pretty consistent story for us now for about a year and will likely be the same story here in Q2 with our Gulf Coast area net daily equivalent production projected to drop from levels of 149 million a day in Q1 to levels of 100 to 105 million a day in Q2.
Our high cash flow and high rate of return Gulf Coast program inherently brings a variable of uncertainty in the timing of production adds and drops.
And we've seen these ups and downs in the Gulf Coast over the last few years.
But as I'll go into in more detail the real catalyst for Cimarex's long-term production growth is our multi-year inventory of projects in the Permian and Mid-Continent.
We've seen nice production gains in both of these programs and we expect it to continue.
Well let me jump into our exploration and drilling activity before ending with some additional comments on our production and our guidance.
Overall we drilled and completed 65 gross or 35 net wells during the first quarter investing $337 million.
Of total Q1 capital 50% was invested in projects located in the Mid-Continent 46% in the Permian and 4% in the Gulf Coast.
I'll briefly touch on each of the regions and I'll start here first with the Permian.
During Q1 we drilled and completed 26 gross or 19.7 net wells in the Permian and at quarter end 18 net wells were waiting on completion up from the 10 net wells that we had at year end.
While Mick touched on this a little bit earlier more so in the case in the Permian with our accelerated activity a tight market for frac equipment and the bad February weather really slowed down our completion activity here near the end of Q1.
As we stated in our last call we were hopeful to see signs of the market loosening up a bit here into Q2 and we certainly have.
We firmed up solid plans to add at least 3 additional fleets to the Permian in the May-June timeframe to catch up on our backlog with a minimum of 5 frac crews working in the area by the end of Q2.
We contemplating a sixth.
Our current frac schedule calls for us to significantly reduce our backlog of wells waiting on completion here by the end of Q3.
Our Permian E&amp;D capital totaled $154 million in Q1.
That represents about 46% of our total company Q1 capital.
For the full year we're expecting to invest $700 million to $750 million in the Permian which will represent about 50% to 55% of our total 2011 capital budget.
As I mentioned previously we continue to see solid production growth in the Permian.
Our Q1 '11 production averaged 174 million a day equivalents which on a BOE basis equates to 28 954 BOE per day so 12% increase over Q1 '10.
And the real driver of that growth has been our New Mexico second and third Bone Spring horizontal oil plays.
We continue to see great results from these programs.
During Q1 we drilled and completed 8 gross or 4 net wells with another 11 gross or 7.7 net wells waiting on completion.
By year end we expect to drill a total of 60 gross or 39 net wells in the play investing nearly $200 million.
Since we kicked off the play in mid-2009 we've drilled and completed a total of 36 wells.
And those 36 wells gave us a first quarter gross exit rate of 6 800 BOE per day which was up from 0 not quite 2 years ago.
Our absolute EURs for the wells that we drilled and completed is 570 000 BOE and that's comprised of 416 000 barrels of oil and 920 million cubic feet of gas virtually the same number we've been quoting to you all for months now.
With these reserves the 570 000 Mboe or 570 000 BOE we're seeing very attractive rates of return.
But our economics continue to be squeezed just a bit as compared to last year.
Although we've seen some overall cost ability over the last 3 months drilling and completion costs have moved up from last year primarily as a result of our increased frac costs.
Our generic second Bone Spring completed well now runs around $4.8 million to $5.2 million and that's up 20% to 30% from last year.
But even with this cost creep this play continues to be a great play for us.
And we have a deep multi-year inventory of future drilling opportunities.
Shifting gears a bit I have a few comments on our emerging Delaware Basin/Wolfcamp shale play.
As we previously mentioned this is a play which covers a very large potential area from southern Eddy County New Mexico down south into Culberson and Reeves Counties in West Texas.
As most of you know most of our activity to date has been focused right in and around the state line.
During Q1 we drilled and completed 2 gross or 2 net Wolfcamp shale wells in the area bringing our total completed I'll call play concept well count to 8 producers.
We have another 5 gross or 5 net wells which are waiting on completion and pipeline connections at quarter end.
And we're currently working on infrastructure and markets for these 5 wells and anticipate having them completed and online here by late Q2 early Q3.
One of the 2 wells that we drilled during Q1 was located in our White City area in Eddy County New Mexico and the other was a reentry further south in Reeves County Texas.
Our results continue to be encouraging but we're still in the very early stages of evaluating the play.
We currently have 3 wells drilling in the play with AFEs to drill and complete running in the $6.5 million to $7 million range.
Today we seen no additional information which would have us depart from the average play production statistics we previously provided you.
And those were an average equivalent 30-day IP of about 6 million a day composed of 50% gas 32% natural gas liquids and 18% oil.
We a great acreage position in the play.
It totals 125 000 net acres.
Not only do we see the acreage as perspective in the Wolfcamp which by itself has significant potential to Cimarex but we also have exposure to the Avalon Shale and the Cisco/Canyon shales as well.
Although our early emphasis has been on the Wolfcamp we do have wells planned in the Q2 Q3 timeframe to test both the Avalon and the Cisco/Canyon intervals.
By year end we expect to drill a total of 25 to 30 wells in the play and end the year with a 2011 drilling investment of approximately $200 million in the play.
As you all know the Permian is a hot area right now.
Competition is fierce and costs are rising.
Our plans are to continue to aggressively move forward and we'll maintain a strong focus like we always have on rate of return and continue to test our economics with sensitivities using flat price stats to hydrate our portfolios.
We have a great land position in the Permian.
The basin's an integral part of our ongoing business as you all know.
We have a solid multi-year inventory of future drilling opportunities on our existing acreage.
And you'll see us continue to add acreage when and where we can only as long as it continues to make sense.
The Permian team has done a great job of picking up activity and developing the program.
We're really excited about its momentum and what the program brings to the table.
Moving onto the Mid-Continent during Q1 we drilled and completed 37 gross or 13.2 net wells in the area.
And at quarter end we had 32 gross or 13 net wells in the process of either being completed or awaiting completion.
The majority of wells waiting on completion were in Cana.
And similar to our plans in the Permian we firmed up the addition of another fleet this month to catch up on our backlog of completions.
With 2 frac crews working Cana starting here in May our current frac schedule calls for us to significantly reduce backlog of our completions by the end of Q3.
Our Mid-Continent E&amp;D capital in the first quarter totaled $169 million or about 50% of our total company Q1 capital.
And for the full year we expect to invest $500 million to $550 million in the Mid-Continent representing approximately 40% of our anticipated total company capital spending.
As we've mentioned our first quarter 2011 Mid-Continent production averaged $266 million a day.
That's up 11% over our first quarter.
And a main driver to this growth is our Cana/Woodford Shale play which as most of you all know is in the Anadarko Basin.
In Cana we've drilled and completed 31 gross or 9.6 net wells.
And at quarter end we had 29 gross or 11.1 net wells waiting on completion.
We currently have 9 and soon to be 10 here in June operated rigs working in Cana and we're drilling one well per section.
We still anticipate being a bit over a year away from initiating our down spacing development but we wanted to continue to evaluate optimal spacing and as a result we've begun a 2-well pilot to help further evaluate spacing which we hope here to have completed in the Q2 Q3 timeframe.
Outside of that we'll continue to drill on the core and on the peripheral of the bill to continue to further develop and test the play.
Our generic Cana AFEs for the shallow and core areas have stayed somewhat flat over the last 3 months at levels of $7.5 million to $8.5 million but they are up approximately 10% to 15% from the well cost that we saw in early to mid-2010.
We're still leasing and hydrating our land position in Cana and hold a very strong land position with over 135 000 net acres 70 000 of which we believe are located directly in the core.
Cana continues to be a great play for us.
We're very proud of it and it's moving forward very nicely.
In other areas of the Mid-Continent outside of Cana we drilled 5 gross or 2.8 net wells during Q1 with 3 gross or 1.8 net wells located in Hemphill County Texas and 2 gross or 1.2 net wells located in Custer County Oklahoma.
Two of our significant Hemphill County Granite Wash successes include our George 17-5H in which we hold a 61% working interest which came on during the quarter with a 30-day IP of 8.6 million a day.
And our George 17-6H in which we also hold a 61% working interest and it came on at 8 million a day.
Of significant note Custer County was the successful drilling of our Kephart 1-4 our Hogs bar or Hogshooter test in which we hold a 91% interest.
It came on with a 30-day IP of over 1 000 BOE per day 71% of which was oil.
Moving on to the Gulf Coast during Q1 we drilled 2 gross or 1.8 net wells testing the Kirby and the Yegua/Cook Mountain series one of which was successful.
Our first 2011 test our Two Sisters #3 well in which we own 100% was successfully completed in early January.
And it came on at rates of approximately 9 million a day and 1 600 barrels of oil per day.
Our second 2011 Gulf Coast test as Mick mentioned our Manion #2 was a dry hole.
Our Gulf Coast E&amp;D Capital in Q1 totaled 13 million or about 4% of our total Q1 capital.
And for the full year we expect to invest $100 million in the Gulf Coast program or about 8% of our total company capital.
We have a variety of identified remaining 3D prospects a good mix of larger higher-risk projects and smaller lower-risk projects.
Our original 2011 Gulf Coast plan called for us to run with a one-rig program and possibly add a second rig line from time to time during the year.
But as Mick alluded to we're stepping up the pace of our Gulf Coast program by adding a second rig in the next few weeks and a third rig here in June.
To the extent the prospects that we have are non-contingent you'll see us get them drilled as soon as we can.
And as such depending on our success will either see us end the year with 3 rigs or not.
I'll cover some of the other Gulf Coast items as I go over our second quarter and full year production guidance.
When discussing second quarter full year '11 guidance I think it's important to touch on a couple of factors which have implicated our guidance.
First is our backlog of Permian and Cana wells waiting on frac.
Mick touched on 2 factors really playing a role here and I'll reiterate them.
One was our desire to test and understand various completion techniques and the other was a tight market for frac equipment.
As you may recall starting in the latter part of 2010 we purposely had a backlog of completions in Cana due simply to our desire to test and understand various completion techniques in order to optimize our completions.
Post completion production performance which is in essence time is needed to evaluate results.
Compounding that time necessary to evaluate are those instances where slow flow techniques are used to flow wells back.
Well 6 months down the road now we're feeling more confident about the completion designs we're utilizing in Cana and in the Permian oil plays and we're ready to speed things up.
To do so we firmed up the addition of at least 4 additional frac fleets to the 3 existing fleets we had working in Q1.
With additional fleets scheduled to show up in the May June timeframe our current frac schedule calls for us to make a good dent in the backlog by the end of Q3 with forecasted associated production uplift beginning in late Q2 and into Q3.
Secondly as you all are aware success in our Gulf Coast program can create significant periodic swings on our production both up and down.
As we've said before predicting the timing and success of these 50% to 60% COS high-rate wells will play a sensitive role in our guidance projections especially in the case of the single rig program where a well either hits or it doesn't.
Third the need to cut back on our existing Gulf Coast Beaumont area producers to protect them against sand flow has impacted our production as well.
In our Jefferson Airplane area despite cutting back the wells by the end of the first quarter 3 of our 4 operated wells had ceased production.
With this being a competitive reservoir we made the decision to sidetrack our Jefferson Airplane #2 well with a rig we had working in the 2011 Gulf Coast inventory.
We just recently submitted pipe on the Jefferson Airplane #2 sidetrack earlier this week which frees up the rig to get back to work on our 2011 inventory.
Our Gulf Coast program is now delayed hence us adding 2 rigs to the program: one in May and the other planned for June.
And finally in addition to the 2 rigs we plan to add in the Gulf Coast we have plans to add additional rigs in the Permian and the Mid-Continent which should bring our anticipated rig count to 30 rigs in the Q2 Q3 timeframe.
So with accelerated activity both in rigs and completions we expect continued strong production growth in the Permian and Mid-Continent during the second quarter with anticipated increases of 5% to 10% from reported levels in Q1.
With the production cutbacks and delays we've mentioned in the Gulf Coast however our Gulf Coast volumes are expected to drop 45 million to 50 million a day or 30% to 33% from Q1 to Q2 but it's a drop our Permian and Mid-Continent programs are projected to overcome and hence our flat guidance of 580 to 600 here for the second quarter.
Looking at our full year 2011 guidance we expect continued strong production growth in the Permian and the Mid-Continent during Q3 and Q4 projecting approximate year-over-year production growth of 15% to 25% in these areas.
Our current modeling predicts our 2011 Gulf Coast volumes will exhibit a year-over-year drop of $62 million a day or 35% from an average of $174 million a day in 2010 to $112 million a day here in 2011.
However our strong Permian and Mid-Continent production growth is projected to continue to more than offset that Gulf Coast decline resulting in our revised guidance of 605 to 635 million a day a range which equates to 2% to 7% production growth over our 2010 average of 596 million a day.
The bottom line to our quarter is this: Nothing's changed in the way we think or what we do.
We continue to stay focused on maximizing our return on investment through deliberate evaluation and execution.
We have high cash flow no significant debt a deep inventory of drilling projects in each one of our core areas.
We're seeing Q1 and Q2 production impacted by weather production cutbacks in the Gulf Coast and delayed production adds in our Gulf Coast program but we're teed up for production growth in the latter half of this year.
We have an accelerated plan to catch up on our backlog of completions and we've increased drilling activity in each one of our core areas.
Most importantly we have established momentum in our 2 long-term growth programs the Permian and our Mid-Continent programs the programs with deep multiyear inventories of drilling.
And over time the depth and consistent growth of these 2 programs will ultimately dominate the growth of our company.
So with that I'll turn it over to Paul.
Thank you Joe.
I just want to cover a couple of things from the release and the numbers that we've gotten some questions about one of which is our production costs for the quarter which increased $3.8 million from the fourth quarter of 2010 when they were $54.7 million to $58.5 million in the first quarter.
Not a particularly large increase about 7%.
With all the activity in the industry particularly in the Permian Basin now services are tighter costs have increased.
That's a portion of it.
It's very hard to isolate.
But more logically I think you can see the impact of just where we have more liquids particularly oil in our overall production mix.
If you think about where we were a year ago when our gas production was 390 million a day and that was 67% of our overall production.
Now our gas production is 327 million a day and it represents only 56% of our production.
So as we become [Audio Gap] we're dealing with wherever you produce oil you produce water.
Those pumps require power and fuel so those are additional costs.
We incur trucking costs for saltwater disposal as well as disposal costs.
So some of it is really just the invisible hand of the economics allocating our capital more towards oil projects versus gas projects which are inherently much lower cost.
Just anecdotally for instance if you look just at our Cana production from the Cana wells our production cost is only $0.13 in Mcfe.
Whereas if you look at and dissect our production cost in the Permian Basin which is 50% oil our production cost is $1.66 per Mcfe.
So you can see how the blending of more Permian base production is leading to the higher cost.
Having said all that our margin in the Permian Basin is by far in excess of our margin in Cana which is predominantly gas.
So the bad news is production costs are up a little bit because we have more Permian activity.
The good news is we're making more money because our operating margins are much higher in the Permian than they are anywhere else in the company.
The other thing that's gotten some attention is our tax position for the quarter where we essentially deferred 100% of our booked tax provision for the quarter.
That's new.
I think everyone's of course aware that part of the stimulus legislation that we have -- had passed is what's known as bonus depreciation which essentially allows the capital cost for equipment to be 100% depreciated in the year in which they were put in service.
So it's a large acceleration of depreciation.
So essentially our equipment costs are being traded the same way as our intangible drilling costs are this year.
So as a result of that and with a larger capital budget overall we do not anticipate at the present time that we would have a Federal tax liability for the year.
And hence we deferred 100%.
Obviously there are many moving parts in tax calculations the biggest of which is revenue.
So it's -- the prices for gas and oil as they go up and down could have an impact on that as we move forward.
Lastly I just want to add for any of our debt holders on the line I hope you noticed that we were upgraded by S&amp;P here recently to BB+.
With that operator we would be happy to begin to entertain questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Freeman.
[Raymond James &amp; Associates] Inc.</strong> The Oklahoma Legislature recently approved the cost units facing Oklahoma.
I'm curious if you have any plans in the Cana to do a 12 80 spaced long lateral well? Yes this is Joe Albi John.
In fact Mark and I were talking about that this morning and expecting this question.
We do have plans this year to test the concept in the southern part of Cana.
And it probably won't be 12 80 just due to the sections that we'll be trying in.
We don't see it as being something that we do in areas of the field that we've already developed on within a 640 with 5 000-foot laterals but it is something we're also exploring.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then moving to the Gulf Coast.
Just want to make sure that I understand what's going on.
Obviously the declines there have been well documented the past year.
But this quarter despite some of the issues you all had the mechanical issues at Jefferson and et cetera your production was actually virtually flat from the fourth quarter after going several quarters with declines.
So I'm just trying understand the reason for I guess the big acceleration and the decline from first quarter to second quarter? This again is Joe.
It's a combination of a number of things.
First off we had a one-rig line schedule working the Gulf Coast.
We had one successful well at the beginning of the year our Two Sisters #3 well.
It was by no means as big as any of the other Kirby wells that we had.
So it was not as good a well and it has a steeper potential decline.
We had our Jefferson Airplane wells that were exhibiting sand problems and not knowing if it was beyond the scope of that competitive reservoir.
There's a number of straws being yanked into that thing by 3 of those operators and we are not the first to be having oil trouble I might add.
But we've taken a kind of prudent proactive approach on our other South Texas wells just to be sure.
We're pitching back our wells as we feel they're entering a certain phase envelope in the reservoir from a fluid standpoint and you're seeing a little bit of that.
We've got -- I've got a list of them here -- 6 7 wells that we pinched back during the course of January through March that represent about 36 million a day of cutbacks.
And what in essence that is doing is it's differing that production.
So if you look at our modeling you're going to see that our Gulf Coast with the webs that we're throwing on top of it it's going to drop for about 145 million a day here in Q1 to Q2.
And then it's going to hold 100 for about the rest of the year.
And so -- so you see a little bit of a cutback and a push out if you want to look at it that way.
It's pretty simple.
You just -- you decrease the rate and you decrease the rate of decline.
And so we just -- it produces -- it can produce that over a longer period of time.
So it's going to break that decline rate.
And it's really just prudent reservoir management.
The Jefferson Airplane deal may have been a fact that you had 7 8 9 10 straws yanking on that thing so hard.
That thing lasted about 18 months and it was making over 100 million a day at one time.
Inc.</strong> Yes.
I guess I was looking at it from the opposite standpoint.
I actually was really impressed with your first quarter Gulf Coast production despite all the issues you just went over.
The production did a lot better than I thought given the declines you'd had in the prior quarters.
So I guess I was just trying to figure out why the production held up so well in the first quarter with all of those problems.
And like you said the one Two Sisters #3 you brought online it's wasn't that big of a well relatively speaking than what you all have done in the past.
So I guess I was just trying to get more color on the actual quarter why it did so well.
I was on the opposite end.
It did well from a rate standpoint don't get me wrong.
And we had the benefit of that well from early January when it came on.
So it's on most of the entire quarter.
But it's not as big a reserve well.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then the last I had I'll turn it to somebody else.
The move to go from one rig in the Gulf Coast to 3 rigs is that being driven by the prospects that you see or trying to offset some of these big decline issues that you're talking about right now? This is Jim.
The way I'd answer that question would be I think we recognize we were behind.
And the fact of the matter is we've either got projects that are either dependent or not dependent on another project.
To the extent we have non-dependent projects the sooner we get them done the better.
And it kind of smoothes out the volatility if you want to call it that in trying to project our guidance if you got 2 or 3 rig lines working.
So it's simply a matter in my mind of accelerating those projects that we know we're going to drill anyway and just get them done this year And the other thing is is that every time we drill a dry hole on the data set we have to relook.
Because we saw an anomaly a seismic anomaly that we thought would produce.
And it didn't.
So they get a sonic log out of the dry hole and then they have to see what does that mean to that data set and what does it mean to the other prospects that we have out there.
So that slows us up a little bit when we see one.
We have to look at it and see if we can explain it.
What does it mean to the other prospects? So it slowed us up a little bit.
They looked at that they've got a bunch of prospects out there as Joe pointed out that are non-contingent and so we'll get in there and try to get them drilled now.
But some of that delay is something and it depends on the reason that seismically what happened? What was the reason that the well didn't produce? And they have to take that apart and go through it.
So every time we drill a dry hole it kind of makes us look.
Inc.</strong> Well that's very helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of Gil Yang with Bank of America.
You talked about the Permian frac availability loosening up a little bit so you could lock in some more frac crews to reduce your backlog.
Can you talk about the pricing that you saw on those incremental crews? Yes this is Joe again.
We virtually are seeing about the same prices across the board.
And I think it's just a matter of more equipment being available right now.
Okay.
So more equipment but sort of flat price is what you're seeing? Flat price.
Where our frac costs are going up are when we're increasing stages or fluid or sand.
And it has really nothing to do with vendor A being more than vendor B.
All right.
Going back to the Gulf Coast to the Two Sisters wells that you put on -- the 9 million was that sort of a rate that you expected or above or below your expectations? It's where we felt comfortable producing the well given how the other wells have performed with regard to sand.
But you didn't have a targeted expectation for that rig? We targeted right around 10 or 11.
So we held it there.
And it was holding its own for a while and we've recently pitched it back as I mentioned when it was going through its base.
Another way to answer your question is that that well didn't look like a Jefferson Airplane Kirby well -- it wasn't a thick Kirby.
We weren't expecting one of those kinds of wells out of that well.
So it was pretty much like we thought we'd find.
How about the well that was the dry hole? What had you expected? Is that one of the bigger wells that you expected? We expected that we had a 40% chance of drilling a dry hole and that's what we got.
It probably would have been in the same kind of -- it wasn't.
We weren't expecting big thick sands there.
Those wells that come in for 9 to 10 million cubic feet a day and make all those of liquids and everything they're tremendously economic but they're just not quite as good as those other ones.
Okay.
And this is the last question your CapEx you say will be principally funded from cash flow.
I sort of got the impression before that you are beginning to think that you would be willing to spend I won't say a fair amount but sort of meaningfully above cash flow.
Are you beginning to rethink that maybe with the current commodity price volatility that you're seeing? Paul you want to answer that? Go ahead.
Well where our expected cash flow is right now plus the cash that we carried into the beginning of the year we still think we can fund something in that 1.4 range.
So we're okay.
I think there's one thing that I need to clarify and that is we like operating out of our cash flow and it makes the drilling program look a lot better.
And I have absolutely no reason -- if we find something we want to accelerate on if we found some sort of deal out there that we liked anything we have such low leverage that that's really not any kind of a problem to us.
And sometimes when I hear the question asked I think that some people believe that we have some sort of rule around here that we're not going to expend our cash flow.
And that's definitely not true.
So it will depend on what we can get done.
Now frankly it's booming along at about a $1.4 billion rate.
We've got the organization stretched out pretty good.
But if we find something that we really like we'll extend that cash flow if we like the returns.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Hagen.
[Lazard Capital Market] A question on the Cana.
There's been some good results out of the northwest portion of the play.
Just to refresh our memory how much acreage do you have there? And any plans to start drilling more out there? Yes Eric this is Mark.
Our acreage is -- we probably only have -- it's a small portion about 135 000 total acres in that play probably only 10 or so it's totally off the cuff here that's in that Northwest section.
We have more of our extensional area.
We have more in the south than we do the northwest.
Yes we have -- we were involved in an acreage buy up there but the term of that acreage is kind of going out.
And so I don't know what we have up there but we're probably not going to get to it because I think a lot of it goes out in 2011.
And so that northwest extension of the Cana project as far as Cimarex is concerned probably has its limitations.
Okay.
Just back to the Gulf Coast really briefly.
How many additional wells do you think you can get drilled with the additional 2 rigs there this year? This is Mark again.
With that couple additional rigs actually we're already planning to have one rig and maybe 2 during the year for our original plan.
They were scoped down with some of the sidetracking of the Jefferson Airplane well.
That third rig actually keeps us on track for our original plan.
So probably 10 to 12 wells this year which we had not originally planned to do.
The other thing Eric is that it'll be -- some of the -- a couple of these prospects could have development wells on them.
So we don't know.
We're just looking at them.
But there's funny-looking thing that might accommodate 2 wells.
So if we get into some of that which we hope we do then we'll get a little bit more done.
But we don't know that until we get them drilled.
So we're going to blast through the non-contingent part of the exploration program in the Gulf Coast see what we got and go from there.
Okay great.
And the last one I had is just on the additional rigs being added to the Permian and Mid-Continent.
I was wondering if you could maybe break down one of those -- which plays those rigs might be going into.
Is it an increase in rigs in the Bone Spring in the Permian for example or more Wolfcamp? And in the Mid-Continent any additional rigs in the Granite Wash or over the Hogshooter? This is Joe.
You'll see us in the Permian.
This is just higher level.
Probably we'll be back up in the Paddock area.
We're going to dedicate some rig activity to the Wolfcamp shale obviously in the Culberson area in Reeves County as well as in the Culberson County.
And then the third Bone Spring in Warwick in West Texas.
So those are really the bigger areas.
We do have some rigs that we're slating for saltwater disposal projects to kind of follow-up on what Paul was talking about.
Our saltwater disposal cost represented about $0.10 per Mcfe.
And we've now got enough production out there we can justify the drilling if necessary and dedicate some rig activity there too.
Okay.
And then in the Mid-Continent is it additional rigs in Cana? Or will you be accelerating now in maybe the Hemphill County or...
We're going to add one more rig to Cana and probably an additional rig in the Texas Panhandle.
And we'll probably throw a rig at Southern Oklahoma.
Okay great.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Just thinking about the Hogshooter.
Do you have -- what is the acreage position that you have specifically over the Hogshooter? This is Mark.
We talked a little bit about what the team sees as net acres in that area.
It's a pretty small amount but they think they have something like maybe 4 000 net acres or something.
But it looks very encouraging as far as economics.
That first well was a good well but as far as extension of running room it's not that great for us.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then -- you guys have been very gracious on the thoughts on the Gulf Coast and I think I got a little confused.
What is the current rate of the Gulf Coast? Today we're running around 100 million a day.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> About 100 million a day.
So that fed into your comments on restricting the rates on the wells and getting that 50% 60% annual decline to smooth out a bit and so that's why you came down and you kind of flatlined it through the rest of the year.
Is that a way to think about it? That's our hope that's our current model.
Of note you'll notice that our full year guidance -- I think this is important -- a little statistic to throw out there.
Our full year guidance dropped 10 million a day midpoint to midpoint.
Our Gulf Coast projection is 20 million a day below where we thought it would be when we first put out our guidance.
So the Permian and the Mid-Continent have made up an additional 10 above and beyond what we had forecasted at the beginning of the year.
And it's because we can't forecast it's sanding up and a lot of those other things that happened.
We've got a lot of -- those are great wells and we love them but they're hard to predict.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> And given the competitive drainage situation why can't you and the other guys that are producing do some type of unitization to not damage the reservoir? Or how does that work? Because we're competitors.
And we like it that way.
Mick's answer was we're competitors.
And the fact of the matter is that would be very difficult to build it.
It started off as a war and it kind of ended as a war but the irony is the last guy standing will probably be the winner.
And a lot of us...
Yes.
Your suggestion is absolutely on point.
But in practicality in that part of the world it doesn't happen.
People just line up and compete.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> So the rate at which you produce this reservoir given the condensate yields if you pull too hard it won't lower the overall recovery factor? Not significantly.
The thing that you can tell about what we're saying that we're concerned about and we have little devices that listen for sand grains the problem is is that sometime we get instead of one sand grain we get a couple of yards of sand.
But that's the problem.
At sometime and for whatever reasons a lot of people have seen in that part of the world when that pressure comes down and you're at high rates you can start moving that sand.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Well thank you everyone for joining us today on the conference call.
We'll look forward to reporting back to you again another quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon my name Petura and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Cimarex Second Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mark Burford you may begin your conference.
Thank you Petura and welcome everyone and thanks for joining us today on our second quarter conference call.
On today's call here in Denver we have Tom Jorden EVP of Exploration; Joe Albi EVP of Operations; Paul Korus Senior Vice President and CFO; and Jim Shonsey VP and Controller.
Mick is out of the office this week and unable to make the call.
But we did issue our financial and operating results news release this morning a copy of which can be found on our website.
And we will be making forward-looking statements in this conference call.
I’ll refer you to the end of the press release for our disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements.
As stated in our earnings release we reported net income of $166.7 million or $1.94 per share for the quarter which includes $0.16 per share in noncash mark-to-market gain on our hedges.
This compares to second quarter 2010 earnings of $124.6 million or $1.46 per diluted share.
Our oil and gas revenues in this quarter totaled $452.3 million a 24% increase compared to $364.9 million last year.
In the second quarter cash flow from operations hit $343.4 million 32% greater than last year's second quarter cash flow $259.9 million.
Our higher earnings in revenues and cash flow largely reflect the 33% to 35% increase in our oil and NGL prices and liquid this quarter did account for 45% of our equivalent volumes.
So I hit a few – a couple of hitting notes a couple of financial metrics there but we'll go ahead and jump in to the meat of the call.
And I'll turn over to Tom Jorden to cover our operations.
Thanks Mark.
I'd like to take a few minutes to kind of walk through our drilling program area by area.
We have a great balance of opportunities to our Mid-Continent Permian and Gulf Coast.
Currently we have 27 operator rigs drilling.
14 of those are in the Permian Basin 11 are in the Mid-Continent and 2 are on the onshore Gulf Coast.
In the first half of the year we drilled and completed 148 gross or 80 net wells.
And as Mark said we invested $757 million in exploration and development.
Of our total expenditures 48% were invested in projects in the Mid-Continent 46% in the Permian Basin and 6% in the Gulf Coast and other.
We're looking at full-year capital to be $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion.
And as we've said time and again and it bears repeating that really isn't a budget.
That's kind of a rough guide between now and the end of the year and we make our investment-drilling decisions as we go along.
So that second half capital will certainly be a function of our drilling results cost of services and our opportunity set.
As we look at that full year though we're expecting roughly half to be spread between the greater Mid-Continent area about $750 million; $750 million more than likely to be in the Permian Basin; and then the remainder would be Gulf Coast and other so very very nice set of opportunities and a fairly balanced program.
Starting in the Permian Basin we drilled and completed 71 gross or 56 net Permian wells during the first 6 months of 2011 completing 94% as producers.
And at quarter end we had 10 gross 8 net wells still waiting on completion.
Our drilling was principally in the Delaware Basin of Texas and Southeast New Mexico and mainly targeted Bone Spring Paddock Abo and Wolfcamp formations.
Permian exploration development capital year-to-date through the second quarter as I said totaled $345 million for 46% of our total capital year-to-date.
And I will walk through area by area.
One of the things that we've said in the past and will certainly be apparent here is that our Permian program is split between several different programs.
First is our Bone Spring program.
Bone Spring formation is really multiple plays over a large area.
In Central Eddy and Lea Counties we have our second and third Bone Spring horizontal oil play.
Those are sands that are more of a conventional target and that we map channels.
They do have some aerial extent but it's not what we classically think of as an area-wide resource play.
You have to have a focused geological picture and we're targeting these sand accumulations.
In Texas we've got the third Bone Spring.
That's a little more aerial extensive that’s sands and we continue to realize great results from all of our Bone Spring drilling.
Recent notable horizontal Bone Spring wells we brought on production and these are 30-day average numbers in the second quarter we brought on our Irwin 13 Federal 2H well where we had 100% working interest.
That well had a 30-day average of 810 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our KHC 33-24 2H well a 96% working interest had a 30-day average of 750 barrels of oil per day barrel oil equivalent.
And then our Parkway State 17 Com 3H where we had a 94% working interest came on first 30 days at 710-barrel oil equivalent per day.
So production from the New Mexico Bone Spring drilling over the last 2 years has gone from basically 0 in July 2009 when we kicked off the program to over 10 000 barrels per day gross currently.
For all the wells we have drilled and completed in our New Mexico second and third Bone Spring play the gross first 30-day IP has averaged 590 barrel of oil equivalent per day.
And that's 400 barrels of oil per day and 190 barrel of oil equivalent per day.
So it does make some gas and gas-associated liquids.
Our gross actual EURs have remained consistently averaging 570 000 Mboe thousand barrels of oil equivalent.
And of that 570 000 Mboe 400 000 barrels is actual oil and 170 000 Mboe of gas and gas-associated liquids.
That's our type curve.
We've talked about that quite a bit in the past.
And that second and third Bone Spring our type curve is that 570 000 Mboe typically comes on.
Our type curve is about 600 barrel of oil equivalent per day for its first 30-day average.
And those wells cost currently between $5 million and $5.5 million to drill and complete.
So very nice type curve.
We're achieving very nice results there.
And as in so many of our plays our type curve is grounded in our actual results.
We have a solid drilling inventory of 170 gross operated drilling locations in the New Mexico second and third Bone Spring and over 140 Texas third Bone Spring locations.
So we would expect this to increase over time especially with the first Bone Spring or Avalon potential over our acreage.
And I just want to talk about that for a second.
That potential we talk about is in New Mexico and Eddy and Lea County is in the second and third Bone Spring.
In and around our acreage the Avalon our first Bone Spring is an emerging play.
There are a number of operators aggressively drilling.
We have tested a few wells and we'll be talking about those in subsequent calls.
But we see that as another significant objective that has potential through a large swath of our acreage.
I also want to say before I move on to other plays that the second and third Bone Spring play in Eddy and Lea County is our most active leasing area really company-wide on a dollar basis.
In the first half of the year we've been very successful in that play acquiring additional opportunity.
We have committed or spent $52 million in the first half in that play and picking up additional leases.
And that is for leases in hand that are committed about 16 000 net additional acres.
And those are acres that are focused on ideas we really like.
So this is a continuing opportunity set for us.
We have multi years of inventory there and that's been just a really really nice play for us.
Well let's talk a minute about our emerging plays in particular our emerging liquids-rich play.
We're moving along with our evaluation of unconventional plays liquid-rich plays in the Delaware Basin targeting the Wolfcamp the Avalon Shale and the Cisco/Canyon or Penn Shale.
We have a large acreage position of 160 000 acres perspective for some or all of that perspective for the Wolfcamp Avalon Cisco/Canyon.
This year we drilled and completed 5 new horizontal Wolfcamp wells which bringing our total Wolfcamp wells drilled and completed to 12 wells.
Our first 30-day production from all of these wells has averaged 6.3 million cubic feet equivalent per day which comprised as 48% gas 31% natural gas liquids and 21% oil.
We're still really timing this play.
We're still trying to evaluate what the play means to us currently and the future potential.
We have a lot of wells that are still waiting on completion.
We have a lot of areas of the play yet to be developed.
As I'm sure Joe will talk about we’ve built an infrastructure in Culberson County that will allow us to further our drilling and completion in that area.
We had to build a gathering system and that's just nearing completion now.
And that will allow us to test a lot more area of that play.
A lot of the wells that we've drilled to date have been concentrated in Eddy County and our White City area where we have approximately 60 000 net acres and we've had very very nice results there.
Wolfcamp one thing we can say is particularly as I move on to talk about Cana the Wolfcamp has a steeper decline than our Woodford in Cana.
There we talk about a 55% year-over-year decline.
In the Wolfcamp we're observing a 75% year-over-year decline.
But still the wells are very profitable delivering nice results.
We're very very pleased with what we see thus far.
But again I want to underscore we're in the early stage of that evaluation.
We have lots of objectives that have not been tested yet and we're still trying to evaluate what it means to us.
Like all of these plays that 160 000 acres will have sweet spots.
There will be areas where one or more of those objectives are perspective and the others will not be.
So we're still evaluating but we're very pleased to report we're very encouraged by what we've seen yet so far.
And overall looking at the Permian before we move on we have 14 operator rigs running in the Permian 8 of those are in the Bone Spring play of New Mexico 1 is in the Paddock play of New Mexico 2 are in Eddy County evaluating the Wolfcamp and that White City block.
And then we have 3 rigs in the West Texas Bone Spring play.
So we're very active in the Permian Basin.
We're seeing good results from our drilling program.
We have a great position and some great plays.
And as we've talked about in the past we have some of the most outstanding generators in our company working the Permian Basin.
They continue to find new opportunities.
We've been very aggressive acquiring additional leasehold.
For those of you that follow the state and federal sales in New Mexico we have been one of the most aggressive participants in those sales.
So in this environment we're able to make a very very good return.
At the moment we worry as we always worry.
We have cost creep and competition.
We're seeing our cost go up and we're seeing a lot of new entrants still into the Permian Basin.
So we're seeing good returns in our Permian basin oil plays.
But as always it's about returns and we are forging ahead cautiously worried about some pressures to our returns.
Moving on to Mid-Continent for the first half 2011.
In the Mid-Continent we drilled and completed a total of 86 gross or 32 net wells and completed 100% of those as producers.
At quarter end 22 gross and 8 net wells were waiting completion.
Our Mid-Continent exploration development capital through the second quarter totaled $363 million or 48% of our total capital.
Of course the majority of that current-year drilling activity has been in our Anadarko Basin Cana play our Woodford Shale play where Cimarex drilled and completed 71 gross and 23 net wells.
At quarter end 22 gross and 8 net wells were being completed or are waiting on completion.
Since the Cana play began late 2007 Cimarex has participated in 257 gross 100 net wells.
Of total wells 214 gross or 79 net were on production at quarter end and the remainder were either in the process of being drilled or awaiting completion.
Our net second quarter 2011 production from the Cana play averaged 115 million cubic feet equivalent per day which is a 53% increase versus the second quarter of 2010 average of 75 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
Cana is a very very active project at Cimarex obviously and it's also an active science project at Cimarex.
As much as we're forging ahead with hundreds of wells drilled we still have a lot of questions that we have to answer.
We're still investigating spacing.
We're just now in the process of completing a pilot project.
That's a 2-well pilot that we'll be able to talk about here shortly.
We drilled 2 wells side-by-side and did a tremendous amount of science trying to map the fracture network and understand the actual drainage pattern.
Within the core however and we define a core a lot of ways.
But for the sake of argument we'll define the core as that portion of the play that we think we can confidently say will be down-spaced and we think the most likely down spacing within that core is going to be 80-acre spacing or 8 wells per section.
Within that core area where we say the Woodford is 150 feet thicker down to depths of 15 000 feet we have 64 000 net acres.
Now that's not the entire asset of ours of course but that's just the area we think fairly confidently we can say we'll more than likely be down-spaced at 8 wells per section.
Cimarex's asset within that area is 4 to 5 Tcf net of royalty.
We have many years of future development.
We're still expanding the play.
In no way shape or form am I suggesting that we think our asset is confined to that core.
In fact we have 8 rigs currently working in the play and 6 of those 8 are drilling outside that core making very nice returns for us on areas that we'll be talking about on subsequent calls.
We're still holding acreage drilling one well per section and increasing our understanding of that expanding core.
Current AFEs are $7.5 million to $8.5 million at the core of the play and Joe will give a little more detail there.
So by whatever measure Cana has been a very very successful legacy asset of ours and we'll be developing that for many many years to come.
In the Mid-Continent we have 11 operator rigs running 8 in the Cana play 2 are in the Granite Wash and 1 in the Texas Panhandle 1 in western Oklahoma and 1 is working in southern Oklahoma.
And then finally in the Gulf Coast during the first 6 months of 2011 we drilled 3 gross or 2.3 net wells.
One of which was successful.
So we drilled a couple of dry holes.
Actually one of those dry holes was completed but we stood out of the completion.
Our Gulf Coast exploration development capital year-to-date through the second quarter totaled $39 million or 5% of our capital.
We're drilling a well near the Jefferson County Airport called the Jefferson Airport #5 and we're rigging up on the Pica 2 after recently finishing drilling the Amazon Queen #2 well.
The Amazon Queen #2 is a smaller prospect and we expect that to begin producing later this month.
So the Gulf Coast is an ongoing part of our business.
It's obviously gotten a lot of attention lately.
It remains a high rate of return for us a much much smaller portion of our capital.
So overall we like the balance of our program.
We're achieving nice growth in our Permian and Mid-Continent.
We see a rich and expanding opportunity set there.
And Gulf Coast will continue to be that high rate of return program that will be a much much smaller portion of our capital going forward.
With that I will turn the call over to Joe Albi our Executive Vice President of Operations.
Thank you Tom and thank you all of you for joining us on our call today.
I'll briefly go over our second quarter production.
I'll hit on our third quarter and full-year production guidance update you on where we see current service costs and then finish up with a few comments about our recently announced sale of our Riley Ridge project.
Well Q2 came in just about as planned with reported average net daily equivalent production of 585.7 million per day.
We came in just below the midpoint of our guidance of 580 million to 600 million and down slightly from our Q1 '11 average of 590 million per day.
Our second quarter numbers were impacted by numerous unanticipated pipeline maintenance and repair shut-ins in both the Permian and the Mid-Continent which reduced our quarterly production by approximately 4 million to 5 million per day.
And accounting for these volumes we would have been just about a bit above the midpoint of our guidance and almost exactly flat with Q1.
We set a few new records in Q2.
Our reported Mid-Continent net daily equivalent production of 284.7 million per day was a record for the region and represented 49% of our total company production.
As Tom mentioned a significant subset of this production comes from Cana which averaged a record 115 million per day in Q2 and again that's up 53% from the 75 million per day that we reported in Q2 '10.
Our reported Permian net daily equivalent production of 182.3 million per day was again a record for the region and it represents now 31% of our total company production.
Combined the Mid-Continent and the Permian now make up 80% of our total production.
Our combined Mid-Continent Permian oil and NGL volumes also hit an all-time high of 33 704 barrels a day which now represent 77.5% of our total liquids which is again a combined high for the company.
With a strong contribution from both the Mid-Continent and the Permian liquids now make up 45% of our total company production which is the peak liquid ratio for the company.
These new records really continue to demonstrate our business strategy and emphasis on long-term growth in the Mid-Continent and Permian with a focus on oil and liquids-rich gas.
As we discussed during our last call we expected Q2 to be somewhat flat to Q1 anticipating that 40 million to 50 million per day drop in our Gulf Coast production from Q1 to Q2.
When the dust settled we saw lead drop in the Gulf Coast production.
But as we've seen in quarters past the drop was offset by continued production growth for our Mid-Continent and Permian programs.
As compared to Q1 '11 our total Gulf Coast equivalent production dropped 32 million per day from 149 million per day in Q1 to 117 million per day in Q2.
That's a drop of 21.5%.
Offsetting this our Mid-Continent volumes increased 19 million per day from 266 million per day in Q1 to 285 million per day in Q2 a 7% increase.
And our Permian volumes increased 8 million per day from 174 million per day in Q1 to 182 million per day in Q2 a 5% increase from Q1.
As compared to Q2 '10 our Q2 '11 total company equivalent production of 585.7 million per day was virtually flat or down 1% from our Q2 '10 average of 594 million per day.
Breaking down the numbers we see the same story significant but anticipated drops in our Gulf Coast production offset by attractive year-over-year production gains from our Mid-Continent and Permian programs.
Over the last 12 months our Gulf Coast volumes have dropped 73 million per day from 190 million per day in Q2 '10 to 117 million per day in Q2 '11.
That's a drop of 38%.
Offsetting this our Mid-Continent and Permian programs reflect a combined 64 million per day increase with our Mid-Continent volumes up 37 million per day from 248 million per day in Q2 '10 to 285 million in Q2 '11 a 15% increase.
And our Permian volumes make up 27 million per day from 155 million per day in Q2 '10 to 182 million per day in Q2 '11.
That's a 17% increase.
Combined the Mid-Continent and Permian programs which now make up 80% of our production grew at a respectful combined annual rate of 16%.
With our focus on oil and liquids-rich gas we continue to see our product mix move more towards liquids.
Our Q2 '11 reported net gas production of 325 million per day and combined oil and NGL production of 43 500 barrels a day puts our current liquid ratio at 45%.
That's up 38% in Q2 '10 and 44% in Q1 '11.
Once again the Permian and Mid-Continent are the real drivers to our liquids growth with our Q2 ’11 Permian liquid volume now at 18 600 barrels a day.
That's a 30% increase from where it was in Q2 '10; and our Mid-Continent liquid volumes now at 15 104 barrels a day.
That's a 72% increase from where it was in Q2 '10.
I want to set the stage a bit with a few comments before touching on our remaining year guidance.
First during Q2 we added additional frac fleets to address our backlog of wells waiting on frac.
We currently have 4 frac crews working the Permian and 3 working the Mid-Continent for a total of 7 versus the 3 that we had working in Q1 of this year.
As a result we ended Q2 with 16 net wells waiting on frac as compared to the 31 net wells we had at the end of Q1.
Most of the accelerated activity occurred later in Q2 with associated production anticipated to show up here -- showing up and anticipated to further show up in late June and early July.
Secondly we increased our operated rig count from 24 rigs in Q1 to 27 rigs at the end of Q2.
And as Tom mentioned we did this by adding 2 rigs to the Permian and 1 to the Gulf Coast bringing our quarter end rig count to 14 in the Permian 11 in the Mid-Continent and 2 in the Gulf Coast.
Third as you are all aware the success of our Gulf Coast programs can create significant periodic swings in our production up or down.
Our ability to accurately predict the timing and success of 50% to 60% COS high-rate Gulf Coast wells can and will have short-term impacts on our guidance.
After our recent dry holes and experiencing mechanical problems on our Two Sisters #2 and Two Sisters #3 wells which were on decline but adding 14 million per day in net production in June we've reduced our current projection for 2011 Gulf Coast production from that of last quarter.
The 30 000 foot view of our production should really be seen as having 2 different indistinct components.
The first and most critical is our low to moderate risk programs; that’s the Mid-Continent and the Permian.
These programs bring us predictable long-life production and a deep predictable multiyear inventory of drilling projects.
As we've seen quarter-to-quarter these programs are the underlying catalysts to our long-term production growth.
The second is our high rate of return and short R/P Gulf Coast program which inherently brings a component of uncertainty in the timing of production adds and drops.
Our production can jump up or come down significantly in short order.
This program really needs to be seen for what it is.
That's a high rate of return cash flow investment.
In essence we're investing $1 today and getting $2 back next month.
With short-term production profiles the individual Gulf Coast wells simply cannot add long-term production.
But from a different perhaps more realistic perspective the success of our Gulf Coast program over the last few years really has had an indirect strong contribution to our long-term production simply by spinning off high rate of returns and cash flow which has been redirected back into our longer-term Mid-Continent and Permian programs.
We recently took a look at our production growth since 2007 and saw some interesting results which really helped illustrate this point.
In 2007 we reported average net daily equivalent production of 451 million per day.
Using our Q2 '11 total company production of 586 million per day as a reference point we're up 135 million per day from 2007.
Over that same time period our Mid-Continent production is up $93 million per day from 192 million per day in '07 to 285 million in Q2 '11.
And our Permian production is up 38 million per day from 144 million per day in '07 to 182 million in Q2 '11.
Combined the Mid-Continent and the Permian programs make up 131 million per day of the 135 million per day increase we've seen since 2007 with just 4 million per day coming from our Gulf Coast program.
What does it mean? It means that Mid-Continent and Permian have really been the underlying drivers to our long-term growth while our Gulf Coast program with large production increases in late '09 and throughout 2010 simply generated significant cash flow which we use for reinvestment.
Well looking now to guidance for the last half of the year we've updated our model to reflect our increased rig activity our accelerated completions and a reduction in anticipated 2011 Gulf Coast volumes as a result of our recent dry holes and mechanical problems.
With our accelerated activity we're projecting our Q3 volumes to be up from Q2 with a guidance projection of 585 million to 610 million per day.
Our revised full-year guidance range is coming in at 595 million to 610 million which is down 10 million per day on the low end and 25 million per day on the high end from our previous guidance of 605 million to 635 million that we gave in our last call.
The majority of this reduction is simply associated with our revised forecast for the Gulf Coast.
Our projected midpoint for 2011 gives total company guidance of 603 million per day.
It represents a slight increase to 2010 with our Mid-Continent and Permian programs projected to continue to offset any forecasted decline that we see in the Gulf Coast which we currently have modeled at 43% from a reported average of 174 million per day in 2010 for the Gulf Coast to a current full-year projection which would include the production in Q1 and Q2 to give us a full-year average of approximately 100 million per day for the Gulf Coast in 2011.
Well a few words on our lifting costs before touching on our drilling and completion cost.
A look at our financial it shows Q2 lifting cost coming in at $1.14 per Mcfe with our year-to-date number falling in at $1.12 per Mcfe.
That's right at the midpoint of our 2011 guidance of $1.02 to $1.22.
Since mid-2010 we've seen an increase in expenses due to a number of factors: general cost escalations our shift towards oil activity numerous lease maintenance projects but more impacted by increased saltwater disposal and power and fuel cost which have been directly related to our pickup in new well activity.
We are beginning to see early signs of stabilization in op cost and as such we're keeping our 2011 guidance projection steady at $1.02 to $1.22.
We continue to see increased cost pressure on our drilling and completion costs as Tom mentioned especially on the completion side.
Since the beginning of the year we've seen fracture stimulation costs go up anywhere from 5% to 100% with the biggest increases coming from the Permian.
Increased Permian industry activity has by itself significantly increased the demand for frac services.
Equipment is available as we've demonstrated by securing additional fleets.
But the service and material costs are what are rising and they’ve risen somewhat sharply since the beginning of the year.
On the drilling side we've seen cost increases in most all of our cost categories since the beginning of the year.
But that said we feel that the rate of cost increase may actually be slowing down and we continue to stay focused on cost and design efficiencies where we can to help keep our cost escalations in check.
As a result we've seen anywhere from 0% to 10% increases in our core program AFE since last quarter.
As an example through operating efficiencies we've kept our generic Cana AFEs for the shallow and core areas of the play somewhat flat since the beginning of the year at levels of $7.5 million to $8.5 million.
That's up – although flat for the last 6 months we're still up about 10% to 15% from where we saw those costs in mid-2010.
Our recent New Mexico second Bone Spring horizontal AFEs have increased to levels of $5 million to $5.5 million.
That's up from levels of $4.8 million to $5.2 million that we quoted in Q2 and this is due primarily to increased stimulation cost that are more directly associated with the change in completion design other than the change in service costs.
Our Paddock-Blinebry vertical AFEs have jumped a modest 5% to 10% from $1.8 million to $1.9 million in Q2 to current levels of $2 million to $2.1 million here in the current month.
And this is due primarily to overall cost increases.
As we continue to develop and refine our Woodford Shale play we see our current AFEs running right now $7.2 million to $7.7 million.
This is up from the $6.5 million to $7.5 million range reported last call and this is due primarily to increased costs associated with testing various completion designs.
Once again as we see this play in particular develop we see it to have more of a chance to be like Cana where various operating efficiencies will take root and we’ll see those costs stabilize and/or reduce.
Same neck of the woods Tom had mentioned a little bit about Culberson County and our attempts to put in our own infrastructure and really just a simple comment here.
There's virtually little if any infrastructure out there from gathering to power to saltwater disposal what have you.
That's the bad news.
The good news is this provides us with an opportunity to control our own destiny and we're simply putting ourselves in a position to build the infrastructure and maintain optionality for markets.
And by doing this we'll have access to at least 3 markets and hopefully more to help get our product moved.
Before turning the call over to Paul I'd like to say a few words about the recently announced sale of our interest in the Riley Ridge project in southwest Wyoming to Denbury a deal we closed on this past Monday.
As you know we've been developing this project over the last few years.
And we had an anticipated plant startup date scheduled for fall of this year.
Well Denbury became our partner in the project last September after acquiring the interest of the majority non-operating working interest owner.
And the sale of our 57.5% interest in the project simply made -- ultimately made sense from the standpoint of both companies.
Where we saw a value in the project from the sale of methane and helium Denbury saw value in methane helium and CO2.
This last Co2 source is an important part of Denbury's enhanced recovery strategy and was certainly a win for Denbury.
A solid purchase price was certainly a win for Cimarex.
Selling a property outside of our core areas of activity for premium price and redirecting proceeds into our higher rate of return drilling program just simply made sense to us.
Through the sale we'll derive proceeds of $191 million with $176 million paid at closing and another $15 million to be paid upon the successful startup of the plan.
Net Cimarex hydrocarbon production of about 10 million per day was scheduled to occur in late fall and that now is obviously and hasn't -- is not included in our guidance projections.
So in summary Q2 was a very good quarter for us.
Production from our long-term Mid-Continent and Permian programs continues to grow setting new records for the company and exhibiting 15% to 17% annual growth.
All the while we're living within our cash flow and ended the quarter with money in the bank.
Our shift towards liquids continues to hit the radar screen with our Q2 '11 oil volumes now at a record level and the Mid-Continent and Permian liquids up a combined 46% from a year ago.
These stats simply show our stripes long-term growth in the Mid-Continent and Permian with an emphasis on oil and liquids-rich gas.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Paul.
Thank you Joe.
I'd like to recap a few things.
While much has been made about our production being down 1% from a year ago and a 3% reduction in our guidance I do want to point out that financially things look much better.
To remind everyone Q2 this year versus second quarter of 2010 our revenues were up 24% our cash flow was up 32% and our reported GAAP earnings were up 33%.
We like those measures and I think if we have successive quarters of those we should be just fine.
Part of what drove the increase in revenues cash flow and earnings of course was prices but also the shift in our mix.
Like so many others in the industry our mix is changing.
A year ago we were about 37.5% liquid 62.5% gas.
Now we're more like 45% liquids 55% gas.
So we are certainly benefiting by having that alteration in our mix and enjoying the benefit of the higher liquids and oil prices both of which have remained remarkably strong.
In addition during the first half we invested $750 million but yet had no change in our debt outstanding or shares outstanding.
As we look to our revised capital program for the year as we mentioned in the news release from roughly what used to be a $1.4 billion expectation to now what is approximately $1.6 billion the increase is almost all in the Mid-Continent.
That stems from the non-core drilling that we are doing in Cana.
So on the old numbers our Mid-Continent expectation had been about $590 million.
That is now about $750 million.
So that's an increase of $160 million.
Our Permian Basin activity is remaining pretty much as expected.
But with cost pressures out there we're seeing our estimate go from what had been $710 million to now something more like $750 million a $40 million increase.
In the Gulf Coast although it was only about $40 million of our total $750 million in the first half is still expected to be about $100 million for the year and there is no change to that.
We will have higher land and seismic investment this year between regular leasing as well as some acquisitions of improved via purchase and sale agreements.
We were about $64 million $65 million through the first half of the year probably on track to see that number be about $130 million $135 million by year end.
With the $1.6 billion of capital question in terms of how will that be funded.
We've pretty much all through the year expected our cash flow to be about $1.3 billion.
We're certainly on track for that given that the first half of the year was about $650 million.
So so far so good we're on track.
So with $1.3 billion of cash flow we came in to the year with $100 million -- over $100 million of cash on the balance sheet.
We've worked our way through that.
But with our property sales of course largely dominated by the sale of the Riley Ridge asset of what should approach $200 million in total.
Those 3 things add up to the $1.6 billion.
So we're in very good shape financially from that perspective and laying a lot of groundwork for what we hope is much stronger growth in 2012.
With that operator I believe we are ready to entertain questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Bill Allman.
It's Joe Allman actually with JPMorgan.
I guess a couple of questions.
One for Tom in terms of your plans for the Avalon Shale and the Cisco/Canyon could you just talk about what you're planning on doing over there over the 6 months or so? Well Joe we have a few Avalon wells that we're drilling and testing.
And we're -- the Avalon is a big area.
So there's hundreds and hundreds of square miles out here where you say Avalon.
But I will say in Lea County New Mexico where it's oily we are drilling a few wells between now and the end of the year and we're testing some completion techniques.
And if we get the kind of success that we think we will achieve and that the industry has achieved I think there's a real good chance that that will kick off an additional drilling program for us in the Avalon.
And then we have in the Penn Shale in Eddy County we have completed a well and we're just watching flowback on that.
I don't really have anything to say on it because we don't have any conclusions yet but we're just testing the producibility of the Penn Shale with modern stimulation Joe.
As I said in the past we've drilled a number of Penn Shale wells in years past horizontal wells in and around our White City area but we've yet to put a modern shale stimulation on it.
So we're just doing our first one and watching the results.
So the Avalon's a big area Joe and I would anticipate that we will be out drilling the Avalon.
In 2012 I would anticipate that we'll have an Avalon program that we'll be talking about.
But certainly your question is between now and the end of the year we're testing a few things and we're going get our own learnings under our belt and continue to study the industry.
Okay that's helpful.
And then looking at second quarter production it appears that the Gulf Coast actually did not decline as much as you had modeled.
I know it's very difficult to figure out where the Gulf Coast is going to go.
And -- but so -- did the Permian production not rise as much? And with that -- and I think I heard you talk about pipeline interruptions.
Could you just address that? A couple of things there Joe on the -- first on the Gulf Coast production.
I think the number we quoted was somewhere 100 million 110 million or something like that in Q2 and it came in at 117 million.
A couple of things happened there.
Number one right about the time of our call one of our Jefferson Airplane wells #3 was down.
And right about the time of our call we were successful in restoring about 3 million per day worth of production from that well.
So it came on and was not put into our guidance projection.
Secondly I think we'd mentioned that we are sidetracking our Jefferson Airplane #1 sidetrack well.
That came on in about the middle of June and gave some second quarter contribution and we kind of thought that might show up in Q3.
We also had 2 wells our Amazon Queen 1 and our Nine Dragons well that both in essence I'll call them outperformed our forecast.
So that said that really is the reason for that.
But when I look forward and I compare our plan for the Gulf Coast last call versus our plan this call if I look at Q2 in our last plan we outperformed it.
But if I look at where our last plan called Q3 and Q4 to be it was predicting right around 100 million per day.
I don't know the exact numbers but right around 100 million per day.
Our current plan is predicting anywhere from 80 million to 90 million per day for Q3 and Q4.
And really that's a net result of the 2 dry holes that we had where we had modeled some anticipated production from them.
In particular on the high side those wells really affected our high side of our guidance.
And then the Two Sisters 2 and Two Sisters 3 both decided I guess talked to each other and at the end of June we lost one and then early in July we lost the other.
We're looking at remedial work to restore production there and it doesn't look all that promising.
One of them may present itself as a sidetrack candidate where if we were to get back to it it probably won't show up until later in this year and not give us much of a bang for our buck on production.
So hopefully that helps clear up a little bit on the Gulf Coast for where we see and I really think that's important for you guys to understand how we're modeling that for obvious reasons because that's the unpredictable one.
In the Permian there are a couple of things going on.
One was the downtime I mentioned associated with plant shut-ins.
That's probably close to 2.5 million per day worth of lost production and we also had a handful wells that we shut in to -- in some of our frac projects to offset wells that we had shut in.
So there's a little bit of influence there but the biggest piece was trying to get a good clear schedule on where we would have these fracs -- frac crews show up and when they'd show up.
If you look at daily production you're going to see that our Permian production really takes a nice bump at the tail end about the mid to the tail end period of June.
So it's really that accelerated activity in the Permian is not really starting to show its signs.
Again that’s helpful Joe.
And I think you said -- did you say that you're guiding for a 43% base decline in the Gulf Coast? Yes.
I think the number I quoted there was that we'd end the year with an average of about 100 million per day.
Okay.
So going forward do you expect that the declines from the Gulf Coast will soften quarter-after-quarter? And just help us get comfortable with how to -- I know it's hard to forecast but to better forecast Gulf Coast production.
Well without mechanical problems and without additional drilling success I would think you could presume that our 2012 maybe this will help you out Joe our 2012 production number might equate to -- with existing production I'm just going to guess here and say 45 million to 60 million per day.
So that would be no new adds.
And in general I guess a safe number might be about a 50% production.
Joe this is Tom.
We have 2 rigs running in the Gulf Coast.
So it's very very difficult to predict our exploration success.
And obviously we love what we're drilling or we wouldn't drill it.
So I know it drives you crazy but it's the nature of the beast.
It's going to be hard to model but as several people have said on this call it's a real cash generator and helps us stay within that cash flow on funding these Permian and Mid-Continent programs.
So we're going to continue to do it.
It's helpful.
Is it reasonable to assume no new production adds? If that were reasonable [indiscernible] run it.
No it's not unreasonable but I can't help your model.
The next question comes from Gil Yang.
Yes this is a follow-on to that question.
Can you -- I think you baked in sort of like a 65% success rate in your drilling program.
Could you sort of update us on -- are you still using that success rate for the Gulf Coast? Well Gil this is Tom.
There were 2 rigs that are currently running.
I can say one probably is drilling a prospect that's very oily has a little higher success in that because it's offsetting a look alike.
And then another prospect we're drilling currently has fair amount of risk here.
So our actual historical success is 66% is the number we quote.
I would say our go-forward program is probably going to be a little less than that if I had to just put a geologic chance success on it probably 60%.
And that's going to be a mix of projects that are a little higher and a little lower.
But I think 60% is probably a reasonable go-forward number.
And the targets aren't as big.
The targets aren't as big.
Okay.
You mean as the last couple of years? As the last couple of years.
We do have some nice targets but they are riskier.
But a lot of what we're drilling right now are smaller kind of base hits.
And then as we said in the past we're always working on additional shoots to beef up the inventory of the business.
With a couple of wells that were dry holed recently have you learned anything that makes you more concerned that the risk is higher for the these wells and it was not...
No.
Overall no.
We've been doing this for a long long time and sometimes you're going to cross an area and a program where your geophysical anomalies are well-calibrated.
And sometimes you're in an area where they're not very well-calibrated and other things can fool you.
And we know the difference.
Okay.
In the Permian you highlighted the Bone Spring wells and you got -- the one you highlighted at least got better from what you drilled in the first quarter.
Can you maybe give us a broader perspective of what the quality of the wells were that you've been drilling in the second quarter versus first quarter? And what -- and I think you said there was 140 or so wells in inventory there.
Well that's -- yes the -- inventory is a funny thing in this play because we're -- we picked up as I said we've committed or picked up 16 000 net acres here.
So far this year and we're still actively acquiring land.
So we quote -- I think recorded 140 wells.
That's not a static inventory.
It's one of the most dynamic inventories we have in the company.
And that every week we wake up and it's being added to not only by additional acres but by additional zones that we didn't fully model.
We've drilled some very good wells.
I think what I could say in terms of the quality of wells is that we would strongly reaffirm our type curve.
And our type curve is 570 000 barrels of oil equivalent and 600 barrels of oil per day for our first 30-day average.
Okay.
But the wells you've been drilling are the wells you were talking this quarter for example the 3 that you pulled out.
Are those sort of above type curve wells or are they sort of -- are they type curve wells? Those are -- the wells I quoted all 3 were above type curve wells that we brought on in the second quarter.
But that -- it's a program Gil and we're not revising our type curve upward.
Well so I guess the question I was getting to if you're drilling at least you're just certainly calling out the ones that are above type curve as you get to those say 40 wells left in that inventory at some point of these 140 will those be necessarily below type curve? No I think our inventory is in very nice perspective areas.
In fact a lot of the land we picked up -- I think a lot of the land we picked up has a fair prospect collection that may be above type curve.
But we're not sandbagging.
I mean the type curve is the type curve and we make it a capital decision.
That is the economic parameters that we model.
And we think that's what we're going to deliver and the proof's in the pudding.
I'd say that is our historical average.
I would not take that 140 and downgrade it.
The next question comes from Eric Hagen.
Just a quick question on Cana.
What are the prospects for possibly accelerating Cana in 2012 as you finish HBP your acreage and delineate it better? So more specifically maybe to accelerate infill drilling in the core as you feel more confident that you can develop it on the 80s.
And if there is an opportunity what do you think is the potential for adding rigs there? I think you're drilling with 8 now.
Could that increase by 4? Could it double? Just kind of realistically what's a possible range? Well Eric this is Tom.
We are looking at that now; just what the potential is for infill drilling.
In the core that's a complex problem because there are a lot of different operators that are at work in there and one -- no operator can operate in a vacuum.
So what's going to happen in that core is when it does go to down spacing you'll see a lot of companies go to down spacing.
We don't have particular calendar plans for that.
I don't know if it will be within 2012 in the core.
But -- in direct answer to your question we're currently modeling that and doing some what ifs and we don't really have anything to say other than we're looking at it.
How many years of drilling do you have left Tom? Excuse me? If you don't accelerate how many years of drilling do you have left at the current pace? Oh we could -- I don't have that in front of me Eric.
I know if we just continue to drill one well per section at our current pace that will carry us through well into the latter half of 2012.
So we have the optionality to accelerate drilling.
But I want to be clear to you Eric and to our listening audience we watch those returns carefully.
There are a lot of things that are -- it's not about production.
I mean production is important but return on capital is ultimately more important to us.
So it's a combination of optimum spacing.
It's a combination of service costs.
It's a combination of what we think are reasonable returns are and all of those are in play.
We're trying to optimize that program.
We just as I said are in the process of getting data off the field of pilot project that will tell us a whole lot about downhole fracture geometry and what the ultimate spacing will be.
I mean we say that it's most likely 80 acres.
There are some credible companies who are talking about spacing tighter than 80 acres.
So we're trying to really dial that in before we get swept away with a big capital program that would be wasteful.
We don't want that to happen.
Okay.
And my follow-up was on the Gulf Coast.
How many more wells do you plan to drill this year in the Gulf Coast? And based on -- and excluding Jefferson Airplane which I think is really sort of an outlier what do you think a typical successful well would add in terms of production volumes? There are a couple of questions there and I'll let Joe chime in and help me here.
But to answer your question of number of wells with 2 ridge running we have 4 additional wells that we would expect to have completed and logged by the end of the year.
And depending on our drilling time that could be 3 or it might be 5.
But right now no drilling schedule.
We're scheduled to have 4 additional opportunities tested by the end of the year.
And these prospects are kind of all over the map.
Some of them are higher potential some of them are smaller.
But the garden variety of Gulf Coast well it's going to come on between 5 million and 10 million cubic feet a day and probably will be a 5 Bcf target ultimately.
But it's very difficult in our program to talk about averages.
Averages mean something in the Permian and Cana.
They don’t mean a whole lot in the Gulf Coast.
No I can understand that Tom.
And then heading into 2012 historically have you always run a 1- to 2-rig program? I mean do you think that -- is this rig more of a makeup rig? Or do you think you have enough targets to continue to drill with 2 rigs? Just kind of a -- maybe some insight into that.
We haven't formed our 2012 plans yet.
We're going to come together here starting in a couple of weeks and kick that off.
I would say right now if we didn't have another 3D project to exploit we would probably be looking at 1 rig in 2012 in our current inventory.
But we're working on several additional 3D projects.
Some of them are being acquired.
Some of them are being reprocessed and some of them are still being discussed.
And this is our business.
We do this all the time and if we can get additional 3D data in that had prospects and then we intend to do that I think we'd look at recharging that inventory.
But right now I can't speak to that in any definitive term because we're still working on that.
There are no more questions from the phone line.
Well thank you all for joining us today on the call in this tough market.
But we appreciate your attention and we look forward to reporting some continued good results from Cimarex.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Lakishia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2011 Financial and Operating Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to turn the call over to our host for today Mr.
Mark Burford.
Thank you sir.
You may begin your call.
Thank you very much Lakishia and welcome everyone.
Thanks for joining us today for our third quarter conference call.
On today's call here in Denver we have Tom Jorden President and CEO; Joe Albi EVP and COO; Paul Korus Senior Vice President and CFO; and Jim Shonsey Vice President Controller.
We did issue our financial and operating results news release this morning a copy of which can be found on our website.
We will be making forward-looking statements in this conference call.
Please refer to the end of our press release for our disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements.
Before I turn the call over to Tom I'll recap a couple of our financial items.
Our statement earnings release reported a net income of $128.2 million or $1.49 per share for the quarter and which is current -- which matches last year's third quarter and current year earnings include the $0.04 per share noncash mark-to-market gain on our hedges.
Third quarter oil and gas sales revenues were $420 million 15% greater than last year's third quarter and cash flow from operations totaled $357 million which is 20% greater than last year's third quarter.
For the first 9 months of 2011 we had cash -- cash flowed $1 billion.
Higher earnings revenues and cash are a large result of our liquids production.
Liquid this quarter made up about 45% of our quote on production on a 6 on an equivalent -- 6:1 equivalent basis and 67% of our revenues.
Realized oil prices this quarter are about 20% higher and NGL price were 36% higher over third quarter of last year.
So with those couple of items I'll now go ahead and pass this call over to Tom.
Thanks Mark.
I'll hit on several operating results and give an update in this year's joint program.
But before I go into region-by-region detail I want to address a consistent theme we're seeing in all of our areas.
As we track our rates of return from our drilling or reinvestment program there's no other way to put it other than plainly.
We're not very pleased with the trends in some of our results today.
Our costs have continued to escalate and I know that something you're hearing from a lot of our peers.
But in addition to our costs being too high one of the things we do as a company we don't buy our drilling inventory.
We invent it.
I mean we are first and foremost a team of -- teams of geoscientists that generate our drilling opportunity.
And so it's very important that we track our progress that we measure our results and that we make sure that our actual results are in line with our expectations as we make our investments.
And we do that to calibrate our investments and to tune our program when it occasionally steers off-center.
And we're seeing that in a number of our areas.
Not only are costs too high but we're in the process of reexamining and going back to the drawing board in a number of our areas because our results are not consistent with our pre-drill predictions.
And we'll get into that in a little more detail and I would just think we'll have some questions on that.
So as we work on our 2012 and the remaining 2011 plans we're challenging ourselves throughout the organization on how to innovate and improve on all aspects of our business.
Our operating group is working very very hard to study our drilling completion techniques and see how we can lower our cost structure.
Our exploration teams are working very very hard to throw some science at our problems to come up with unlocking the reservoir and just flat out improve our results.
We're now in the middle of our planning process for 2012 and we'll provide some 2012 capital and production guidance as we typically do with our fourth quarter release in early February.
And the reason we're going to doing that in February is that we're still working through it.
We're having a lot of debates internally on what place we want to emphasize next year and how we can improve our results.
We have a lot of really great projects that said and we'll continue to work to improve our returns.
But we are getting fairly good returns in a number of our projects.
We've had an active first 9 months of the year.
We drilled and completed 242 gross or 138 net wells year-to-date.
We've invested $1.2 billion on exploration development.
Of our total expenditures 47% were invested in projects located in the Mid-Continent area and that's by and large our Cana play and Anadarko Basin.
46% of our capital has been in the Permian Basin and 7% in the Gulf Coast and others.
Starting with the Permian Basin.
In the Permian Basin year-to-date we've drilled and completed 106 gross or 79 net Permian Basin wells during the first 9 months of 2011 and we completed 95% of those as producers.
At the end of the quarter 13 gross and 7 net wells were still waiting on completion.
Our Permian Basin exploration development capital year-to-date through the third quarter totaled $543 million or about 46% of our total capital.
So as you see we've ramped up our Permian program this year.
It's a higher percentage of our capital.
And that's where we're seeing some of the best returns in the company are in the Permian basin.
Starting with our New Mexico horizontal Second and Third Bone Spring play where year-to-date we've drilled and completed 42 gross 27 net wells.
This year we stepped into some new areas.
We mapped some very thick Second and Third Bone Spring sands and our results although still good have not been to our expectations.
As we moved into new areas we're starting to see our water cuts increase and that's a bit of a challenge.
One of the things you'll hear me say here this morning I'll probably be willing to discuss a lot of problems and few solutions because we are throwing a lot of technology at this problem right now.
But we're observing flow similar in total fluid to what we've seen historically but we're seeing higher water cuts.
For example in this play in 2010 our average water cut across the play was 46% for the wells we've brought on but it's increased to 56% on average this year.
And so what we're seeing is as we drilled a little thicker reservoirs we're seeing a little higher water cut.
We're going back to the drawing board on that and saying what petrophysically could we and can we do to anticipate that and attempt to mitigate it.
Those will still generate very nice returns but again as I said at the outset we look very carefully at our actual results and compare it to our pre-drill expected results and that's the shortfall.
The 30-day gross production from Bone Spring wells we drilled this year we've had an average first 30-day production rate of 510 barrels equivalent per day of which 83% of that is oil.
The average 30-day rate has decreased this year with the higher water.
We're working hard to better predict this water cut and incorporate this in our pre-drill analysis.
Now we get a lot of questions about our type curve in the Second Third Bone Spring play.
One of the things I'll say that we've learned is it's a fairly broad area.
Our Second Third Bone Spring play covers multiple townships of varying thicknesses and varying depths.
So a single type curve as we've discussed in the past has probably been a wrong way to characterize the play.
I would say for a range of results we hear others talk about a range of 400 000 to 600 000 barrels of oil and that's about what we're seeing as a range.
But certainly our actual average results have come down a little bit from what we've discussed in the past and we're looking to see how we may high grade that and get back on track.
We do continue to bring on some very strong wells however such as in the Quail Ridge area the Lynch 23 Federal 2H was 100% working interest well.
It came on for its first 30 days at a 959 barrel per oil equivalent per day.
And in the Chigrid [ph] area the West Chigrid [ph] 32 Federal 1 where we have 75% working interest came on at 755 barrel of oil equivalent per day.
So this is a play we still very very much like.
Another question that we get frequently is at what oil price will we still go and continue to go aggressively.
And one of the things I always answer there is it depends on the lease terms.
If we have a 75% net revenue interest lease we can still generate acceptable returns down to a mid- to low-60s oil price.
And as our net revenue interest goes up obviously that price can go a little lower.
But we are slowing down a little bit we're going to probably drop a rig or 2 and attempt to high grade our inventory.
We have lots to do here.
We have many years of inventory and we need to understand the science a little better so that our actual results are more in line with our pre-drill prediction.
That's not say that we're going to lower our pre-drill prediction.
We're looking to high grade and understand.
As we move into the Texas Third Bone Spring area we drilled 12 gross and 9.8 net wells.
On average we've realized a 30-day gross production rate of 660 barrels equivalent per day of which 74% is oil.
And this average includes some really good wells although that's a really good average.
For example this quarter we brought on the Intimidation 33-63.
So while we had 100% working interest up and it came on at 1 339 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the first 30-day average.
The Pits R8 another well we had 100% working interest.
We average for 30 days 1 140 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
And the Lazy M 1-30 a well we had 99% working interest averaged its first 30 days 932 barrel of oil equivalent per day.
So very good results in that play and that will continue to be a major part of our program going forward.
We've talked in the past about some emerging plays some emerging liquids-rich plays.
We have a large acreage position of over 160 000 net acres perspective for some or all of the Wolfcamp the Avalon and Cisco/Canyon Shale formations.
This year we've drilled and completed an additional 7 or 6.6 net horizontal Wolfcamp wells bringing our total wells in the play to 14 or 13.4 net.
So we have a nice high working interesting in that play.
And our first 30-day production average from our horizontal Wolfcamp wells has been 6.2 million cubic feet equivalent per day of which 46% is gas 32% natural gas liquids and 22% oil.
So that play continues to be very very encouraging to us.
That said that's one that's challenged by drilling completion costs and we are working it hard to try to get our costs down.
We're also pursuing the Avalon and Cisco/Canyon in this area.
And those are 2 additional objectives that stack for much of this area.
We've brought on a very good Cisco/Canyon well this year called the Taos Federal 3H.
It came on first 30-day average at 6.4 million cubic feet equivalent per day and that's in Southern Eddy County.
The yield however that's oil that's produced and trucked off location the yield was only 6 barrels of oil per million cubic feet plus it was a wet gas stream that generated an additional 56 barrels of natural gas liquids per million cubic feet.
So it's a very good well.
In fact it's an excellent well but it's a gas well and it needs higher gas prices to make sense.
We're also testing the Avalon.
We've talked about that and we'll continue to talk about that.
We have a couple of Avalon wells in the oil window.
We're currently drilling and evaluating.
And we'll talk about that in subsequent calls.
I will say one of the things we are observing that we're studying hard is we're seeing a little higher decline in some of these ultra-tight oil reservoirs than we had expected.
I think that's probably true around the industry.
And we have a lot of very very dedicated bright people internally trying to figure out how to optimize that how to tune up our stimulations and get a little more out of those reservoirs.
As we work in our 2010 plans for the Permian as I said not to sound like a broken record but we're challenging ourselves in how to innovate and improve.
And we'll likely let a few rigs go.
You know our focus is on returns not on top-tier growth and we're trying to improve our performance.
And as we've done in the past sometimes we've made some of our best strides when we slow down a little bit and really focused on improving our results.
So that's what we're focusing on today.
Moving on to the Mid-Continent.
For the first 9 months of 2011 we drilled and completed 128 gross or 52 net wells completing 99% as producers.
At quarter end 19 of those wells gross or 9 net were still waiting on completion.
Our Mid-Continent exploration development capital year-to-date through the third quarter totaled $557 million or 47% of our total capital.
So if you take that Permian and Mid-Continent you'll see that's 93% of our total capital year-to-date.
Majority of our Mid-Continent activity has been our Cana-Woodford play where we've drilled and completed 108 gross or 40 net wells.
So as the Cana play began in late 2007 we've participated in 283 gross or 111 net wells and of the total wells 251 gross or 96 net were on production at quarter end and the remainder were either in the process of being drilled or awaiting completion.
So we've got a lot of data on this play.
That said it's still one of our most challenging technical problems.
We focus most of this year's drilling on delineating and holding acreage outside of what we've discussed as our defined core.
As we look to 2012 we're working on plans to shift back to the core and possibly begin an infill drilling program.
That's where we find the best returns.
We don't have an acreage exploration issue anywhere in the play that we can't manage.
So next year it's highly likely that a significant portion of our capital will be directed to a core infill drilling project.
Again we haven't finalized those plans.
They're still actively being discussed but it's fair to give you a little hint on what we're thinking.
Moving on to the Gulf Coast our last area before I turn the call over to Joe Albi.
This year in the Gulf coast we drilled 8 gross or 6.7 net Yegua/Cook Mountain wells of which 3 or 2.4 net were successful.
So I'll just interject there we're not having a particularly good year drilling in the Gulf Coast.
It does tend to ebb and flow.
We're still very dedicated to developing and high grading our prospect inventory and we have a lot of projects in the hopper.
Gulf Coast exploration development capital year-to-date to the third quarter total $69 million or about 6% of our total capital.
So it's not a lot of our capital but it certainly is a program that has and we expect will generate tremendous returns for us.
The Gulf Coast production drop has been masking our growth in the Permian Basin and Mid-Continent.
We averaged 81.8 million cubic feet equivalent a day for the third quarter of 2011 a 51% decrease in the Gulf Coast as compared to third quarter 2010 average of 166.8 million cubic feet a day.
So we're seeing the backside of the tremendous success we had bringing on some of these monster wells in 2009 2010.
But the drop really is a result of our lack of drilling success in this year's program and also a natural decline in these highly productive wells over the last 2 years.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Joe Albi our Chief Operating Officer to give you a little more color.
Thank you Tom and thank you all for joining us on our call here today.
I'll be summarizing our Q3 production.
I'll touch on our Q4 and full year guidance and then follow up with a few comments on service cost.
As we reported our Q3 average net daily equivalent production came in at 592 million a day that was about as expected.
We're up 6.3 million a day from Q2 and just a bit below the midpoint of our guidance which was 585 to 610.
That said our production was impacted by about 6 million a day from numerous pipeline maintenance and repair type shut-ins that occurred during the quarter primarily in the Permian.
Without the shut-ins we would have come in at 598 million a day which would have put us just above the midpoint of our guidance.
Once again we also set a few new records in Q3.
Our Mid-Continent net equivalent production of 303 million a day is a new record.
And with it Mid-Continent now represents 51% of our total company production.
Our Cana equivalent volume of 139 million a day is also a new high.
Cana is up 66% from the 84 million a day we reported in Q3 of 2010 and now represents 23% of our total company production.
Our Permian oil production of 17 578 barrels a day is also a new record.
As is our Permian net equivalent production of 206 million a day.
The Permian now represents 35% of our total company production.
Our combined Mid-Continent and Permian oil and NGL volumes or our liquid volumes of 37 106 barrels a day is also a record.
These 2 regions now make up 85% of our total liquids which is also a new high for Cimarex.
So I point out these new records primarily because they really emphasize and they focus our business strategy and that's our long-term growth programs in the Permian and the Mid-Continent as well as our recent when I say recent over the last 1.5 years emphasis on oil and liquids-rich gas-type plays.
As Tom pointed out on an equivalent basis Q3 was a repeat of what we've seen in recent quarters.
Production increases from our Mid-Continent and our Permian programs offset by anticipated and expected declines in the Gulf Coast.
As compared to Q2 '11 our total Gulf Coast equivalent production dropped 35 million a day from 117 million a day in Q2 to 82 million a day in Q3.
That's a 30% drop.
But offsetting this decline our Mid-Continent production increased 18 million a day from 285 million a day in Q2 to 303 million a day in Q3 a 6% increase.
While our Permian production increased 24 million a day from 182 million a day in Q2 to 206 million a day in Q3 a double-digit 13% increase.
Combined the Mid-Continent and the Permian were up 42 million a day for the quarter which more than offset 35 million-a-day drop that we saw in Gulf Coast.
In comparison to Q3 '10 our Q3 '11 total company equivalent production of 592 million a day was down slightly 1% from the 600 million a day we reported in Q3 '10.
But as we break down the numbers we see the similar story significant but anticipated drops in the Gulf Coast offset by attractive year-over-year production gains in the Mid-Continent and the Permian.
Over the last year Gulf Coast volume dropped 85 million a day from 167 million a day in Q3 '10 to 82 million a day in Q3 '11 that's a 51% drop.
But offsetting this our Mid-Continent-Permian programs increased to combine 77 million a day with our Mid-Continent production up 40 million a day from 263 million a day in Q3 '10 to the 303 million a day we just reported in Q3 '11 it's a 15% year-over-year increase.
And our Permian production was up 37 million a day from 169 million a day in Q3 '10 to 206 million a day in Q3 '11.
That's a 22% annualized increase.
Combined the Mid-Continent-Permian programs which now make up 86% of our total company production grew to a respectable 18%.
Mark mentioned the value that liquids play to our cash flow.
And our third quarter liquid mix of 44% was virtually flat to that of Q2.
But with our focus on oil and liquids-rich gas we're up 3 points from the 41% that we reported in Q3 '10.
As we mentioned earlier the Mid-Continent and the Permian are the catalyst really to our liquids growth.
Our Q3 '11 Permian liquid volumes are now at 21 499 barrels a day that's up 31% from where the Permian was in Q3 '10.
And our Mid-Continent liquid volumes are at 15 607 barrels a day that's up 42% from Q3 '10.
As we've mentioned already on the -- excuse me as we've reported today our Q4 reported guidance was 588 million to 613 million a day.
And what's built into that is really projected continued growth in the Mid-Continent and Permian offsetting an anticipated and expected 7 million- to 12 million-a-day drop that we foresee in our Q4 Gulf Coast production which we anticipate will average at a level of maybe 70 million to 75 million a day during the fourth quarter.
We've also built into our guidance the continuation of some Permian plant and pipeline shut-ins that we've seen during the month of October which we believe will impact our October volumes to the tune of 6 million to 9 million a day.
As we have scheduled our Q4 guidance midpoint puts us around 600 million a day which will reflect yet another quarter of sequential growth for us.
Our Q4 projection now with this last quarter projected out that calculates into a full year guidance of 589 to 595.
So we're in essence flat to 2010 where we reported 596 million a day.
On the surface we're flat but underneath the hood you'll see that our 2011 Gulf Coast production is forecasted to drop by about 70 million a day with our Mid-Continent and Permian programs forecasted to make up the difference.
As we've alluded to earlier in the call as far as 2012 goes we're currently in the midst of our planning cycle and we're certainly going to be in a better position to project guidance once our budgeting is over and we get a better feel for the market.
Shifting gears a little bit to cost.
No big surprises with our Q3 lifting cost.
We came in flat to Q2 at $1.14 per Mcfe.
We see LOE cost somewhat stabilizing and with them doing so we've kept our full year guidance at $1.02 to $1.22.
I say that and we've got a strong emphasis in our operations group to continue our focus on fighting the cost increases that we've seen especially in the areas of salt water disposal in particular the Permian.
We're also focusing in on the basics: chemicals lease maintenance power and fuel.
On the drilling side drilling and completion side we've yet to see any real significant cost relief in our drilling and completion cost.
And as Thomas mentioned earlier in the call they're certainly playing a role in the economics of our program.
Most of these cost increases as we've talked about last call are happening on the completion side.
And as we've mentioned last call frac cost as compared to the beginning of the year have gone up anywhere from 5% to greater than 100% but the biggest increase is being seen in the Permian.
Now that rate of increase has slowed down a bit in Q3 where we've seen anywhere from flat to 30% increases as compared to Q2.
And this is due primarily to not only job design but we have seen some service cost increases again more associated with the Permian.
That said equipment is available.
The costs to get to significantly soften although we're seeing some early signs that they may be and we hope that to play a critical role in our cost reductions that  we hope to obtain here in the fourth quarter.
On the drilling side the majority of our cost pressure once again seems to be in the Permian and I think that's indicative of the rapid rig count rate that we've all seen in the industry happen in the Permian.
But in general our drilling group has done a fairly good job of keeping our well cost increases in check.
We just need to get the darn cost down.
Our Cana core wells are still running 7.5 million to 8.5 million a day.
That's basically flat to where we were in January and that's due to a lot of the efficiencies that we've derived or put together in that program.
Due primarily to a change in our frac design our third quarter Second and Third New Mexico Bone Spring wells are running around $5.2 million to $5.5 million.
That's up from the levels of $4.8 million to $5.2 million that we've quoted in previous calls.
And as we move here into Q4 you'll see us look at different completion designs which may mean more cost and/or lateral length which may mean more cost but in doing so we would be anticipating that we'd get obviously some offsetting production and economic value in doing so.
So we'll continue to look at that as well.
Our Permian Paddock-Blinebry wells are still coming in around $2 million to $2.2 million that's up 5% to 10% from late Q1 early Q2.
And as we continue to develop and really try to refine our Wolfcamp shale play in more ways than one just not only geologically but from a drilling standpoint and completion standpoint our current AFEs are now running $7.5 million to $8 million and that's up from $6.5 million to $7.5 million that we quoted at the end of the first quarter.
As we move forward as Tom alluded to our operation teams and exploration teams are joined at the hip focusing on means to improve efficiencies and design where we can to offset these cost pressures that we've seen and get our rates of return up to where we need them.
We're going to work hard on not only cutting down drilling time through efficiencies but the completion costs make up a valuable portion of these wells how we design those completions getting those cost down are going to be key to us really enhancing our rate of returns.
So in summary Q3 was another good quarter for us.
We had continued production growth in the Mid-Continent and the Permian.
Our guidance midpoint projects likely continued total sequential quarter-to-quarter company production growth in Q4.
Our lifting cost that remained in check and we are going to continue to find out the cost pressures we've seen on the drilling and completion side.
At the same time we believe we're starting to see early signs of the market possibly loosening up a bit especially on the frac side.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Paul.
Thanks Joe.
Just a couple of things.
We cash flowed about $1 billion through the first 9 months of the year and includes $44 million that we won't collect until early next year the tax refund that we intend to apply for in the very near future or early next year.
We -- our capital investment was $1.2 billion.
So that was call it $250 million in excess of cash flow that the GAAP was funded with $200 million of property sales and dipped into the cash balance that we carried into the year.
Borrowing have collapsed and oil prices here in the remaining part of the fourth quarter.
And combined with our expectations for where December bid prices might come we're poised to cash flow something between $250 million and $300 million in the fourth quarter as well.
So by most expectations we should be close to $1.3 billion of cash flow for the year and which we anticipate then combined with property sales and cash we'll fully fund our $1.6 billion program this year.
With cash cost pretty much having leveled off in reasonable expectations.
Prices next year I think most would expect us to be cash flowing in the range of $1.2 billion next year.
So very similar to where we're at this year.
So more likely than not I would say our capital will come down from the $1.6 billion that it was this year.
We'll probably round cash flow.
But as Tom and Joe have emphasized those plans are still being pulled together.
With that operator we would be very happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tom first of all just really appreciate all the open dialogue this morning.
I'm sure other companies face similar cost pressures as you guys but do appreciate the open thoughts there.
My question is on the Permian.
If you look at the amount of completions you guys had in Q2 and then you look at Q3 I guess we would've expected a bigger build sequentially given you had a full quarter of production.
I'm just wondering if there were some other infrastructure or other delays in your Permian over this third quarter that would have kept some of the production down? Brian this is Joe Albi.
As I've mentioned earlier in the call we saw about a 6 its a little bit high -- more than 6 but call it 6-plus million a day impact in our Q3 volumes with really through the most part I've anticipated from our forecasting standpoint pipeline and plant-related type of shut-ins.
And it was fairly consistent during the quarter.
And those have continued into October.
And in October it even jumped up to about 9 million a day.
Now most of those are behind us and we've tried to build that into our Q4.
So you probably see our Q4 number a little bit impacted there.
At the same time it did have an impact in Q3.
Tom has mentioned to some of the steeper declines.
I think that's probably playing a role in the whole thing from the forecasting of the base standpoint.
But overall our programs are still generating some very healthy year-over-year type analyzed growth and it's something that we hope to continue obviously.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then the -- on the plant downtimes I'm sorry I just -- I must have missed.
That's in the Permian as well as in the Cana? Yes most of that 6 million a day that I mentioned in Q3 came out of Permian.
And the 9 million a day I referenced in October specifically the Permian and we had I think another 0.5 million a day in the Mid-Continent in October.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I know you guys aren't there on 2012 guidance yet especially on the CapEx side but given the cost pressures that you guys have seen across the portfolio is your -- are you aiming to be more CapEx flat year-over-year down or up? Could you just kind of bread basket it for us? Yes Brian.
This is Tom.
I would say CapEx flat is probably going to be higher end of what we're looking at.
And again I reserve the right to later contradict myself.
But the way we're currently looking at it I think that flat would be probably as aggressive as we'll be.
And we're looking at our cost.
I think we've said everything I would repeat but I just want to say again it's about returns.
We're really looking at return on invested capital and accelerating in a historical high-cost environment just doesn't seem to be very prudent to us right now.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I understand.
But at the same time is there internally or are you going to necessarily stay within cash flow? Well that's -- yes something we're also debating.
There's no -- I'll say this we don't have any rule about staying within cash flow.
If we think the returns are there and we have to tap our borrowing base and fund it we would do that gladly.
But it's really about where do we think we have returns and what level of activity do we think we can sustain with those kind of returns.
Your next question is from the line of Amir Arif.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just had a first few questions for you.
First of all on the water cuts.
Can you just give us a little more color in terms of this is this something -- is it a trend you're seeing from like north to south or east to west or is this something that almost varies well-by-well? Well we're -- I don't want to be coy because that's not my intent.
We're just -- we're really kind of figuring this out right now.
We did step out and drill some thicker reservoirs and we do see a little higher water cut in some of these zones that were thicker.
Now is that on average and trend? Right now I have just to tell you honestly I don't know.
We're having a serious roll up our sleeves session next week.
We've had a lot of science being directed to this problem and we're in the throes of attempting to understand it.
I'm fairly confident that we can high grade around it.
Now that may mean that we drop a rig or a couple of rigs in order to get back to what we would consider to be our historical average.
But whether it's a function of depth thickness or core other parameters right now we're just studying that and we don't have any answers for you.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so again it is early days but is there a way for you to -- or do you think you can overcome it with your completion approach or is it simply -- certain areas will simply be that way and you just have to figure out which areas those are? Yes I suspect we're going to overcome it by what we target.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you talked about potentially dropping a rig or 2 just because of the returns.
Can you just give us a sense of what you think the returns are when you talk about the 46% water cut versus the 56%? Well what happens is returns on this play as I said at the outset there really is no average.
And if we've erred in doing anything we've probably talked about an average for a play that has no average.
Now one of the things that isn't a good average is the particular lease that you're drilling on.
We have a whole host of opportunities out here very deep drilling inventory.
Some of those are on new federal leases where the net revenue interest is 87.5% and others of them are on leases where we had to take term assignments or farm-ins and we may have a low net revenue interest of 75% or less and may have other burdens like carries or back-ends.
So the returns are really a function of the core lease.
I can tell you that even with our results we're still getting for a 75% net revenue interest lease which is we would consider to be a stinky lease we're still well in excess of better than 30% in our drilling dollar.
If we go to a federal lease that's 87.5% we are well beyond that.
So what we're going to do though if we look at the lease that we think has steeper decline high water cut and it's burdened to the extent that the returns fall below what we would consider to be acceptable levels we're not going to drill it.
Even though it will add to production and even though it can keep activity going we're not going to be activity-driven.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And just switching over to the Gulf Coast.
Can you tell us what the exit rate was this quarter if the average was 82? Joe is looking for that.
I don't have that committed to memory.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I'm right I think you guys were talking about 70 to 75 in Q4 was the average.
Yes.
I'm going on a limb here because I don't have that monthly data in front of me.
But wait a minute [indiscernible] I'm going to guess it's pretty darn close to that 80.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it's not down to the 60 or 70s -- or below 70s level.
No no no.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then that's in same level.
Then just on the Gulf Coast I mean when you factor in the pre-drill returns where do you think you come out relative to the Permian? I'm just curious like would you rather not be dropping a rig or 2 in the Gulf Coast instead of some of the other areas? Well our -- as we discussed before our returns in the Gulf Coast pre-drill eclipse anything else we have.
I mean the Gulf Coast is an area of great geologic risk and there is still a relationship between risk and return.
Our challenge in the Gulf Coast isn't anything other than drilling dry holes.
I mean these are risky locations.
They can be greater than 50% chance of drilling a dry hole.
They're not -- it's not pattern drilling each one is unique.
And there is a fair amount of dry hole risk.
And although we have a couple of years of just drilling producer after producer as we've said we haven't forgotten how to drill dry holes.
And we certainly confirmed that this year.
We love the returns that this program generates.
We're actively rebuilding our inventory and it will be a part of our program on an ongoing basis.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you like the returns even with for example like this year's 40% success rate so you think on the project economics...
Well I mean in this year we're not getting good returns in that program.
I mean this year our returns are not good.
But I think if you look at any reasonable timeline average you'll find it's one of our highest return areas.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I missed your comment on the Mid-Continent site and the Cana.
Were -- you mentioned you were going to be focusing more on the core.
So are you thinking of potentially dropping a rig or 2 there too or...
No no.
We're -- we currently have 12 rigs running in Cana.
We lent a rig to the Mid-Continent so if you -- when that comes back we have 13.
If anything I can tell you that our Cana team is lobbying for a continuation of that level of activity.
So I would guess rolling into next year we'll have somewhere between 8 and 13 rigs running in Cana.
Initially we had talked about maybe throttling back to 8 but they are lobbying pretty strongly that think they can keep 13 running with excellent returns and we're going to look at that.
Amir this is Joe Albi.
I pulled some data out here.
It looks like we entered October somewhere around that 75-ish range.
So that gives you a feel for how that compares to the 70 to 75 that I forecasted for Q4.
So it's in essence saying a slight drop.
Your next question is from the line of Ryan Todd.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions for you.
In the Permian your net well completions went from 36 in 2Q down at 23 in 3Q and seems to be below the pace you need to kind of hit that full-year target that you guided to earlier.
Was there anything in the quarter that happened from a completion point of view that -- and how should we think about Q4? We're kind of looking closer that's got to just be a timing issue.
Yes primarily completions.
Yes.
We did have our Wolfcamp program kind of on pause but that would have -- I don't think that would be a Q2 to Q3 difference.
Why don't you let us look into that and if you want to give Mark a call we can give you a little more color to that.
Yes Ryan.
I don't know any trend that cause it to be off here in much quarter to quarter.
Only -- what do we do is always capture the wells that we've drilled and completed in the quarter and there's sometime bulges towards the end of periods that we catch up some completions or not.
It always does surprise me how that can ebb and flow just with the timing of where they fall.
But I don't know if that's the answer to your question.
And we did pick up our Permian service unit activity late May early June so that could have had an end-of-quarter impact.
Yes.
Is that sufficiently vague on our answer? Research Division</strong> That's great.
But realistically you probably expect some amount of bounce back in Q4 is that probably right? We're getting pretty caught up on our completions particularly in the Permian where when we get a well down we should be able to turn right around and get it completed.
And at the same time I'm telling you that the rig schedule's from our wells out there for us to complete.
So it's never -- you'll never get to a point where it's 0 because the well gets down and you need to complete it.
Then you throw on top of that some of the areas where we're drilling the infrastructure needs to be developed and that may come into play too.
So It's a little bit wild card there but we've made great strides from where we were at the end of Q1 with regard to our backlog.
Research Division</strong> Great.
In the Cana I know you've had a couple of operators this week say they were dropping rigs.
So from -- I know you just talked about general rig count going forward next year.
I mean would you expect your non-op well cost to be down year-on-year in the next year? And would that free up some extra money for you were to run extra operated or...
That's a great question.
And I'll -- again I'm going to say there are a lot of operators in Cana and we're not omnipotent on what everybody's thinking but I'll tell you from what it looks like from our standpoint.
Cana has expanded to a much larger area than we first had described.
Certainly both to the northwest and the southeast that play has expanded multiple fold.
And what looks like it's going to happen next year is a lot of that activity in the extended Cana is contracting.
And we see activity actually increasing in the core.
We've talked about infill drilling.
I can tell you that we're aware of at least a couple other companies that are talking about doing a little infill drilling in the Cana core.
And so the direct answer to your question is we're anticipating our non-operating capital to actually increase in 2012 as we participate with significant working interest in other companies' infill programs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final question I guess is you talked a little bit about the Gulf Coast.
Any -- how should we think about expectations for next year on how many rigs that we're on? How much capital you'll spend? Well we haven't given it obviously any capital numbers yet but I can tell you what we're doing in the Gulf Coast.
We currently have 2 rigs running and at least one of those 2 rigs once drilling the well it's currently on we'll release it.
So we'll have as we get into the fourth quarter we'll have somewhere between 0 and 1 rigs running when we finish our current inventory.
We have acquired a significant amount of new 3D data through purchase and trade and we'll get that out of processing.
Our model is we get 3D data.
We either purchase it trade for it or we shoot it new.
And we process it with the latest geophysical techniques which are always evolving and we generate prospects based on that newly processed data.
We acquired a considerable amount of data over the last few months through trade and that will be coming out of the processing shop here in the fourth quarter.
And we have 2 proprietary 3D programs currently underway.
So what's going to happen in 2012 is we'll enter the year with a low level of activity.
And then based on what we identify we'll ramp up.
Given the area we're working our history I will be extremely surprised if we don't ramp up fairly significantly.
So our wild-guess number for 2012 is somewhere around the level we've been this year and that will be probably $75 million to $100 million in drilling capital in 2012.
But not having the prospects yet identified that is a guess based completely on our historical experience in the area.
But that's what it looks like.
Your next question is from the line of Gil Yang.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the performance issues again? Sorry to talk about this more.
But is it -- you said it's -- the results aren't matching your type -- your pre-drill expectations.
Have your pre-drill expectations also for those particular wells are they also sort of -- have they deteriorated as well or your pre-drill expectations are the same as it's been for the last 2 years? Is that just the way...
No no no.
We're in the process of revising that now.
What's happened Gil is our first 30 days what we -- there's really a number of parameters that control our viewpoint of the program.
As Joe said our first one what is the cost to drill and complete the well.
And then the initial production rate or our first 30-day average is the number we dial in carefully and focus on and then the decline of the well overtime.
Our costs have gone up.
Our first 30-day average really hasn't changed much.
Our type curve trend has been somewhere between 550 and 600 barrel per day for first 30-day average.
And year-to-date we're north of 500 on that.
So we're a little below average but really when we say "Okay what's gone a little haywire here "  our initial production is not it.
Which is why it took us a little time to catch this because you had to watch these wells and see how they performed over time.
If you only watched the initial production of the first 30 days you'd high-five one another and go on.
But we watched these wells carefully and we calibrate our actual results against our pre-drill estimates.
And what we've observed is these ultra-tight reservoirs are declining faster than we modeled.
And that's -- so if you ask what's the disconnect from your type curve I would say our cost are disconnect and our decline is a disconnect.
We still argue about what the tail reserves are.
But on a rate-of-return basis that first year decline is really going to control it.
And our returns are still very good here.
I mean this is not -- we're probably being a little too dour in representing the play.
It still is generating very very good returns when the lease terms are acceptable.
But on several or our marginal leases because of this phenomenon we're seeing our returns erode and we're adjusting.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Talking about the water cut issue is the water cut problem a rate issue is it an LOIP issue or is it a EUR issue or some of everything? It's not a rate issue.
Total fluid is about what you'd find if you looked at 2 wells the total fluid is equivalent.
So it is a oil-in-place issue I believe.
And this is a very nuanced petrophysical problem.
It's not something you can just lay a log down and say "Oh yes look at that versus that." We have a fairly sophisticated petrophysical group that's dug into this and they think it's a predictable -- it would be unfair for me to say solvable because it's an oil-in-place issue.
But I think we can predict it and target areas where we can get higher water cuts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So being an LOIP issue it's also an EUR issue? Yes.
No that's right that's right.
But EUR Gil it's tough -- EUR is funny number on a reservoir like this with 6 months production.
So there's a lot of argument.
Research Division</strong> And you guys have a strong balance sheet and you've been very disciplined about trying to spend more or less within cash flow.
As you think about sort of pulling back have you given -- or what kind of thought have you given towards using a strong balance sheet at sort of the bottom of the cycle so to speak to maybe high grade the inventory in a offensive way rather than defensive way? Well we think about that everyday.
And if you know people that are selling assets at reasonable prices give us a call.
I mean it still feels like a seller's market out there Gil.
I don't know what you're seeing but we see these assets transact at fair premiums.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's still not -- it hasn't reached the point that you think it's really completely attractive? Well I -- let me just say we haven't found anything we would want to stretch for.
We look all the time balance sheet is ready.
And as we've discussed an asset we would stretch for is one that we think has significant drilling upside that we can capture.
But for the time being we're still creating our own inventory.
Our next question is from the line of Joe Allman.
Research Division</strong> So in terms of the Wolfcamp play Tom I think you mentioned there are cost issues there.
But have you seen any performance issues with that play? It's -- the play spans I don't know how many miles it spans but it's a big big area.
And yes we do see differences in our results based on where we are in the area.
There are some portion of the area that we're kind of struggling making an economic well and there's some portions of our area where we're making great wells.
That average we quote of our 14 wells is an average that includes a high and low that's a true average.
But yes we're seeing performance differences.
And Joe we're again I told you we'd discussed some of our thinkings on problems more than solutions.
We are really really digging into this.
We just took a core in the Wolfcamp that our chief petrophysicist is here today analyzing.
We just recorded our first microseismic job finished last night in the Wolfcamp so we can understand our fracture geometry.
I mean we are just very early time.
And we're encouraged our results are good thus far.
But I have to say if we had to call Cana after just 14 wells we'd have gotten it way wrong.
So we're trying to build this thing as we fly it.
We have 2 rigs drilling Wolfcamp wells right now.
And I'm encouraged by the returns but we're trying to really improve them.
Research Division</strong> And Tom I think in that play you defined a core so are you seeing a lot of variability within that core or is the variability -- is the core consistent and you are seeing differences outside the core? Yes I don't know if we -- it's fair to say we've defined a core yet Joe.
I mean we -- there are areas where we're getting better wells than others.
And I'll say this it's not a laydown to explain that difference.
A lot of rocks look the same a lot of the structure looks the same.
It's not a depth difference.
So we're kind of focusing on the next order.
What's the stretch we're seeing? What is the fracture geometry? But I don't think I can honestly represent to you that we understand an area we can draw a circle around and say "That's the core." Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in terms of the rig count I think you talked about for 2012 8 to 13 rigs in the Cana-Woodford.
And then I think you're running about 14 rigs right now in the Permian and where did you get...
We currently -- yes we currently have 14.
And we'll -- we're going to decrease that.
I would say going forward we'll be somewhere probably 9 to 12.
But again that's not a forecast.
We're still arguing about that.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And will the drop be primarily from the Second and Third Bone Spring or...
We're -- there will be some drop there.
We also will probably throttle back a little bit in the Wolf Camp and that's -- we want to give our operations group with the exploration group some time to get our costs down.
We're drilling some really really nice wells and if we could shave our cost the returns would be something we'd be a little more excited about.
Research Division</strong> And Tom are you seeing -- in terms of cost are you seeing -- you focused on cost in the Permian really being the issue primarily are you still seeing cost increases as of the past 30 days or 2 months or I guess you're seeing it plateau for the...
Yes Joe Albi said they slowed a little.
But I want to be fair to our listeners and our operations group.
Our problem in the Permian is a combination of costs and our performance.
And I think we can make significant strides on both areas.
Joe a little bit more flavor to there.
I mean as far as day rate increases mboe increases cement increases rental increases we feel a little bit more cost-pressured down in the Permian than we do let's say in the Mid-Continent.
In discussions I had yesterday with the gentleman heading up our fracs.
He's starting to feel a little bit a lightening or loosening in some of the majors in particular their willingness to kind of move a little bit on these fracs.
To me it's just a matter of time and it's when it happens.
Completion costs make up such a big percent of wells we drill today as compared to years past.
That's where the focus has got to be.
And that comes down to the design.
Are you overdesigning these things under designing them number of stages prop type gel or fluid type? How many pounds? How many barrels? And then of course on obviously the cost to get it off.
And some of these companies perform better than others.
Some of the majors they give us a job down in 4 5 days versus 7 on some of these longer days.
So in my mind we're not only on the completion side.
That's where we got to focus but also on that drilling side we got to get those day time curves shifted to the left and improve our efficiencies there.
We're also talking to our competition trying to understand what they're doing what we're not what's working for them and what's working for us and trying to put it all together to better improve our overall program.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful Joe.
And then I know -- my question is what kind of spending do you think you need to keep production flat? And I know it depends on what you are going to spend your money on and service costs and everything but what's your best guess at how much you need to spend to keep production flat? Well that's a hard question to answer since we haven't completed really a lot of our 2012 forecast.
What I will say there Joe is just based on some of the wedge volumes that we've put together for 2011 where we would anticipate our 2012 production to start at and end at without any new wedge is no different than what we've thought in years past where an exit rate might drop around 30%.
So 25%- to 30%-type drop I'll let you guys do the numbers there as to how you'd put capital towards that.
But that's about as far as I can go with that.
We'll do some work on that.
We get asked that question a fair amount and maybe on our next call we'll talk about our plans we'll discuss that.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then lastly a question for Paul.
Paul any thoughts on hedging for 2012? We have no hedges in place for 2012 and have not had any active discussions about doing it either.
Your next question is from the line of Jeff Robertson.
Research Division</strong> In terms of activity levels in the Permian is -- do you think by running as many rigs as you have you all got a little bit out ahead of your ability to maintain the kind of quality control from the technical teams that you generally like? Boy I'd love to be -- I'd love to say yes to that but that's not the case.
I think that what happens and it's just part of the business this is not an excuse I'm going to give you my clear straight answer Jeff.
When your returns are great you get a little -- you don't look as carefully at the numbers.
I mean about mid-summer we took a close honest look at our actual to expected numbers.
We have a lot of machinery internally that calibrates our decisions.
Our -- we run this company by doing good science generating opportunity but also making sure that our decisions are well calibrated.
When your returns $100 in oil and a low-cost structure our returns were so phenomenal that a lot of our operating groups weren't paying very careful attention to the calibration of our decisions.
When the rate of return is north of 50% all in it's easy to forget that that's an important part of your business.
As our cost increased and our results decreased a little we had to kind of remind ourselves of first principles: understand your results recalibrate them to your drilling decision and make sure you're making good decisions.
I can't really chalk that up to activity and blame activity as much as I can blame the aura of success and what that does to our core discipline.
Research Division</strong> If you all reduce your rigs do you think -- and then decide at some point a quarter 2 quarters or 6 months from now that you want to increase do you think there'll be -- given the Permian today do you think you'd have any issues trying to get back some of those rigs if you let them go and let to other operators? I think we can get them back.
And -- but you know what Jeff even if I told you I didn't think so we wouldn't do anything different.
And one of the things that we're reminding ourselves is don't driven by that rig -- by that rig count.
Be driven by the quality of the investment and the confidence you have that you're going to achieve the result that you predict.
So I -- yes I think we can get them back.
I think that they'll be there and we've given our teams the mandate to figure this out and get back to full throttle.
Tom I'll chime -- this is Joe I'll chime in a little bit there too.
We have -- the rig situation is tight.
And I guess the way I'd explain it overall is day rates haven't come down but there's no huge waiting lists like there used to be.
We've actually moved some rigs from the Mid-Continent down to the Permian.
I don't think it'd be an issue with the Permian to get a rig.
But what I do want to emphasize is I see our regrouping there in the Permian it's all about rate of return.
We've said that over and over again and that's what it is for us.
We still have a large inventory of opportunity in the Second and Third Bone Spring New Mexico program.
All we're doing is recalibrating taking a look at our current results.
We're reevaluating reshuffling and high grading.
Now through that high grading process all of a sudden more opportunity surfaced than we knew about.
That could bring a rig back to work in a heartbeat.
So I think it's after we go back and sift through our project inventory that we can better answer that.
And that's really kind of underlying our fourth quarter budgeting process.
Yes.
We tend to be a dour group but we have a couple of new opportunities in the Permian that we'll be testing here shortly.
It has a tremendous running room.
So we ought to end this one on the note that we love the Permian.
It's generating some of our best returns.
We have some of the best generating teams that I think work anywhere in the business.
We have systems in place to give us the opportunity to have real returns based on real results and we are -- we will come roaring back in the Permian with the existing opportunity set and new ones that we're working on.
Research Division</strong> Tom you touched on my last question was going to be if you all think about your 2012 Permian plans can you give any color on maybe in a percentage term of what you might spend or what you might try to do on what you consider to be new ventures apart from some of the plays you all have discussed previously? Jeff at this point I really can't.
I can tell you that there over the next quarter we're going to test a couple of new ideas that have significant running room.
But what that could mean in capital it wouldn't have any meaning if I gave you a number because the concepts may not work.
There are no further questions.
I'll turn it back over to the presenters.
Great.
Thank you all for joining us today.
We appreciate all the attention and appreciate your questions.
I look forward to reporting back to you next quarter.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon my name is David and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings and Operations Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mark Burford you may begin your conference.
Thank you David and thank you everyone for joining us today for our fourth quarter 2011 results conference call.
We have issued our financial and operating results news release and it's been posted to our website this morning.
We also posted in our website a presentation that we will refer to from time to time during today's call.
And I will also point out that we will be making forward-looking statements on this call and I refer you to the end of our press release and our presentation regarding our statement regarding forward-looking statements.
On today's call here in Denver we have Tom Jorden President and CEO; Joe Albi EVP and COO; and Paul Korus Senior Vice President and CFO.
Paul will make some opening remarks around our financials and then we'll turn the call over to Tom and Joe to go over the operations.
Great stuff.
Our earnings release detailed very positive results of operations for 2011 and a favorable outlook for 2012.
Before turning the call over to Tom and Joe to describe these accomplishments and expectations I'd like to briefly reiterate just a few financial highlights.
First off I need to mention ahead of our review of 2011 is challenged by the fact that it's often compared to our record results in 2010 a year in which we hit on all cylinders and set new highs for most measures.
Not even Jeremy Lin scores more points each and every night.
Still at 2011 we achieved even greater revenues in cash flow than we did in 2010.
Our revenues reached nearly $1.8 billion versus $1.6 billion in 2010.
Our cash flow from operating activities rose to $1.3 billion compared to $1.2 billion a year earlier.
Our earnings were also strong.
Once again we exceeded the $500 million mark.
In 2011 net income totaled $530 million or $6.15 per share.
That compares to $575 million or $6.70 per share in 2010 a year in which we had substantially larger hedging gains and non-recurring income from the early extinguishment of some debt.
As this usually indicates the prices we received for our production of oil gas and natural gas liquids had the greatest impact of anything on our financial results.
In 2011 price realizations for oil and natural gas liquids increased by more than 20%.
On the other hand gas prices were 10% lower.
During the year our production and revenue mix changed as we came more tilted towards liquids output versus natural gas.
In 2011 about 50% of our production was gas with 44% being oil and natural gas liquids.
Combining with the effect of prices however roughly 70% of our revenues were derived from oil and natural gas liquids with less than 30% coming from gas.
The shift in our production mix is no accident.
It reflects the choices we make for capital investment.
So even though we may not always deliver as robust overall growth rates as some would like to see we continue to make good profits and are able to do so without levering up our balance sheet or issuing equity.
We had good growth in our proved reserves during 2011 and have an equally active capital program plan for 2012.
With quality cash flow at a very strong balance sheet we have a lot of flexibility for how we fund our 2012 program.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Paul.
I'm going to be working off the presentation that's posted on our website.
So if any of you have it up I'll be starting with Slide 7.
If you don't have it up it's not really that important but there are some figures in there that might help as I talk.
In 2011 we invested a hair under $1.6 billion in exploration and development.
We drilled 174 net wells and as Paul said in this other release we had extremely solid returns in our Permian and Cana programs.
We grew our proved reserves to 2.05 Tcf equivalent which is a record for us.
Our Permian Mid-Continent reserves proved increased 26% an all-time high of 2 Tcf equivalent.
We added 587 Bcf equivalent from extensions and discoveries and 45% of those adds were liquids 55% gas.
All in all we replaced 272% of production.
But the real story and we'll get onto that as we give you a little detail is our record 2011 Permian Basin and Mid-Continent production of 487 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
Those 2 regions in aggregate showed a 16% production growth over 2010.
Those are our engines of growth.
On Slide 8 it shows our core operating areas now many of you are familiar with this but just to recap of that 2.05 Tcf equivalent 98% are Mid-Continent and Permian reserves and fully 89% of our production are Mid-Continent and Permian.
So those are the engines.
On Slide 9 it shows us graphically.
Slide 9 shows our proved reserves as they've increased the last few years.
We have a very solid reserve base.
As Paul said our investments have pulled us towards liquids-rich areas.
That's in part tactical a little strategic but it's mostly driven by the invisible hand of the disconnect between gas and oil prices and we are just in a very nice position with one of the best Permian assets amongst our peers and we can emphasize that oil production by simply shifting our weight.
As you can see in 2011 we ended the year 41% liquids; 59% gas that's a nice healthy growth; compound annual growth rate of 54% of liquids growth and we ended the year with 82% proved developed reserves 18% proved undeveloped.
The next slide Slide 10 shows our proved reserves by region and this again shows the solid growth that we're seeing out of the Permian and Mid-Continent.
We've been growing the last few years a compound annual growth rate of 28%.
In 2010 we did sell our Riley Ridge asset in Sublette County Wyoming.
That was 210 Bcf of proved undeveloped gas reserves.
That's the gray bar there on your slide on 10.
We replaced those reserves and accounting for that still increased our proved reserves 9%.
If net of that sale if we get back that sale out we increased our proved reserves 23%.
So a very solid year on a reserve basis.
Moving on to Slide 11 and now we'll talk about 2012 which is really the story for us today.
2012 we're going to -- we're giving you a capital range and that's because that we're in a rapidly changing environment.
We have a lot of flexibility for 2012 we have a tremendous opportunity set but we're going to say here this morning what we said for years.
We are going to adapt and change to a very changing environment.
So one of the things you'll hear us talk about are plans with Cana and plans with the Permian and those are fungible.
Right now as everybody in the industry we're watching gas prices carefully we're watching liquids prices carefully.
Depending on local conditions we may switch some capital from Cana to the Permian or not.
I mean right now we're seeing outstanding returns in the Permian and our Permian group is hungry for more capital.
Our reserve and production adds from 2012 drilling are expected to be 40% to 50% liquids.
In the Permian Basin in 2012 we're currently at 11 rigs and we're planning on averaging somewhere between 11 peaking out at 15 to 16 rigs.
In the Bone Spring we'll get over 60 wells drilled.
And our unconventional plays of the Wolfcamp and the Avalon we have plans for 30 wells.
And on our Paddock play vertical wells we have plans for 50 wells.
So very very active Permian program and I'll give you a little more detail that here in a minute.
Our Mid-Continent program is expected to average between 10 and 12 rigs for the year and that would be split between our Cana-Woodford where we're infilling the core and we'll drill approximately 110 gross wells there.
And outside Cana we'll have about 20 wells in the Mid-Continent.
So very very active program.
As we sit today looking at the landscape our program is generating very nice returns.
As we talked about in the past we stress test our investments.
We're still at a point where we think looking out at today's landscape we'll be at that $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion of 2012 investment.
Moving on to Slide 12 this is just a little pie chart of that investment spectrum that compares 2011 with 2012.
It shows that this year we'll be approximately 94% of our total exploration development capital in the Mid-Continent and the Permian.
And again the Permian at 52% is showing $775 million of capital.
I will say that our Permian region is as I said a minute ago is prepared to invest more if we choose to ask them to.
Very nice returns.
Moving on to Slide 13 and this is really the story for Cimarex here today and it's one I really want to bring attention to.
Last couple of years and I think a lot of people in the industry have looked at our Gulf Coast headwind and our production and we're happy to say this morning that we feel that issue is fully behind us that the underlying growth of the Permian Basin and the Mid-Continent assets has stepped up the plate and are really showing themselves the engines of growth that we've all known they would be.
Over the last couple of years we've increased our Permian Basin and Mid-Continent production at a compound annual growth rate of 19%.
Our guidance this year and Joe will give you detail is between 4% and 10%.
We have fully overcome that Gulf Coast headwind and we really look for significant growth or the opportunity for significant growth for many years to come.
I use the word opportunity deliberately because we haven't changed our DNA.
We are still about returns and we believe that production growth is a very nice consequence of making good investment returns.
That underlying Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast -- or excuse me Mid-Continent and Permian program is generating very nice returns and it's just affably making this Gulf Coast issue not worth talking about.
We still will have a Gulf Coast program this year but none of that is built into our guidance.
And it -- and we're at the point where we're growing this program where it's no longer the relevant issue it's been in the past couple of years.
Slide 14 is really a nice evidence of the Permian oil production and what it's done in the last couple of years through our very active horizontal drilling.
Compound annual growth rate last couple of years of 24% and year-over-year 2011 2012 we're expecting 26% to 32% growth in our Permian liquids.
So moving on to Slide 15 I just want to give you a little bit of color in our Permian program.
You can read that slide to yourself but the -- really summary is that we're expecting to invest I would say $775 million to $800 million of capital in the Permian Basin.
We will drill 150 gross wells and that's multiple projects.
We're in the Delaware Basin with multiple projects so just as we value diversity throughout our overall investment portfolio we have a fair degree of diversity in our Permian.
And I'd like to give you a little color on that.
Moving on to Slide 16 I want to talk for a minute about our Bone Spring/Avalon play.
Our second Bone Spring play of Eddy and Lea County I just kind of want to brag on our team for a minute.
In our third quarter call we talked quite a bit about the wrestling match we had internally with some of our technical challenges.
And I want to just compliment our exploration group our operating group for getting after it figuring that issue out and they came back roaring with an absolutely outstanding fourth quarter.
And that we are a geoscience-driven outfit that focuses on being good at the business.
And we like to talk about results and not hype.
And certainly our third quarter call we were in the middle of a wrestling match on our own results.
And today we're happy to tell you that it really does look very very nice as a result of the great work our teams did.
We have some highlighted wells in our second and third Bone Spring play.
We're not talking about particular well results but I will tell you that we brought on several wells on the equivalent basis that are well over 1 000 barrels a day the first 30-day average.
Our release has our absolute program 30-day IPs of 597 barrels of oil per day.
And as we said there are some really nice wells in that mix.
It's generating outstanding returns and we have a very very nice inventory of opportunities there.
We've also had some just absolutely lights-out returns in our third Bone Spring play in Texas.
That's a play that of course a lot of our competitors are drilling and that's gotten a lot of attention and rightly so.
We have drilled a number of wells that have averaged well over 1 000 barrels a day for their first 30-day average.
I know that some of our competitors have released some results in that play and we would just say to you that we see it as they do and that is an outstanding play.
We will have in that play as we look at 2012 we'll have 3 rigs running and currently going to 4 rigs in that play and that should be a very active investment for us for years to come.
Moving on to Slide 17 just to kind of summarize that if you look at our Bone Spring and Avalon play we have significant future drilling.
We're having very solid returns in that play and the issues we discussed on our third quarter call I will say our actual to expected results are outstanding in the fourth quarter and moving into this year.
That team has really dialed that in.
We compete for our opportunity that's why this issue is important to us.
Although even at our -- the third quarter our results were good when we're going and competing for opportunity good isn't good enough for us.
We need to be able to predict our results and deliver what we predict.
And they've really made some great great strides in the fourth quarter.
We're seeing that play the second and third Bone Spring play in Eddy and Lea County between 400 000 and 600 000 barrels of oil equivalent per well.
This year we're currently at 5 rigs in the second Bone Spring play.
We'll go to 7 rigs at the end of chicken season here by late spring.
As I said in our third Bone Spring play in Texas we're currently at 3 rigs we'll go to 4 and then we'll have 1 or 2 rigs running in the Avalon.
But let's move on.
I'd like to talk about our Wolfcamp play.
We've had some nice recent results in our Wolfcamp play.
I am on Slide 18 for those of you that pulled our slide presentation down.
We've had a really nice fourth quarter in the Wolfcamp play.
We talked last year about some of our development being deferred because of the infrastructure.
The slide there shows the trunk line gathering line we had to build.
We had to build roads bridges saltwater disposal.
We had to put in a little processing facility.
Our operations group did an outstanding job getting that online it's just about complete now and that allowed us to come in and complete some wells.
As the results indicated on the slide there in the fourth quarter of 2011 we completed 4 gross or 3.4 net wells.
And of those wells our first 30-day average and this is an average was 6.8 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
And that's 38% gas 31% natural gas liquids and 31% oil.
So we're seeing that play well over 50% liquids just generating some outstanding results our recent wells.
As you can see from this map we're still kind of sparsely sampling this area.
So one of the things I would discourage anyone from doing is taking those fourth quarter results dividing it by some acreage spacing and papering that area with it.
But we're drilling our way to understand that.
We are extremely encouraged with our recent results.
I know there's been some press given to this Wolfcamp play in the Midland Basin.
A lot of the people in the Midland Basin are really talking about the Wolfcamp being an outstanding play.
I would just say we love this play based on our recent results.
We see it as a significant part of our future going forward in 2012 and beyond and we have an outstanding inventory.
If you look at that 80 000-acre position you have -- we don't know what the spacing is but if it goes to 160-acre spacing we've got 400 locations.
If it goes to 80-acre spacing we have over 800 locations.
These wells are $8 million a copy.
So this play alone is many many years of drilling inventory at our current Permian Basin run rate.
So again it's a testament to our exploration operations group that built this play from scratch and we're very very pleased with the results we have to report to you.
I'd like to move on now -- before we go to the Mid-Continent region I also want to tell you that we have drilled now a couple of Avalon wells in the oil window.
We had talked about that play in the past.
We're still in the process of evaluating that play.
We know some of our peers are very excited about that play and I will say that based on our recent wells we're starting to share that excitement.
We don't have yet 30 days of production on any one well.
We have one well that's a few weeks of production another well that's got a week of production.
But I will share with you that our initial results are right in line with what the industry is seeing.
That is a high-decline play so those wells can and do come on in excess of 1 000 barrels equivalent per day.
They do decline rapidly but they do generate very nice returns at current costs.
So we'll have the Avalon being a significant portion of our 2012 program.
We'll have one rig running in the Avalon here through much of the year and we're actually in pretty serious discussions about an 80-acre down-spacing project within the Avalon.
I'd like to move on in the interest of time to our Mid-Continent program and again I'm on Slide 19.
Our Mid-Continent program of course is many different programs.
We always talk about the Cana play but I want to just say again we get asked a lot about new ventures.
And one of our most active area of new ventures is in the Mid-Continent.
We've added a lot of geological horsepower in the last year or 2 and we are working on some new concepts in the Anadarko Basin which is a very multi-pay rich basin.
And I fully hope and expect in subsequent calls to be talking to you about new horizontal plays in our backyard in the Anadarko Basin.
And moving on to Slide 20 this is a little blowup of our Cana play.
This is the area where we have 120 000 net acres.
We've been transitioning into 2012.
In 2011 we were testing the Cana D play.
And that's the area for those of you that are looking at the Slide 20 that's the area off to the West at about that 16 000-foot depth contour.
And we had very good results but not sufficient to really make a living at today's pricing.
So we've moved back into the core and we're embarking on an infill project in the core I'll give you a little more color there.
But I think you would expect as you look at 2012 for our Cana program to develop much greater capital efficiency.
The returns in the core are very good even at today's market and we've moved our activity for 2012 into the core.
Slide 21 gives you a little bit of detail.
On Slide 21 there is a stippled white row of sections there in the upper half of that slide.
That's the area of the core in which we are currently infilling.
We're going to 9 wells per section.
We have 10 rigs currently running in that infill project and drilling 9 wells or the nominal spacing that people talked about there a 64-acre spacing.
That will be a significant contributor to our production this year although as I'm sure Joe will talk about because of the logistics of drilling all those wells side by side there'll be some delay between when we drill and when we complete those wells.
We're drilling those wells from pads.
There's 2 wells per pad.
They're costing us approximately $8 million per well and we expect to deliver 6.5 to 8.5 Bcf equivalent per well ultimate production.
So it's quite a project.
There are a lot of infrastructure involved a lot of planning a lot of construction but it really does look like a project that's potentially going to deliver outstanding returns to us even at today's market.
So in summary for the Cana-Woodford play I'm on Slide 22 for fourth quarter 2011 our production there was 158 million cubic feet equivalent a day which was a 59% increase over Q4 2010.
We have significant unbooked potential on that core.
We have over 730 net locations 2 200 gross wells a 4.5 Tcf equivalent of net resource potential.
And as we represented in the past we have $5 billion to $6 billion in future drilling capital and a large resource potential outside of our core.
And we still are doing some science in that deep and hopefully we can make that work.
I want to end on the Gulf Coast.
I'll use a poor analogy.
The last 2009 2010 were kind of binged exploration years in the Gulf Coast and maybe you call 2011 a hangover year with that binge.
We have that fully behind us now.
We're still active in the Gulf Coast.
We are in the process of acquiring processing and evaluating at least 3 and possibly 4 3D surveys.
The one thing that we are committed to do is a little bit of planning in that program.
We will very much endeavor to get that activity at a level that will space out and not give huge bowl of the swings on our production.
But nonetheless today's story is when you look at our underlying engines of Permian and Mid-Continent that issue's behind us.
I think you can look at Cimarex for what we are a diversified company great resource driller healthy balance sheet and tremendous potential for returns that will as a consequence generate growth.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Joe Albi our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Thank you Tom and thank you all for joining our call today.
I'll summarize our Q4 and 2011 production hit on our first quarter and full year 2012 production guidance and then I'll follow-up with a few comments on our 2012 exploitation program and where we see service costs.
Starting first I'm not certain of the number of the slides but this is our Q4 and 2011 full year projection slide.
We had a solid fourth quarter driven by Permian and the Mid-Continent.
We reported average net daily equivalent production of 601.4 million a day.
That was up 9.4 million a day from Q3 and it beat the midpoint of our guidance by approximately 1 million a day.
We spent a lot of time talking about the Permian and the Mid-Continent and once again our production statistics reflect that.
We set multiple new records in each one of the regions.
Our Permian oil production of 19 123 barrels a day it's a record.
It's up 9% from Q3 and 24% from Q4 '10.
Our Permian total liquids production of 22 889 barrels a day also set a record up 7% from Q3 and 25% from last year.
Our Mid-Continent gas production of 219 million a day set a record.
We're up 4% from Q3 and 12% from Q4 '10.
As did our Mid-Continent total liquids of 16 252 barrels a day which was up 4% from Q3 and 24% from a year ago.
The driver in the Mid-Continent here was Cana where record fourth quarter equivalent production of 158 million a day was up 13% from the third quarter and a strong 59% from Q4 '10.
So as a result we set record marks for our equivalent production both the Permian and the Mid-Continent with our Mid-Continent equivalent production of 309 million a day up 17% from a year ago and our Permian equivalent production of 215 million a day up 18% from a year ago.
So combined the fourth quarter Permian and Mid-Continent production level of 531 million a day was up 17% over the last 12 months.
So we close the books with our 2011 production coming in at 592 million a day.
That's right at the midpoint we provided last call and virtually flat to 2010 after accounting for property sales.
But as we mentioned last call on the surface we may be flat to 2010 but underneath the hood our Permian and Mid-Continent production grew at 16% and offset the 70 million a day year-over-year drop that we saw on the Gulf Coast.
Hitting on production Q4 production by region you can see that our Permian and Mid-Continent production has now grown to the point where the 2 regions make up the lion's share of our production quite evident when looking at the geographic split of our Q4 production.
Combined the Permian and Mid-Continent now make up 88% of our total liquids and 89% of our gas.
On an equivalent basis the regions now represent 88% of our total company production with the Permian accounting for 70% of our oil and 51% of our liquids and the Mid-Continent accounting for 65% of our gas and 37% of our liquids.
Looking forward into 2012 with our guidance as Tom mentioned we truly see 2012 to be the year that we get the headwind of our Gulf Coast production declines behind us.
Our current guidance model calls for continued strong production growth in the Permian and the Mid-Continent with little or no new well contribution from the Gulf Coast in our models.
As a result we project the Permian and the Mid-Continent to grow at a combined rate of 19% to 25% with the Gulf Coast projected to just make up less than 6% of our 2012 production.
With our emphasis on the Permian and the Mid-Continent we anticipate continued liquids growth from the 2 regions with combined oil volumes anticipated to grow at 20% to 27% and combined NGL volumes forecasted to grow at 37% to 44%.
And as a result as we've mentioned earlier in the call we project our 2012 total company liquid percentage to come in at 46%.
2012 that's a 2-point increase over our 2011 level of 44%.
Timing-wise as Tom mentioned with production from our Cana infill project expected to come on in late Q2 we're forecasting modest production growth during Q1 and Q2 with accelerated growth projected in the last half of the year.
As such our Q1 guidance fell at the level of -- fell in at the level of 595 million to 615 million a day and our full year projection came in at 615 million to 650 million a day.
I might mention it's part of that infill project to lever it a little bit.
We're drilling these wells in the Cana infill area and we're waiting to frac them until we have a number of them drilled for a variety of reasons.
And to give you an idea of what would be waiting on completion as the result of that infill project we're anticipating that there'd be 15 wells during the May to July time period that are on our frac schedule that are associated with that program.
So normally they would've been completed in a much more accelerated manner and as a result of our planned scheduling they'll transpire later in Q2 as far as the completions are concerned.
Shifting gears to our production group focus and the operations group in general the group put forth another solid year for us in 2011 with a strong focus on the base properties.
We did a great job optimizing production and maximizing net operating income all the while putting $65 million of net exploitation capital to work performing over 375 projects.
The majority of our exploitation capital went towards recompletion activity in the Permian and the Mid-Continent numerous saltwater disposal projects primarily in the Permian and infill or replacement well drilling activity in the Permian and in South Texas.
The remainder of the capital was directed to a variety of workover lift and facility projects throughout our operating and nonoperating areas.
And overall the group just did a nice job of optimizing production and net operating income during the year all the while putting our exploitation capital to work wisely.
For 2012 our production operations team will remain focused really on 4 simple objectives: Maximizing our net operating income with an emphasis on LOE reduction through saltwater disposal; ensuring takeaway capacity in our core plays by constructing infrastructure as needed Tom elaborated a little bit on what we've already done in the Permian there; thirdly effectively deploying our exploitation capital; and then as we strive for each and every year maintaining our focus to improve our operating capabilities in the field.
With our year-end planning process our production operations group put together another solid inventory of exploitation projects for 2012.
We've identified over 400 projects with more than $80 million of associated capital.
The inventory was cold and high-graded resulting in our targeted 2012 capitalized budget of $60 million to $75 million with more than 300 associated projects.
Our 2012 focus in the Permian is simply SWD with the remainder of our workover recompletion lift and infill drilling activity staying fairly consistent with what we've done over the past years.
Looking at our OpEx with Q4 lifting costs coming in at $1.18 an Mcfe we finished the year with an average lifting cost of $1.14.
That's about at the midpoint of our 2011 guidance which was $1.02 or $1.22.
As compared to 2010 we saw a considerable cost pressure in virtually all cost components on the LOE side during 2011 but especially the aggregate cost to dispose of produced load water from our new wells.
With our focus on SWD projects in 2012 our 2012 lifting cost guidance range of $1.05 to $1.25 is simply just built around the midpoint -- a midpoint equating to our average lifting cost over the last 3 quarters.
On the service cost side completion costs continue to play a vital role in our total well cost.
Completion costs now make up approximately 50% of our total well cost for our horizontal well.
As we've mentioned before we've seen frac cost go up significantly over the last year.
That's a result of both the design changes and service cost increases especially in the Permian.
As compared to 2010 our total company average frac cost was up 20% in 2011 with Cana up an average of 8% and the Permian up over 40%.
That said we are seeing relief in service cost particularly in the Permian and we'll continue to alter our frac designs where we can to help control these costs.
On the drilling side with continuing efficiencies and with market costs appearing to be somewhat flat over the last quarter we've done a good job of funding the completion cost increases that we've seen to keep our total well costs somewhat in check.
With good focus on program efficiencies especially in our infill program our Cana core wells are still running about $8 million.
That's basically flat to the levels we saw a year ago.
Our Permian Paddock and Blinebry vertical AFEs they've crept up a smidge.
They're running right now about $2.2 million to $2.4 million.
That's up 15% to 25% from Q1 '11 and primarily the result of increased frac and facility costs as compared to last year.
With the drilling of slightly deeper wells and changes on our frac design in our New Mexico section the third Bone Spring program those wells are running around $5.8 million to $6.3 million.
That's up from levels of $4.8 million to $5.2 million that we saw at early 2011.
We've made great strides in our West Texas third Bone Spring wells with stimulation design changes.
We've trimmed those AFEs to levels of $7.5 million to $8.5 million.
That's down considerably from the $8.8 million to $9.2 million levels that we saw in early 2011.
And as we continue to develop and refine our Wolfcamp shale play especially on the completion design side our current AFEs are running around $8 million to $8.5 million.
That's up from the $6.5 million to $7.5 million that we quoted last year.
So as we move forward our operations and exploration groups are obviously going to continue to work together to improve the efficiencies take it to the next level work on drilling design and completion design where we can and ultimately just like to keep these well costs in check.
In all with the momentum of a great quarter behind us we're really looking forward on this and to making 2012 really our year for the Permian and the Mid-Continent.
So with that operator I think we'd like to turn the call over to any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> The -- in the past year -- excuse me your decision to spend relative to your cash flow levels -- sorry you really haven't had a policy of not outspending cash flows but if I look at 2012 it appears that you guys are kind of pulling a little bit harder on the outspend.
And I'm just wondering you certainly have the liquidity to fund that.
But just what gives you guys confidence as you look forward in terms of why to outspend? Is it confidence in your inventory? Is it just cheap cost of debt desire to bring forward the inventory? If you could provide some more color on that that would be helpful.
Hi Brian Tom is pointing to me to answer your question.
At 2011 we had the opportunity to sell some assets that didn't have a long-term future for us.
So we were able to fund the 2011 program with cash flow and property sales.
We came into the year with also with $100 million of cash.
And as we move into 2012 we look at our opportunity set as providing very good returns in the price environment in which we find ourselves as constructed as well.
I mean we could clearly spend much more on gas-oriented projects if all we wanted to do is grow our volumes faster.
But we remain very conscious about returns.
So our returns are good.
If we feel very comfortable continuing with the level of activity into 2012 that we finished 2011 with we don't know what cash flow is going to be.
We all have price forecasts.
None of us are likely to be right.
So we'll see what happens as the year unfolds.
With the current sentiment -- well at current prices and current negative sentiment on gas if we use forward curve or your price forecast or anyone else's we would come up short of our planned capital program.
But we have -- this is why you have big credit facilities in place.
And it's why you want to always maintain access to capital markets in our case particular maybe debt capital markets.
So we're very confident with what we're doing.
Our policy has never really been to stay within cash flow.
That has been our history but not necessarily our policy.
Our policy has been to fund good ideas that we could execute on effectively and efficiently and that's essentially what our 2012 program is.
Brian this is Tom.
I do want to touch on that and that's a great question.
I will tell you that we debate that every day around here what should our proper level of activity been -- be and have been.
We -- as we look into 2012 it's really obviously all about Permian and Cana.
And those are 2 different issues.
Cana we embarked on this infill project last fall and we had at regular roll.
We moved 10 rigs in in a line and we had some decisions to make.
When we first started we said well let's commit to absolutely infill 3 sections and we had 7 lined up ready to go.
And one of the nice things about our program is we have some flexibility.
Of our rigs we only have a few that are under any term contract and they all go away this year.
So we would have and do have the flexibility to ramp that program down and kind of decelerate slowly.
So we're still -- the guidance range of $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion some of that involves hey what if we slowed down a little at Cana and we're debating that.
Right now looking at the markets -- and we run those sensitivities aggressively.
We've run sensitivities at a horrible gas price ethane rejection I mean you name it we run it.
We think that program generates really nice returns today and that's a testament to Cana.
And then the other issue is the Permian.
The Permian is just lights out.
There's no question that that is generating outstanding returns at today's cost and today's pricing environment.
We have the opportunity and we like activity.
We are a high-volume outfit.
We always have been.
And one of the reasons we like activity is guess what? When we're active we generate more opportunity.
We have an active year we look up and we have more years of inventory than we did when we started because our generating teams through their own activity find more things to do.
So we have kind of given Cana the mandate of you know what we're going to go forward and kind of steady as she goes and we have some flexibility there.
Permian we said get her done.
Those returns are great.
As Paul said that's why that balance sheet is there and we're very very pleased with the returns we have going into 2012.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well Tom I tell you I'm a fan of activity as well.
It seems like over the last -- since last quarter that is the confidence in the Permian has really improved.
I mean you talked a lot about it in the call.
But it seems like the readthrough on that is that you're just more comfortable with the overall inventory and portfolio in the Permian.
And so I know you just gave 2012 out but does that reflect then that your view is you have the inventory now in place to really have that high sustainable liquids growth over a longer duration more so than just the 2012? Well I think that's absolutely true.
Now we don't like to issue 5-year plans.
We've never seen any that's ever worth the paper they're printed on.
And of course prices costs I mean I'm giving you all the standard disclaimers here but we have multiple years of inventory.
Our second third Bone Spring play this is our best play has currently 3 to 4 years at our current run rate.
If we never generate another idea and we had our only current land on that play alone we have 3 to 4 years of run rate at our current drilling pace.
And we're -- it's our most active lease play.
We're continuing to generate activity aggressively through additional leasing.
And then of course at Wolfcamp -- and we own -- Wolfcamp is still early.
I mean my enthusiasm is because that's what I'm paid to do.
I believe in our staff and I believe in our internally generated ideas and I've always liked talking about good results.
But we're going to see.
If that looks like what it's evolving into that in and of itself is many many years of drilling and it's very liquids-rich.
So the Permian is a sustainable business for us.
It's not something where it's a -- we're not having a going out of business sale with high activity in the Permian.
It's sustainable.
Your next question comes from the line of Gil Yang with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Your proved developed proportion of reserves went up.
Is that just from the sale of Riley Ridge which is a PUD? Yes.
Research Division</strong> There was nothing really else going on? No absolutely not.
And everybody has their own philosophy.
We try to give a lot of transparency to our assets and we think we've got lots of things to do for many years to come.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Can you talk about -- you''ve talked a couple of times about reconsidering the capital allocation between Cana and Permian.
Can you talk about the contractual obligations for rigs and other equipment services that would either allow you to do that or prevent you from doing that or create sort of timing issues surrounding that? Gil this is Joe Albi.
As Tom mentioned our rig commitments are really far and few.
There are 4 rigs that we've got some type of commitment to with Cana.
Those all edge off by the -- or fall off at the end of the year.
And everywhere else it's well to well.
So I hope that gives you an idea of what we're contractually obligated to do there.
On the service cost side the only other type of commitment we have is for one of our frac services providers and we've got about another year left on it.
It's kind of one of these deals that we've committed to some capital level of expenditure and if we don't meet that every month that we can move that into the next month.
So it doesn't really force us to do anything.
Research Division</strong> If -- to keep that one crew busy how many rigs would you need to run? Well right now we've just got one frac crew working in Cana.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And that's the one that's under that obligation? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> But how many rigs would you need to run to keep that crew busy? Oh well they'll knock off maybe one a week.
So you get 4 completions a month out of them.
Yes.
But I just -- I'd chime in when we made that commitment that's a crew that we could -- it's a [indiscernible] the Permian.
So that's not it.
We don't view that as a -- that would not be a factor in any decision we made.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
I think Joe you mentioned that the waiting on completion backlog should rise about 15 by the middle of the year.
Will it stay 15 or will it go down or how does it go once it gets to that 15? No that was just Cana.
And if you bear with me a second I can give you a better idea for that.
I think total company we should be upwards near 25-plus.
And then of course we'll whittle that down as the infill project matures.
Yes we're -- again we have some complete flexibility and it's driving our team crazy.
Because our flexibility has keep those 10 rigs running infill all 7 sections and then go to another row that we have ready to go.
So we could just keep infilling Cana until the cows come home here for years to come.
But we do have flexibility.
We're watching these markets like everybody else is.
And we're going to react depending on what the gas and natural gas liquids price dictate.
We're not going to destroy capital to keep rigs busy.
And if we get backlog like we did before we'll just pawn some additional frac crews.
So part of the science of the infill is the completion and understanding how to frac in those wells not just individually but multiple wells.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So what you're saying is that that backlog rises or falls based on what your -- whether now you step on the gas in the Cana or not from the current plan right? I'd say that's a safe assessment.
Yes Gil you know us.
I mean we're going to do what makes sense to us and I hope everybody hears that loud and clear that these plans we're reporting are great but we're -- our only commitment to the shareholders is we're going to make what we think are best decisions for long-term interest of the shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last question is just can you talk about how we should think about the Gulf Coast in terms of -- I know that there's no Gulf Coast growing success in the current guidance.
Can you give us some sense as the timing of when the seismic is going to be done when the inventory will be in place when you start drilling and how we should think about this potential success rates of those first wells and the new seismic shoot? Well Gil this is Tom.
I -- we tell you that we have a lot of new data coming in and it'll be second half this year before we even have the opportunity to talk about any kind of go-forward in inventory.
So I think we've done exactly the right thing and that's we haven't guided any Gulf Coast production.
So we'll know when we get that in what happens.
And I would expect we're going to have inventory I would be surprised if we didn't.
But one of the things that we're going to try to do is space it out a little bit.
I mean we -- I mentioned binge exploration.
We've always kind of been a; let's-get-it-done-as-soon-as-possible outfit and not that we're changing our stripes there but we're going to try -- I like the fact that we're having a few programs come in that will give us the option to kind of assuming we have the kind of inventory we're planning we don't have to get them done all along.
So we can space that out so it will be more manageable in terms of production.
But that said I think I'll just -- you're being horribly redundant.
I mean  the thing that we're all kind of excited about is we see this permanent Mid-Continent growth kind of makes this issue to us kind of irrelevant in terms of the kind of lower print that may have.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Robertson with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> You all are talking about 19% to 25% production growth in the Permian and Mid-Continent in 2012 over '11 and drilling essentially the same number of net wells at roughly 165 in '12 and 164 last.
You mentioned operational efficiency several times in your all's comments in different plays.
Can you just talk about how much of that higher production growth rate on the same well account do you think you pick up from operational efficiencies versus maybe drilling different targets than you were in 2011? Well this is Joe.
Built into all this when we look at 2010 to '11 and '11 to '12 there are some timing issues that come into play.
In particular from '10 to '11 if you remember we had a huge backlog of completions in the Permian.
I think we got up as high as 30 wells waiting on frac by the middle of the year.
And then of course we pushed that hard at the end of the year.
So when you -- those production results occur at the end of the year and then averaged out over the full year are a number.
I would answer this question and Tom chime in too that the types of wells that we're drilling the targets that we're drilling the IPs that we're seeing we're seeing some better results in the Permian.
Cana is coming in as expected.
It's more of a timing issue on when we anticipate the wells will be drilled and completed and then of course coming online.
I mentioned in my section of the call that we were I guess tail end loaded with accelerated production growth in 2012.
Our current model is saying that maybe our exit rate midyear might be 6 and a quarter 625 million a day and with that growing hopefully to levels over 650 million a day-plus at the end of the year.
So that gives you a feel for how it's hitting our model as far as it being our equivalent production estimates.
I don't know if that helps you out at all trying to understand how we've modeled it.
I wouldn't say it's the type of well that we're drilling other than we are drilling some better wells in the Bone Spring area the capital efficiency that comes into play in particular in Cana where we've kept our well costs in check and we're going to optimize our drilling and completion dollars especially the completion dollars trying to figure out what kind of bang for the buck are we getting on our fracs to try and keep that in line.
Research Division</strong> Joe the part of that just going back into the core of Cana instead of doing more of the step-out drilling and getting more out of the rigs that you're working with? Well I think most of it's associated with pad drilling.
You put 2 wells on each pad we're consolidating services where we can we're consolidating equipment where we can.
You've got reduced move[ph] charges because you're not moving[ph] from well to well.
Our facility costs are lower.
We've utilized biofuel on 6 of our rigs.
That's knocking off about $300 000 a month of our drilling and completion costs with 6 rigs on biofuel.
So there's a number of things that we're doing there that program drilling really allows us to do and take full advantage of.
Jeff one thing that we talk about everybody in the industry's aware of this when you go to a more liquids-rich program it doesn't necessarily show up in an Mcf equivalent rate but it sure shows up on returns.
And when we look at Cana core our -- we haven't talked a lot about Cana deep results but we have good results.
I mean we had on average with 19 wells we drilled 15 of them operated that are currently on line we were averaging 4 to 5 million cubic feet a day held flat on a slowback for 3 months or more.
We're slowbacking those wells choking them back to try to manage that downhaul reservoir pressure.
So they were very very nice wells.
The problem with it is that it's methane.
There's almost no liquids uplift there.
So as we go to the core we're seeing kind of comparable rates but we're also seeing yields of anywhere from 10 to 35 barrels of condensate per million condensate that is trucked off as oil and then anywhere from 86 to 111 barrels of natural gas liquids per million.
So the rates on an Mcfe basis don't necessarily show the difference in the return.
And so it's much more capital-efficient.
But that really surfaces -- this is Joe that really surfaces in the Permian program too.
We're directing more capital into an oil and liquids-rich area down there and it's the same deal.
An Mcfe in the Permian is not like an Mcfe in a dry gas area.
Research Division</strong> And then last question on your -- do you have any material acreage dollars in the 2012 $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion capital number? We do.
I will say in 2011 for us we spent a lot of money on acreage.
We spent actually about $189 million on acreage in 2011.
And that's for us at 15% of capital or a little less than that.
That's a pretty aggressive year for acreage.
We would like to do that or close to that this year.
Mark's looking at the numbers.
What do you have modeling? It's about $140 million for this year.
Yes.
And so what will happen there a lot of that 2011 was our pushing to Cana deep.
We spent a lot of money putting the Cana deep position together.
We would like to see a very aggressive acreage year Mark's carrying $140 million and I would say I would expect the lion's share of that to be Permian and other new ventures.
And new ventures could be Anadarko Basin.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions for you.
In the Permian can you talk a little bit more about what changed in the Bone Springs wells that you've been drilling relative to the 3Q call and the results that you've seen? Well yes this is Tom mister dour from the Q3 call.
The thing that I -- Chris we never get a do-over in life.
But one of the things I will say is even in the Q3 call our returns in our Permian were very good.
And I probably should have stressed that a little more.
It was our actual results to our expected results.
And so what changed is our teams really tore into that.
We did a lot of petrophysical work some geochemical work and identified some more subtle trends that we had -- kind of we've been kind of drilling our way into and we really tore the wells apart built some water saturation models.
The operations group did a great job of getting some saltwater disposal in place that will allow us to make money moving this water instead of hauling it and really drilled some nice wells.
We are not here today talking about individual wells but I will say we did drill some wells in the fourth quarter that averaged for first 30 days averaged over 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
And that's through that science we moved into some areas that we think are just better.
So that said we upsized our fracs.
We had some nice results in the Wolfcamp once we completed our wells.
So there were so material changes in our program.
I mean we're always focused on getting better at the business and in the third quarter you kind of caught us in the middle of it.
And I will say today we are better at the business.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And if we look at the Permian overall I know you talked about the line that you installed there down the Culberson County.
From an infrastructure point of view do you see any potential bottlenecks on the system anywhere in the basin? And if so what regions do you think are going to be tightest both for you and I guess for industry in general? This is Joe Ryan.
We've put in about -- I think at the end of the year we had over 67 miles of infrastructure mostly pipeline in place in the Permian.
Our goal was simply to control our infrastructure obviously and give us some market optionality.
We're worried about takeaway capacity on the Permian as I know all of our competitors are.
We've put in our own tap into an El Paso line that we will be JTing our own production.
That gives us a little bit of a reservation if you -- capacity if you want to call it that.
And we're also working with the likes of I won't name names but other processors to understand what they have coming around the corner in the area and what capacities they currently have to try to ensure to the degree that we can that our volumes are moving.
We see the El Paso tap as kind of being our safety net where we may not get as a good recovery out of our JT but we certainly will be able to move the gas.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I mean I know trucks were -- at one point early in 2011 there was kind of tightness in trucking and then had loosened up.
Does that kind of remain not much of a concern these days or is that still a concern as well? I want to give kudos to our marketing and operations guys who've done a great job there.
We find ourselves up with a couple of purchasers where there's scorecards in place certain processes in place to ensure trucks are available.
We've put a deal together for the piping of some oil out of the West Texas area with some commitments on their part to the hauler's part and ours that we will both perform.
That has certainly helped.
And that really picked up in Q4.
We had a little bit of a problem with the weather in December and then we made all that back up just tremendously here in January.
So the guys have done a great job there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Then one more if I could on Cana.
The range that we see in the production guidance for 2012 is that primarily driven by potential for flexibility around that Cana program? And if you decide not to go forward with kind of the next leg of drilling there pad drilling in Cana does that take production to the low-end of the guidance range or how should we think about that? We've built out around the current 10-rig program.
So to the extent we accelerate or decelerate it would affect those numbers.
But if we decelerate as Tom mentioned we'll be moving that capital elsewhere.
Yes.
And because of the delay on those completions that really would not impact 2012 significantly.
And more impact...
In 2013 right.
If we were to keep going almost by the middle of third quarter anything we do from then out shows some 2013 production just because of the -- there's a natural delay when you drill these wells side by side.
You have to get a certain bank of them drilled before you complete them.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So just to clarify and following up with Ryan's first question so what is it that explains the higher IP rates on average for both the Wolfcamp and the Bone Spring from the third quarter to the fourth quarter? I mean is it geography? I mean did you just drill in different locations where you got better rock or is it more fracs or longer laterals? I mean what is it really? Yes well it's -- there are -- that's 2 different areas and there's 2 different answers.
In the second Bone Spring it's -- a lot of its geography we through our analysis of the petrophysics stayed out of some of the higher water-cut areas.
We also upsized our completions.
And so that -- some of it is geography targeting what we saw as richer areas and some of it is upsizing our completions.
So it's a combination of both.
In the Wolfcamp some of it's just the real estate.
I mean we're drilling our way through and we've tried targeting a couple of different stratigraphic intervals.
One of the things that we see in that Wolfcamp play is -- and we talked about this in the very beginning.
We don't understand the variation until we get out there and drill it.
There's not a lot of wells to key off on where we have mud logs.
And so one of the big variables is going to be yield how much condensate are you going to make what's the natural gas liquids yield.
And so we're out there drilling and testing the area and we're finding that I think we're identifying a couple of sweet spots out there.
So Joe it's kind of a combination of both operational efficiencies and real estate.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And so in the third quarter when you talked about different issues you talked about I think some lower EURs than you previously have modeled.
I think you talked about water handling and that caused the cost to go up.
I think more water than you had modeled.
And then you just talked about general cost pressures.
So could you just address those issues and do you see all of them resolved or which ones do you see resolved and which ones are still unresolved? Yes.
The water issue is -- if you drill into an area with high water cut you're going to make water.
I mean if somebody has a way to fall -- fix that give me a call.
But you can mitigate it by saltwater disposal.
And in the third quarter call we were in a situation where we're paying at times $4 a barrel to haul water and that could just kill your economics.
So we've gotten saltwater disposal wells in and we've also by this petrophysical work we've done and working with our operations group have a plan in place where we can go in and target these high water cut areas but have a disposal well ready so we're flowing back into a saltwater disposal well.
But I'm looking at a -- right as I answer your question I'm looking at kind of a highlights reel of the fourth quarter in that second Bone Spring.
And I will say that our water cuts vary from 29% upwards of 65%.
So even at 65% water cut you can make a nice living if you can dispose that water efficiently.
So I wouldn't say we've solved the water issue and that we're still going to make a fair amount of water in that play but we've done a lot in terms of fixing the economics of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in terms of service cost pressures I think on the third quarter call you talked about service cost pressures especially in the Permian.
And if I'm hearing you correctly today you're talking about costs going the other way in the Permian.
Yes that's a tricky question.
This is Joe.
With regard to fracs the frac has a number of components.
You've got your service costs and that can be affected by the cost of their personnel number one and to some degree our efficiencies in getting a job pumped.
If it takes us less time to pump a job the service cost is less.
On the service cost side we have seen the per unit cost go down.
You've got the other 2 ingredients.
You've got fluids and those can vary by the degree to which we use more fluid and the type of fluid that we use.
And then on the prop side what type of prop do we use? We've worked very hard to use white sand where we can and for the most part are using it in virtually all of our operations.
That's helped cut our cost down on the prop side.
But if we run more stages we're going to run more -- we're going to pump more prop and more fluid.
So overall I'd say as a company that quarter-to-quarter we've seen our overall total company service costs go down.
And the fluid and prop costs are probably in that flattish range as a result of how we may or may not have changed our program design.
Research Division</strong> And Joe just speaking specifically to the Permian so you're seeing the that overall costs go down there as well? Yes right now it's starting to soften on the service side.
The biggest controlling factor there is do we pump x number of stages or y with y being more than x the total volumes pumped.
I want to elaborate a little bit too on what Tom said about the SWD issue and how that affects not only our lifting costs but the economics of these wells and particularly the Permian.
We really got going on that I'd say in late Q3.
Some of the results of those SWD projects we'll see in our lifting costs being reduced from current levels on the SWD side.
But our real goal is to get out ahead of this thing so that those costs never even hit the books and that we're paying virtually little if any dollars to dispose of any of the produced load water that we see from our new wells.
We have identified at the end of the year 17 different SWD projects that entail about $40 million worth of capital that we're trying to undertake that hopefully we'll have done here before the end of the year.
Some of them have already been completed.
But we're really emphasizing that and that is really having an impact in our overall rate of return in the Permian number one and that number two we hope to have it show up in our lifting cost.
Yes Joe this is Tom and we -- you know us well.
I mean we'd rather talk about results than promise and we're really happy to be here this morning talking about real results.
We haven't had our last problem solved.
We're a blocking and tackling outfit.
We try to do good science be good at the business but we certainly like where our Permian and Mid-Continent assets are sitting right now.
We're having really good results.
And I think that the program we've outlined here today has a great promise to deliver those results.
And another thing that we're really pleased to report to you is we have flexibility.
If there's ever a time in our business where I've looked out at the future and thought that the boundaries are broader than I've ever see.
In terms of up and downside of people's forecast we have flexibility so to be able to react to run for daylight or pull in a little bit depending on market conditions.
So we'll continue hopefully to report good results but we've had some very very nice results in both the Permian and our Mid-Continent programs.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just one more and I think this is for Joe.
So Joe In the Gulf Coast basically your guidance is suggesting that you're going to be down about 50% from the fourth quarter production level to the average of 2012.
So that's all that midyear.
Is that -- are you guys just being conservative with that? Well Joe we've got -- we're always fighting some of the same old things with mechanical issues or sand flow or what have you.
But what I have attempted to do both approaching it from 2 different angles is look at potential risked contribution from new wells without a lot of mechanical issues.
And what is that number for Q4 what is it if you just assume nothing and from the new wells drilled and no mechanical issues and we still come around that same darn level that we've quoted in our press release.
So I really don't know how to say any more than that.
It's our best estimate.
[indiscernible] Yes.
Research Division</strong> Anyway but I guess it's interesting that the production even though you've -- it would seem to me that you've gone through the steepest part of the decline and the decline would lessen that the number suggested is going to be down 50%.
And that's 50% from fourth quarter to maybe midyear.
Yes that's what we're modeling.
Most of that solved the Beaumont stuff.
And we've got some assets that are fairly longer live.
I guess you want to call that for the Gulf Coast that eventually that will tail off and that decline won't be as severe.
But in our minds the point of the matter is hey it's less than 6% of our total production in 2012.
Gentlemen do you have any closing remarks? Oh yes.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
Appreciate everyone's participation in the call and we look to continue to report good results in the future.
If you have any follow-up questions please don't hesitate to give us a call.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Bishonda and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the First Quarter Earnings and Operations Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mark Burford you may begin your conference.
Thank you Bishonda.
I appreciate it.
Welcome everyone and thanks for joining us today for our first quarter conference call.
Here in Denver on today's call we have Tom Jorden President and CEO; Joe Albi EVP and COO; and Paul Korus Senior Vice President and CFO; and Jim Shonsey Vice President and Controller.
We issued our financial and operating results news release this morning a copy of which can be found on our website.
I need to remind you that today's presentation will contain forward-looking statements.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what is to be discussed.
You should read our disclosure on forward-looking statements in our 10-K other filings and press releases for risk factors associated with our business.
And with that I'll go ahead and turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Mark.
Good morning everyone or good afternoon at least for us.
First quarter 2012 is a good quarter for Cimarex.
We reported net income of $106 million or $1.23 per diluted share and our cash flow from operations this quarter was $303 million which continues to benefit from strong oil and natural gas liquids revenues.
First quarter 2012 production volumes averaged 603.5 million cubic feet equivalent per day or a barrel of oil equivalent just over 100 000 barrel of oil equivalent per day.
Our first quarter 2012 Permian and Mid-Continent volumes hit an all-time high of 554.2 million cubic feet equivalent per day growing 26% over the same period in 2011.
That growth includes a 50% increase in Permian oil volumes over the first quarter of 2011 to a record 21 800 barrels of oil per day this quarter.
Overall oil production also reached an all-time high of 29 562 barrels per day and that is just a consequence of the strategy we've talked about in the past of emphasizing that Permian Basin and growing our oil and other liquids production.
That liquids production accounted for 47% of our equivalent volumes this quarter and comprise 79% of our $411 million of oil and gas and NGL revenue.
Oil price realizations increased 9% this quarter to $99.28 per barrel while natural gas prices fell 34% averaging $2.92 per Mcf.
Driving our growth are continued good results from our drilling programs.
We have a great inventory of strong projects.
In the first quarter we drilled and completed 73 gross 40 net wells investing $400 million on exploration and development.
Of that total 50% were invested in projects located in the Permian Basin 48% in the Mid-Continent and 2% in the Gulf Coast and other.
What I'd like to do now is give you a region-by-region walk through and I'll start with the Permian.
There we drilled and completed 39 gross 27 net wells during the first quarter of 2012 completing 95% of those as producers.
Permian first quarter exploration development capital was $201 million or 50% of total capital.
So as you can see we're on a run rate of about $800 million in the Permian and we'll see what we do going forward depending on our cash flow our results and costs.
And our New Mexico horizontal second and third Bone Spring play that's our most active play.
Year-to-date we drilled and completed 13 gross 6 net wells.
And our per well 30-day gross production from the 2012 Bone Spring wells averaged 590 barrels equivalent that's a Boe per day and 87% of that is oil.
Throughout our presentation you're going to hear us talk about 30-day averages.
We think that's the meaningful number in some of these wells.
From time to time I'm going to sprinkle in some instantaneous 24-hour rates but it's the 30-day rate that we look at and that's one we encourage you to look in the measure of the well.
And getting back to second and third Bone Spring we're continuing to see very strong results in this program.
We're very pleased with our recent wells and how it's trending.
And that's a number of reasons all of which are testament to our exploration and operational folks.
Of note we've upsized our hydraulic fractures as has many of our competitors.
We've gone from 5 stages to 8 stages per lateral and we've also done some geoscience we've talked about in the past and we're seeing lower average water cuts.
So really getting that program delivering some nice solid performance.
Coinciding with these results our future inventory continues to grow.
We see somewhere between 150 and 200 future New Mexico Bone Spring drilling locations on our current land position and that land position is always increasing.
It's a very active lease play for us.
This account has a potential to grow significantly as we continue to drill and gather more data.
Moving on to the Texas Third Bone Spring play.
There we drilled and completed 5 gross 5 net Third Bone Spring wells in the first quarter.
The wells brought online had per-well 30-day average gross production rates of 800 barrels equivalent per day 82% of which were oil.
So these are very very nice wells cost a little more to drill and complete but very very nice results.
This program is also proceeding with a solid inventory of future drilling locations which our current count is near 100 wells on our current acreage and as before has the potential to grow significantly with more drilling and more leasing.
And then moving on to our Wolfcamp play we're continuing to evaluate multiple shale intervals in the Delaware Basin.
The majority of our drilling of course is focused on the Wolfcamp.
We talked about that now for a few of our quarterly calls.
Most of our Wolfcamp drilling has been our southern Eddy County New Mexico a property we call White City and northern Culberson County Texas.
In the first quarter of 2012 we drilled and completed 2 Wolfcamp wells bringing total in the play to 20 gross 19 net wells.
Our first 30-day production per-well this is averaging all of our wells is 6.6 million cubic feet equivalent per day and that's comprised of 3.1 million cubic feet equivalent per day -- or excuse me 3.1 million cubic feet per day of gas 250 barrels per day of oil and 340 barrels per day of natural gas liquids.
Or to summarize that that's 47% gas 23% oil and 30% natural gas liquids.
So that Wolfcamp play to us is significant in scope.
We're currently still delineating it.
We have hundreds of locations.
As we said in the past we represent this as very early time in this play.
We're still doing a lot of experimenting both testing the play laterally throughout our acreage but also vertically.
We're testing a section that's 800 to 1 000 feet thick in gross interval and we're experimenting with different landing zones.
But overall we're very very pleased with our results in that Wolfcamp play at this point and that looks to be a major contributor to the future of Cimarex.
Also in the unconventional arena where there's the Avalon Shale and as we've discussed in the past we're also drilling some Avalon Shale wells especially east of us in Lea County where we began the oil window of the Avalon Shale.
We've brought on 2 Avalon wells in the oil window this quarter.
One was the Tristy Draw 36 State 1H [ph] where we had 100% working interest and the Howard 5 Federal 4H [ph] with a 94% working interest.
They had 30-day equivalent IPs.
And again this is a 30-day average of 500 to 700 barrels of oil equivalent per day 70% of that was oil.
But I'd also add -- they both had peak rates their 1-day peak rate on both those wells were above 1 000 barrels of oil per day.
So very very nice wells.
Again it's early time for our understanding of Avalon but it looks like it has significant potential for us for hundreds of future locations significant potential for reserves and production upside but we're still learning our way forward in that Avalon play.
Moving on to the Mid-Continent.
In the first quarter we drilled and completed 33 gross or 12 net Mid-Continent wells.
Mid-Continent first quarter exploration development capital was $180 million or 48% of our total first quarter capital.
Now the bulk of that is Cana or Cana-Woodford play.
And at quarter end we had 39 gross or 18 net Cana-Woodford wells waiting on completion.
At year end 2011 there were 13 gross or 4.9 net wells waiting on completion in Cana.
Our waiting -- our wells waiting on completion have increased as a result of commencing of infill development during this year.
And we've talked about this in the past calls but we are infill drilling in Cana and the methodology there is we're drilling somewhere between 80 and 95 wells side-by-side east-west.
We get the bulk of those drilled case and then we come in later and start our completion episode completing them simultaneously.
So that's as planned.
We have quite a backlog of wells waiting on completion in Cana.
We'll see those come on in Q3 and that's exactly as designed.
We currently have 10 rigs running and -- or excuse me today we have 9 rigs running in the Cana core.
We just moved the rig to the Permian.
And our returns in the core are still good.
They're not great but they're good.
If we look at that infill project going from east to west where the eastern portion is the most liquids-rich portion the western portion is the driest portion our return on drilling investment varies from 49% after-tax in the liquids-rich portion to 20% after-tax in the drier portion and that's our current strip price.
So still acceptable returns in the Cana-Woodford.
However we're getting better returns in the Permian.
So as we've talked in the past for the remainder of the year we'll be shifting some of that capital to the Permian.
We have a lot of flexibility in our Cana investment.
We have limited lease expirations.
We have very limited rig or other service commitments.
So what we're planning on doing is throttling back to Cana a little bit while we watch these gas prices.
We're going to go back to 7 rigs in the greater Mid-Continent area.
We will probably take from time to time anywhere from 1 to 3 of our Cana rigs in western Oklahoma to test some new emerging ideas.
We've talked in past calls about the western Oklahoma Anadarko Basin being a very active generation program for us.
And we have some things lined up that will be from time to time borrowing rigs from Cana in this low-gas environment to test some concepts that are oilier in Western Oklahoma.
And finally just wrapping up talking about the Gulf Coast.
In the Gulf Coast we participated in just 1 gross or 0.5 net wells that was operated within our Yegua/Cook Mountain fairway in the first quarter and that well was unsuccessful and was a dry hole.
We're in the process of shooting and acquiring new seismic data and we expect to be recharging our inventory and back to drilling in the second half of this year.
So overall we're seeing our program the flexibility we baked into it in past years having a liquids portion having a high-quality Cana-Woodford program also having a number of different plays.
We're getting some benefits in that.
And that even in this rather hostile gas environment we still have a lot of opportunity to choose from that gets us acceptable returns.
Obviously we're trying to live within the guidance that we've talked about in the past and we're committed to do that.
But we're very pleased with our results thus far and very optimistic about our deep inventory and the opportunity it brings us.
With that I'll turn the call over to Joe Albi our Chief Operating Officer.
Thank you Tom and thank you all for joining our call today.
I'll summarize our first quarter production update you on our Q2 and full year guidance and then finish up with just a few comments on our current service costs.
Well Q1 came in for us just about as planned.
We reported average net daily equivalent production of 603.5 million a day.
That was up 2 million a day from our Q4 '11 reported figure of 601.4 million a day and fell just about at the midpoint of our guidance which was 595 million to 615 million a day.
Our production during the quarter was slightly impacted by some pipeline and facility shut-ins in both the Permian and the Mid-Continent.
Those shut-ins impacted our production by approximately 6 million a day.
And without them we would've come in obviously at the upper end of our guidance.
With our continued focus on the Permian and the Cana we once again set a few records during the quarter.
Tom mentioned a few 4 of them all mentioned.
Our Q1 Permian oil production of 21 800 barrels a day is a record that's up 14% from Q4 '11 and 50% from Q1 '11.
On the equivalent basis our first quarter Permian production came in at 240.3 million a day that's also a company high up 12% from last quarter and 38% from a year ago.
And although we were impacted to the tune of about 3 million a day in facility shut-ins during the quarter in Cana our Q1 equivalent net Cana production of 161.3 million a day is also a new record up 2% from Q4 and a respectable 56% from Q1 '11.
As Tom mentioned driven by the Permian our total company Q1 oil production of 29 562 barrels a day was a new record.
That's up 8% from Q4 '11 and 10% from last year.
While our total company liquid production of 47 249 barrels a day also set a new high mark for us up 6% from last quarter and 8% from a year ago.
During Q1 liquids now make up 47% of our total production that's up 3 points from the 44% that we saw one year ago.
As compared to 4 '11 on an equivalent basis our Q1 total company production of 603.5 million a day was up 2 million a day with the Permian being up 25 million a day the Gulf Coast down 21 million a day and the Mid-Continent down slightly at 2 million a day.
And this again as I mentioned earlier primarily result of the pipeline at facility shut-ins that we saw during the quarter.
As we mentioned during our last call we now see the headwind of our past Gulf Coast declines to be behind us and it's reflected in our year-over-year numbers.
As compared to Q1 '11 our Q1 '12 total company production was up 13.4 million a day with the Permian up 66.6 million a day and the Mid-Continent up 47.8 million a day.
That's a combined increase of 114.4 million a day which more than offset the 101.3 million a day drop we saw in the Gulf Coast over the last 12 months.
So as we look forward into Q2 and the remainder of the year as we mentioned when we first issued our 2012 guidance the significant portion of our anticipated 2012 production gains were projected to occur in the latter half of the year.
And Tom alluded to this this is driven primarily by our Cana infill well frac schedule.
Well that picture hasn't changed and as we modeled at the beginning of the year our Q production -- Q2 production is forecasted to be relatively flat to Q1 as a result of basically 2 items: Number one our anticipated Gulf Coast production decline albeit a relatively small drop of 8 million to 10 million a day from Q1 to Q2; and two the buildup of our completions that we have with the Cana infill project.
As of March 31 we had 39 gross or 18 net Cana wells waiting on completion with our infill frac activities slated to begin here in late May and then continue to the end of the year.
So with this frac schedule the production adds associated with the infill project are really projected to make an impact on our production in Q3 and Q4.
With knowledge of some significant Q2 pipeline facility shut-ins and likely at a rejection associated with our processed gas in Cana as many of you have written or read we've reduced our second quarter guidance by approximately 10 million to 12 million a day which resulted in a projected Q2 guidance range of 580 million to 680 million a day for the quarter.
Incorporating our new Q2 estimate into our full year model results in a revised 2012 guidance range of 612 million to 613 million a day.
The current full year model calls for a Gulf Coast production to drop to levels of 25 million to 30 million a day by Q4 with combined Q4 Permian and Mid-Continent volumes to be in the range of 625 million to 650 million a day up a respectable 18% to 22% from our Q4 '11 combined Permian and Mid-Continent equivalent volume of 531 million a day.
So outside of the external impacts on our Q2 production the bottom line to our guidance is basically that we're about where we thought we'd be at this point in the year.
Adjusting our Q2 guidance for the 10 million to 12 million a day of shut-ins and possible ethane rejection puts Q2 right in line with Q1 which is how we modeled it at the beginning of the year with the impact of our Cana infill program and increased Permian activity projected to boost our Q3 and Q4 volumes.
Shifting gears to our OpEx.
Our Q1 lifting costs came in at about 23 per Mcfe.
That's up slightly from Q4 and at the upper end of our guidance.
The primary component of work here was our slightly higher workover activity during Q1 as compared to quarters passed with our first quarter workover component of $0.04 per Mcfe from Q4 '11.
So with Q1 coming in at $1.23 we bumped our 2012 lifting cost guidance up slightly to about $1.15 to $1.30.
On the service cost side in general during Q1 we saw our drilling cost components remain relatively flat while completion costs appear to be softening a bit.
And that's driven primarily by frac service cost reductions and overall prop cost reductions with the use of white sand.
Only where we've increased fracture upsizes have we seen completion cost increases.
In Cana through drilling efficiencies gained by pad drilling such as mobilization and facility cost savings utilizing biofuel for -- power for our rigs installing pipeline infrastructure for water sourcing and disposal and by consolidating our services and equipment our current Cana core infill AFEs are now running $7.6 million and that's down from levels of $8 million just 3 months ago.
Our current Permian AFEs have remained fairly well in check since our last call with improved drill time efficiency our Paddock-Blinebry vertical AFEs are now running $2 million to $2.2 million that's down slightly from Q1 and back in line with equivalent costs a year ago.
Our 8 000 to 9 000 foot TVD New Mexico second Bone Spring wells are running $5.8 million to $6.5 million that's flat with the numbers we gave you in Q1 but up 15% to 20% from Q2 '11 and that's as Tom mentioned to us increasing our frac size in that program basically going from 5 stages now to 8.
Now as we drill a little bit deeper into the basin and approach TVDs of close to 11 000 feet we'll see some of these second Bone Spring wells get closer to a $6.8 million to $7 million range.
The heart of our activity today has been in the 8 000 to 9 000 foot range.
Our current West Texas Third Bone Spring AFEs of $7.5 million to $8.5 million are again flat with Q1 yet down considerably from where they were a year ago at about $9 million.
This primarily a result of us changing our completion design going to cemented liners fewer stages and using white sand.
And our current Wolfcamp AFEs continue to come in at $8 million to $8.5 million right on track as well with the estimates that we provided last call.
So in a nutshell for us Q1 came in about as planned.
Adjusting for known Q2 pipeline facility shut-ins our second quarter looks relatively flat to Q1.
Our model continues to call for strong Q3 and Q4 production growth from the Permian and the Mid-Continent.
Our service costs appear flat with signs of softening on the completion side and our program efficiencies continue to improve our total well cost as we've evidenced with our Cana infill project.
So with that I'll turn that -- I'll turn the call over to Paul our Senior VP and CFO.
Thank you Joe.
Consistent with our track record our earnings release is probably once again noteworthy in that it doesn't contain any surprises.
Our operational and financial results were good and generally in line with guidance and other expectations.
I would say that the earnings and cash flow numbers were very clean so I don't think they require any further explanation.
However I would like to comment and update you on the right side of the balance sheet.
Subsequent to quarter end in early April we issued $750 million of new 10-year Senior Notes priced at par to yield 5 and 7.125%.
We used the proceeds to repay our old $350 million of 7.125 % Senior Notes that were due in 2017 and to repay bank debt that we had outstanding at the time.
I probably should add in case any investors are on the line thanks very much for your participation in that offering.
Pro forma for the new notes we have nothing drawn on our $800 million bank credit facility and approximately $150 million of cash.
Our credits stats after the offering remain strong.
Pro forma for the new offering our debt-to-cap ratio is about 19% and total current debt and projected debt outstanding at the end of this year remain below 1x to our EBITDA or any other measure of cash flow.
We -- our capital projection for the year remains $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion midpoint of $1.5 billion.
We think we're very well positioned to fund that with cash flow derived from production this year proceeds to this offering and perhaps drawing on our credit facility to the tune of $150 million to $200 million by year end.
With that I'd like to turn it back to the operator for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Mario Bizara [ph].
Just wanted to get some color on the Texas Bone Springs.
It's just going back sequentially for the past few quarters you're seeing steadily improving average 30-day rates.
I know you commented briefly about using more sand and what exactly are you guys doing or have you changed in your drilling techniques over the past 6 to 9 months to drive this improvement? Sure.
This is Tom.
I think primarily we're in a better area.
We've -- for the past couple of years have been a little bit of a tug-of-war on leasing.
And there's a part of the play we really like that we haven't aggressively drilled in because we were in lease competition and wanted to not race market players.
And that has kind of come to an end and so we're drilling in some areas that are a little thicker a little higher oil cut and just better quality rock than some of our prior results.
That and the upsized completion I would say explains our increasing results.
Okay.
And then you mentioned about looking to still acquire land here.
I mean with the recent debt offering you still have a pretty solid debt to cap around 19%.
What's your appetite for making an acquisition in this market that could be comparable to what you made with Magnum Hunter a few years ago which got you really a significant position in the Delaware Basin? Well I would say our appetite is strong but it's about returns to us.
And we look at a lot of water package I assume you're talking about Permian in particular we look at water packages in the Permian that we like and we are unwilling to pay what the successful buyers are paying because we don't think the returns are there.
Now maybe we're just not seeing it fully but we see it as we see it.
So we're about returns.
We love the Permian but we're generating very nice returns on our internally generated opportunities and we're able to increase that.
I'll answer you straight on though.
We would love to find another opportunity like we had in 2005 when we bought our land to that 370 000 net acre position in Permian.
This is -- these transactions today it's very difficult for us to justify with our return metrics.
Would you consider a new play or are we really just concentrating in the Permian and the Mid-Continent here? Well of course we consider a new play.
We would love to find something that we think generates significant drilling opportunity and would give us another core business area.
So yes we are opportunistic for that.
I wouldn't say that we wake up every morning and go look for it but they tend to kind of find us.
And it's one of the strong reasons why we we're trying to preserve some flexibility with our balance sheet in case that were to happen.
I'll add -- this is Paul I'll add that in the meantime until the right opportunity comes along we have -- we can be patient and selective because we are already long drilling inventory in both the Permian and the Mid-Continent area.
Okay.
And then just since talking about the drilling inventory just last question here.
You mentioned about maybe borrowing some rigs in Oklahoma to possibly expand on your drilling inventory.
How long or far away are you guys from disclosing a new position or a new play within your current acreage position? I don't think you'd see us come out with some huge threshold announcement.
It's not the -- western Oklahoma is our oldest operating arena.
And it's also one of most competitive land arenas that we compete in.
But I wouldn't expect to see us come out with some new stealth play where we're going to say we have hundreds of thousands of acres.
That said in western Oklahoma a 20 000 to 50 000 acreage position in the right play can be extremely meaningful to company our size.
But I think we're probably targeting something along those lines.
We're currently leasing in a couple of areas.
But it's very very difficult and it's part of our business as usual that we use every day.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Todd.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question on your guidance.
If we look at your production guidance for the year what are the implications in terms of rig activity? I know you mentioned dropping from 10 rigs to 7 rigs in the Cana or in the Mid-Continent region.
How many rigs is that emission going to in the Permian? Well we're currently running -- depending on when you quarry us between 13 and 15 rigs in the Permian.
And we have the opportunities lined up to increase that and we're talking about that.
As I said earlier though one of our disciplines is our -- these low gas prices have some impact to our cash flow and we're trying to manage our capital program with some discipline.
And we had a little bit of additional capital in Cana.
You know there are a lot of companies infilling out there and we have a little more non-operating capital in Cana that we initially planned for.
And we're going to stay flexible.
We'll be probably somewhere between $600 million and $800 million in the Permian this year and it's going to be a function of our results rig availability and our cash flow.
With regard to guidance this is Joe Albi with the rig any type of rig transfer occurring for the most part in the second half of the year our 2012 modeling really didn't change especially considering Q3 Q4 production as from Cana and the Cana infill project we're basically in complete mode there where any slowdown in drilling activity would more affect the first part of '13 than '12.
And on the other side of the coin moving those rigs into an area like the Permian we might be able to realize some oil production in Q4 relatively quick.
So when we tinkered with those sensitivities in our modeling 2012 didn't change much.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I assume I know you talked about ethane rejection right now in Cana.
How long of a period of ethane rejection are you modeling in there? Well that was a topic of conversation between Mark and I and all we feel comfortable with is just trying to predict about as far as we can see pass our nose.
So we only incorporate in what we thought we'd see in Q2 and that was only for the Cana portion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally if I could switch over briefly we've seen a lot of attention in the Midland Basin around the emerging plays decline and then the north Midland Basin and the Wolfcamp obviously.
What are you seeing -- are you looking at equivalent zones in the Delaware Basin? And what are some of the other horizons that I guess you have your eyes on right now? Well yes this is Tom.
Obviously our Wolfcamp play in the Delaware Basin is the direct equivalent to the Wolfcamp in the Midland Basin.
They also pursue a deeper shale which would be the equivalent of our Penn Shale.
We're pursuing that.
Midland Basin is different but it does -- we don't play that.
We don't have a big position although we're studying it pretty hard.
I think critical difference is as normally pressured whereas we're overpressured.
But we're pretty pleased with our own Wolfcamp so we don't feel a need to race over there and pay top dollar for a big acreage position.
We like what we've got at Delaware.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Lively.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> On this ethane discussion can you remind us one how much ethane do you guys produce specifically out of Cana? And then what percentage of the Cana barrel is ethane? Brian this is Joe Albi.
Here's how I'd look at it as far as how it translates into guidance.
And if Mark wants to chime in please do Mark.
But what we modeled was an impact of about 5 million to 5.5 million a day worth of volumes on an equivalent basis that we'd see as far as a reduction is concerned.
When we look at the specifics of it in Cana about 24% of our wet gas stream or produced wellhead gas stream is dry 76% is processed.
We look at a May Mid-Continent price of $1.87.
Had we not had ethane rejection we would have received at the wellhead $2.82 -- excuse me $2.97 in Mcf.
And with rejection it's $2.82.
So it's hitting us to the extent of about $0.15 on a wellhead Mcf.
But on the other side of the coin we have a little bit more residue coming off the back side of the plan.
So our residue with rejection is about for 1 000 Mcf into the plant would yield $8.62 per reservoir volumes versus $8.02 had we not had the rejections.
So we see about 7.5% increase in our gas and I think that may help you translate it into Mcfes which is how we try to look at in our model.
I don't know Mark if you want to add anything? Yes.
I guess we just throw you a question Brian of our Cana NGLs in the first quarter produced 6 700 barrels a day of NGLs in Cana.
So about all those NGLs almost nearly half of that barrel is ethane.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
My point was more on if you look at the NGL realizations in Q1 at about 36% the volume impact of rejection is one thing.
But by the same token what are you guys thinking then going forward in terms of actual realizations versus WTI for your NGL base? This is Joe again.
Mark and I looked at that this morning and I guess the best way we'd answer that is based on the one other time that we saw rejection which was August of 2010.
We might say that might move a couple of points.
So like 36% to 38% or something like that.
Yes.
We have a 34% of WTI in the first quarter Brian.
So yes if you do your 4% uptick in our realization WTI is probably reasonable.
And that's a guess Brian.
That's a market in itself.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right exactly.
The -- on the Permian what -- just on average can you guys provide kind of that same breakdown of ethane for an NGL barrel? Yes Brian I think roughly the ethane barrel is similar so half of that's staying there also in 25% propane heavier.
And then the Wolfcamp's our biggest probably contributor.
I think that is half.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last for me.
The Permian I guess with some down -- some infrastructure downtime recently it seems like the differentials are widening and maybe they're starting to narrow now.
But can you guys comment at sort of the same commentary I guess on the NGL realizations going forward but what should we expect from the Permian on the oil side? As far as receipt price? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
What kind of differentials? I mean you guys gave some pretty good guidance on expenses but I'm just looking for more details on the actual realizations side as it relates to crude? Okay.
So for -- as an example the differential that we were seeing between Midland and Cushing in 2011 was running around $0.50 $0.70.
In Q1 we saw that on an average basis increased to $1.48.
In April we're guessing with the preliminary data that we have that that's probably somewhere close to $3.85 to $3.90 differential.
And in May probably the high $5 $5.85 $5.90.
And June we target somewhere maybe $5.25.
So when you compare Q2 differential to where we saw Q1 we're seeing about a $3.50 difference between Q1 obviously on the lower side and that represents about 75% of our oil.
Now we are seeing the reverse obviously with Louisiana with our LRS differential.
But unfortunately it's a smaller percent of our volumes now.
So we're seeing about a $6 increase there but that's about 5% of our volumes.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that -- do you think that's transitory in the second quarter? Meaning as you go third and fourth quarter the realizations should improve? Or do you think the run rate that's kind of there? Well we -- I mean at some I'd love to hear your thoughts on.
But we're hearing the bottlenecking we're hearing the basin pipeline expansion taken out of the equation.
We're hearing that turnaround season's over that ought to help.
And a general line coming on in '13 ought to help.
We've got a West Texas Gulf expansion.
It should add another 100 000 barrels of takeaway at the end of the year and then there's always talk about rail.
So this is definitely anomaly when you look over time that we've seen something like this.
Our hopes obviously are that it's not at the end of the second quarter.
And if you were to ask a commodity trader if you went into the over-the-counter derivatives market to try to swap or hedge something near -- in that case it says it does return to normal by September or October.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Duane Grubert.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little about the Gulf Coast reduction in activity? You're still spending about $80 million there.
So I'm wondering have you cut back on your internal personnel that are looking at the Gulf Coast and were truly winding it down? Or is it more that last season's batch of wells weren't so hot and we may still be surprised by a good batch this year? Brian this is Tom.
That $80 million of plan capital and it'll be -- if it comes to fruition it'll be back-end loaded to the second half of the year.
We're in a rebuilding phase.
We've got 3 to 5 new 3D programs that are going to be coming into our shop here between now.
The first one hit our shop a few days ago.
Between now and middle of fall we'll have 3 to 5 new programs.
And it's a constant rebuilding of the inventory and this is being -- since 2002 when we first played the Gulf Coast we get new data we analyze it we would look for anomalies we come up with a prospect inventory and we'd get at it.
What you're seeing here is because of some permit delays on some federal level [ph].
We lost about a year of debt cycle.
So we have a -- probably at least until Q3 you're going to see a level of activity.
No we have not -- in fact we're increasing our staffs with a little more horsepower and we'll look at this Gulf Coast data.
And I would expect this to be at temporary level.
But that said as you've heard us say in the past we have no Gulf Coast inventory.
It is always build-it and drill-it type deal.
So until we get those data sets interpreted get them analyzed we wouldn't be able to say anything definitive about where our upcoming inventory is.
That $80 million is our best guess for money we set aside.
[Operator Instructions] And there are no more questions at this time.
Very good.
Thank you for everyone for joining us today on the conference call.
I look forward to meeting you in person in the next coming conferences in -- over the next quarter.
Thank you very much for participating.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Tony and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter Earnings and Operation Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Burford you may begin your conference.
Thank you very much Tony and welcome everyone and thanks for joining us today on our second quarter conference call.
Here in Denver we have Tom Jorden President and CEO; Joe Albi EVP and COO; Paul Korus Senior Vice President and CFO; and Jim Shonsey Vice President and Controller.
We did issue our financial and operating results and news release this morning a copy of which can be found on our website.
I need to remind you that today's presentation will contain forward-looking statements.
However a number of factors could cause the actual results to differ materially from what we discuss.
You should read our disclosure on the forward-looking statements in our latest 10-K other filings and press releases for risk factors associated with our business.
Thank you very much for joining us and I'll just go ahead and turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and welcome everyone.
We had a solid second quarter even with falling commodity prices.
As you saw from our release we reported net income of $64.3 million or $0.74 per diluted share.
Our adjusted cash flow from operations this quarter was $240 million and that's down from $340 million last year.
Our second quarter 2012 production volumes averaged 590 million cubic feet equivalent per day that's up slightly from a year ago of 585.7 million cubic feet equivalent.
We continue to see strong growth in the Permian and Mid-Continent which combined averaged 547.7 million cubic feet per day -- cubic feet equivalent per day growing 17% over last year.
And that includes a 37% increase from Permian Basin oil volumes which averaged 21 694 barrels of oil per day this quarter.
Our total company oil production grew 8% to 28 000 686 000 -- 28 686 barrels per day.
Liquids accounted for 46% of our equivalent volumes and 80% of our 343 million of oil gas and NGL revenue.
We saw a decrease in oil gas and NGL prices this quarter compared to last year and that didn't surprise anybody.
Oil price realizations decreased 12% to $87.81 per barrel.
Natural gas prices fell 49% averaging $2.42 per Mcf.
And NGL prices fell $0.36 to average $29.02 per barrel.
What we can control is going very well.
We're seeing excellent results in our Permian drilling program and our Cana team is doing a fantastic job making returns in a difficult natural gas and NGL environment.
And I just want to say to underscore that for those of you who have seen our production table and our area-by-area break down we've had a tremendous headwind to overcome this year with our Gulf Coast decline and we've talked about that ad infinitum in past calls.
And I just want to tell you how deeply proud we are here in the executive team of our organization that's picked up the pace and the fact that we've overcome that decline in the Gulf Coast is really a testament to our engine of growth we have in that Permian and Mid-Continent program both our exploration team our operations team working together our marketing team.
We've had a lot of very difficult challenges so far this year with plant downtimes and Joe will get into that in some detail.
Our core focus is on execution being good at the business and working our way through the cycles.
And we're very proud to report the way this organization has responded to the cycle we're in so far this year.
In the first half of this year we've drilled 160 gross 91 net wells investing $782 million on exploration development.
Of our total expenditures 52% were invested in projects located in the Permian 44% in the Mid-Continent and 4% in the Gulf Coast and other.
And now we'll move on and give a region-by-region summary and I'll start with the Permian which of course is our largest area.
We drilled and completed 94 gross or 64 net Permian Basin wells during the first 6 months of 2012 completing 95% of those as producers.
Permian E&amp;D capital for the first half was $409 million or 52% of our total capital.
Year-to-date 2012 in our New Mexico Bone Spring program we drilled and completed 31 gross 16 net wells and we're continuing to see outstanding results in that play.
Per well 30-day gross production from the 2012 Bone Spring wells averaged over 600 barrels equivalent per day 87% of which was oil.
We're drilling some of the best wells we've ever seen.
Not only are we drilling some very nice wells we're certainly in the process of I think demonstrating to people that we've overcome some of the challenges we had in the last year with high water cuts.
A lot of these wells are in extensional new areas and we're very very pleased with the results we're seeing out of that program.
Our team has done a great job in this program maximizing well performance and stepping out in some of these new areas.
Moving onto the Texas Third Bone Spring.
Our Texas Third Bone spring drilling this year has totaled 19 gross and 12 net wells.
The per well 30-day gross production rate in this year's wells have averaged 850 barrels equivalent per day 79% of that being oil.
Really nice results out of that program.
And then finally in the Permian I'd like to update you on where we are in our Wolfcamp play.
We're continuing to see strong results from our Delaware Basin Wolfcamp shale drilling.
And as we've outlined in the past our Wolfcamp play is focused in Southern Eddy County New Mexico we call that our White City program and Northern Culberson County Texas where we have approximately 80 000 net acres.
Year-to-date we have drilled and completed 6 gross or 5.9 net horizontal Wolfcamp wells bringing our total wells in the play since inception to 24 gross or 22.7 net.
Our per well first 30-day production from the wells brought on this quarter averaged 6.7 million cubic feet equivalent per day or 1 120 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
That stream out of the Wolfcamp is comprised of 2.6 million cubic feet a day of gas and of course I'm quoting the 30-day averages of our first quarter.
So the average is 2.6 million cubic feet a day gas 345 barrels per day of oil and 335 barrels per day of natural gas liquids or that's 39% gas 31% oil and 30% NGL.
We've done a lot of experimenting both regional and stratigraphically to see if we can increase that oil yield.
I will say that our most recent wells are seeing a fairly significant increase in our oil yield.
Our play average is about 55 barrels per million.
Our recent wells are coming in at about 70 barrels per million.
We're still de-risking our acreage.
We've yet to fully define on that play.
We're still drilling one well per section and so there's a lot we don't know about that play.
We don't know the full regional extent.
We don't know the yield breakdown once we have our acreage entirely de-risked.
We also don't know how many wells per section ultimately this play will generate for us.
But what we do know is we're seeing very nice results we're getting reasonable returns even at today's costs and commodity pricing environment and we're very excited about this play for what it will be for us in 2012 2013 and as a legacy project for Cimarex.
Our per well first 30-day production rates in all the wells we've drilled to date and that's from soup to nuts short laterals long laterals high costs bad completions good completions 30-day average for everything no holds barred 6.5 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
And again that's comprised of 2.8 million cubic feet equivalent gas 270 barrels per day of oil and 350 barrels per day of natural gas liquids.
So that's 43% gas 25% oil and 32% natural gas liquids.
So again we don't know the scope of this play.
We certainly think it has many many years of drilling potential for us as we de-risk our acreage.
And then we need to ultimately determine our spacing whether it will be 80-acre spacing 160-acre spacing or some other number as yet we don't know.
But certainly that play has earned a slot in our highlights reel.
Moving on to the Mid-Continent.
In the first half of 2012 we drilled and completed 64 gross or 26 net Mid-Continent wells and our Mid-Continent first half exploration development capital was $345 million or 44% of our total capital.
And essentially all of that activity year-to-date has been in our Cana-Woodford where we've drilled and completed 60 gross or 25 net wells.
At quarter end there were 57 gross and 24 net Cana wells waiting on completion and that compares with 13 gross or 4.9 net wells waiting on completion at year-end 2011.
So we're building a little bit of a backlog in Cana and that's purely a function of our infill development program and that our drilling is outpacing our completion.
That increase on waiting on completions as compared to year end is something that will be with us for a while as we're completing these wells.
Frac-ing in our infill row started on May 23 flowback of the first well began in late June and first sale started mid-July.
So we don't yet have 30 days of a flowback on our infill program.
So we're now in the manufacturing process in Cana.
We have a frac crew working continuously working their way down the 7-section infill row that we're currently completing and we're completing a frac job every 3 to 4 days.
It's a great project.
We've put a lot of energy into infrastructure both from gathering systems water water disposal.
And I'm sure Joe will talk about that in some detail.
And we're still seeing reasonable returns.
At current costs and current strip pricing our returns -- when we quote returns on an infill project it's an east-west row.
All of these infill rows will be east-west and so east-west in the core Cana goes from a more liquids rich to a drier portion.
So the liquids rich has the higher rates return the drier portion has a lower rates return.
And in that row those rates return vary from 18% to 40% after tax on our drilling dollars current cost current pricing.
So we're still seeing successful rates of return at Cana.
It's turning into a manufacturing project.
We currently have 7 rigs running in Cana.
As we've talked in the past we're planning on redirecting some of those rigs to some other oilier or Mid-Continent plays that we're testing.
We're still in a bit of a state of flux.
We moved some of our Cana rigs to the Permian as we redirected our capital.
Our current plan if things unfold as the way we currently see them is we would ramp down our Cana fleet to 4 rigs and exit the year with 4 rigs working on that infill row in Cana or additional infill drilling in Cana.
We also are experimenting with long laterals in Cana.
There have been a number of long laterals drilled by the industry in the Cana core.
We have a history of -- there are currently 3 laterals by other operators they are currently producing.
There's one flowing back and then there are spattering of others.
We have drilled our first long lateral.
We are waiting on completion there.
We didn't get the entire lateral length down so we're still -- don't have anything definitive to say in our opinion of the role of long laterals in Cana but we are experimenting with them.
Elsewhere in the Mid-Continent we're quite pleased.
We've talked in the past about some emerging plays in the Mid-Continent.
We'll be testing some ideas.
We've got some ideas that we are in process of testing and in a talk going on in Cleveland.
We have some other ideas we haven't talked about and we'll be testing them soon.
And hopefully in the next call or 2 we'll be able to give you some results and what kind of exposure those may have for us going forward.
In the Gulf Coast we began prospecting on a new 3D shoot that we recently got off the field.
We have some new data in our processing.
We're trying to see what kind of inventory we'll build.
We don't have a definitive look at that yet so that will be an update for further calls.
So just in conclusion as we look at our results today where we are where we're going it's been a solid first half.
We focused on execution.
We're very pleased with where we are.
We're right on target to deliver the guidance that we've promised.
And I just want to reiterate again that we're very proud of the operational and overall performance of our organization as they've had to overcome a fair amount of headwind this year.
And with that I will turn the call over to Joe.
Thank you Tom and thank you all of you for joining our call today.
I'll quickly touch on our second quarter production hit on our remaining year guidance and then I'll finish up with a few comments on where we see service costs.
Despite seeing higher pipeline and facility shut-in volumes than we expected our second quarter average net daily equivalent production came in at 590.1 million a day.
That's about as expected and right at the midpoint of our guidance that we issued of 580 million to 680 million a day.
As you may recall from our last call our Q2 guidance incorporated a reduction of approximately 10 million to 12 million a day for what we saw as anticipated Permian and Mid-Continent pipeline and facility shut-ins as well as the likely ethane rejection during May and June for our processed gas out in Cana.
When the dust settled after we closed the quarter our plus or minus 3-million-a-day estimate for the Q2 impact for ethane rejection was right in line but our facility shut-ins ended up being slightly higher than we anticipated primarily in the Permian.
And as a result our production was negatively impacted to the tune of 17 million to 19 million a day during the quarter versus the 10 million to 12 million that we have predicted.
Nonetheless we came in right at our midpoint.
And when accounting for those shut-ins we're about flat or possibly even a little bit higher than where we would have been in Q1.
We continued to set new records in the Permian although 12 million to 13 million a day of our second quarter shut-ins did happen in the Permian.
Our reported net equivalent Permian production of 247 million a day is a new high mark for the region as is our 28 011 barrels per day of total liquid production.
As compared to Q1 '12 our second quarter combined Permian and Mid-Continent equivalent production of 547.7 million a day was down slightly 1% and this is due to the pipeline and facility shut-ins that I mentioned the ethane rejection and our planned deferred completion of our Cana infill wells.
All the while our Gulf Coast production of 42.4 million a day came in a little bit better than we had expected down just 6.8 million a day or 14% in Q1.
But despite the shut-ins we continued to demonstrate significant year-over-year production growth in the Permian and the Mid-Continent.
As we compare ourselves to Q2 '11 our combined Q2 '12 Permian and Mid-Continent equivalent net production was up 80.7 million a day.
That's up 17% from Q2 '11 with the Permian up 65 million a day and Cana up 41 million a day both of which are 36% increases.
And both are directly related to where the focus of our capital has been over the last year.
Outside of the ethane rejection and larger-than-expected facility shut-ins during the first half of the year our 2012 production has really been performing quite well and in essence hitting our plan.
As we mentioned when we first issued our 2012 guidance and we reiterated again last call the significant portion of our anticipated 2012 production adds were projected to occur in the latter half of this year And that's driven primarily by our Cana infill well frac schedule.
As we mentioned last call as of March 31 we have 39 gross or 18 net Cana wells waiting on completion.
And as Tom mentioned at June 30 this figure had grown to 57 gross and 24 net wells waiting on completion just in Cana.
Although we initiated our infill frac operations in late May and in essence completed 6 of those gross wells 2.4 net by the end of the quarter our production adds from these wells were really not anticipated to be seen until the Q3 timeframe.
So really nothing has changed in that regard.
The only items that have played a significant role in our year-to-date production as compared to our beginning year guidance really have been just the facility shut-ins and the ethane rejection that we've experienced.
The impact of these 2 items were more pronounced in Q2 than Q1.
But over the first half of the year they've averaged about 11 million to 13 million a day that didn't show up on the scoreboard.
So looking forward our current full year guidance model does incorporate the Q1 and Q2 impact of the shut-ins and ethane rejection.
And we also incorporated an estimated 8-million- to 9-million-a-day reduction during Q3 for a projected ethane rejection from Cana during the quarter.
With continued anticipated production growth from the Permian and Cana our modeling continues to support the full year guidance projection we issued last quarter which was 612 million to 632 million a day and our Q3 volumes are projected to average 610 million to 640 million a day a significant jump-up from Q2.
Our projected third quarter combined Permian and Mid-Continent volumes of 575 million to 590 million a day reflect a continued year-over-year increase in production with an estimated 18% to 21% increase from where we were in Q3 '11.
And again that's simply a direct result of our activity in those 2 areas.
With our focus on oil and liquids rich gas we anticipate that we'll close the year with liquids averaging approximately 48% of our 2012 total company production and that's up from 44% that we reported in 2011.
And another note I want to point out as implied by our guidance we're also projecting a strong exit rate for 2012 which certainly will springboard us into 2013.
Shifting gears to OpEx.
With the overall cost increases the industry has seen over the last year LOE has become an even more important focus for our production group.
Our immediate focus has been on reducing SWD costs primarily in the Permian and to implement measures to reduce workover costs company-wide.
In conjunction with that we've put some capital into infrastructure costs that Tom briefly touched on future benefits of those and our LOE really will never be seen.
And that's some of the benefits that we'll get out of putting in our own saltwater disposal facilities our own trunk lines our high-pressure and low-pressure gas service for gas lifts central delivery points common points of compression getting out ahead of the infrastructure for power to reduce our power generator costs and so forth and so on.
So a lot of those will show up down the road.
We won't see it yet but overall when we look at the lifting cost figure from this point forward we are anticipating to see future improvements.
So as a result our Q2 lifting costs came in at $1.16 per Mcfe.
That's down $0.07 or 5.7% from Q1.
With our continued focus on cost controls like I've measured and as well as the reduction we saw in Q2 we've slightly revised our full year LOE guidance down to $1.15 to $1.30 per Mcfe simply by just lowering the upper end of the range that we issued last quarter.
Finally on the service cost side we've seen the majority of service costs such as rigs mud directional cementing bids et cetera stay fairly flat over the quarter.
And for that matter over the last few quarters as far as the rig market is concerned 1 500 horsepower top drives continue to appear to be in demand but we see the market showing some signs of softening.
A rig may become available and may be available for a short while and then it gets picked up but it's not as tight as we saw the market a quarter ago.
In Cana we continue to see the benefits of our program drilling efficiencies with the average days to TD for our Cana core wells now running about 40 days as compared to 50 days in 2011 and the 64 days we saw when we first began the program in 2007 and 2008.
And that's a real testimony to the improvements we've been able to make where the efficiencies are associated with program drilling.
Despite slightly larger fracs our current Cana core AFEs are running about $7.5 million.
That's down about $100 000 from the number we gave you last quarter and it's at or below the levels that we saw over a year ago.
With our infill efficiencies that we're just starting to see we're projecting that some of our recent faster drilled Cana infill wells may come in well below $7 million once we've finished our completion work.
So we're seeing tremendous improvements through efficiencies in Cana.
As far as the Permian is concerned although availability for nearly all tools services and equipment can be a challenge and require a good planning.
Really outside of trucking for heavy equipment we haven't noted any significant changes in cost components.
And as such our Permian well costs remain relatively unchanged from last quarter.
Our 8 000- and 9 000-foot TVD Second Bone Spring New Mexico well with a 4 700-foot lateral are still running around $5.8 million to $6.5 million.
That's flat with our Q1 estimates.
And as we've talked about before as TVDs approach 11 000 feet going deeper into the basin that generic well will run closer to $6.8 million to $7.1 million.
Our generic West Texas Third Bone Spring AFEs are running about $7.5 million to $8 million.
That's down $1 million to $1.5 million from where we were at the end of last year and the beginning part of this year due primarily to the program efficiencies we mentioned and also our completion design changes that we've made in that program by going to cemented liners fewer stages and using white sand in our completions.
In our current Wolfcamp AFEs continue to come in around $8 million to $8.5 million.
That's right on track with the estimates that we provided last call.
So in summary we had another good quarter.
Our Q2 production came in as planned.
Our full year guidance remains unchanged and our Q2 LOE reduction is certainly headed in the right direction with our drilling and completion costs remaining in check.
So as we move in to the second half of the year our teams simply will just keep their focus on maximizing production and improving our LOE and well costs where we can.
So with that I think now I turn the call back over to the operator for any questions that you all may have.
That's right.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Brian Lively.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start just by clarifying the ethane commentary.
I'm not sure if I missed this but for your Q3 guidance how much ethane have you backed out for potential curtailment there? Brian this is Joe Albi.
The modeling that we're using is approximating about an average of 8 million a day of a reduction for specifically ethane rejection.
And the only place we're seeing it is at our Cana processed gas that is tied to a Conway price.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's understandable.
On the Permian side I think you guys have given 600 000-barrel recoveries for the New Mexico Bone Spring and something like 730 000 for the Third Bone Spring.
Can you update based on the new well data what you're seeing from an EUR standpoint and maybe add some commentary on the Wolfcamp? Brian you're right.
We have given those numbers in the investor presentation.
Those numbers are reflecting some of the wells in the second quarter and we are incorporating some of those Brian.
So I don't think our averages will change materially from what we have described in those averages there.
Brian this is Tom.
We are you seeing an increase on our EURs in both plays based on I think better geological targeting better stratigraphic targeting and better completions.
So our recent wells depends on the average I'm looking at a table here that's in our investor material.
But if you look at our average from 2009 to the third quarter 2011 in the Second Bone Spring we've increased our average 50%.
I mean we're currently at a tight curve that's 600 or better Mboe in the Second Bone Spring.
And then likewise if you look at a period of time from 2006 to the third quarter of 2011 and you compare that with the third quarter 2011 to current we've had a 60% increase on our Third Bone Spring EURs.
And there's a fair amount of variance in those EURs as you know.
But we're certainly seeing I would say 700 to 800 Mboe in the Third Bone Spring play per well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then I think that you guys had some commentary in the past about possibly targeting some of the oilier Avalon intervals.
Can you provide an update on that? I mean have you all tested any of those wells yet? Yes.
We've drilled a few Avalon wells.
We brought a few Avalon wells online this year in Southern Lea County and they're okay wells.
I mean we're not talking about specific wells there.
We have a great exposure to the Avalon play but we currently don't see us competing for capital with some of our other opportunities.
We have a fairly tremendous inventory of Avalon opportunities.
Again we know probably less about it than some of the experienced operators but we have some pretty good exposure.
We just don't model it right now competing with capital with some of our other opportunities.
The next question comes from line of Ryan Todd.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
On the -- as you ramp down to a 4-rig run rate in Cana which I'm assuming is that 4 rigs and 1 frac crew on your infill pads what's the right way to think about the run rate on CapEx of that level in Cana? This is Tom.
We're -- right now of course Cana is not just Cimarex.
And so with 4 rigs there's a pretty good chance that we may have as much or more non-op capital as we do operating capital.
Right now we're carrying as a placeholder for 2013.
If we exit with 4 rigs and we stay with 4 rigs it looks like we'll be at about $350 million for Cana.
It could be as low as $250 million so I'd give you a range of $250 million to $350 million.
And the swing there is how much outside operating capital we're exposed to.
We certainly like what we're seeing at Cana so we're staying in everything.
And we're not setting in stone that we'll be exiting with 4 rigs.
It's just what we're looking at as we look to the remainder of 2012 going into 2013.
I think you can expect us to be much closer to cash flow next year than we have been this year.
This year we spread a little to really quite frankly overcome that Gulf Coast headwind which was a decline both in gas and oil production.
One of those Gulf Coast wells were pretty oily.
So we're in an outspend situation this year to try to catch that and we've done a nice job.
And so next year we're still putting our plans together.
But if we go with that 4-rig program in Cana the direct answer to your question is we we'd be between $250 million and $350 million bold net exposure and that swing is on outside operated.
Research Division</strong> Great I appreciate that clarity.
I mean is it right to think of it from a completion level the fact you alluded to completion program that you started in late May will continue at a fairly steady pace for the 12 months following that through...
Yes so we will be completing wells through May of 2013 on our current infill program completing continuously.
Research Division</strong> And then just broadly if we look at the Permian you obviously have --  I mean you've spoken and given some good color in terms of downtime that you had in some of the facilities in the Permian in the quarter.
More broadly on your infrastructure in the Permian Basin what are you seeing right now across your areas on infrastructure? Potential bottlenecks or sources of concern over the next 18 months? Well this is Joe.
We do have concerns about takeaway issues and it's not so much the immediate capacity or processing availability of that.
As much as there's NGL takeaway capacity we're aware of the certain infrastructure that's contemplated by the industry to remedy that.
But that's like 2013 and into '14 and then downstream of that you've got the petrochem side of it.
So we can't control any of that.
What we can do is what we have been doing and that is to put in our own infrastructure process our own gas if we have to at the same time that we're working with other processors out there to try to firm up capacity where we can.
That's kind of a vague answer but the bottom line is there is short-term capacity that we see.
The disruptions that we have seen have not necessarily been due to us not having a market as much as it has been due to the patchwork on the processors and gather site to increase capacity where they can.
Your next question comes from line of Mario Barraza.
Inc.</strong> Just want to dig a little deeper on the Wolfcamp shale wells on the Delaware Basin.
I know you've only drilled a few but the oil cut looks to be significantly higher.
Do you have any idea on what percentage of your acreage here might be perspective for this higher oil cut? Yes this is Tom.
We haven't de-risked enough our acreage to say.
I mean one of the things we do know is in general it's getting oilier as we go to the east on our acreage and yet there are some other factors in the play there.
I wouldn't just simply say east is good.
East is also a little deeper maybe a little higher water.
So there's a lot of factors in play.
I don't have and I would -- I don't have an answer to your question on how many -- our perspective for high oil cut.
But I will say with all the wells we've drilled our average has been about 55 barrels per million.
So we're seeing good oil cuts throughout much of the play.
And then there are a lot of things we're experimenting with.
This is a section that's 600- to 800-feet thick so oil cut varies east to west but it also varies with depth.
It varies with stratigraphy and we're playing around with that.
And I will say some of our higher oil cuts are functions of I think some real creative success our teams have with addressing those questions.
But how it's going to average out to all of our acreage it would be foolish for me to try to even answer that question and we're too early to know.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on the cost side I appreciate all the color you guys gave.
I guess where do you think in the Delaware Basin kind of on the Wolfcamp where you -- I know we're early here where ultimately would you like to get your well costs to? Again this is Tom.
We're very optimistic on the cost side and our drilling completion group has really been focusing on that lately.
Some of the lessons learnings from Cana where we replicate the same wells over and over.
It's all about efficiency running new ideas sharing information on any advance.
A lot of our learnings in Cana we're directly applying to the Wolfcamp.
We've put that infrastructure in place.
We're ready to roll to drill the same type of well over and over.
And that when we give our operations group that opportunity every time they'd have that opportunity they've shined.
And I'm very optimistic.
One of the things we have seen over the last quarter is our well costs are holding flat and in the Permian that's a wonderful thing to say.
They had been increasing creeping up over time.
So to answer where do I want them to be we're currently at a in some change on the Wolfcamp.
I would certainly look for a 10% or better reduction on that.
Joe you're going to want to be the one to make that happen what's your answer? Well I certainly agree with what Tom is saying and I think the best model is Cana by itself.
When we started that project in 2007 2008 when they really kicked it off we have data that we prepared back then saying "Hey here's this program 4 years from now where do we think it can be from just a drill-time standpoint?" And we had projected that we could get our time to TD down by 60% or 40% to 60% of the days that it was taken.
[indiscernible] numbers there that basically did just that.
So 4 years later we were successful in reducing our drilling time by 40%.
That alone on the drilling cost side gives you an idea a ballpark of the cost reduction I guess that could come out of that especially when you take our total well costs and you say about half of them are on the completion side.
So maybe 40% of the drilling cost side will get you right about to the number Tom's talking about.
If you look at it and we're seeing these improvements now they're showing up in performance first and then from that will come costs.
Same thing we saw on Cana.
In Cana we saw tremendous improvements with our days drilling and those improvements lead cost improvements.
But if you look at our Wolfcamp drilling from inception to date and you line up our wells you had a 40% reduction in drilling days.
So we're absolutely moving in the right direction.
I think as Joe has talked this infrastructure we put in in the Culberson County has been exactly the right move for us.
We have a nice consolidated asset and we are well positioned to do what our operations group does well.
And then you give them something that's repeatable concentrated and let it rip.
And I really do expect these costs to show great improvement over time.
Your next question comes from line of Cameron Horwitz.
Research Division</strong> Can you just remind me how much acreage do you have in Reeves County? And do you guys have any plans to drill any Wolfcamp test here over the next year or so? We do have a fair amount of acreage in Reeves County I don't know the answer.
Cameron this is Mark.
I think we talked about Third Bone Spring acreage which is a lot of it being at Reeves County.
It's about 35 000 net acres in the Third Bone Spring position we have there.
We also have some acreage aside from that that's in more of the Wolfcamp Fairway and we're talking about that now.
There are some drilling by others out there that we don't have to always do the first tear [ph] on the campaign.
So there's a fair amount of activity out there that hopefully we'll be able to leverage.
But we have drilled some initial wells kind of in the Central Reeves County that produced a little more water than we were expecting.
And again this is a fixed section so there's a lot of variables that you can fix that.
And so that's a long winded way to say I don't have any acreage and what we're going to do with it.
But we do have a position in Reeves County.
Research Division</strong> No that works.
We're focused on Culberson but I will say that just parenthetically we have a lot of opportunity.
We talked about moving this organization to cash flow that's going to be a bit of a shock to a lot of our teams because we have a lot of opportunity.
And so one of the things that I'm asking you to one of our operating groups to present is what's your minimum capital the whole acreage and not let things we like expire.
And so they've been sending me that list as we look at the years ahead.
And that was the first thing Permian said.
And some of this Central Reeves acreage it may change because we may want to get out there and drill it and save it and then they may look really good to us.
So it really is a debated point here that's influx.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And also staying on the Wolfcamp is the longest lateral you drilled that 4 500-foot or if you guys tried some longer laterals there yet? We've not tried a 2-section lateral.
I think our actual longest lateral is a little longer than that because those are big sections.
Those are not 640-acre sections.
They're -- I forget how many acres they are.
I don't think they're quite 700 but they're larger sections so you can get a little longer lateral.
We've not yet drilled a multi-section lateral.
We have a couple of them on the books.
I think we'll probably get 1 or 2 done this year.
And right now they look expensive but they also look like they may be exactly what this play needs.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So there's no reason why you couldn't extend those in terms of looking at -- I guess in the Bone Spring you got some geologic risk when you extend.
But here you could see this going up to maybe 8 000-foot laterals? We could.
It becomes a land challenge at that point.
You certainly have to control enough of the adjacent sections to make that worth a headache but that's absolutely on our shortlist of play development ideas.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just last one for me jumping on the Bone Spring.
I mean you said in the past you guys have been pretty aggressive or at least trying to be aggressive in terms of adding to your position.
How do you think your inventory trends from here? I mean can we expect any kind of upgrade to that 200-plus locations that you guys have been put out there over the next year or so? Well again this is Tom.
Of course we've had that number for about 5 years running.
We continue to recharge.
I will say it's getting extremely competitive land-wise.
At the most recent federal sale we had a block or 2 where we thought -- we really like them and we thought we were putting extremely aggressive bids on which we were and we were not the high bidder.
People are paying prices for this acreage and I would consider everything goes well money.
If everything goes well you get exactly the model that you're predicting which is a fairly aggressive model.
You have no operational issues no cost overruns no production delays.
If everything goes well you'd get a reasonable return.
But that's a very difficult bill to foot for us because we've got enough experience in the business to know you'd better offer a little windage [ph] if you're looking for a return on your investment.
Not everything goes well.
So we have a lot of ways to acquire acreage in that trend.
We have a very aggressive team in Midland that is a great set of dealmakers.
They do section-by-section deals.
Part of that land is controlled by people that don't have the stomach for a deep horizontal well.
They may control the land because of shallow production and they're amenable to a conversation about market.
So we're continuing to work it.
We're continuing to add opportunity.
Will we have a material change in our 200- to 300-well inventory? I can't promise that.
All I can say is that we get up every morning and work on it.
[Operator Instructions] There seemed to be no further questions at this time.
Great.
Thank you Tony and thank you all for joining us today.
We appreciate the team for joining us and maybe Tom and I can see you down in Houston at the Tudor Pickering Conference or Paul might see you in New York at the Tuohy Brothers Conference next week.
So again thank you for participating in the conference call today and we look forward to continue reporting to you as we run in the future.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Leshanna [ph] and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Cimarex Energy's Third Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] After the speaker's remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Burford.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you very much Leshanna [ph] and welcome everyone.
Thanks for joining us today on our third quarter conference call.
And for those of you on the East Coast affected by super storm Sandy we sincerely hope things get back to normal for you and that we really appreciate you also taking the time to join us today.
Here in Denver on today's call we have Tom Jorden President and CEO; Joe Albi EVP and COO; Paul Korus Senior Vice President and CFO; Bill [indiscernible] Vice President of Exploration and Jim Shonsey Vice President and Controller.
We did issue our financial and operating results news release this morning a copy of which can be found in our website.
I need to remind you that today's presentation will contain forward-looking statements.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss.
You should read our disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest 10-K other filings and press releases for the risk factors associated with our business.
So with that I'll go ahead and just turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Mark and welcome everyone.
I do want to echo Mark's remarks for those of you living on the East Coast certainly our hearts go out to you with everything you're fighting and appreciate you joining us this morning.
We had a solid third quarter reporting net income of $84.3 million or $0.97 per diluted share.
Our adjusted cash flow from operations this quarter was $291 million down from $357 million last year third quarter but up from the $240 million in the second quarter of this year.
And as those of you that have read our release this release is all about execution.
We're pleased very pleased with our organization with the way it's developing the promised results.
We have a number of very exciting things going on.
But just as a preamble we're very pleased and proud to deliver the results we promised and we think that will be an ongoing story from Cimarex.
Our third quarter 2012 production volumes averaged 635 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
That's up 7% from year ago of 592 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
And it's up 8% sequentially from the second quarter.
We're seeing strong growth in the Permian and Mid-Continent which had a combined average 599 million cubic feet equivalent per day and that's 18% over last year.
That growth includes a 42% increase in our Permian Basin oil volumes which averaged 25 000 barrels of oil per day this quarter so very very nice Permian and Mid-Continent results.
Our total company oil production grew 23% to 32 456 barrels per day.
Liquids accounted for 49% of our equivalent volumes and 79% of our $397 million of oil gas and NGL revenue.
So we're seeing an increasing liquids component to our overall production stream.
Gas prices were lower this quarter compared to last year.
Realized gas prices averaged $2.79 per Mcf this quarter and that's 39% lower as compared to the third quarter 2011 price of $4.57 per Mcf.
sequentially for the second quarter gas price improved by 15% from second quarter 2000 [sic](2012) price of $2.42 per Mcf.
We've all been encouraged and heartened by the recent uptick in natural gas prices.
Realized natural gas liquids prices were flat Q2 to Q3 at $28.29 per barrel but were down 34% as compared to the third quarter of 2011 price of $43.11 per barrel.
And realized oil prices were flat around $87 to $88 per barrel from this quarter last year third quarter and the second quarter.
In the first 9 months of this year we've drilled 253 gross 138 net wells investing $1.2 billion on exploration and development.
Of total expenditures 52% were invested in projects in the Permian Basin 44% in the Mid-Continent and 4% in the Gulf Coast and other.
Now I'd like to give you a region-by-region breakdown.
Of course our regions are the Mid-Continent which would be Cana Woodford Shale Gulf Coast and Permian Basin.
And I'll start with the Mid-Continent and save Permian Basin for last.
So moving on to the Mid-Continent.
In the first 9 months of 2012 we drilled and completed 119 gross and 49 net Mid-Continent wells.
Our year-to-date Mid-Continent exploration development capital has totaled $530 million or about 44% of our total exploration development capital.
Most of this year's Mid-Continent drilling activities has been in the Cana-Woodford shale play.
Year-to-date we've drilled and completed 113 gross or 47 net Cana wells.
At quarter end we had 54 gross 24 net Cana wells waiting on completion.
This compares with a total of 13 gross or 4.9 net wells waiting on completion at year end 2011.
So the increase in wells awaiting completion is the result of commencing our infill development drilling in 2012.
Our operated Cana drilling infill has been along 7 east-west sections or along 7 miles in the core.
Along this 7 section row our infill drilling and completion activity has been progressing from the Eastern liquids-rich side towards the West drier side.
We started our frac-ing on May 23.
Our flowback began in late June and the first sales were in mid-July.
Our overall production volumes have exceeded our risk wedge and we're on target.
We are always fascinated by Cana.
Cana continues to be one of our most detailed science projects.
We continually analyze the data.
We're looking to see how we can optimize it and try to explain and improve.
One of the things I will say that we've seen this year year-to-date is some of our early flowback wells are below our type curve.
And that's been something we've been working on diligently.
Overall we've been exceeding our risk guidance and our risk production wedge where we think we can do it a little better.
Our infill wells have flowed back at a little lower rate but they're delivering higher oil yields and flatter decline.
So we've been digging into that problem.
We think we have it solved.
We've tweaked our completions.
We think we can actually remediate and improve our existing wells.
But as always just when you think you're in a production mode you'd still have a lot of science to do.
So Cana continues to be a great project.
It's delivered our promised volumes and we're very optimistic going forward.
We've been talking about bringing our Cana rig count possibly to 0.
We're tempering that we're going to exit the year with 4 operated rigs in Cana.
We're still seeing very good returns in Cana.
We're seeing our cost come down and we'd like to keep those 4 rigs running and that would give us a little optionality to gas prices.
We'd like to get into the winter.
And before we drop our Cana fleet just see how gas prices stabilize.
So we'll exit the year and be at least into early February with 4 operated rigs in Cana.
And now the Mid-Continent we've got a couple of rigs working in some oilier Anadarko Basin targets.
They're new concepts that we're testing.
And we're hopeful these could be all these and even say significant incremental investments for 2013 if they work out as planned but it's too early to discuss any of those results.
Moving on to the Gulf Coast.
In the Gulf Coast we began prospecting on some recently shot 3D so now we have some new data we're back to prospecting.
We're currently building our inventory.
We don't have any granularity to discuss on that.
We'll have a definitive look soon but we expect to be drilling some of our new prospects in 2013.
Moving on to the Permian.
At Permian the Permian we drilled and completed 131 gross or 88 net Permian wells during the first 9 months of 2012.
We completed 96% of those as producers.
At quarter end we had 18 gross or 11 net wells waiting on completion and our year-to-date Permian exploration development capital has totaled $631 million or 52% of our total exploration development capital.
Very very active Permian program and our team both exploration and operations marketing they're working together firing in all cylinders and really getting after it very proud of the results we're posting in the Permian.
Our most active Permian drilling program is our New Mexico second Bone Spring horizontal oil play.
This year we've drilled and completed 48 gross 24 net New Mexico Bone Spring wells and we're continuing to see excellent excellent results in this program.
The per well 30-day gross production for the New Mexico Bone Spring wells drilled this year has averaged over 630 barrels equivalent per day.
That's 30-day average and of that 86% is oil.
The team has done a great job in this program maximizing well performance stepping out into new areas and I'll add also being opportunistic in capturing additional opportunity.
Moving on to the Texas Third Bone Spring we drilled this year 28 gross 18 net wells so far.
We're in an outstanding area bringing on really strong wells.
The wells we've drilled this year have had per well 30-day average production rates in excess of 1 000 barrels equivalent per day 80% of which is oil.
And that was our 30-day average it's not instantaneous rates.
A couple of our wells had 30-day rates in excess of 2 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This is a great program and our team is doing a great job.
Finally in the Permian I'd like to discuss and give you a little update on our Wolfcamp program in the Delaware Basin.
We're seeing very solid results from our Delaware Basin Wolfcamp drilling.
We've primarily focused our drilling in Southern Eddy County New Mexico and Northern Culberson County.
We have increased our leasehold in this area something we haven't discussed before.
We had the opportunity to pick up an additional 28 000 acres in the heart of our play.
That was a $21 million purchase.
And that brought our overall position to over 100 000 net acres in the area we're currently developing.
Now we have an additional 32 000 acres that could be extensional.
There've been some additional activity in Reeves County that sets us up.
We're testing the Wolfcamp and the Reeves County and that would be directly additive to that position.
So we're very very bullish on this play and when they're finished I think you'll see why.
This year we've drilled and completed 11 gross 10 net Horizontal Wolfcamp wells bringing our total wells in the play to 29 gross 27 net wells.
So very high working interest.
Our per-well first 30-day production rates on all wells drilled to date have averaged 6.4 million cubic feet equivalent per day or over 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The equivalent production is comprised of 2.8 million cubic feet a day of gas 275 barrels per day of oil and 330 barrels per day of NGLs.
So assuming full NGL recovery that's 43% gas 26% oil 31% natural gas liquids.
So this play certainly is susceptible to all 3 of our commodity pricing gas oil and natural gas liquids.
But at current strip pricing we're seeing very very nice returns in this play.
We're also seeing our costs come down.
We've talked about wells costing $8 million to $8.5 million.
Our most recent costs there are $7.6 million and moving downward.
We're very excited to be adding this additional acreage to our position not only as the Wolfcamp perspective but our current viewpoint in this position is that it more than likely will become a multi-pay zone multiple objections like so much of the Delaware Basin.
But first starting with the Wolfcamp and I'll move on to other potential of our 100 000 acres if we said 80 000 of it would be developed for the Wolfcamp and we think based on our current viewpoint that's a reasonable statement.
At 160 acres per location at $7.6 million a well that project would generate just the Wolfcamp $3.8 billion of future investment potential net to Cimarex.
If we were to go to 80-acre spacing in the Wolfcamp and although we haven't tested it yet we're early time.
We don't have a pilot project yet I think most of us would be surprised if it weren't 80-acre development that would be $7.6 billion net to Cimarex of future development.
And then we add to that other locations.
The Second Bone Spring is prospective over much of that acreage.
We've recently had some offset wells being drilled in the Second Bone Spring that had very very nice first 30-day oil rates.
We're completing our first Second Bone Spring well here imminently in fact we'll be on it Monday.
We have a second drilling with encouraging results.
And based on shows in some offset wells we're very optimistic.
Our current position we'd have at least 125 Second Bone Spring wells.
And on top of that we have the Delaware a third zone that's yet to be tested.
It does produce in the area and we've had excellent shows.
So we like Culberson County.
It's a nice add to our Permian program.
It has capital investment in and of itself sufficient to keep our Permian program alive at our current rate for many years to come.
So we're very encouraged by that.
Overall I'd just finish the Permian by saying our Permian program is doing very well.
I think that was obvious from the numbers we posted this morning.
We have a huge inventory in future drilling and an extremely talented exploration and operations team.
And that last point is really the main one.
Our program is homegrown.
We didn't buy it we generated it and built it.
And our team is the one that makes that happen and we're very very proud of what they've been doing.
So in conclusion as we look at our results to date it's been a solid year so far.
We're focused on execution.
We're on track to deliver the guidance we promised.
And I want to reiterate that we're proud of the operation and overall performance of our organization.
We're still pouring over our 2013 plans.
We don't have any particular detail yet.
I will say that we're opportunity rich.
We have some great projects with good returns.
In 2011 we invested $1.58 billion.
This year we expect our capital to be similar at about $1.6 billion.
Both years we're a fair bit ahead of our cash flow.
Last year in 2011 most of the shortfall was funded by the Riley Ridge property sale.
This year we funded most of the shortfall with debt which has increased $400 million to $500 million.
That certainly hasn't impaired our balance sheet.
We've put that capital to use on great array of return projects.
And we think it served our shareholders.
For 2013 we're planning on decreasing the amount of capital funded by debt.
I would expect that we would limit our borrowings next year to no more than $100 million to $200 million.
We're looking and discussing the potential sale of some noncore mature long lived oil production in areas that we're not currently investing and which we don't see drilling and exploration upside.
This wouldn't be a material amount of production.
Again it's at this point conversational.
Probably something less than 3 000 barrels a day.
But we can put those proceeds to work on a drilling program chasing much stronger returns.
So very nice quarter.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Joe Albi our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Thank you Tom and thank you all of you for joining our call today especially those of you as both Tom and Mark mentioned back East and the situation back there.
I'll be touching on our third quarter production update you on our fourth quarter guidance projections and then follow-up with a few words on our operating and service costs.
Starting with our Q3 production our third quarter volumes came in as stated in our press release at 635.1 million a day.
That's above the midpoint of our guidance of 610 million to 640 million a day up 7% from our Q3 '11 average of 592 million a day.
And it set for us a new high mark as far as equivalent production for the company.
The big driver to our growth was our increased oil production which grew 23% over Q3 '11 to a record 32 456 barrels per day.
As compared to Q2 during Q3 we saw less downtime associated with plant facility shut-ins or maintenance as we had in the previous 2 quarters.
During Q3 we saw approximately 4 million to 6 million a day of downtime versus the 14 million to 16 million a day that we saw in Q2.
We did see some ethane rejection particularly in Cana during July and August which impacted our Q3 volumes by approximately 4 million a day for the quarter.
But beginning in September we saw the ethane recovery pick back up and given current market conditions we do not anticipate further ethane rejection for the remainder of the year.
This was a quarter of records for us.
With us setting 19 new internal benchmark records.
At the total company level we set new high marks for equivalent oil NGL and total liquid production.
In both Cana and the Mid-Continent we set record marks for all product categories gas oil NGL total liquids and equivalent volumes.
And in the Permian we set new high marks for all production categories but gas.
And when the dust settled our total company Q3 liquid production mix came in at a record of 49% liquids.
All of this pointing towards a strong evidence of our focus on an oil and liquids rich gas activities in both the Permian and the Mid-Continent.
If we dig a little bit deeper into the details our Q3 '12 Permian net equivalent volume of 274 million a day was up 11% or 27 million a day from Q2 '12.
And 33% or 68 million a day from Q3 '11.
Oil growth was the real driver here with our Q3 Permian oil coming in at as Tom mentioned 25 000 barrels of oil per day.
That's up 15% from Q2 and a very healthy 42% from Q3 of last year.
We're drilling some excellent wells in the Permian and it's showing up in our numbers with strong production adds from our Texas and New Mexico Bone Spring wells as well as our Wolfcamp program.
In the Mid-Continent our record equivalent volume this quarter of 324 million a day was up 8% from last quarter and 7% from Q3 '11.
Our Cana program continues to drive the increases that we're seeing in the Mid-Continent.
With third quarter equivalent volumes averaging 184 million a day we were up 28 million a day from last quarter and a very attractive 45 million a day from Q3 '11.
In a nutshell our Q3 production tied very closely to our model with volumes ramping as we had projected in the second half of the year as a result of strong production adds from both the Permian and the Mid-Continent.
As we look forward with anticipated continued strong production growth in the Permian and Mid-Continent our model is now projecting Q4 for us to see average net daily equivalent volumes in the range of 652 million to 677 million a day.
That's up 8% to 13% from Q4 '11 volumes and projects into a record exit rate for the company.
With this projection our resulting 4-year 2012 production guidance equated to 620 million to 626 million a day gave us a midpoint of 623 million a day which if you recall last quarter's full year guidance of 622 million.
We're now looking at slightly higher midpoint up 1 million a day from last quarter's guidance.
At a midpoint of 623 million a day we'd fall in the 5% to 6% production growth range over our 2011 volumes.
Shifting gears over to OpEx with the overall cost increases the industry has seen over the last year as we've talked about in previous calls LOE has been an important focus for not only our production group but our drilling and exploration teams as well.
As we've mentioned in our previous calls our primary focus has been in reducing the saltwater disposal cost particularly in the Permian as well as to implement measures to control our workover costs companywide.
Well with our cost control efforts showing up on the books our Q3 lifting costs came in at $1.07 per Mcfe.
That's down $0.09 or 7.8% from Q2 and it's a $0.07 lower lifting cost than we had in Q3 '11.
We'll continue our focus on LOE and as such as we look forward into Q4 with our projected volumes we have been able to revise our full year LOE guidance downward to the range of $1.11 to $1.16.
We're very proud of the progress that our production exploration drilling the permitting teams have done and with regard to saltwater disposal costs they've certainly made a big impact in our net income statement.
On the service cost side in general we're seeing most drilling-related costs be staying somewhat flat.
But we are starting to see some evidence of a slightly softening market.
As far as rigs are concerned 1 500 horsepower top drives are still in demand but some recently quoted day rates for new rigs have reflected up to a 5% drop from the rates that we've seen in prior quarters.
Our completion costs are seeing a similar type of market especially in the Permian where improved pump time efficiencies and competition amongst various vendors have helped to reduce our frac-related service costs.
In Cana our improved drilling efficiencies continue to benefit the program.
Our current Cana core AFE of $7.4 million is down $100 000 from the number we quoted last quarter $200 000 from the quarter prior and $600 000 from where we began the year.
In the Permian second and third Bone Spring programs our drilling and completion costs are again staying fairly flat.
Depending on debt our 8 500 to 11 000-foot TVD second Bone Spring wells with 4 000-foot laterals continue to run in the $6.5 million to $7.1 million range while our 11 500-foot TVD West Texas Third Bone Spring wells with similar length laterals our AFEing in the $7.5 million range.
In the Third Bone Spring program as you may recall we're down about $500 000 on our AFEs from where we began the year.
In our Wolfcamp program our current completed well AFEs are now running closer to $7.5 million to $7.7 million as Tom alluded to.
We're proud of getting that number down from the $8 million to $8.5 million level we quoted last call  and it's basically as a result of improvements in both drilling efficiencies and design.
In addition to our gained operational efficiencies just as an example we now have 1 rig in Culberson running on dual fuel burning both natural gas and diesel and we'll soon be taking that number up to 2.
Each rig will therefore equate to about $60 000 per well in reduced fuel costs with the implementation of that system.
So in summary we had another good quarter.
Our Q3 production came in a bit better than planned setting numerous records along the way.
Our projection for Q4 results in a slightly higher projection for Q2 -- or for 2012 production than our last estimate.
Our efforts to reduce LOE are reflected in a significantly reduced lifting cost.
And with service costs flat we're making good strides to further reduce our overall drilling and completion costs.
With that I think I'll turn the call over to questions.
Paul had thought most of the material he'd be talking about would be included in the discussions we've already had.
So we'd turn the call over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] We have a question from Mario Barraza with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> Mario Barraza Tuohy Brothers.
Could you guys just talk a little bit more about looking ahead to '13? What are you really looking for in the next few months on the Cana side where you're thinking of holding the rig count firm at 4 rigs? What kind of gas price are you thinking about to keep it at 4 rigs or what else would you like to see if you were to pull back further? Yes Mario this is Tom.
What we're looking for right now is a little bit of flexibility.
I will say that we're very pleased with where Cimarex is in terms of an asset mix.
We're seeing as always a fair amount of volatility in the commodity and we're not sure where it's going to go.
There are reasonable viewpoints out there that with a little bit of winter we could see significant strengthening in gas prices and of course oil is anybody's guess.
So we like having that flexibility.
We have projects in Cana that are generating very nice returns.
In fact I will say the section that those 4 rigs are moving to generates returns in the mid-30s after-tax at current costs and current commodity pricing.
So those are acceptable to us.
They're good rigs they are performing rigs and it gives us a little optionality to get into the winter and see what gas prices are before we laid our rig fleet down.
So what we're looking for first and foremost are returns but our decision to keep the 4 rigs running at least through I would say late January early February is to give us a little flexibility so that we wouldn't stop start and be herky-jerky with that program.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And Cana you'd hinted that or you'd said that some of the Cana wells were tracking a little below your type curve.
What did you encounter with the first batch of wells and how have you tweaked your drilling and completion techniques to get an improvement in the production rates there? Well they're completion techniques not drilling techniques.
They are underperforming our type curve.
We've been studying it.
We think we have the answer and we are implementing them now in some wells we complete.
So we'll have some more detail in the next few weeks as to whether that is indeed the case.
We're remediating some of our existing wells.
It's still in the throes of technical discussions and I don't want to get too granular on particular details and what we're doing but we have made some adjustments.
And we think we have the problem fixed but the proof will be in the flowback.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Portillo with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions for me.
In terms of the Cana could you talk a little bit about the I guess the returns that you're currently looking at in the Cana versus your Wolfcamp wells? And how you think about that capital allocation? So as you're running these 4 flex rigs in the Cana how did that compete for capital against your Wolfcamp position heading into 2013? Yes Matt this is Tom.
I will say that the projects that we're moving those 4 rigs on are competing heads-up.
They're nice fairly liquids rich and compete nicely with the Wolfcamp.
The Wolfcamp we're seeing currently we're in a little bit of a depressed oil and natural gas liquids but still we're seeing roughly a 30% after-tax on that Wolfcamp well.
And we've got a fair amount of upside there as our drilling costs come down and our results continue to be high-graded.
But also in that Culberson County we do have a lease exploration issue that we're managing through.
It's not severe but we like it enough that we're going to hold every acre that we control there with very few exceptions.
So Culberson's going to see a fair amount -- we'll probably have 2 rigs running.
We may go to more but no fewer than 2 to 3 rigs running continuously on that play through 2013.
So my short answer -- actually that's a long answer.
But that section that we're putting those 4 rigs on competes heads-up.
But for the rest of Cana it's held by production.
I think if we don't see any relief in some of our product pricing we're more likely to slow down further in Cana possibly and going to 0  operated rigs.
It's Paul.
But we'll also have a significant non-operating expenditure next year in Cana.
Yes.
Production adds.
Yes.
No we'll have a very active program Cana next year.
The situation and we've described this in the past there are a lot of operators working in Cana now and we have a significant exposure to non-operated interest.
So that gives us -- it's good news bad news.
The good news is we'll still have a significant Cana position and we'll have the opportunity to move our swing capital to Permian.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I guess just in regards to the second and third Bone Springs as we think about your rig count there as we head into 2013 can you talk a little bit about your inventory visibility and kind of should we think about that as a relatively flat program or could that potentially accelerate further? We haven't forward [ph] our 2013 plans or at least they haven't gelled.
I will tell you that I would expect our second and third Bone Spring programs to be roughly comparable to what we did this year.
And so that -- just those 2 programs alone would probably be somewhere in the $450 million to $650 million of drilling and that's about flat to what we did this year.
But again we're still working through our 2013 capital plans.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a last question for me in terms of the Cana itself just wanted to -- if we could get an idea of kind of where the backlog on the uncompleted wells will be at year end? And how you guys are thinking about just working down that backlog over time? Yes this is Joe.
Our current frac schedule we're looking at both us as well as operator and then and then as a non operator.
But right now we're looking at ending the year getting into 2013 with a total of 21 net wells that would still be in need of frac and 18 of those would be our operated wells and then 5 non op and again that's a projection based on an ever moving frac schedule.
But as of the end of this quarter to just give you an idea as of September 30 we still had 28 Cana net wells waiting on frac and that number is not moving down a heck of a lot by the end of the year because we've got continued drilling through the end of the year and then as we then take those 4 rigs down south to another section we'll slowly catch up on this.
So our current schedule called us to be in that late second quarter timeframe by the time we were done frac-ing most all of the Cana wells.
[Operator Instructions] You have a question from the line of Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions for you.
On the -- I know you haven't come out with the 2013 capital budget yet.
I know you've talked at various times in the past about keeping flexibility around the range of maybe in the $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion type of range.
When you look at cash flow and you're willingness to outspend with the balance sheet by $100 million to $200 million and then the potential for an asset sale.
I know you're preserving flexibility.
But is it safe to say that at this -- I mean in the current environment you're probably leaning towards the higher end of that range? Yes Ron this is Mark.
Yes that'd be correct.
If we have cashflows in the $1.2 billion and we're talking about $1 billion as part of that $100 million to $200 million and at that point further property sales yes we'll be in the upper end of that range of the $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion.
So yes.
But Ryan a budget has a loose guideline and we will adapt depending on our own success market conditions and other factors.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one more if I might.
In the Wolfcamp I know you had talked about potential for 2 to 3 rigs there as well as some of the leaseholding requirements.
Is there an upper limit in terms of how many rigs that you think you could run there? And how -- what's the infrastructure looking like out there in Culberson County? And are there other bottlenecks that we should be aware of? We're in pretty good shape there.
I mean there are always bottlenecks.
And any Permian operator certainly in the Delaware Basin will tell you that you have to manage carefully both your oil gas and natural gas liquids takeaways.
We do have though the infrastructure built.
Our operations team has done a fantastic job of putting in an infrastructure that gives us flexibility.
We could handle more activity than I quoted.
Whether we will or not we'll see.
I mean certainly if we have some really nice results in that second Bone Spring.
We have the potential to accelerate that.
And so I don't think we're constrained.
That said we have so much opportunity around our organization that our challenge it's a wonderful problem to have but it's a difficult problem because you can't do it all.
I mean we really do want to preserve the flexibility of our balance sheet and if there were to be some downstream opportunity that we don't foresee.
Research Division</strong> And can you remind me -- I think you may have said it earlier but did you say how much of the 100 000 acres you feel like you have in the core there in the Wolfcamp the second Bone Spring is prospective across how much of that? Well I didn't quote acreage.
I did say we have about 125 locations and those are on maps we've made with thicknesses mapped where we think it could be prospective.
And that's -- we're excited about that.
We need to test it.
One of the things we don't know we do have some -- there's been an offset [ph] operator that's drilled a well that's come in very oily with great rates and we're very excited about it because it sets us up.
But this is a big area.
And gas-oil ratios change.
Before we just move in a rig and drill all those we need to sample it understand where it -- does it get gassy does it stay oily a lot of unknowns there but it sure looks something to be excited about.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had one question on the [indiscernible].
Kind of looking at your gross completed -- or your gross wells for the quarter it looks like it took a step down in the Permian there in the third quarter from the second quarter.
I guess what's driving that? Do you have a lot and will that I guess have some pull throughs into the fourth quarter as you finish the year? Yes.
Andrew it's Mark Burford here.
We do have  some -- but there's always some fluctuations in the number of [ph] wells because [indiscernible] any one period.
And even like in the Paddock program where we have a rig and a completion crew that can add a lot of net wells in a short period of time.
But we went from 27 in the first quarter 37 in the second and 24 in the third.
But that run rate in the 20s is probably the way you would expect but there's going to be always fluctuations Andy from quarter-to-quarter which is depending on the rigs and smaller wells like the Paddock and whatnots.
And frac schedules.
And frac schedules right.
At this time there are no additional questions.
Great.
Thank you very much everyone for joining us today.
We really appreciate it and we look forward to reporting back to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Kayla and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Cimarex Energy Fourth Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Mark Burford you may begin your conference.
Thank you Kayla.
Welcome everyone and thanks for joining us today for our fourth quarter conference call.
In Denver we have Tom Jorden President CEO; Joe Albi EVP and COO; Paul Korus Senior Vice President and CFO; John Lambuth VP of Exploration; and Jim Shonsey our Vice President and Controller.
We issued our financial and operating results in the news release this morning a copy of which can be found in our website.
I need to remind you that today's presentation will contain forward-looking statements.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss and you should read our risk disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest 10-K other filings and press releases for the risk factors associated with our business.
We have also posted a copy of the year-end investor presentation on our website which we'll also be referring to from time-to-time on today's call.
So with that we'll go ahead and jump into the call I'll turn it over to Tom Jorden.
Thanks Mark and welcome everyone.
It's a pleasure to be releasing our fourth quarter and full-year results this morning.
We had a very nice year in 2012 and I really want to give credit to our organization across the board for executing and performing on target with the plan we laid out this time a year ago.
We had some headwinds to overcome as those of you that follow us in the past years.
Very pleased that the underlying growth of our asset base is showing and that Cimarex is on firm footing today and -- as we march through an uncertain future so we've never felt better about the position of the company.
I'm going to be walking you through our results and will be referring to the slides that are posted on our website.
I'll start with Slide 4 and will just be letting you know when I move a slide.
So to start we had a solid fourth quarter reporting record production for the quarter of 677 million cubic feet equivalent per day and that was 13% greater than our Q4 2011.
It's a very nice growth.
We grew fourth quarter oil 28% to another record 35 099 barrels per day.
Very very nice oil growth.
Our full-year 2012 production averaged 625 -- excuse me 626.5 million cubic feet equivalent a day or 6% greater than our 2011 production.
Oil was the biggest driver of that growth.
Oil production for 2012 averaged 31 463 barrels per day increasing 17% over 2011.
Our oil and gas sales for 2012 are relatively flat with higher production being offset by lower prices.
Gas prices fell 35% natural gas liquids prices on average dropped 28% and oil was down 4%.
So we reported strong cash flow from operations of $1.1 billion and net income of $353.8 million or $4.07 per diluted share.
Another metric that speaks for who we are we ended the year with no bank debt and only $750 million of senior notes.
As of year end our debt-to-total capitalization was 18%.
And I just want to say at the outset something we've said from time-to-time we're not averse to borrowing money.
That balance sheet is there to weather the commodity cycles and provide flexibility but also there for opportunities.
So even though we're classically a low-debt outfit I wouldn't want to surprise anybody we see that balance sheet as flexibility and for the right opportunity we'll tap it.
Moving on to Slide 5.
We had a good year adding significantly to our proved reserves.
Very very good year to the drill bit.
We replaced 330% of production from extensions and discoveries.
Proved reserves grew 10% to 2.3 Tcf equivalent.
But if you exclude the property sales that we closed on in December our reserves grew 13%.
Oil reserves grew 18% excluding property sales.
We added 757.3 Bcf equivalent from drilling and of those additions 51% were liquids.
We invested $1.6 billion in exploration and development.
We drilled 192 net wells and realized very solid returns in both our Permian and our Cana programs.
Overall we had very strong execution in our key plays.
We're very very pleased with our core Mid-Continent and Permian programs the execution we saw in 2012 the execution we're seeing as we look ahead to 2013 and also the investment returns that those plays offer us.
We had continued strong results in our Permian and Bone Spring plays.
And John Lambuth our Vice President of Exploration will be giving you quite a bit of color on this but we're increasingly excited about our Culberson County play.
Both the Wolfcamp and the Bone Spring look attractive to us in that play.
We've got the Wolfcamp in Reeves County that's a new add for us in addition to our core plays of the Second and Third Bone Spring.
The Permian also continues to develop new targets some of which we haven't disclosed yet.
And overall it's a very very nice place to operate and we're seeing improving costs and operations performance.
Slide 6 shows our core operating areas.
Year-end 2012 reserves are 2.3 Tcf equivalent.
As you can see 68% Mid-Continent 31% Permian.
And our fourth quarter 2012 production at 677 million cubic feet equivalent per day was 52% Mid-Continent and 43% Permian.
Slide 7 shows our growth in proved reserves from 2009 through 2012.
We have a very very solid proved reserve base.
Our PUD percentage is still a very low 20%.
One of the things I'll say about our reserves they're solid they're real.
We do look-backs every year back to the history of Cimarex in 2002.
Our reserves have stood the test of time and we feel very very confident in laying these reserves out to the investing public.
100% of our proved undeveloped reserves are currently in Cana.
As our investments have been pulled towards more liquids-rich areas of our portfolio that's resulted in solid liquids growth.
As you can see we're currently 55% gas 45% liquids.
We've seen a nice compounded annual growth rate of 42% of our liquids going back to 2009 and we expect to see that liquids growth continue as we continue to emphasize the Permian basin.
Moving on to Slide 8.
Slide 8 shows our proved reserves by region.
And we'd have -- we've had solid reserve growth in our core Permian and Mid-Continent areas.
They have increased to the compound annual growth rate of 22% over the last 4 years.
But more than just growth that increase is a result of solid returns in our capital investment program.
As you know we understand the challenge to grow but mostly we view our mandate as the challenge to reinvest our cash flow at high rates of return and growth is a natural outcome of that.
So we're very pleased as we show you our production reserve growth to be able to stand before you this morning and tell you that that's an outcome of some investments that are very attractive to us and we have a very nice investment portfolio that we're prosecuting in 2013 and beyond.
Going on to Slide 9.
Looking forward into 2013 we're moving into this year at a very active drilling pace.
And as we always say we'll be carefully watching our returns.
We've given our activity guidance our investment guidance of between $1.4 billion $1.5 billion but we're going to keep our hand closely on the throttle.
Depending on our own results our opportunity set and commodity prices that could be accelerated or decelerated.
We certainly have the flexibility based on the environment we find ourselves in.
We'll have a very active 2013 Permian program nonetheless.
Our Bone Spring programs in New Mexico and Texas are performing very well.
And again John Lambuth will give you some color on that.
And as I said a moment ago we're getting very bullish on the Wolfcamp.
Very pleased with our recent results.
There've been some industry results that have confirmed what we've always known about the Wolfcamp and it's rightly getting a lot of attention in the Delaware Basin.
In the Mid-Continent and Cana we're seeing very good results in our infill drilling.
One of the things we'll do however we'd like to manage our total capital to be in that $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion as we currently model it with our current model for our cash flow.
So Cana is an area where we'll be adjusting our activity.
And again John will cover that in more detail.
Finally in Slide 10.
As we look at our capital investments over time the Permian in 2013 continues to get a slightly larger share of our total capital over what it did in 2012.
We currently project the Permian to be getting 55% -- excuse me got 55% in 2012.
We're projecting it to be 62% this year.
The midpoint of our capital at $1.45 billion is down about 10% from last year.
But again we're going to see how it goes.
Our cash flow is a certain and critical part of that equation and our results are a critical part of that equation as are our costs of drilling and completing these wells.
But the good news is we're seeing solid returns in all our areas and lower capital a result of wanting to keep our capital closer to cash flow.
Slide 11.
There's a little pie chart that shows you our capital investments.
We're currently running -- today we have 15 rigs in the Permian but we'll say as we move through the year we'll be between 11 and 14 rigs.
We'll drill 150 gross or 105 net wells in the Permian.
Those will be spread throughout our programs.
In Cana we'll continue our Cana infill development and John once again will give you some color there.
One of the things we're seeing in Cana as a little bit of change from prior years we're seeing more demands from other operators.
So although our operated activity may decrease it's being taken up by and large by outside operated activity.
And then the Gulf Coast.
We're working on some new 3D data sets and we expect to spend a small amount there this year drilling 6 to 9 net wells.
Onto Slide 12.
Slide 12 showcases the underlying growth engine of our company and that's the Permian Basin and Mid-Continent.
And you can see our production growth.
Our investments are delivering that strong growth.
For 2013 we expect continued predictable growth for Mid-Continent and Permian.
And this is not growth for growth's sake.
We're seeing solid economics in our Permian and liquids-rich gas in both Mid-Continent and Permian and 40% to 50% of our drilling results are liquids.
So we're seeing very very nice returns in that Permian and Mid-Continent program.
And that is -- has indeed I think become apparent to all that's the engine of our growth.
Slide 13 showcases our Permian oil production and how that's grown over time.
And that's driven by outstanding results in our Bone Spring drilling program in both Texas and New Mexico.
The growth in 2013 excluding the impact of our year-end asset sale is 8% to 12%.
So overall we're seeing very nice results from our program.
Again I'm very proud of our organization and the way we've executed in 2012.
We're firing on all cylinders as we enter 2013.
With a healthy balance sheet a fantastic inventory and good prospects for very nice returns on capital we're looking forward to making 2013 again a year in which we execute on target.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to John Lambuth our Vice President of Exploration.
Thanks Tom.
I'm going to give you an update on our 2013 exploration drilling program.
I'm going to first start with our most active region as Tom mentioned Permian Basin.
I'm on Slide 15 for those of you following along with the presentation.
You will note that for 2013 our total expected capital investment will be approximately $900 million which is just a little bit of an increase over 2012.
You will also note though that the number of gross and net wells is down relative to 2012 with 150 gross for '13 relative to 182 for '12.
The primary driver of that is just our overall portfolio the type of wells we'll be drilling.
Where in '12 we had quite a large inventory of shallow Paddock-Blinebry wells we really don't have much of an inventory of those left for this year thus for the same capital you get fewer wells because the overall portfolio is slightly more expensive.
Going onto Slide 16.
As Tom mentioned our bread-and-butter play has been the Bone Spring.
In 2012 we drilled 107 gross 60 net Bone Spring wells with 64 in New Mexico 43 in Texas.
We continue to have very strong performance from this program.
In New Mexico our average 30-day IP for the 2012 wells was 640 barrels of oil equivalent per day with those wells being primarily 90% oil.
In the Texas part of the Bone Spring where we're mainly targeting the Third Bone Spring sand the 30-day IP rates were 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with 85% of it being oil.
We continue to see great results in both of these plays and we expect that this will continue throughout 2013.
Of course as we drill these wells we learn and we try to look for areas to expand into and we've done just that by moving into Culberson County.
We have a couple of recent wells we're going to talk about that have us very excited about the potential with our acreage there.
The first well is the Owl Draw 12 Unit 12H well.
That well had a first 30-day average of 665 barrels of oil per day or an equivalent of over 1 000 of oil equivalent per day.
We then followed that up with the Alysheba 17 2H.
It had very similar results of 645 barrels of oil per day and over 1 100 barrels equivalent per day wet gas plus oil when we combine.
What's really exciting about this is that in Culberson we're actually slightly shallower than what we typically drill in New Mexico.
And thus our well costs are even little bit less than what we usually experience in those other plays.
So the type of returns we're getting from this play are very very good.
When we look at this play and look at the totality of our acreage we can put a wide range of potential locations here.
In fact the numbers range from 100 to 200.
But the simple fact is we really don't know until we drill more wells and we get a very better idea of how we define and de-risk this play.
It is this encouragement that is leading us to maintain an approximate 2 rig schedule in Culberson targeting this Second Bone Spring interval.
But of course our acreage in Culberson was initially driven by our Horizontal Wolfcamp play.
In 2012 we drilled 15 Horizontal Wolfcamp play bringing the total number of wells we drilled within this White City Culberson area to 33 from its inception.
As most of you know we have been the leading driller and industry maker for this area.
We continue to see better and better performance from these wells as we try to continue to change the recipe in terms of frac-ing fracture stimulation and where we land our laterals.
Please keep in mind that the Wolfcamp in Culberson is upwards of 600 to 700 feet gross thickness.
So it's taken us a while to find that magic landing zone relative to frac to get the best performance but we're definitely starting to see that.
As we show on Slide 17 from first quarter to fourth quarter 2012 we've been able to increase our liquid yield from 59 barrels per million to 97 barrels per million.
That is definitely having a big impact on the type of rate of returns we can expect from these wells.
As you go to Slide 18 you see then over the last 3-year period what our Horizontal Wolfcamp production looks like.
You will note a couple of things: first off we made a major investment in a new pipeline within Culberson County we call Triple Crown.
That pipeline which was completed in late 2003 gives us the flexibility for multiple outlays for the -- for taking our gas to market.
That has also then enabled us to go out there and increase our drilling activity which you see resulted in a nice increase in production you see in 2012.
We fully expect to see that continue to increase as we go into '13.
On Slide 19 you see based on the most recent wells in terms of the average we are presenting to you our type curve essentially what we expect these types of wells to make.
You will note that the 30-day average is 6.4 million cubic feet equivalent per day with an EUR range of 4.5 Bcfe to 5.5 Bcfe.
Although in this case this particular type curve is a 5.4 Bcf equivalent.
The makeup of that hydrocarbon is 47% gas 30% NGL and 23% oil.
If you now go to Slide 20 and I use that type curve along with our net revenue interest of 75%.
And then finally our most recent AFE for a completed well being $7.2 million you will see that with a forward strip from February 11 of '13 we are able to generate in the low-30 type of internal rate of return for this type of program.
This really is exciting for us because as you recognize this shale play is rather extensive over this acreage and thus great potential is there for us.
I'm sorry that's an APAX [ph] rate of return.
Furthermore then in summary for Wolfcamp in White City and Culberson along with our improving results in terms of the production we're seeing we're also seeing a nice decrease in our well costs over time.
In 2011 our average well cost was around $10 million.
2012 it decreased again down to around the mid-8s.
And now for 2013 we're seeing somewhere in the mid-7s a nice decrease which again only helps with the type of returns we'll get from these wells.
If we look again at our total acreage position and just look at the overall potential then we've shown you a table of what the future may hold for us in this play.
Now I must emphasize strongly we have not yet drilled a downspacing pilot to determine what our ultimate spacing will be.
With that said on the conservative side of just 160 acres or 4 wells per section based on our current acreage position we would have 500 net wells with a reserve potential of 1.7 to 2.1 Tcf.
And that would require a capital investment of $3.6 million.
Obviously if we could prove via a downspacing pilot even tighter spacing essentially going down to 80 that would result in the doubling of those numbers.
Again we need to at some point plan a spacing pilot but as of right now we're still in the mode of HBP-ing in our acreage in order to secure our acreage position.
But as Tom mentioned that's not the only place that we are drilling Horizontal Wolfcamp wells.
We do have a significant position at Reeves County approximately over 35 000 acres.
We have drilled 2 wells now on that acreage position.
We are in the early parts of flowback on those wells.
What I can tell you is we are very encouraged with the results we're seeing so much so that for this year we plan to drill approximately 3 additional tests in the immediate area to better define the opportunity there.
I'm now on Slide 22.
I'll be stepping to the Mid-Continent region.
On that slide you will see that for 2013 our estimated capital investment will be $450 million as compared to $673 million for 2012.
As you know for Mid-Continent the majority of that money goes to Cana-Woodford.
In regards to the change in capital from $673 million to $450 million you need to keep in mind that in 2012 for that program over 37% of wells we drilled were one-off or exploratory wells to better define the Cana opportunity for us.
63% were infill core drilling.
When we look at our 2013 program over 90% of the wells that we will be drilling to participate in are infill core programs.
That is where we're going to get our best rate of returns and that is where we're focusing our capital on.
From the inception of this play as you see on Slide 23 we have drilled or participated in over -- approximately 492 wells through the first -- fourth quarter 2012.
We have a very strong land position of 120 000 net acres of which as we show on the display there we have delineated what we call a gas-rich down-dip area up-dip liquid-rich area.
Within the liquid-rich area we have 75 000 acres of which almost all of them now are in a held-by position status.
So we really are not driven anymore to go out to drill wells to hold acreage it's just a matter of maximizing our opportunity in terms of picking the best rate of return.
As we go to Slide 24 then we are doing just that with our infill drilling program.
We are essentially carrying forward into 2013 what we are doing through the majority of 2012.
We have 4 operated rigs currently.
We -- for full development in Cana we are drilling 8 new wells per section in addition to the existing parent well.
That results in 9 wells per section.
We plan for 2013 to have 125 gross wells that's 35 operated 90 non-operated.
I will point out that for 2012 we participated or drilled in 128 gross wells.
So there's not that large a difference between '12 and '13 when it comes to Cana infill development.
On Slide 25 you see a display or graph of our net production from Cana-Woodford for the past 3 years.
You will note in the first 2 quarters in '12 there was a slowdown to -- in fact a slight decrease.
And that was due to the fact that to start the infill development program we need to develop a sufficient buffer space between our actively drilling wells and the frac fleet.
Once we accomplish that we then immediately start to develop or frac-ing wells and then you see that nice ramp-up in production in the last 2 quarters there.
It's that type of production growth again we'd expect in '13 with this infill drilling program.
So in summary for Cana-Woodford we exited fourth quarter 2012 with net production of 215 million cubic feet equivalent per day which was a 30% increase over fourth quarter 2011.
And at the bottom I still want to point out there's still great potential here even though we've already embarked on an infill development program.
To date we have 1.1 Tcf of equivalent gas proved for Cana.
And yet we still show a risk upside within that liquid-rich core area of 3.3 Tcf which would equate to 660 net wells and close to $5 billion of capital.
So total risked resources for Cana as you see there on that slide is 4.4 Tcf.
Finally on Slide 27.
A quick word on our Gulf Coast program.
As those of you who follow us know Gulf Coast is our higher-risk greater-reward opportunity region.
It is a region that is entirely dependent upon 3D seismic and the attribute work we do with that to pinpoint our drilling locations.
In 2012 we made a major investment in a number of new 3D surveys in order to replenish our drilling inventory.
That data has been acquired processed it is in house.
We are currently rebuilding that inventory and hope to be drilling again in the second quarter of this year.
But I want to emphasize unlike the other regions we do not think of Gulf Coast as a rig line as much as it is of capturing good opportunity.
We hope that there will be 10 gross 7 net wells there.
But again it's all about the quality of the opportunity we have and if it's good we will drill it if not then we won't reach that number.
With that I will hand it over to Joe Albi who will talk about the productions for Cimarex.
Thanks John.
I will be going over our fourth quarter and 2012 production statistics.
I'll hit a little bit on our 2013 guidance and then just a few comments on where we ended the year with LOE and where we see current service costs.
For those of you following along I'll start here on Slide 29.
And to echo Tom's earlier comments in the call we really did have a great year.
We had some strong October and November new well adds that helped prop our fourth-quarter volumes up to a level of 677 million equivalents a day.
That was right at the upper end of our guidance of 652 million to 677 million and up 13% from where we were in Q4 '11 at 601 million a day.
All the while we set a new record in the fourth quarter for total company production and the driver to that growth as we've alluded to already in this call was our increased oil production which grew 28% over Q4 '11 to a record of 35 099 barrels a day in Q4.
Also helping the quarter were minimal production disruptions for plant turnarounds ethane rejection and other downtime which those of you following us for a while have known did impact us a little bit more earlier in 2012.
We dig deeper into the numbers we continue to see production growth from our Permian and Mid-Continent programs.
Our record fourth quarter Permian net equivalent volume of 292 million a day was up 6% or 17 million a day from Q3 '12 and up 36% or 77 million a day from fourth quarter of 2011.
Our oil growth was the real driver here with our Q4 Permian oil volumes averaging 27 091 barrels a day another record for the company and up 42% from fourth quarter last year.
We're drilling some really great wells and it's showing up in our numbers with some strong adds from really virtually all our programs in the Permian.
Our Texas and New Mexico Bone Spring plays as well as our Wolfcamp program.
Our fourth quarter Mid-Continent equivalent volume of 351 million a day was also a record for the company.
It was up 8% from last quarter and 11% from a year ago.
Cana continued to drive the increase with record fourth quarter volumes of 215 million a day that's up 31 million a day from last quarter and a respectable 57 million a day from Q4 '11.
With that Cana now represents 32% of our total company production.
So in a nutshell Q4 came in I'd say as modeled but I'll say it came in on the high end of our model reflected significant increased volumes from our Permian and Mid-Continent programs.
And as a result our full-year 2012 equivalent production came in at a record 626.5 million a day which was up 6% from our 2011 average of 592 million a day.
And driving the year-over-year growth was really 3 important factors: a 43% increase in Permian oil volumes; a 15% increase in our total liquid volumes; and a 21% increase in our combined Permian and equivalent -- excuse me Mid-Continent equivalent volumes.
Definitely a good year.
Shifting over to Slide 30 where we look at production by region.
Big obvious thing pops out here and that is we've seen a nice increase in our total liquid production over the last few years.
Our Q4 liquid volumes averaged 57 217 barrels a day.
Looking back 3 years ago that's 2.5x the 22 935 barrels a day we averaged in the fourth quarter of 2009.
The catalyst to the growth has been the Permian which accounts now for 61% of our total liquid production.
That said we're also seeing nice contribution from Cana which is the backbone to the 35% of the total company liquids comprised by the Mid-Continent.
The Mid-Continent still represents the lion's share of our gas production at 69% and our total company equivalent production of 677 million a day is now nicely balanced between the Mid-Continent and the Permian with the Mid-Continent representing 52% of the total and the Permian at 43%.
On Slide 31.
Looking forward to our 2013 production guidance.
We're projecting our 2013 equivalent daily volumes to average in the range of 675 million to 705 million equivalents per day for the year.
That's up 8% to 13% over 2012.
Built into this estimate is the $294 million Permian property sale that we closed on at the end of the year which reduced our net volumes by 2 550 equivalent barrels per day 2 000 barrels a day of which was oil.
If you're looking at the table in the presentation you'll see our projected 2013 oil growth to be quoted at 1% to 5%.
But if we exclude the impact of that sale in essence we're projecting 7% to 11% oil production growth and so we have a very good chance for a second year of double-digit oil production growth here in 2013.
Although our Gulf Coast production is modeled to contribute only 3% to 4% of our total company production we do have some drilling planned for the program this year and have incorporated a modest I'll call it heavily risked drilling wedge of 5 million to 10 million a day for the year which has been built into our modeled projections.
Hence from 30 000 feet what we're projecting is for 2013 to look quite similar to 2012.
Strong double-digit Permian and Mid-Continent production growth in the range of 11% to 15% with an emphasis on liquids which as modeled would bring our liquid percentage up to 51% by the end of '13.
Our first quarter guidance of 614 -- or excuse me 642 million to 667 million has been reduced by about 15.5 million a day for a recent property sale as well as some weather and other facility shut-ins that we experienced in early January.
In essence after accounting for the property sale and the shut-ins we're projecting Q1 to be fairly flat with our strong Q4 '12 results.
Shifting gears over to operating expense on Slide 32 as we talked about before in our previous calls our production group has put a great deal of energy into fighting the overall cost increases the industry has seen over the last year in LOE in particular in the area of SWD and more specifically in the Permian.
In addition we've undertaken measures to control workover costs company-wide.
Well our efforts are showing up in the financials with a Q4 lifting costs coming in at $1.06 per Mcfe that's down another $0.01 from where we were in the third quarter of 2012 and we're down $0.12 or 10% from Q4 '11.
Our Q4 '12 lifting cost is the lowest lifting cost we've seen since late 2010.
Looking forward into 2013 we've projected our full year ROE guidance at $1.05 to $1.17 and hoping to fall in on the lower end of that range.
Just a few comments on service costs before I turn the call over to Paul.
On the drilling side similar to what we discussed last quarter we are seeing most cost components remain relatively in check but we are seeing continued signs of a softening rig market as evidenced by recorded day rates down anywhere from 3% to 5% from last year.
Our biggest cost savings continue to come in the form of drilling efficiencies and lower per unit frac costs.
An interesting observation when we compiled our frac statistics at the end of the year our total company frac statistics show we pumped upwards of 20% to 30% more sand and fluid in 2012 than in 2011 yet our overall frac costs were down 18%.
And that's really a combination of pumping more white sand reduced service costs and additional horsepower on the market.
Looking more specifically at individual well costs in Cana our drilling efficiencies and lower frac costs have brought our current AFEs in the core infill program down to about $7 million total well cost.
That's $400 000 lower than what we quoted last call and down $1 million from where we were a year ago so it's paying off in Cana.
In the Permian our Horizontal Second Bone Spring wells continue to run in the $6.5 million to $7.1 million range while drilling efficiencies in our West Texas Third Bone program have brought total well costs down to $7.2 million -- around $7.2 million.
That's $300 000 lower than the figure we quoted last call.
And finally our Horizontal Wolfcamp wells are running $7 million to $7.5 million total well costs.
That's down from $8 million to $8.5 million the levels that we saw about 6 months ago.
So all in all we're quite excited about where we are.
Our production and our reserves are trending up while our lifting and well costs are trending down.
We've got a deep multi-year inventory of drilling projects in the Permian and the Mid-Continent probably the richest inventory XEC ever had.
And all those are very good reasons to find ourselves in a pretty good position here starting out in 2013.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Paul Korus.
Thank you Joe.
If you'll page forward to Slide 34 I'm a little brief I only have one slide.
Despite the fall in gas and oil prices during 2012 we had reasonably good earnings driven by nice growth in production and proved reserves.
After investing $1.6 billion in 2012 we ended the year with $750 million of debt.
That was inched up if you will from about $400 million at the end of 2011.
So still plenty of capacity on the balance sheet but please do recognize that our prior tolerance of note debt has at least evolved into a tolerance of some albeit still low amount of debt.
We had -- as we mentioned repeatedly we had good growth in production of 6% which actually met the midpoint of our very original guidance for the year.
And we increased our proved reserves by 10% to 2.3 Tcf adding 750 Bcfe of reserves through new drilling which was more than 3x our production for the year.
And we had good finding [ph]  costs and good rates of return doing it.
So as we look to 2013 our expected capital at the present time gives a very narrow range for us of $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion.
But as Tom mentioned please appreciate that we reserve the right to increase it some or decrease it some as the year evolves.
Still at the tight range that we're giving our expectations are for double-digit growth in production and reserves in 2013.
Those are my comments.
Kayla we would be happy to entertain questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] And we do have a question from Phil Jungwirth from BMO Capital Markets.
On the oil production guidance for 2013 32 000 to 33 000 barrels a day it seems to be a little bit lower than the 4Q average even adjusting for the assets.
So can you address why this would be the case? And is it mostly just conservatism on your part given that greater allocation of capital is going towards the Bone Spring and you've seen better results there? Phil this is Joe I'll answer that.
Yes if you look at the slide it says hey without the property sales we're showing 1% to 5% growth.
When we throw those back in there 7% to 11% growth.
Our projections do incorporate risking.
And if we're off I think what it's basically telling us is that we've got a very strong chance of having another year of double-digit production growth.
There's a couple of other things that are at play here too.
At any one given point in time new wells make up 40% to 50% of our total company production.
And those new wells even these permian wells they can come screaming off pretty hard.
So we're always constantly fighting the snowball effect of new well decline which can impact the rates of production growth and certainly have an impact on what ends up being the final product of our modeling.
But as Tom alluded to earlier in the call as those of you who've known us for all these years we are focused on rate of return.
And it's all about rate of return.
And to the degree that production is a byproduct of that so be it.
Obviously we want our production to go up.
That year or -- all that said our model is really showing that we have a very very good chance of another year of double-digit production growth.
And we're really pretty pleased with that.
Being able to have double-digit production growth is not something to not be proud of.
So that's I guess our answer to that question.
Yes this is Tom.
If I could just follow up that up.
Joe has done this for a long time and he's gotten quite astute at making these models.
Our business units send in what they think they're going to do and they time it out and Joe takes that and looks to see what historically they've done.
In the oil patch things tend to go more wrong than they go right.
You have delays in timing you have delays in equipment.
And so Joe factors in what he thinks is our historical average and he risks those business unit models down.
That said the business unit modelers are getting better and better at it.
They're going to challenge him and if all goes right we're going to beat that number.
But we'll just have to see as we go through the year.
It'd be nice to have a year where all goes right but it would be our first.
The other thing I want to add because I'm guessing we'll get the question is on Q1 with our guidance being lower than Q4.
Well a couple of things at play there and this is also impacting our total number.
But the Permian Basin sales that we closed on at the very end of the month last year took about 15.5 million a day off our first quarter production.
We also had a number of freezing issues and pipeline issues and particularly in Culberson County in early January that hurt January to the tune of about 16 million a day that built into that number.
We also had a handful of good strong fourth quarter wells that came on in October and November that were on a very good screaming decline here in November and early January that we were fighting.
And all of that when you add it all up says hey we're going to be at about flat with Q4 which was strong quarter for us.
We were at the upper end of our production guidance.
All that said the model is also saying that we anticipate production to start picking up here pretty quickly in February and our early indications are that production is doing just that.
And when you take a look at our production guidance for the year and you look at 675 million to 705 million and you compare it to where we were in Q1 or what we're given guidance in Q1 hey it smells an awful lot like what we told you guys last year.
We're going to be kind of flat for the first half of the year and we expect to ramp up here at the end of the year and lo and behold that happened.
And that's what we're modeling this year.
We're going to have a little bit of a delayed start here in the first quarter primarily as a result of the property sale.
Our model is saying that come around second quarter we're going to start to see some real nice production growth.
And ultimately I hope allow us to talk quarter-to-quarter about continued record numbers.
So kind of a long answer to your question but I thought I'd knock off the second question because I thought it was going to get asked.
Here's a third question on the guidance.
On the NGL production growth of 33% to 39% is any of that driven by a change in processing contracts and then reporting the NGLs as opposed to leaving it in the gas stream? No most of that is all due to the existing contracts which have already been modified.
Most of the old contracts that could be rewritten or revised all that's been done.
So anything really showing up now is all through new adds.
And then final question here I appreciate all the Wolfcamp disclosure.
It looks like there could be some variability in the GOR as you move from the south to the north.
Is that the case or am I just drawing some conclusions from 2 wells here? I don't know.
You should -- this is John Lambuth.
I don't know you should draw any conclusion from just 2 wells.
I would say clearly based on how we understand that formation there is variability.
But we tend to think as more of an east-west trend than north-south.
But again we still get surprises as we continue to drill this.
But I would say not north-south necessarily just based on those 2 wells.
But we also see a primary variability stratigraphically.
And that's a complex system.
It is and that's something again I want to emphasize.
It's a very thick shale and we have really honed in on a particular interval where we're getting our best results.
And you would expect us  then to get much more consistent results as we go forward because that's the interval that we're primarily going to be drilling in.
And we're obviously -- our excitement about the Wolfcamp comes through in our comments.
But we're really early times here and with the interval as thick as it is we have a lot of that stratigraphy we haven't tested.
So we're as yet uncertain as to what our ultimate spacing will be either laterally or vertically.
I mean there's an argument that says 8 wells per section is not adequate to fully exploit this resource.
But the truth of the matter is we don't know and we really would like to get data rather than speculation.
And our next question comes from Mario Barraza with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> Mario Barraza here.
Just want to dive a little deeper on the Second Bone play on the Texas side.
Last quarter -- are we still thinking just over 125 well locations is a comfortable count for this point? I know you guys said right now 100 to 200 locations.
But what percentage of your acreage in Culberson do you think this is prospective? Well this is John Lambuth again and I guess I would say 100 to 200 locations.
I mean we are very very early.
If you think we're early in Wolfcamp we're very early in this play.
We have 2 very good very exciting wells that we wanted to tell you about.
We have very limited well control.
Basically our well control in that area is our Wolfcamp drilling.
It helps define that shallower Second Bone Spring.
But unlike the Wolfcamp there's quite a bit of stratigraphic variability in the Second Bone Spring so with each well we drill we learn a little bit more some to the negative some to the positive.
All I can tell you is just looking at our acreage position and the current wells we have we see definite potential and it's in the range that I just mentioned.
This year will be very important for us because we have a lot of wells.
We will be drilling to test it and further define it.
So maybe during the course of the year we might be able to give you a little bit better update.
But we're just being honest this is how we see it right now based on the limited well data we have.
This is Tom if I could just follow-up on that.
We've long recognized the potential of Second Bone Spring in Culberson County.
This is not news to us.
The reason that we haven't talked about it prior to the last call or 2 is because we expected it to be gassy.
Based on our overall trend in the basin we looked at that and this part of the basin and thought it's probably gassy.
We had good shows and we drilled through it but we hadn't tested it.
And these first tests ours and there are some offset operators have really surprised us pleasantly.
We really didn't expect the Second Bone Spring to be as oily as it is.
I mean these are fantastic oil wells.
And so when you ask what controls these 100 or 200 locations? We have that sand map throughout this Culberson block.
We have very good shows when we drilled through it.
We're just hesitant to get too out in front of ourselves and say how oily or gassy it is and that's the main controlling factor.
Is it going to continue to be oily or will there be pockets of this land where it's a little heavier gas? So that's why we are not waving the checkered flag just yet but we're very very encouraged by the results we have limited though they may be.
Inc.</strong> Okay appreciate that color.
If I can shift gears towards the CapEx budget for this year.
On the last call you talked about -- you were going to exit the year with 4 to 5 rigs in Cana but if gas prices stayed depressed you might -- you were considering shifting out possibly some rigs and transferring some more CapEx dollars to the                                                                Permian.
What's kind of the price lever you're thinking about for -- where would you pull back on the number of rigs in Cana? Well this is John Lambuth again.
I really couldn't pick a particular price.
Again it's going to be a matter of rate of return.
And that's going to be dictated by the type of section we have an opportunity to drill.
Again the yield the NGL mix really dictates that rate of return more than the gas price even.
So we're constantly monitoring both our results to make sure we're hitting our expected volumes and our drill costs.
Right now we're very encouraged I mean very encouraged with what we're seeing coming out of Cana but that said we're always keeping an eye toward gas prices.
And yes if it drops to a level where we don't see it to be economic we will slow that down or even shut it.
Yes it's Tom.
It's really a function of how much money we want to borrow this year more than anything else.
Our cash flow is what it is and we're trying to allocate it.
Our returns in Cana are quite good.
Our returns in the Permian in general are slightly better and it's a function of how much money we want to borrow.
It's Paul.
I'll just add that whether we run these 4 rigs through roughly the middle of the year or whether we run them all through the year it's only about a $50 million swing.
So it really won't move the needle that much in terms of capital or production volumes in 2013 because the wells drilled in the first half will be frac-ed in the second half roughly.
It would have further implications for 2014 perhaps in terms production volumes.
But it's not a needle mover.
I mean I would just say again I would emphasize we're getting some really great results and they're really making it hard for us to not want to go ahead and get those rigs going.
I'll leave it that way.
I mean really good results so far as we start this year.
But we have not made a final decision.
We currently have 4 rigs running at Cana and we've not made a final decision.
That is correct.
And your next question comes from Jeff Robertson with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Tom in the Wolfcamp play in Culberson County can you talk about where you think you'll be with some of these questions just around stratigraphy and spacing by the end of the year? By the end of 2013 that is? Well there's really 2 issues Jeff.
And I'd invite John to chime in here.
One is we're still sampling real estate.
If you look at our current penetrations although we think we've got a lot more than we know there's still a lot of that area that's very finely sampled.
So we need to just sample the real estate over that acreage block.
We don't currently have planned this year a spacing pilot.
Now that's something else that we're still kind of arguing about because that's -- our experience in Cana is that that's something you want to know as early as you can for full development.
But right now we don't have a spacing pilot planned for the Wolfcamp.
And so we don't know yet what the spacing will be both laterally and vertically.
So your question is what are we going to know by the end of the year? I think under our current plan we're going to know the liquids yield and the producibility of that rock over a wider area than we've currently sampled but in our current plan we probably won't know any more about spacing than we do now.
This is John Lambuth.
I agree.
I mean the only thing I'd add besides just the overall productivity of these wells is again we're very excited about what we're seeing with our drilling complete costs and really right now as we look at these wells that really is going to be one of the bigger drivers to the type of rate of returns we get.
And so far we're very encouraged by what we see going on in regards to those costs both from the drill side but especially on the completion side is something Joe alluded to earlier.
We're definitely seeing a decrease in our completion costs and that really is very impactful for these wells.
Research Division</strong> Second question on that play.
I think you said there are several different zones within the Wolfcamp.
Is all of your drilling going into what you think is the same Wolfcamp interval? This is John Lambuth again.
Early on we were how do you say all over the court? I mean trying to understand optimally where we should be.
It's fair to say going forward we've kind of honed in on the particular interval.
We break it up into A B C D and E.
In our case we have a particular interval that we now feel really good about and that's where you'd expect us to put the majority of our wells going forward.
If I might add to that Jeff.
Some of the new drilling you're seeing over in Reeves County is in the shallow-most stratigraphy in that Wolfcamp.
That's something that we haven't sampled in Culberson County and there's a -- it looks interesting to us we don't have a well in it.
And it might be additive to everything else were doing and it might not be either/or it might be additive.
And please take that with a grain of salt don't run out and update your model on that.
We just don't know.
I mean we're just -- it looks to us like this Wolfcamp is going to be a legacy asset that can stand tall next to Cana for the future of Cimarex.
That's the message this morning.
The detail whether it's $7 billion $10 billion $15 billion of future capital we just don't know.
But it's here to stay and we like it.
Research Division</strong> One last question.
Is there the ability to increase acreage in the play in the areas that you think are promising? Well we did increase acreage in 2012.
We made a couple of acreage acquisitions that we talked about.
It's getting skinny on the broad brushes.
But we still get up every morning and we wrestled home some things and we're continuing to do that.
But I wouldn't want to start from scratch today in that part of the real estate that part of the world.
And your next question comes from Joe Magner with Macquarie Capital.
I just wanted to I guess get a sense on when during the year do you think you'll have enough information or insight into some of these new opportunities? And the results seem very encouraging rates of return seem very equivalent across different plays and competitive with existing development opportunities.
I'm just curious when we might start to expect to hear decisions on increasing capital or drilling additional wells? Well I guess -- this is John Lambuth.
What new -- which ones you're referring to just specifically so I can....
Well I guess the Second Bone Spring opportunity in Culberson in particular and then the Wolfcamp Shale over in that same general vicinity seemed like the 2 areas at least where results could be supportive.
Well I would just say in Culberson I think we're pretty set on that 1 to 2 rig schedule for this year as we continue to identify the opportunity there.
For the Bone Spring in addition to the Wolfcamp.
For the Bone Spring in addition to the Wolfcamp you're absolutely right Tom.
That all -- like we say that's always subject to change based on performance.
But right now we think that's the adequate rig schedule and capital we need to fully define that opportunity.
Clearly by the end of the year we'll have a much better understanding of it.
In terms of Reeves County all I'll say is we really need some more well performance and perhaps even a couple more wells before even we're ready to talk about it.
We need time there.
Again I'll just say we're encouraged.
But we need a couple more wells and we just need to see some more consistent performance and then we'll probably be in a better position to talk about it.
Okay.
And I guess with respect to the Horizontal Wolfcamp that's been focused in New Mexico 33 wells drilled to date how much of that acreage has been held now? And what is required I guess through this year to be able to -- this year into next year to lock up more of that acreage? Yes in the New Mexico in that Wolfcamp trend it's by and large I won't say 100% but it's almost all held.
We have a couple of obligation wells that we drill every year but other than that we don't have any kind of an acreage exploration that's driving our New Mexico portion.
Okay.
And there's one last one for me.
I believe you all have been working on some other shallow liquids opportunities or other Mid-Continent liquids opportunities.
Any update on any of those new initiatives? No no new update as of today.
You are right in that there are a couple of plays that we have been pursuing.
We still have some more evaluating and drilling to do in those plays.
We really can't add any color to that today.
Your next question comes from Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A question -- I don't mean to beat a dead horse but I just wanted to follow up on the guidance for this year.
The 60 million cubic feet a day that you talked about that was affected by shut-ins in  Culberson County is that just 60 million cubic feet a day in January or is that across the entire first quarter? This is Joe.
That for the most part those were very mature properties with very shallow declines.
So it came from the shut-ins Joe.
Oh for the shut in.
I thought -- the freeze-outs [ph] for the most part appear to behind us.
We will have in the Culberson County area probably in the first part of Q2 some work done to high-grade some of our pegging facilities and improve some of the line itself.
So there'll be a little bit of downtime there but it looks like the freezing issues in January are behind us.
But it's just January.
It's built into our Q1 guidance.
So if you were to divide it by 3 I guess if you want to take a look at that.
Research Division</strong> And then on the -- how would you describe -- I mean can walk me through to the state of infrastructure I guess as you look forward over the course of 2013? I mean how much conservatism did you build into the numbers from potential infrastructure downtime? I guess I'm still having a little bit of a hard time wrapping my head around the fact that for 18 months you've done kind of 2 000 barrels a day sequentially each quarter Permian oil growth and it seems to have flattened off.
I'm just trying to figure out is that -- how much that it's infrastructure downtime conservatism you're building in versus anything else? There's maybe if you were to take a look at the Permian I'll just tell you in equivalents I don't know how it's going to answer the oil side of it.
But I venture to say that we just on base properties have integrated somewhere the range of 7 million to 10 million a day of a risk in our base property production that you could attribute to being directly associated with downtime because that's about what we saw last year as an average.
Second quarter last year I think we had a 14 million a day impact for the quarter and most of that was in the Permian.
And let's face it the Permian is a tight deal out there.
And we're constantly finding it.
We had a few wells here in Q1 that we delayed fracs on waiting to get the connections put into place.
So I guess if you're looking for a number that'd be about the number I'd give you.
Other than that I always take a minute when I answer this question this way too.
What we're trying to do with our guidance heck the majority of that number is coming from new wells and we're trying to predict when we're going to drill and when we're going to hit the good ones what they're going to produce and for the most part I'm really pretty amazed as close as we all get playing this game when you're trying to project what you're going to see.
So we inherently put maybe a 70% to 80% risk into our region on risk numbers based on history.
And that's kind of how we end up where we end up.
We look at capital utilization how well we spent money and added production and so forth and then come up with our final number.
Ryan this is Mark.
I have one other thought to add to that discussion is that as you pointed out in the slide for the guidance slide we talked about oil growth excluding property sale being 7% to 11%.
And the risking that Joe is alluding to and then further risking if you take our risked/unrisked team's wedge as Tom alluded to probably be adding a few thousand barrels a day to these numbers.
And if we add that back into these guidance numbers it'll probably be close to 20% growth year-over-year in oil.
So we definitely have tried to build in some uncertainty with the infrastructure uncertainty in well timing all those factors that go into guidance.
But definitely there's a lot more upside in these numbers if we hit our plan but we know historically there's always timing -- issues with timing infrastructure and those things.
And so we try to build in we think would be a reasonable amount of conservatism for the numbers we can think we can reasonably achieve.
Research Division</strong> I guess one last thing for me from an  infrastructure point of view as the pipelines come in connecting the Permian to the Gulf over the course of the year I mean how do you -- you've obviously seen the differential come in quite a bit up to this point I mean how do you view that playing out over the rest of the year? Do you see upside in terms of potential to narrow that differential or maybe even go at a premium to WTI at any point? Or...
WTI premium -- WTI no Ryan.
We don't see that potential occurring.
We're grateful to see it tightening to where it's gone.
But I mean we've -- when we look at the forward curve I'd say it's still at around $1 range that's -- we look at our models and we don't assume it to go to premium but we don't also assume to buying [ph]  back out like we saw early late last year and early part of this year.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Great.
Thank you all for joining us on the fourth quarter conference call.
I look forward to reporting to you next quarter.
Take care.
Bye-bye.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jared and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Cimarex Energy First Quarter Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Burford you may begin.
Thank you Jared.
Welcome everyone and thanks for joining us today on our first quarter conference call.
On today's call we have Tom Jorden President and CEO; Joe Albi COO; Paul Korus Senior Vice President and CFO; and John Lambuth Vice President of Exploration.
We issued our financial and operating results news release this morning a copy of which can be found in our website.
I do need to remind you that today's presentation will contain forward-looking statements.
However a number of factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from what we discuss.
You should read our disclosure on forward-looking statements in our latest 10-K and other filings and press releases for the risk factors associated with our business.
And with that I'll just go and turn the call over to Tom and let him jump into the details.
Thank you Mark.
Welcome everyone and I want to say we appreciate your interest in Cimarex.
I'd like to take a few minutes to go over the highlights for the quarter before turning the call over to Joe and John for a more detailed look at our operations.
Cimarex reported this morning a very solid first quarter in line with our expectations.
Production average 661.1 million cubic feet equivalent per day growing 10% from first quarter 2012.
Our oil production grew 12% which is actually 20% after adjusting for the property sales.
Our first quarter oil volumes averaged 33 154 barrels per day.
So we're seeing some very very nice growth in our oil production.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $409 million funded with internally generated cash flow and $120 million in debt.
We expect the bank debt will reach roughly $300 million by the end of the year and that of course is up from 0 at January 1.
And that says our opportunity set continues to exceed our projected cash flow.
In total Cimarex will spend about $1.5 billion in 2013 on high rate of return projects primarily in the Delaware portion of the Permian Basin and the Cana-Woodford shale.
John and Joe will give you a flavor of that in detail but we see an outstanding opportunity set and great flexibility as we prosecute it.
Our Permian program continues to provide great returns and that's where we'll invest $900 million or about 64% of our total capital this year.
Results have been particularly noteworthy in Culberson County Texas where we believe the Horizontal Wolfcamp can provide decades of drilling opportunities for Cimarex.
In addition we see encouraging results in the Second Bone Spring in Culberson County.
We also see potential in other zones in the stacked pay opportunity and believe this area is on its way to becoming a legacy asset for Cimarex.
We're very proud of the work that our teams have done in Culberson County and are extremely optimistic about the development potential multi-zone.
For the rest of 2013 and into 2014 our Permian program will focus on holding our Culberson acreage.
A lot of that acreage is term acreage and we're on a program to make sure that every prospective acreage gets held by production.
So we'll de-risk the acreage as we test other areas and other zones.
We're still currently identifying economic sweet spots for potential future infill development.
And as John will show it's a big area.
We still have a lot of drilling to do.
And as we drill our way forward we're finding new sweet spots we didn't anticipate.
We'll also be doing an evaluation of multi-zone stack lateral development and that's especially in various ventures of the Wolfcamp shale along with the Second Bone Spring sand.
We're at very early time there and need to have some field experiments before we can definitively comment on ultimate spacing.
And then finally we'll develop our infrastructure and takeaway strategies to accommodate our growing production.
We've put a lot of energy into that in Culberson County and we're in a commanding position there when it comes to infrastructure.
And there are opportunities elsewhere in the basin and we'll be attacking that.
So a good quarter good execution out of our organization.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Joe Albi our Chief Operating Officer.
Thank you Tom and thank you everyone for joining our call today.
I'll touch on our first quarter production update you on our second quarter guidance projections and then follow up with a few words on operating costs and service costs before handing the call over to John.
As Tom mentioned our first quarter volumes came in at 661 million a day that's a good strong quarter for us.
We're above the midpoint of our guidance of 642 million to 667 million and up 10% from where we were 1 year ago in Q1 '12.
If you adjust for our 2012 year end property sale which took about 15 million a day off the books we were up 12% from Q1 '12.
We saw solid production growth during the quarter despite incurring some downtime associated with plant facility shut-ins freeze offs and some pipeline maintenance which equated to about 7 million a day and most of which came from the Permian.
If we dig a bit deeper into the details our Mid-Continent region continued to set records for all product categories whether it be gas oil NGLs total liquids and equivalent volumes.
Our Q1 Mid-Continent equivalent volume of 361 million a day was up 15% from Q1 '12 and 3% from last quarter.
Cana continues to drive the production increases that we're seeing in the Mid-Continent with our first quarter volumes of 229 million equivalents a day up 42% or 68 million a day from a year ago and 15 million a day from last quarter.
In the Permian our Q1 '13 net equivalent volume of 275 million a day was up a strong 15% or 35 million a day from Q1 '12.
Our Permian oil production averaged 25 832 barrels a day that's up 18% over last year.
As compared to Q4 '12 however our first quarter equivalent volume was down 17 million a day and this is more or less a direct result of our Permian asset sale on December and the downtime that I mentioned we experienced during the quarter.
As we move into the second quarter however we've made up that gap.
We're seeing a nice strong upward trend in our Permian production.
Looking at our guidance we've made no changes to our previously announced full year guidance range of 675 million to 705 million a day.
That represents an 8% to 13% increase over 2012.
And when adjusting for the December 2012 property sale we're really projecting a true apples-to-apples increase of 10% to 15% over last year.
If you look under the hood of our projection however you'd see that we've changed our projected commodity mix.
As a result of lower processing yields and new markets primarily in the Permian we've lowered our projected NGL volumes for the year.
However offsetting that drop is stronger performance we're seeing from our oil projects also in the Permian which in essence have kept our total equivalent volume projection unchanged.
Where we had originally projected a 1% to 5% increase in our oil production during 2013 we're now projecting an increase of 8% to 13%.
In total we expect liquids to represent about 50% of our production this year that's another gain in our total liquid percentage up from 48% last year.
To help get us to our full year projection you've seen our Q2 guidance range of 667 million to 692 million a day and what that's really reflecting is that ramp up of production I just mentioned from Q1 and most of that coming from the Permian.
Shifting gears to our OpEx.
You may note that our Q1 LOE came in at $1.17 per Mcfe that's up $0.11 from the fourth quarter and slightly above our 2012 average of $1.13.
A couple of factors are coming into play here.
We're seeing some increased compression costs we've had increased power cost on our new wells some higher chemical costs during the quarter associated with our early quarter freezing issues just to name a few.
But the largest factor was our increased workover activity primarily in the Permian which by itself added $0.10 per Mcfe over our 2012 average.
As we may have talked about before as part of one of our 2013 company goals our production group has put a strong emphasis on stepped-up well reviews and lease inspections to optimize the production from and the appearance of our wells.
The attention that we're giving the wells comes at a cost however and as a result we've revised our full year LOE guidance up just slightly from $1.10 to $1.22.
Just a few comments on service costs before turning the call over to John.
On the drilling side we'd characterize the market as stable with current day rates about where they were last call.
But that's down about 3% to 5% from where they were in Q4.
That said however we're seeing the benefits of some nice cost reductions primarily in the Permian.
The reductions that we've seen on the drilling side have been I'll call them performance-related rather than by market.
With enhanced use of the PDC bits tweaking our fluid designs employing more use of downhaul motors and rotary steering technologies we've cut down on our drilling days.
On the completion side we've realized some nice reductions as well not only to a competitive market but through more efficient operations in addition.
As a result we're seeing meaningful cost reductions in our Bone Spring program with our generic New Mexico Horizontal Second Bone Spring AFEs now running $6.3 million to $6.9 million.
That's down about $200 000 from the numbers we've quoted last call.
And our West Texas Second Bone Spring wells are now running $5.7 million with them seeing the same benefits as well.
The same goes for our West Texas Third Bone Spring AFEs which are currently running around $6.4 million to $6.6 million.
That's down $600 000 from our last call.
We've really made some great progress in that program.
Our Wolfcamp Horizontals are still running around $7 million to $7.5 million about flat to where they were last call.
But remember that those numbers are down more than $1 million from where they were 9 months ago.
In Cana our program drilling efficiencies continue to shave dollars off our AFEs with our current estimates now running $6.9 million down $100 000 from again what we quoted last call which was 500 -- and we're $500 000 down from where we were 6 months ago.
We are very very excited about the improvements we've made in our drilling program.
Quite proud of our drilling team to accomplish what they've done the results of which are certainly helping the economics of our program.
All that said we'll stay focused on demonstrating further improvement to get things better yet.
So in summary we've had another good quarter.
Q1 production came in strong.
Our guidance remains unchanged and continues to reflect an 8% to 13% increase in our production and our drilling costs are certainly headed the right direction.
So with that I'll turn the call over to John.
Thanks Joe.
I'll cover some of the specifics of our Permian and Mid-Continent drilling program.
It's been a very busy first quarter for us.
We drilled and completed 87 gross 47 net wells during the first quarter.
I'm going to start first with an update on our Mid-Continent region.
This quarter we drilled and completed 52 gross 20 net wells essentially all of which were in the Cana-Woodford shale play.
We continue with our infill Cana core drilling.
This brings then our total well drilling in Cana to 532.
We currently have 4 operated rigs working in Cana.
We're still on track to drill and complete approximately 35 operated wells and we will participate in 90 outside operated wells with the majority of them being drilled by Devon.
Our drilling and completion capital is still projected to be around $350 million for this year.
Certainly a bit higher first quarter gas prices are a relief and they are helping our Cana's projected returns as are some of the cost reductions in our drilling completion that Joe just mentioned.
Our Cana program is performing well and we're working to minimize those costs and increase productivity to enhance our returns there.
Moving on to the Permian.
The Permian region was our most active region as we drilled and completed 35 gross 27 net wells during the first quarter.
All of these were completed as producers.
Our drilling has focused in the Delaware Basin of Texas and Southeast New Mexico targeting the Bone Spring and Wolfcamp formations.
Nearly half of our first quarter drilling was in our New Mexico Bone Spring program where we drilled and completed 18 gross 11 net wells.
We continue to have very strong results in this program.
Our per well 30-day gross production from these wells averaged over 650 barrels of oil equivalent per day with the majority of that 89% being oil.
We also have had another solid quarter in our Ward County Texas Third Bone Spring program where we have drilled 7 gross 6.5 net wells.
These wells had a per well 30-day average gross production rate of over 970 barrels of oil equivalent per day 77% of which was oil.
For both of these programs again as Joe just mentioned we're seeing significant reductions in our drilling and completion costs which just leads to even better rate of returns that we're experiencing there.
We've also had an active Texas Bone Spring program -- sorry as Tom mentioned Culberson County as well as what we call White City or Southern Eddy County has become a key area for us.
We continue to have success drilling both in the Wolfcamp C and D intervals as well as Second Bone Spring wells.
And we see additional upside in the Wolfcamp A and the shallower Delaware sands.
We drilled and completed 3 Wolfcamp and 3 Bone Spring wells this year.
We now have 4 Bone Spring wells drilled to date in Culberson County which have had a per-well 30-day average gross production of over 900 barrels of oil equivalent per day of which 59% is oil.
I'd like to mention here that of these 4 wells one was a very significant step out to the Southern area in Culberson away from where the existing wells have been drilled.
That well has done a nice job of proving up additional areas for us to drill in Culberson.
The Wolfcamp wells now total 34 gross 32 net in the area and our per-well first 30-day production rates on all of the Wolfcamp wells drilled in the area to date have averaged 6.4 million cubic feet equivalent per day comprised of 43% gas 27% oil and 30% NGL.
In addition to the Wolfcamp C and D interval as well as the Second Bone Spring we think there are additional opportunities on our Culberson acreage in both the Wolfcamp A interval as well as the shallower Delaware sand.
We in fact plan to drill a Wolfcamp A test in Culberson later this year.
Some other things we're looking forward to trying include a dual completion of the Wolfcamp C and D.
The Wolfcamp interval is the very thick interval and we are fairly confident that the C and D are not basically communicating with each other.
So we plan to drill a stacked lateral one in the C and one in the D to verify that indeed we get a unique reserves with each zone.
With those results in hand we will then plan our infill development program sometime probably in early part of next year.
Finally a quick word on another area where we're drilling Wolfcamp test which is in Reeves County.
We have one well that has been on production for a while now and its results are extremely similar to other operator wells in the area.
We're very excited about it.
We have also now drilled a second well and have just finished completing it.
It is just now in early stages of flowback.
And we're now in the process of drilling our third well.
We're very excited about this area so far although there's still a lot to be determined based on future drilling as to how good it will eventually be for us.
Finishing up I just want to say that we are off to a great start this year.
Our teams are always focused on maximizing returns on our drilling and they are doing a great job.
Looking forward we have a very significant opportunity set.
Quite frankly our prospect inventory has never been as rich as it is right now.
In the Permian region itself as we sit here today we recognize between 200 to 300 Bone Spring sand locations with further upside available for us in the Avalon on the same acreage.
When we look at the Wolfcamp in Culberson White City we see several thousand potential locations that of course depending on our ultimate spacing that we determined based on our infill pilot as well as whether or not how many stacked laterals we are able to drill within that interval.
We of course also see potential for the shallow at Delaware and the deeper Cisco/Canyon shale wells as well.
We have huge amount of future drilling inventory in the Permian not to mention the thousand of wells we have still yet to drill in Cana.
Now with that I'll turn the call back to the operator for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Mario Barraza.
Inc.</strong> Just can you talk a little bit more about the Culberson County area? Where do you feel -- I know it's early days but where do you feel these potential 5 zones could spread out? Do you think they're prospective across the entire 100 000 net acres you have here? Potential yes.
Can we definitively say that at this point? No.
Obviously future drilling will dictate that.
What we do know is we certainly have established a good program in the Wolfcamp C and D today.
Likewise we here recently with the results have established at a very good 8 tack [ph] rate of return program in the Second Bone Spring.
How far does it go? Well that's just a matter of further development drilling stepped out drilling which we have not achieved just yet.
So the potential is there but can we quantify that on all the acreage? At this point I guess I'd say the jury is out but the potential is definitely there for a majority of those intervals.
Mario this is Tom.
I don't think all zones will be prospective everywhere.
So we're currently delineating and of course this is a big area and a very thick section.
That Wolfcamp alone is 6 800 feet thick.
We have the Second Bone Spring and then we have the Delaware above it.
So given that area and that stratigraphic column we have a lot of delineation still to do.
Certainly the C and D are fairly well calibrated where we drilled it and we're still defining it.
So we see the C and D as prospective overall say much of that acreage although that's still being defined.
Whether that will support stacked laterals or not we need to experiment.
And then we haven't tested the Wolfcamp A in Culberson County.
We haven't tested the Delaware at Culberson County.
So not to be vague with our answer to your question we certainly see -- it's not hard to do the arithmetic and get thousands of locations even on the down case here but we're still defining the potential and we don't have a lot of granularity as to how they will sum up.
Inc.</strong> No I appreciate that the color you can provide today.
And then Culberson isn't extremely populated.
Do you guys have -- if you were to further accelerate the activity there heading into next year are there any material infrastructure investments you still have to make here? Again this is Tom.
We've made infrastructure investments there over the last few years and we got ahead of that we saw the potential early on and we are in very good shape from an infrastructure position.
We've got our gathering system we have a little processing plant we put in.
We have multiple outlets for wet gas stream.
There's still some infrastructure to be built as we keep pace with our drilling program.
But we've got the infrastructure there that allows us by and large to control our own destiny.
And so it was a very fortuitous decision we made 2 or 3 years ago to get ahead of that program and build that infrastructure.
The next question comes from Ryan Todd.
Research Division</strong> A question for you on CapEx.
How should we think about CapEx and sensitivity to cash flow? So if commodity prices hold at current levels should we think of the $1.5 billion number as a cap or would you consider spending more if you could still keep your borrowing under a certain limit? Ryan this is Tom.
We have flexibility there.
We've not made any rules.
We've provided guidance but we've also been very clear saying that we're going to make decisions as we move forward.
We have tremendous opportunity not only in the Permian Basin which is of course the major focus but we have some emerging opportunities in the Mid-Continent that we may want to fund this year.
So our intent is certainly to stay within that capital guidance that we've laid out.
But if we think we can get a great rate of return and it has downside protection to some commodity sensitivity we wouldn't hesitate to go beyond what we've announced.
This is Paul.
Similarly 3 months ago we said our number would be 1.4 to 1.5.
All we were simply doing there was allowing for weakness in the gas market in which case we might have tweaked back to 1.4.
But I'll tell you our number has always been right around 1.5 we just gave ourselves that flexibility back then.
Where we sit today we've kind of eliminated the down side case and so our best estimate now is 1.5.
If there's any bias it would be higher.
And by the same token we gave wide enough production volume guidance to handle any of those cases.
I mean you can kind of drive a truck through our production volume guidance for the year.
And that of course gives us plenty of wiggle room for things to go well.
But it also allows for situations like well freeze offs which we did experience.
We are going into the suburb where we've seen ethane rejection and things like that.
So we -- that's why we choose to give wide guidance as opposed to very narrow because a lot of things happen.
And that way we won't have to change guidance if they do.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And you've seen some great -- I mean it sounds like you've seen some great progress on reduction of well costs there.
I mean should we think of that as being -- are those well costs at the point now where they're below your official budget where you started the year and should we think that for example in the Permian if you still spend the $900 million that there could be upside to the actual number of wells drilled over the year? Ryan the upside there's a little bit of cost in there and Joe went over that.
But one of the things we're finding is we're drilling our wells much faster.
Now generally that will translate into cost savings.
But when you think about the components of drilling a well you have your tangibles your intangibles and your completion costs and so drilling them faster doesn't really save on tangibles or completion costs.
So what we're finding is that when we look at the Permian we're drilling these wells significantly faster than we modeled.
So we're getting a lot more done with the same rig fleet and that's putting a little upward pressure on our capital not downward pressure.
So yes we are seeing some cost savings but mostly we're seeing drilling time reduction.
And so if we keep our current fleet and don't adjust we'll probably be on that higher end.
And this is Joe.
What I might add to that is for the same dollars we'll drill more wells.
So the positive side of that is more wells more reserves more production that comes along with it which affects our cash flow.
Your next question comes from Joe Magner.
Just I wanted to I guess follow up on the Cana program with the rally we're seeing in gas prices and cost savings that you alluded to.
Just curious where you are on decision what to do with those rigs for the second half of the year.
This is John Lambuth.
As I said we are at 4 rigs right now.
But that said in the immediate near future we'll be going down to 2 rigs.
But to be honest that reduction in rig has more to do with just the overall infill development that's ongoing there.
As we stated there's kind of a ballet going on between us and the other operators to line up our sections in kind of an east-west sequence.
And so right now we don't want to keep the rigs because we get too far ahead versus what the other operators are doing.
So the prudent thing for us is just to pull back a little again to work in concert with the others and so that's what we're going to do for the remainder of the year with those 2 rigs.
More than likely as we enter next year you'll probably see us come back with a couple of those rigs back into the program.
Okay.
And is there a plan to move those rigs to other opportunities in Mid-Continent or shift them over to the Permian? Has there been some discussion about that throughout the year? Well we have sent one of the rigs down to the Permian.
These rigs we really really like as Joe mentioned they've really done a phenomenal job for us in terms of drill rate number of days.
And so one of those rigs is moving down to the Permian especially to help us with -- that rig's really built for longer laterals.
So it's going down there to assist us with those type of wells.
The other rig is one that we have released.
So what I might add there is that most -- all of these rigs that we've had in Cana we've run for quite some time.
So we've developed some efficiencies we know how they work they know how we work to the extent we can keep them in our program working within our budget and as you mentioned move them down to the Permian where we might take a 1 500-horsepower rig and put it into a situation -- or hydrated rig and put it down there where even at a higher day rate it's outperforming some of the other rigs we're going to jump on that.
Okay.
I just wanted to clarify the guidance for the year did that include the potential I guess drop down to 2 rigs or was it a drop of all 4 rigs and a shift for the second half? I just want to sort of be clear on what was included and how the current plan is.
This is Joe again.
What that incorporates is our current projection for all of our rig activity.
So to the extent we're going from 4 to 2 it's certainly in there.
Yes this is John.
I'll just comment that regardless of 4 or 2 any of the wells we drill now in Cana don't even show up in this year's production.
Basically those wells will end up getting completed early first quarter.
So really it has no impact on this year's production guidance.
That's correct.
That have more of an impact on '14.
Okay.
And just on the plan to drill a dual stacked lateral can you just talk about the impact on overall well costs relative to drilling 2 separate laterals.
And any associated risks with that type of a well design that we should keep in mind? Well this is John again and maybe I wasn't as clear as I needed to be.
But those will be 2 independent wells just side-by-side where one would target the C zone the other well would target the D.
We're not talking about 2 laterals out of 1 bore hole.
They will be 2 independent wells targeting each independent zone.
Is that clear? Yes that's helpful.
Okay.
I'll leave it there.
Your next question comes from Gil Yang [ph].
Just going back to well cost and I apologize if you have addressed this.
But if you look at your -- in the presentation if you look at the E&amp;D budget versus the net wells.
The wells are more expensive in the Permian this year than last year.
Is that just the budget and we should expect that those well costs should be down from it or...
Well there are a couple of elements there.
One we're drilling more long lateral horizontal wells.
So our well complexion is more expensive we're drilling more Wolfcamp wells.
We've got a very active Third Bone Spring program and those are a little more expensive wells.
We're also drilling few Yeso wells this year.
So those -- if you look at our well count in the prior years they've had a fair amount of those $2 million $2.2 million vertical wells.
And there are very few of those in this year's program.
So a lot of that difference in average well costs is made up by the types of wells we're drilling not necessarily a change in cost.
Got you.
Okay.
So the change in cost you're talking about is sort of apples-to-apples cost changes and this is a mix issue that the wells themselves are...
That's right.
Yes okay.
Got you.
And then just following up on in terms of the Permian.
In Culberson do you have any drill to depths -- or hold to depth issues that will induce you to drill to the deeper horizons first? Yes that's certainly a part of our overall strategy there.
And one of the things that we did we got it down in the Culberson.
When we started putting this acreage together in 2006 at that time our primary objective was the Penn Shale or locally it's called the Cisco Canyon.
And that's a nice productive interval.
We drilled some wells made some nice completions in that both in Eddy County we have fair amount of experience.
But it's dry.
Although it's an economic objective at current cost and current gas prices it's not something we're pursuing.
So then we've moved to the Wolfcamp and on our drill to hold we're holding at least to the basin of Wolfcamp.
And we're looking at lease by lease.
Some leases hold the entire Wolfcamp some leases it's depth drill.
And we've got a fairly complex analysis on where we need to drill.
But we're definitely attempting to hold the deepest producing Wolfcamp horizon and everything shallower.
So that does color our drilling strategy.
We get asked a lot why don't you guys do Wolfcamp A? Well we are but we're kind of fitting that in with wells that are targeting the D and C to hold those deep rights.
Okay.
So in some cases you need to drill the Wolfcamp E to hold the whole thing.
But in some cases if you drill the Wolfcamp A you can hold A C D E? That's correct.
Now we don't have -- we only have 1 Wolfcamp E test in Culberson County.
That was a vertical test for a conventional reservoir and that was unsuccessful.
So currently our deepest horizontal objective is the Wolfcamp D.
Okay.
And with your Penn drilling Penn Shale drilling did you hold a sufficient amount of acreage or is that pretty de minimis? Not in Culberson County.
That's de minimis.
So overall how much is held by production at this point? For Penn Shale or for overall? Probably just overall.
For the Wolfcamp ultimately which you're targeting now.
Yes we don’t have that.
John is guessing 1/3.
I don’t -- we don't have that number readily available but we can get that for you.
Yes I can tell you that we are on a capital program that we've identified the minimum amount of capital we have to send in Wolfcamp drilling and we're on a path to hold everything or essentially everything that we see as prospective.
And that minimum amount I think was 125 million this year.
It will be between 225 million and 250 million next year.
And then it steps back down to the 100s for the year following.
So without inordinate amount of capital we're going to be able to hold all those Wolfcamp rights.
Okay.
So it's not going to govern your CapEx program at the levels we're at? I'm sorry Gil? So it won't govern -- it won't moderate or attenuate your program given where we are today? Well it's -- yes I wouldn't say it will moderate or attenuate it certainly is an overprint.
And right now we have 2 rigs drilling Wolfcamp wells.
With those 2 rigs we can get this done.
We will add a rig or 2 next year.
But we did add in addition to our 2 Wolfcamp rigs we brought in 2 additional rigs to drill Second Bone Spring wells in Culberson County.
And that was completely additive that was without regard to the acreage holding to depth and that was just because those Second Bone Spring wells are delivering lights out rates of return.
But we're going to get those Wolfcamp rights held just fine.
Your next question comes from Brian Gamble.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus on the production side for a minute.
I think Paul had alluded to it the continued wide I guess train-size gap you've got for loan in high end of production.
Is it safe to assume that with the...
That was a truck that was not train that was a truck.
It was a truck.
Research Division</strong> A truck sorry.
I'm sorry Paul.
I didn't mean to put words in your mouth.
We'll call it truck-size hole.
At $1.5 billion and with all the success that you've been having it seems like you're saying that the upper end makes more sense than the lower end is that a fair assumption at this point? We make no such assumptions.
Like Yogi Berra said forecasting is difficult especially when it has to do with something in the future.
And we don't know what's going to happen with ethane rejection over the upcoming months.
And that always has an impact on our NGL volumes we get a little uplift in gas volumes.
But net-net it's a negative on production volumes.
We don't know whether we're going to experience that in 1 month 2 months 3 months 4 months.
It's not predictable.
Research Division</strong> And that production gap right now includes how much rejection over the next few months? This is Joe.
What we built into it is about 10 million or 11 million a day potential ethane rejection here during Q2.
Now we don't know what it's going to be in Q3 so we didn't model that.
But the other thing Paul is alluding to is there are some risks with takeaway capacity particularly in the Permian that we're concerned about.
We're seeing lower recoveries from the processing facilities that we're sending our gas to.
We hope that that's alleviated come Q3 with additional NGL takeaway coming into play from Sandhills.
So all that being said we're trying to forecast what we know right now with regard to recoveries in ethane rejection.
To the extent it improves I guess it could bump the number up a little bit.
But we're kind of modeling the world as we see now and that midpoint of that range that I will call the Nissan small truck can drive through that we feel like we can certainly attain.
Research Division</strong> But you're never going to drive Nissans in Texas come on now.
Well they're smaller trucks.
And in the Permian as Joe mentioned when the recoveries go down or one of the processors we go to is at capacity one of the very smart things that has been done is that we have another outlet for the gas for the wet gas.
We may all end up regretting going to 3 stream reporting someday as an industry because these processed volumes of NGLs can really change whereas our produced in metered volumes do not.
So we may take a wet gas stream to a market because we can when we're shut out of capacity to process.
Our produced volumes on a wet gas basis remain the same.
But the way we count production from a reporting purpose the way we all model it and what not look different.
So again there's so many moving parts that -- my goodness it's only May.
To leave enough room or a wide enough production volume guidance is what we think is appropriate to do.
As we get to the latter half of the year as always we'll tighten it down some.
Research Division</strong> And then one other clarification point on that you mentioned the 7 Mcf that was down during Q1.
I'm assuming that a part of this ongoing saga that is downtime and what's up and what gets rejected that 7 has carried over into Q2 to some extent? This is Joe.
What we've seen and I don't have the numbers right handy right in front of me now but as you may recall last year in particular in the Permian things are getting tight.
So we have seen 3 million up to 15 million a day type impacts on a particular month due to either turnaround or takeaway issues.
The first quarter was really hit a little bit harder with the weather and we have a lot of freezing issues in particular on the Triple Crown facility that came into play there.
So to the extent it's incurred we don't necessarily sit up there and say okay let's just subtract 4 million or 5 million a day here or there.
We're trying to forecast what we know we're seeing consistently and we're not counting on bad things to happen we're also not counting on great things to happen.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one more for me.
Different topic on the AFEs.
Now correct me if I'm wrong you rolled through them pretty quickly but the best quarter-on-quarter change was in the Third Bone Spring's number down to 6.4 to 6.6 on AFEs.
Was there anything specific that caused that 600k improvement quarter-on-quarter that either could potentially be rolled into the other wells or any other zones or was that just happened to be a great quarter? This is Joe again.
There are things that we're doing in the Third Bone that we certainly hope to carry forward into where I'd say our next viable target is obviously the Wolfcamp.
Without getting into the specifics of it it really just means cross-pollinating technologies between the different groups in our drilling department whether it be in Tulsa or the Permian but be a little bit aggressive with our use of PDC bits motors our hole design we're testing different fluids.
And to the extent they work in one program and we're in the same darn area I think you'll see us trying to apply it elsewhere.
Your next question comes from Matt Portillo.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick questions from me.
I was wondering if you could give us a little bit of clarity on your Wolfcamp C and D results if there's any difference in the liquids yields that you're seeing at this point.
And as you move forward with that drilling campaign is there a preferred interval that you're targeting from here? This is John.
Yes so far within Culberson County between the C and D we do see a difference in the liquid content.
And that as we move up in the section from the D to the C we definitely get richer in terms of our condensate NGL.
Going forward we still have our very -- and we will still make very good rate of returns in the D.
And so as someone mentioned earlier in terms of HBP in our acreage we're always cognizant of making sure we're at least holding the deepest interval by HBP for future drilling.
Furthermore because of that change we see going from D to C that kind of gives us encouragement in what we potentially might see when we finally get this A test done later this year.
I mean that has the potential to be even more liquids rich interval but that said we won't know until we actually get that well drilled.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> As we think about kind of the wells we've seen so far kind of in the 45% gas range could you give us I guess maybe just a little bit of color around what the gas to liquids yield might be on the C? Just trying to get a better sense of what the liquids yield.
Well of course there's a wide variation it's a big area.
But on average in the D I would say we're seeing condensate that comes in between 80 and 100 barrels per million.
Our recent wells are probably in the higher end of that range out of the D.
We have some C wells that are significantly higher than that.
In fact we have a C well that's 200 barrels per million condensate.
So we see much richer stream out of the C.
That's also a reason why we suspect that they are independent reservoirs.
They are 150 to 200 feet apart and that stacked lateral will be a really seminal test for us because we're strongly suspecting that they'll be able to be developed as completely independent horizontal targets but we don't have that experiment yet.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just on your Wolfcamp A result you mentioned that the initial well result there was very encouraging.
Could you give us some color on how we should think about the IP rate? I think you guys have a 30-day IP there.
And maybe how we should think about the liquids yield on the Wolfcamp A in Reeves County.
Again this is Tom.
I was expecting earlier in the call we'd be grilled on the Wolfcamp A in Reeves County.
So here's what we'll say about it.
First off this is a very competitive area.
It's a big area and it's a competitive area.
And so we're still out there competing for opportunity and we're probably going to disappoint a lot of listeners in that we're not going to give granular detail on individual well results.
A lot of other companies are and we listen to those carefully and I will tell you that we're seeing results that are very consistent with what's being discussed in the industry.
Wolfcamp A is an emerging target in Reeves County we're very high on it.
We are in the midst of a competitive leasing environment and it's a major focus of ours.
I will also say that we have plans to spend at least $160 million a year drilling Wolfcamp A targets over the next 2 years.
And obviously it's high in our list.
But we're just not at this point it's just not in the interest of Cimarex shareholders for us to be giving detailed well-by-well results at this time.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then just my last question on your emerging liquids plays I was wondering if there's any update there.
Or how many wells have you guys have tested and maybe when we should expect to get some color on the results you guys have seen? This is John.
Really no update per se.
I mean we continue to look for new opportunities as we've said.
But just like we just had a discussion on Wolfcamp A typically we're fairly conservative in talking about new plays and we just don't have anything to say about any new opportunity for us right now.
Are we pursuing them? Absolutely.
We have a number of things in the hopper that we're looking at formulating plans potentially drilling but really nothing that I can give any color to today.
Yes I'll probably go a step further there.
We had a couple of projects which we talked about in vague terms.
One I'll tell you we think is not going to work.
The second one we're currently in the process of drilling in.
It's our third well on the play and we'll say a little more about it in the future.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Gail Nicholson.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just was kind of curious on the longer lateral that you're drilling in the Permian.
If you could give any color on what you're seeing there and is that kind of I guess the way you're going to kind of drill these wells in the future.
This is John.
Well we're very early in terms of our long lateral drilling.
We have a number of examples in some of the different intervals.
And although we are encouraged by what we see out of those there are some things we have to overcome.
Cost.
Drilling longer laterals it definitely takes more money.
But that said we definitely see for a number of plays where longer laterals is probably where we are headed.
Now again that's also a matter of acreage what we have available to us where we can drill those longer laterals.
But I would say it would not surprise me in the coming year or 2 that you're going to see more and more of our program go -- head more toward those greater than 5 000-foot type laterals.
I think that's a fair statement.
We just don't know yet.
We did drill a long lateral in Culberson County a Wolfcamp D lateral.
The Delaware Basin is different than the Midland Basin.
And certainly we're well aware of the long laterals in the Midland Basin and the logic behind those cost savings improvement that they observe.
Delaware Basin we're deeper and we're more pressured.
And both those work against long laterals.
Our long lateral in Culberson is kind of a betweener as far as -- it's a good well but does it justify taking that risk to drill a long lateral? We're kind of on the fence there.
We do have a long lateral in Reeves County that we haven't completed yet.
And we just don't know.
So we're very much interested in looking at long laterals as a way to increase our returns.
But it's a little more complex than that because we are deeper and more pressured and that can lead to mechanical problems and there can be a situation where you say it's just not worth messing with.
Your next question comes from Jeb Bachmann.
Research Division</strong> It's just a quick one for me on kind of looking forward towards year end.
First looking back at year end '12 you guys didn't have any PUD bookings in the Permian and looking forward to the end of this year just wondering kind of what's your philosophy is regarding that.
I don't believe you have a down spacing pilot in the Wolfcamp yet.
But looking at the Bone Spring just kind of any color you guys can provide on that.
Yes this is Joe.
I'd say we'll give you the same answer as I believe we gave last call.
Cana by far has lent itself to the PUD bookings because we felt very comfortable in the pilot project that we have done and with our infill projects.
So it lent itself to PUD bookings.
We don't know the spacing on the Wolfcamp.
I'll just take it as an example that we'll drill down to.
So without a pilot you won't see us just jumping out and booking a bunch of PUDs there.
To the extent the Bone Spring is call bookable those locations are kind of one leads to the next to the next to the next.
And with that it doesn't lend itself to a broad booking of PUD reserves.
If we can get a pilot under our belts in the Wolfcamp I certainly see us being in a position where we're going to feel comfortable doing that.
And then most importantly we're very strict about the 5-year rule with the SEC.
What we book we want to make sure we can drill within the 5 years.
So to the extent it plays into our overall budget it's going to have a role in their decision as well.
Yes Jeb what we will probably do here as we get into the year in the Permian we'll probably do exactly what we did at Cana.
Rather than go aggressive on PUD booking we'll choose to be just more forthcoming of the inventory as we see it.
And then let the investing public value it as they will.
But we do take a fairly conservative viewpoint on actually booking PUDs as Joe mentioned for a lot of reasons not the least of which is the 5-year rule.
But we'll be more forthcoming I think on what we see our future investment potential.
Research Division</strong> And Tom do you guys have an idea yet when you'd actually drill that down spacing pilot in the Wolfcamp? It won't be this year.
This year what we are hoping to do is one get a Wolfcamp A and get a Wolfcamp C D stacked lateral.
But while we're -- I'd like to say next year it will be on our list.
We fully recognize that it's to our benefit to understand that spacing early on the play not later.
But right now Jeb we don't have it on the docket.
It's not on our rig schedule.
Your next question comes from Cameron Horwitz.
Research Division</strong> Tom I know you don’t want to get into specifics on Reeves.
But can you just give us the -- where you guys are in terms of HBP-ing that acreage and what you have to do to maintain that? I think you were at 35 000 acres there.
Well we've only drilled a few wells.
So you can kind of do your math there that 160 million a year is to hold our acreage.
So we're going to get after it and our plan today is to hold that acreage primarily with Wolfcamp A drilling.
I think that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> It does yes.
And then just in terms of the well cost do you expect well cost there to be similar to Wolfcamp [indiscernible]? So far that's our viewpoint.
I mean we're looking forward to getting that drill time and cost down but right now a Wolfcamp A AFE we see a 7 7.2.
Yes this is John.
It is right in the mid-7 range right now.
But again we're early in that play.
So like any other play we expect that to come down as we drill more of those wells.
And we have no further questions at this time.
Thank you everyone for joining us today on the call.
We look forward to seeing you in the future conferences and report back to you next quarter.
Thanks a lot.
Talk to you later.
Bye.
Thank you for your participation.
This concludes today's program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Cimarex Energy Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Burford Vice President Capital Markets.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much Denise and thank you everyone for joining us today for our second quarter conference call.
On the call today here in Denver we have Tom Jorden President CEO; Joe Albi EVP and COO; and John Lambuth Vice President Exploration.
We did issue our financial and operating results this morning.
A copy of our news release can be found on our website.
And I need to remind everyone that today's discussion will contain forward-looking statements.
A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discussed.
And you should read our disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest 10-K other filings and news releases for risks associated with our business.
So we had a good quarter this quarter and a lot of details to cover so I'll just go ahead and turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Mark.
Welcome everyone.
We appreciate your interest in Cimarex.
I'd like to take a few minutes to go over the highlights of the quarter before turning the call over to Joe and John for a more detailed look at our operations.
We had a solid second quarter.
Production averaged 687 million cubic feet equivalent per day slightly ahead of our expectations.
This represents growth of 16% over second quarter 2012.
Our oil production increased an even greater 29% averaging 36 878 barrels per day this quarter.
Capital expenditures totaled $390 million funded principally from our $322 million in cash flow from operating activities $44 million in proceeds from asset sales and $22 million in bank debt.
We still expect to invest about $1.5 billion in 2013 on high rate of return projects primarily in the Delaware Basin portion of the Permian Basin and on the Cana-Woodford Shale.
Our Permian program continues to provide great returns and that's where we'll invest $950 million or about 63% of our capital this year.
Our results have been particularly positive in the Horizontal Wolfcamp.
In our Culberson County focus area we signed a joint development agreement with Chevron which greatly enhances the future development plan for this significant resource.
We've also had encouraging results in the Wolfcamp and Reeves County where 2 new wells had first 30-day production rates averaging 925 barrel of oil equivalent per day.
It's -- ultimately it's about execution and making sure that each of our major programs is performing.
And how do we define performance? After-tax rate of return maximizing net present value and building a portfolio that exposes Cimarex to profitable long-term growth.
Ultimately the long-term becomes a series of quarterly results and results are what we like to talk about.
There's been a lot of buzz this week around the Delaware Basin-Wolfcamp play.
On this call you'll hear about some of our excellent recent results in this trend in some detail.
As we studied our results and studied those of our competitors we've reassessed and enlarged our estimate of the potential this play holds for Cimarex.
John will discuss these results and opportunities in more detail later in the call.
We remain focused on ways to improve our returns in each of our areas.
We've made wonderful strides in our drilling cost and drilling days and we have opportunities to optimize experiment and improve our completions.
We also continue to generate new ideas with good long-term growth potential.
We have an active leasing program underway in the Permian Basin and elsewhere a leasing program that's grounded in our discipline of full-cycle return on invested capital.
Cimarex is having a good year we had a good second quarter and we're looking forward to discussing it in detail on this call.
Now I'll turn the call over to our Chief Operating Officer Joe Albi.
Thank you Tom and thank you all of you for joining our call today.
I'll touch on our second quarter production update you on our third quarter guidance projections and then follow up with a few words on our operating and service costs.
As Tom mentioned we had a good strong second quarter with reported net equivalent daily volumes coming in at 686.7 million equivalent cubic feet per day that's above the midpoint of our guidance of 667 million and -- to 692 million and up 16% over last year.
When adjusting for our 2012 year-end property sale we were up 19% as compared to 2012.
We achieved this production growth despite seeing about 9 million to 10 million a day of downtime during the quarter that being associated with ethane rejection in various plant and facility shut-ins primarily in Permian and in Cana.
If you look deeper into the numbers our second quarter Mid-Continent volume came in at 343.2 million cubic feet equivalent per day up 14% or 43 million a day from Q2 '12.
The increase was driven by Cana which grew 38% year-over-year to 216.1 million a day during Q2 '13.
That said due primarily to ethane rejection and a lull in our second quarter Cana completion activity our second quarter Mid-Continent production fell 5% from Q1 '13 where we reported a level of 360.6 million a day.
With both our operated and non-operated Cana completion activity picking up steam again here during the second half of the year we're projecting our Cana volumes to see an upward trend starting here -- later in Q3 and extending into Q4.
In the Permian our second quarter net equivalent volume of 319.6 million a day was up 29% or 72 million a day from a year ago.
Our growth in the Permian has been driven all by oil.
With Q2 Permian oil production averaging 30 137 barrels a day that's up 8 113 barrels a day or 39% from last year.
As compared to the first quarter of '13 our Permian net equivalent volume was up 44 million a day or 16% while our net Permian oil volume was up an incremental 4 305 barrels a day which exceeded Q1 by 17%.
Jumping to guidance.
Despite reducing our Q3 '13 projected volumes by approximately 12 million to 15 million a day for ethane rejection the midpoint for our full year 2013 production range remains unchanged from our previous guidance of 690 million a day.
Our tightened full year guidance range of 680 million to 700 million a day reflects a 9% to 12% increase over 2012 which when we adjust for property sales equates to a healthy 11% to 14% year-over-year production growth.
With ethane rejection built into our Q3 guidance our forecasted Q3 NGL volumes have been reduced by about 2 500 barrels a day.
That said the projected drop in NGLs is being offset by higher forecasted oil production from the Permian.
Our year-to-date Permian drilling results continued to exceed our original program projections.
And as a result we've revised our total company projected year-over-year increase in oil production now twice during the year.
From 1% to 5% at the beginning of the year to 13% in our last quarter call and now to a respectable 13% to 16% increase over 2012.
Shifting gears to OpEx.
Our second quarter lifting cost came in at $1.11 per Mcfe that's down $0.06 from our first quarter cost of $1.17 per Mcfe.
During the quarter our production team did a very nice job of keeping our total LOE in check.
With that however we continue to see cost pressure in certain areas such as compression power and fuel rework and maintenance particularly in light of our 2013 emphasis on stepping up our well reviews and lease inspections in order to optimize our production from and the appearance of our wells.
With Q2 coming in at $1.11 our first half 2013 lifting cost comes in at $1.13 per Mcfe and as such we've made no change to our previous full year guidance range of $1.10 to $1.22 and see ourselves as having a good chance of coming in on the low end of that range by the end of the year.
On the service cost side with regard to drilling costs we continue to see most cost compliments remain relatively in check.
Day rates have held flat during the quarter.
Although we are seeing signs of the softening market with rig availability and offered well-to-well contracts versus the term contracts we saw let's say a year ago.
In the Permian although a high demand for tools and equipment can sometimes create a challenge we've been able to procure that equipment those services all the while seeing our costs continue to remain flat.
Through operating efficiencies as Tom mentioned we've made some good strides in our drilling program and it's reflected itself in our drilling cost especially in the Permian where we've made slight modifications to program design and implemented more aggressive use of bit technology and downhole tools which has really allowed us to reduce our drilling days.
On the completion cost side we've seen signs of market softening in the Permian particularly in the Delaware now with more available horsepower and competition amongst the service providers.
And as a result our second quarter average overall per well Permian frac cost is down about 20% from Q1.
The bottom line of all this is continued improvement in our Permian total well cost.
Depending on debt our current New Mexico 2nd Bone Spring AFEs are running $6.1 million to $6.7 million that's down about $200 000 from last quarter.
Our shallower Texas 2nd Bone Spring AFEs are running about $5.3 million to $5.5 million that's down $200 000 to $400 000 from the numbers we quoted last call.
And our Culberson-Wolfcamp wells are running flat to last quarter at $7 million to $7.5 million total well cost.
That's down $1 million from where it was a year ago.
And our West Texas 3rd Bone Spring AFEs also held flat from Q1 at $6.4 million to $6.6 million.
Again that's down considerably from late last year.
In Cana our program drilling has kept our total well cost in check.
They're running about $6.8 million $6.9 million that's down about a $0.5 million from last year.
The bottom line is we've made good strides to get our well costs down.
And along the way we've set some milestones we're proud of in our active programs which we believe are competing well with our peers.
So in a nutshell Tom talks about results.
I mentioned 3 of them in our call here today.
Our production continues to grow.
It's a positive result.
We've trimmed our lifting costs down during Q2 likewise and have made some tremendous strides in controlling and reducing our drilling and completion cost.
All of these are certainly pointing in what we believe to be the right direction.
With that I'll turn the call over to John Lambuth our Vice President of Exploration.
Thanks Joe.
I'll cover some of the specifics of our Permian and Cana drilling programs.
We had an active first half of 2013.
We've completed 179 gross 95 net wells this year investing $800 million in exploration and development capital.
65% of our capital was invested in the Permian basin while 33% with the Mid-Continent region.
We still expect our total annual exploration development capital to be approximately $1.5 billion for 2013.
As planned our capital investment has been front-end loaded this year.
In the second half of the year our Cana capital will be down slightly as a result of going from 4 to 2 rigs.
Also in Culberson County our capital will be lower in the second half as a result of the joint development agreement we signed with Chevron.
I'm going to first start with our Mid-Continent region.
This year we've drilled and completed 87 gross 35 net Mid-Continent wells essentially all of which were in the Cana-Woodford shale play.
In Cana we've drilled and completed 74 gross 31 net wells most of which have been operated by our partners.
We currently have 2 operated rigs working in Cana.
Including non-operated activity we're on track to drill and complete slightly more than 50 net wells this year.
Our Cana capital is projected to be just over $350 million for this year of which about approximately $250 million would be attributable to the nonoperating part for the program.
Our returns in Cana for this year are tracking about where we expected in the mid to low 20% after-tax internal rate of return.
I'm going to move on now to the Permian Basin.
Permian Basin is our most active area.
We've drilled and completed 90 gross 59 net Permian basin wells this year.
Most of our drilling has been focused on the Bone Spring and Wolfcamp formations in the Delaware Basin.
We've had a very active New Mexico Bone Spring program where we've drilled and completed 42 gross 23 net wells.
This program continues to deliver very strong results for us.
Our per-well first 30-day gross production from these wells averaged approximately 650 barrels of oil equivalent per day of which 85% was oil.
In our Ward County Texas 3rd Bone Spring program we drilled 21 gross 15 net wells with a per-well first 30-day average gross production rate of approximately 965 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
These wells were 80% oil of that production.
This program also continues to deliver great results for us.
I'm going to now move on over to our Culberson County Texas focus area.
As Tom mentioned Culberson County and our adjoining acreage in Southern Eddy County New Mexico has become a key area for us.
We continue to drill Wolfcamp C and D as well as 2nd Bone Spring wells here in this area.
We also still see additional upside in the Wolfcamp Bay as well as the shallower Delaware Sand interval.
Year-to-date we've drilled 9 gross 6 net Bone Spring wells which have had a per-well first 30-day average gross production of 850 barrels of oil equivalent per day and were 58% oil.
We currently have 2 rigs drilling 2nd Bone Spring wells in this area.
Depths are less than 8 000 feet and we're able to drill these wells in about 20 days.
Well costs are now around $5.3 million to $5.5 million.
These wells with that type of well cost generate great returns as good as any of our Bone Spring drilling program throughout the Delaware Basin.
Moving onto the Wolfcamp.
We've drilled 8 gross 6 net horizontal Wolfcamp wells in Culberson County in 2013.
This brings total wells in the area to 39 gross 35 net per-well first 30-day production rates on all of the Wolfcamp wells drilled to date in this area have averaged 6.2 million cubic feet equivalent per day comprised of 43% gas 27% oil and 30% NGL assuming full NGL recovery.
At the end of the second quarter we signed a joint development agreement with Chevron.
This agreement will enable us to be more efficient in our field development as well as enable us to start drilling long laterals.
In fact regarding long laterals earlier this year we drilled a 7 500-foot extended lateral which achieved the first 30-day IP rate of 8.7 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
We have about 5 months of production history on this well and we expect about a 50% after-tax rate of return based on the results we see.
Because of this well as well as now having that Chevron JDA in place we are now planning a 10 000-foot lateral we'll be drilling in the third quarter of this year.
We also continue to plan a Wolfcamp D downspacing pilot which now looks like it will probably begin in the first quarter of 2014.
Moving on the Reeves County Texas.
We drilled and completed 2 Wolfcamp Bay wells.
The first 30-day production rates were 983 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 865 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This production is comprised of 63% oil 20% NGL and 17% gas.
These are really good wells with 30-day averages of 600 barrels of oil per day plus another few hundred barrels equivalent of NGLs and gas.
We have also now drilled a 2-mile lateral in Reeves County which we recently finished frac-ing and we're currently in the process of flowing back.
Our plan is to drill an additional 5 Wolfcamp wells in Reeves County over the remainder of this year.
So wrapping it up we're having a great year.
Our team as always are focused on maximizing returns on our drilling and they are doing a great job.
As we stand now we see at least 200 to 300 remaining Bone Spring Sand locations in Texas and New Mexico with further upside for the Avalon in New Mexico.
As for the Wolfcamp we have a very strong land position.
If you look at the Wolfcamp trend going from our Southern Eddy County Culberson area and then move over into Reeves and further into Ward County we have over 170 000 net acres under lease.
Quite frankly that number could actually even be bigger just based on some of the more recent results that we're seeing from other companies.
Narrowing into our Culberson and Southern Eddy County area which accounts for around 100 000 net acres of the 170 000 that I mentioned we have significant future potential there.
Depending on spacing and whether we require multiple stack laterals there could be several thousand locations just in this area.
And then moving back in the Reeves County where we have over 40 000 acres we've seen some very encouraging results from our first 2 wells we've drilled and thus there could be ultimately hundreds of locations located just in this area as well.
In summary we have a huge amount of future drilling locations in the Permian Basin not to mention the thousands of wells we still have to drill yet in the Cana area as well.
Now with that I'll turn the call back to the operator for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Phil Jungwirth of BMO Capital Markets.
The oil cut in the 2 Reeves County wells was a little bit higher than what I think a lot of us expected given some of the industry results to date.
What would you attribute that to? And then do you expect to see much variability in the GOR across your 40 000 acres? Well let's keep in mind it is only 2 wells and they are fairly close to each other geographically.
Whereas there's a wide distribution of wells that never reported [ph] over a broad area.
So I think it's safe to say that as we drill more wells there will certainly be variability in that GOR.
I don't know that we really have it dialed down yet that we understand it just yet.
But again I think what you're seeing is some of the variability over a broad geographic area so far.
And then on your Ward-Winkler County area acreage where you've historically targeted the 3rd Bone Spring we've had some industry results also targeting the Wolfcamp last week.
Do you have rights to the Wolfcamp? And if so do you have any plan to test that later this year or next year? Yes this is Tom.
The answer is we have fairly significant exposure to the Wolfcamp in that area.
As John said we've revised our acreage numbers upward to our exposure in that trend.
And a lot of that revision is based on some of those recent industry results.
So the answer is yes we do have exposure and we do have plans to test and develop it.
The next question will come from Brian Gamble of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to actually just stay on that first topic for a second.
The Reeves wells you mentioned 5 more this year these first 2 being pretty close together.
Is there going to be more geographic variability from the remaining 5? Or are they all going to be pretty close together this year and then spread out as we go forward? Yes Brian this is Tom.
One of the interesting things that we really like about the Permian Basin is it's not a basin where you have to create every new data point.
You have a lot of competition helping you out.
And there's been a lot of results that have been announced by our competitors out there.
And if you take our acreage position and you plot all the other results that have been announced it really does help define our position.
The oil cut is encouragingly high for much of Reeves County.
The GOR changes a fair amount as you go across from east to west but based on our other industry competitors we're going to be testing a fair amount of our geography.
But we feel pretty confident that now if we just talk about Reeves County our acreage is in several different pockets but we have a fairly concentrated acreage position in Reeves County we're currently up over 40 000 net acres we're adding to it.
We're in the process of developing takeaway solutions.
And that's worked its underway there.
But we're planning on -- we see most of that acreage -- in fact I'll say most if not all of that acreage is pretty well delineated by our drilling and that of our competitors.
Now we'd prefer to be talking about our own results and not those of our competitors but we're pretty encouraged by how that points to our acreage.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then the oil growth obviously great for the quarter seeing it bump up a couple of times this year already obviously is good as well.
What sort of expectations for the back half of the year baked into the new guidance.
Are you expecting continued improvement because it seems like it's difficult not to continue to improve that.
Is that 13% to 16% a conservative number on your viewpoint? Or does it give you room for -- or the need to continue to grow that -- to hit that number for the year as far as what you're seeing on results? This is Mark Burford.
We have been undershooting what we expected or hope growth will be for the year.
Pretty consistently we continue to try to retune that up and make it more fine.
We're not trying to sandbag our numbers but we do expect continued good growth in the Permian in the second half of the year and hence good consistent growth in oil as part of that -- being a big part of that program.
So I mean I don't think the 4 000 barrels a day we grew from the first to second will trail in the second half.
That was a pretty normally high growth rate first or second.
But we should see a good continual growth in order for us to hit that new upward band of our 13% kind of growth -- 13% 16% gross for oil.
So we should see good growth second half of the year Brian.
Our next question will come from Joe Magner of Macquarie Capital.
I just wondered if you might be able to dive into some of the results that you're seeing out of the Culberson County-Wolfcamp C and D.
It looks like the -- at least some the statistics you've provided in the release have moved around a little bit over the last couple of quarters.
I'm just curious if you can maybe discuss some of the relative performance between those 2 different zones? This is John.
I think what you're seeing is we keep showing the averages and of course as we drill additional wells those averages change.
I think also what you're seeing is both on those averages whether we're in C or D but also just geographic we are still stepping out in some ways in part of Culberson.
And sometimes the step outs are very good and sometimes they're not as good and that does affect the average overall performance there.
In terms of just C and D itself we definitely see a higher yield a higher NGL content in the C relative to the D.
But I would also say that we're still kind of early.
We don't have as many D wells as we do C and we're still trying to just get a better handle on what that ultimate production will be like in the D and -- I mean excuse me in the C.
We're far more comfortable with the D wells because that's where the majority of our wells have been so far.
It still looks good.
It's just -- we still need a few more wells online to get a better feel for how good the C will be relative to the D.
Joe this is Tom.
If I could just add to what John said.
We've talked in the past about the C being higher yield but lower absolute rates because of that yield.
So some of that is an overprint of a mixture of C and D results.
We're still seeing very good returns out of both those benches.
One of the things I talked to my opening remarks about completion optimization.
And we're really just at the advent of a lot of opportunity in this trend.
Our wells have still been essentially for garden variety 5 000 foot lateral we're pumping 12 stages.
And we need to -- we do have plans to experiment with more stages.
And I think that we yet couldn't pound the table on any bench as to what we think it's ultimate potential's going to be.
It's a very fixed section.
There's tremendous resource in place and we have a lot of work yet to do.
I'm sure somebody is going to ask us about the Wolfcamp A in Culberson County.
We still don't have our well down and completed yet so it's drilling now.
And that's another very seminal test for us in defining the potential of the area.
So very encouraging results but we yet are still calibrating the ultimate potential of this area.
Good.
I guess with my one follow up.
Any plans I guess what are the latest plans of timing on when you might drill a stacked C and D lateral like those and other testing initiatives that you had talked about pursuing? Yes this is John.
The stacked C and D lateral is scheduled to be drilled in the fourth quarter of this year.
We have a location picked and we are moving forward with that.
And so that will be drilled in the fourth quarter with completion flowback.
We really won't be able to say much about that until probably second quarter next year but we are moving ahead with that for sure.
Our next question will come from Matt Portillo with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick questions for me.
In terms of the 7 500-foot lateral could you give us an idea of the well cost there? And then over time how you guys think about the well cost in the Wolfcamp in terms of the potential to move those costs down as you get more towards the development program? This is John.
I don't have the actual well cost right in front of me.
But by memory we were right around in the 8.5 range for that well.
We were very pleased with that well as far as the drilling of it.
We can get back to you for sure with the actual cost just to make sure I'm close on that.
But it drilled very well it completed well we were very pleased with the results of that well.
And now again with that Chevron agreement in place we now have the freedom so to speak to now go and push it to 10 000-foot which is essentially the beauty of that agreement enabling us to combine those adjacent sections in that way.
So that's what we're moving forward to.
Again we're very very pleased with results of that well.
And we think going to 10 000 we think we can get even better type results.
Because once we get in that lateral the drilling goes very fast.
So it doesn't add that much more in the way of days to go another 2 500 feet.
So we're pretty excited about the potential for that well.
This is Joe.
I'll just make a quick comment on that.
The majority of the cost increase we anticipate to see as John mentioned we're making tremendous time in the laterals using rotary steerable tools.
And so what it really comes down to it's a completion.
And there are stages that are associated with the the longer lateral like that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And as we compare the Delaware Basin drilling program to maybe what we're seeing from offset operators in the Midland Basin do you think ultimately that the longer laterals in higher stage completions will be utilized on the wells you're drilling today.
And in terms of the wells we've seen to date I just wanted to make sure I clarified that those wells have been drilled on 5 000 foot laterals with 12 stages is that correct? Yes this is John.
That is correct.
As Tom alluded to up until now we've kind of stuck with the same type of completion program.
In some ways that makes sense because we're trying to derisk that area.
But quite frankly now we're at a point now where we're looking to maximize returns with every well we drill.
So the things that we will be testing in the near future are as just Tom alluded to on a 5 000-foot lateral we'll certainly go to more stages 20 stages if not slightly more.
Likewise when we then scale up to a longer lateral a 10 000-foot lateral then there's a good chance again that we'll be scaling up in the stages in that as well.
The 7 500-foot lateral would have essentially had the same equivalent stage with -- as with a 5 000.
So we really didn't change that design as much as all we did is added additional stages for that length.
So there's definitely some additional upside here with the improvement in our frac design in this program.
Again we hope to be able to discuss particular results in future calls.
We're flowing our 10 000-foot lateral in Reeves County back now.
We'll have 10 000-foot lateral in Culberson County.
But based on our existing 7 500-foot lateral as John said we think we see this as having the potential which is our current completion design to be north of 15% after-tax rate of return.
And so we see a lot of upside on that number.
So yes we're very optimistic.
We're forging ahead as fast as we can.
But this sure looks does like it's working and working well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just my last question on the back of that.
In terms of your capital program as we look out over the next few years from a philosophical perspective if you start to generate these high rates of return with potentially very repeatable asset base here how do you think about capital outspend over the next few years in terms of accelerating the Permian? Has your view changed at all in terms of the way that you're willing to flex your balance sheet? Yes this is Tom.
I'll take it from the back -- you asked question first.
Our view hasn't changed at all.
We are very willing to invest capital if we can do it with a good rate of return and making sure that with reasonable commodity downside protection we don't destroy capital.
And so we run our commodity downside as well as $60 oil and we look at flat $3 gas flat forever on both commodities less local D there [ph].
If we can get a good return on capital we're very confident that that's indeed the case we will accelerate.
And so we're looking at just that case in the Permian now.
And with the opportunities that we have in front of us with the balance sheet we have available to us I would say accelerating this program in future years is not off the table for us it's under act of consideration.
Our next question will come from Drew Venker of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you can talk about the potential for other Wolfcamp zones in your Reeves and Ward County acreage below I guess what the Wolfcamp Bay you've tested so far? Yes this is John.
As we mentioned our first 2 wells were A tests.
And even the long lateral we drilled has been an A test.
That said we are aware of a couple of competitor wells that had been located in the deeper C D interval.
And indeed we have -- I'm aware of at least one test coming up but we'll be testing that interval on our acreage.
So yes we recognize it as an opportunity and we will be testing it with the well here coming up soon.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the Ward County acreage do you have any concerns that there may be depletion in the Wolfcamp over there due to your fairly extensive 3rd Bone Spring drilling? This is John.
I'll start with that question.
I'll just simply say as we look at it the Wolfcamp is a pretty thick interval.
And we see that there is quite a bit of vertical separation that we can achieve where we can put a lateral and separate ourself from that third 3rd Bone lateral that we feel comfortable at least going forward in testing that.
I'll put it that way.
But there is an uncertainty there I won't deny that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So do you see Wolfcamp B C D on that Ward County acreage as well? Yes -- I can't -- I just -- I'll just say that we see Wolfcamp intervals.
I'm not as familiar with that right now.
I mean we see its perspective.
I'll put it that.
This is Tom.
I just want to caution -- this is a blocking- and tackling-type project.
It's very difficult to wave your arms at this type of expanse and make simple rules.
The Wolfcamp B that works very well in Culberson County there are places in Reeves County where it'll produce too much water to be economically perspective.
So we're -- what we've talked about today with the acreage potential the well potential we are absolutely confident on that.
Now could it be better? You bet.
But we're just not going to look at that section and say "Hey let's do acreage math and run with it." It's too complex.
That's the way --- we look at it as very detailed.
And we'd certainly encourage everybody to understand.
It's very dangerous to wave your arms around this type of real estate.
The next question will come from Jason Smith of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on Reeves.
Can you just remind us what your drilling requirements are to hold acreage there maybe over the next 12 months? And then also as you and other producers in the area start to ramp up production can you give us an update as to where infrastructure stands today as well? This is John.
I'll take the first part of the question.
In regards to Reeves and holding our acreage we have about -- well we need to spend about $170 million drilling program next year.
And with that program we'll be in good shape to hold all of our acreage in that area.
And that's obviously very doable for us.
As far as the marketing I'll hand it to Joe.
Yes this is Joe.
We have right now currently an infrastructure in place that we feel can accommodate the short-term going schedule.
And we are currently also working with purchasers and processors in the area to attain more firm capacity to deliver gas for processing.
As far as salt water disposal goes we're aggressively looking at the drill schedule and what we need to do to get ahead of that from a SWD perspective.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And I know you guys took the acreage up in the last few months from 35 000 to 40 000.
Are you still seeing opportunities to add there? This is John.
Yes the answer is yes.
We are still actively pursuing additional acreage.
Obviously with all these competitors and their release it gets -- it's getting a little bit tougher but absolutely.
We are still aggressively trying to pursue more acreage.
The next question will come from Gil Yang of DISCERN.
Inc</strong> To follow on Jason's question there.
How much is acreage costing that you're adding in that area? Gil this is Tom.
We're just not prepared to talk about what we're paying for acreage.
I would say to our competitors it's way too expensive and you probably don't want to afford it.
Inc</strong> Fair enough.
And could you characterize it? Is it filling in chunks of holes within the acreage blocks you have? Or is it also trying to expand the overall footprint? Again Gil we're in a competitive situation.
And I'm just going to pass on that.
We have an active acreage acquisition program this year and we're building.
So if you'll just indulge me to be that vague.
Inc</strong> Fair enough Tom.
I may have missed it but how much are your -- those Reeves County well costing? Well they should be a little bit more expensive.
They're a little bit -- this is Joe.
they're a little bit deeper so I'd probably tack on another $500 000 to $750 000 to our regular Wolfcamp.
This is John.
I guess I have more recent information because we're just looking at decisions the other day on this wells.
And that particular AFE was around $7.3 million.
It is what I recall for our latest Reeves County-Wolfcamp well.
Inc</strong> That was a -- was that a 10 000 foot lateral or? No no that was not.
And in fact I should just go and stand corrected now.
On our 7 500-foot lateral in Culberson our actual costs were actually more in the $10 million range not $8.5 million.
And I want to stand corrected on that.
So around $10 million $10.5 million is what we spent there.
But those return on capital numbers were fully [indiscernible].
No no those -- no absolutely.
The return on capital is definitely against that actual well cost.
I want to be clear about that.
Inc</strong> Okay.
All right so $7.3 million for the Reeves 5 000-foot lateral and $10 million for the 7 500-foot Culberson lateral? Yes.
That's our actual.
That's not -- we're getting better.
So that -- we're just quoting our actual and we're -- our landscape of improving results.
Inc</strong> And then just last question.
You mentioned early on that the completion cost I think are coming down.
Is that because of additions to pumping capacity in the area? Or is it -- that other operators are beginning to slow their activity down or changing the mix of what they're doing? This is Joe.
I'll answer that.
It's really due to I think what I'd call a competition moving over from the Midland Basin into the Delaware Basin.
The majority of our cost decrease have come on both the service side and the material side.
And really a result of just having more competition and available horsepower in the Delaware.
But you know Gil I want -- I think about completion cost a little differently.
I think about drilling cost.
There's no argument on why you wouldn't want your drilling cost to be as cheap as it can be given that you're having a good clean safe operation.
Completions are a little different because as we optimize we've talked about going from 12 to 20 stages on a type -- 5 000-foot lateral.
We may elect to spend more in our completions if we think that those are generating superior returns.
So I wouldn't necessarily look to see our completion cost uniformly come down.
That's a decision we'll make based on optimizing the performance.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from Ray Deacon of Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk about expectations for the oil NGL split for the remainder of the year? It seems like you're a good bit higher than your guidance that you gave out at the beginning of the year and just wondering what the second half would look like? Do you want to do that? The other one [ph]...
Yes Ray.
So yes our first -- our oil component has been going up.
That's right.
The growth is being faster in oil.
But our split is about 50 -- our split last year was up 31% oil 8% NGL 53% gas.
And we should be up slightly.
This quarter we are closer to what -- we are at 30% -- excuse me actually I'm finding my split in front of me here.
But our percent of oil should go up by 1% or 2% through the range of the year and with the -- 50% gas 32% oil 18% NGLs.
The percent of oil might tick up 1-or-so percent rate for the second half of the year for the full year.
This is Joe.
The only thing I'd add to that is in our modeling we've assumed ethane rejection for Q3 but don't know anything about Q4 enough to feel comfortable making an estimate there.
So to the effect ethane rejection occurs in Q4 that could skew some of those numbers.
The next question will come from Cameron Horwitz of U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> I guess a question for John.
John can you just -- can you do a little comparison on Wolfcamp A seeing Culberson versus what you saw on Reeves.
I mean it seems like operators are seeing better productivity and potentially some higher oil yields moving up in the zone in the Wolfcamp in Reeves County.
And was there -- do you think that'll be analogous to what happens in Culbertson? Well this is John.
I sure hope so.
As Tom stated we're drilling that well right now.
And yes I mean if I would to state what our expectations is I think that's what we'd hope to see.
All I can say is just as we look at it from our logs and from the subsurface we like to look at the A in Culberson.
But I don't have a well producing there to tell you whether it's good or not.
That's why we're doing it.
And so hopefully we'll have results here by -- at some point that we can talk about and be very proud of.
But that's where we are right now.
We're drilling the well and that's what we're hoping that the results will be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate it.
And Reeves County and I know it's still early there but I think one of those wells you'll probably have a little bit more extended production history on.
Can you just talk a little bit about how you think that curve is going to shakeout? I mean is it similar to what you see in Culberson? I would say like for any of the shale wells so far they have a decline profile that that's not unexpected.
I mean that they are declining about how we'd expect them to.
Again a lot of these shale wells are really somewhat dependent upon those early 30-day IP rates.
That's really a telltale sign of how good a well you have.
And as you can tell we have some pretty good 30-day rates so we're very pleased with those wells so far.
And so far based on the production we like it enough that we're going to commit to the amount of capital I talked about next year the $170 million to hold it.
It's looking good so far.
Yes and I just want to underscore we only talk about 30-day rates.
I know a lot of people are out there talking about peak rates 24-hour IP our experience is the only rate that's really meaningful in evaluating the quality of well is that 30-day average.
And we've got very very solid very good 30-day averages.
I would concur.
Yes.
And ladies and gentlemen that will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mark Burford for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much for joining us today.
Appreciate the interest and look forward to continue reporting our results to you in the coming quarters.
And I hope to see you at conferences coming up here in Denver next week EnerCom and then further into the fall.
But thanks everyone for your interest and I look forward to seeing you soon.
Take care.
Bye.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Cimarex Energy Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mark Burford.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Chad.
Welcome everyone and thanks for joining us today for our third quarter conference call.
On today's call here in Denver we have Tom Jorden President and CEO; Joe Albi EVP and COO; Paul Korus Senior Vice President and CFO; and John Lambuth Vice President of Exploration; and Karen Acierno Director of IR.
We did issue our financial and operating results news release this morning a copy of which can be found on our website and I need to remind you today's discussion will contain forward-looking statements.
A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss.
You should read our disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest 10-K and other filings and news releases for the risks associated -- factors associated with our business.
So with that we have a lot of good things to cover today.
I'll go ahead and turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Mark and I want to thank all of you for participating in today's conference.
We sincerely appreciate your interest in Cimarex.
I'm going to take a few minutes here at the outset to touch on some of our highlights for the quarter and then I'll turn the call over to John and Joe for a more detailed update.
We reported another great quarter of production averaging 717 million cubic feet a day which was above the upper end of our guidance.
Solid production coupled with strong product prices led to adjusted cash flow from operations of $394 million which was more than enough to fund our exploration development expenditures for the quarter.
Our debt-to-cap stand at 19% a slight drop from June 30 as our debt increased only slightly while strong earnings added to our shareholder equity.
Operationally this has been an exciting year for Cimarex and the third quarter was no exception.
I want to complement our entire organization for delivering these results.
We're a focused team.
We're a talented team and everybody's dedicated to bring it for our shareholders and it really was a nice quarter.
We have a great group of people throughout our organization and they're firing on all cylinders.
We're able to report very encouraging results from 2 new complete -- 2 completion techniques in the Wolfcamp and I'll touch on that in a moment.
In Culberson County we completed the Tim Tam well to the Wolfcamp diesel in using a 5 000 foot lateral and a 20-stage frac.
This is the new completion technique that we've talked about.
The incremental cost of $700 000 provided us with a 25% uplift to the 30-day IP rate [indiscernible].
That rate increased to 7.8 million cubic feet a day compared to our historical Wolfcamp results of 6.2 million cubic feet a day.
That well is 31% oil 30% natural gas liquids and 39% gas.
So it's a stellar well.
As most of you are aware the Wolfcamp is especially attractive in Culberson County because of the stacked pay potential offered in the Wolfcamp D C and A sections.
During the third quarter we drilled our first Wolfcamp A test in Culberson and although we don't yet have a 30-day IP the early results look very encouraging.
This well is also completed using the 20-stage frac design.
We'll release the specifics on this well when we have 30 days of production.
Obviously as I said we're encouraged but we find 30 days to be a more meaningful number than in the instantaneous so we're going to defer the release of that.
In Reeves County we announced the Ruby 139H a Wolfcamp A test using a 10 000-foot lateral.
It's a stellar well with a 30-day IP of 1 816 barrels of oil equivalent per day 56% of which is oil which is over 1 000 barrels a day on average for its first 30 days.
This compares favorably with our previous 2 Wolfcamp A wells in Reeves that were completed using 5 000-foot laterals and had an average 30-day IP of 925 barrel of oil equivalent per day which was 63% oil.
The Wolfcamp play is continuing expanding in the Delaware Basin.
It's moving east where the Wolfcamp A thickens.
It's moving into the Ward County area where we've historically had our Third Bone Spring development.
In September Cimarex added 10 000 acres in Ward County.
We now have 1 rig drilling wells in Ward County.
So we have a nice position there.
This is really an exciting emerging play for us and as we get more data we're getting more and more excited about it.
So far we drilled 44 Wolfcamp wells on our 180 000 net perspective Wolfcamp acres and it's fair to say we're just getting started.
We haven't released our 2014 capital guidance yet.
But as we look into 2014 I'll say we're really looking at 2014 in this Wolfcamp play with several different goals.
We want to continue to hold our acreage.
We want to delineate the play and really understand the extent of it but we also are asking ourselves question of working our program so that by December of 2014 we'll be able to have the information we need to make ultimate development decisions.
And that means information on spacing both laterally and vertically so we need to know are we at 80-acre spacing are we at 40-acre spacing are we at 160-acre spacing.
How many zones that applies to and can we stack them on top of one another.
So in 2014 we'll have quite a few different pilot projects going quite a few different stack lateral projects going.
And by the end of the year we'll have the information we need to make good investment decisions on the structure of the project and the timing as we go to down spacing.
We have long-term plans that we're currently formulating and we have to make those plan so that we plan our infrastructure.
We plan on our financing.
We plan on our ultimate development.
So it's an exciting emerging play.
It's one that obviously our recent results are making look better and better and these tests go a long way in getting Cimarex the information we'll need to make development decisions for 2015 and beyond.
We look forward to sharing those results with you as we go.
So with that I'll turn the call over to John Lambuth to discuss our drilling results in a little more detail.
Thanks Tom.
I'll cover some of the specifics of our Permian and Mid-Continent drilling programs.
Cimarex has had an active 2013 program investing $1.2 billion to drill 291 gross 147 net wells so far this year.
65% of that investment was in the Permian Basin with another 31% going to our Mid-Continent region.
We estimate our total E&amp;D capital this year will be around $1.55 billion to $1.6 billion up slightly from our last call mostly as a result of the expansion success of our leasing efforts in the Permian region.
I'm going to first cover the Mid-Continent area.
The Cana-Woodford Shale play continues to drive activity in our Mid-Continent region.
So far this year we've participated in 134 Cana-Woodford wells and estimate that Cana will represent $400 million of the $475 million we'll spend in Mid-Continent capital this year.
Including non-op activity we're on track to drill and complete about 35 net wells in Cana in 2013.
As Joe will discuss in further detail well costs in Cana have dropped significantly which is having a positive impact on our returns in this liquid-rich gas area.
Cimarex is now operating 3 rigs in Cana.
One more operated rig is actually scheduled to begin drilling later this month bringing our total operating rig count to 4.
We are adding these rigs to keep pace with our partners development plans between now and end of the year.
Our intention is to move these 2 new rigs down to the Permian Basin by the end of this year.
Speaking of the Permian Basin.
We've drilled and completed 132 gross 87 net Permian Basin wells this year.
Our drilling program has been focused on the Bone Spring and Wolfcamp formations in the Delaware Basin.
We've had a very active Bone Spring program in 2013.
We have drilled and completed 106 gross Bone Spring wells in New Mexico and Texas.
Results continue to be good generating some of the company's highest rate of returns with oil representing up to 84% of first 30-day production.
I'll refer you to the press release or most recent presentations for specifics on each of the Bone Spring programs results year-to-date.
We have around 200 to 300 Bone Spring locations identified the majority of these located in Culberson County where we have identified a thick highly productive Second Bone Spring sand.
In fact during this past quarter we finished drilling 5 new -- or essentially 5 wells per section in the Second Bone Spring interval essentially new development wells in addition to the existing initial well.
The performance of these new development wells is on par with the original wells.
We're very encouraged with those results in that play.
Moving on to the Wolfcamp.
Culberson County has a number of very exciting developments including upsized fracs and a Wolfcamp A test.
As Tom mentioned we have drilled our first Wolfcamp A well in Culberson and completed it using a 20-stage frac.
The well named the Twenty Grand 26 #1H is currently flowing back and as anticipated has a higher liquid yield in the C or D interval.
This is the second well we've completed using this upsized frac design.
We've also completed the Tim Tam 24 #1H with the larger 20-stage frac.
This Wolfcamp D test has a 30-day average rate of 7.8 million cubic feet equivalent per day which as Tom mentioned has a 25% increase over our average Wolfcamp D well.
At a drilling complete cost of $8.7 million this well generates an A-tax rate of return of over 40% a very good result.
Moving now East in the Reeves County we drilled and completed the Ruby 139H a 10 000-foot lateral drilled into Wolfcamp A.
As mentioned this is a stellar well with first 30-day IP average production of 1 816 barrels of oil equivalent per day 56% oil 21% NGLs and 23% gas.
Of note though is the 60-day average rate which is holding in at 1 728 barrels of oil equivalent per day 58% oil.
This again is typical of what we've seen from our log laterals and that we see slower declines from these type of wells.
This is pretty amazing well especially considering it's not even using our newest stimulation.
This was our old stimulation for this well.
We'll be watching this performance as well as trying upsized fracs in the other Reeves County wells to better gauge how to achieve the best completions going forward.
Our teams are doing a great job of focusing on maximizing returns on our drilling and generating future drilling inventory.
We have a strong land position including 180 000 acres in what we call the Wolfcamp fairway which extends from our Southern Eddy Culberson area over to Reeves and continues into Ward County.
We have lots going on across our acreage.
In Culberson County we're currently drilling our first 10 000-foot lateral in the Wolfcamp D interval and are planning a stacked Wolfcamp CD test as well as a down space pilot for the first quarter of 2014.
We continue to add acreage as Tom mentioned Ward County where there we'll soon be testing Wolfcamp A wells and currently plan to have 1 rig drilling continuously in that area.
We have also found the completion technique that looks like it could potentially unlock the Avalon Shale on a portion of our acreage.
We look forward to continue testing of the oil Avalon in Southeast of Mexico.
Wrapping up this exciting time at Cimarex we have a great asset base and are well positioned to take advantage of this significant opportunity set.
With that I'll turn the call over to Joe Albi.
Well thank you John and thank you all of you for joining our call today.
I'll touch on the typical items our third quarter production update you on our fourth quarter guidance projections and then I'll follow up with a few words on our operating and service cost.
As Tom mentioned we had a great quarter.
Our Q3 volumes came in at a record $717 million a day.
That was well above the upper end of our guidance of $675 million to $700 million a day.
It was up 30 million a day from last quarter and up 13% from Q3 last year.
If we adjust for the property sale that we had at the end of last year which equated to about 15 million a day of production during Q3 '12 we were up 16% from the third quarter of '12.
Although we saw limited impacts from plant facility downtime during the quarter we did continue to see ethane rejection in Cana which reduced our quarterly equivalent volumes by approximately 12 million to 14 million a day.
We're anticipating that to continue at least for the remainder of this year and we therefore built that type of reduction into our fourth quarter guidance.
As we dig deeper in the details our Q3 Mid-Continent volume of 338 million a day was up 4% from Q3 last year when we reported 324 million a day.
Cana drove the increase continues to drive the increase.
Cana came in at 217 million a day here in our Q3 '13.
That's an 18% increase from a year ago.
Sequentially our Q3 Mid-Continent production was down 1% from the second quarter level of 343 million a day but we had a couple of factors coming into play here.
First we saw ethane rejection for the entirety of the third quarter as compared to just 2 months in Q2.
And secondly the majority of our production adds from our operated Cana completions came on in late Q3 and therefore Q3 didn't see the full benefit of that increase in production.
In the Permian our reported net equivalent volume of 352 million a day was up 28% or 77 million a day from Q3 '12.
Permian oil production was the driver here.
We averaged nearly 32 000 barrels a day from the Permian oil-wise during Q3.
That's up nearly 7 000 barrels a day from a year ago or up 28% from last year.
As compared to the second quarter we also saw significant growth with our Permian equivalent volumes up 10% or 32 million a day and our Permian oil volumes up 6% or 1 856 barrels a day.
All of this a direct result of our very active Delaware Basin program.
With our strong third quarter and the positive overall results of our programs as you've noted we bumped our 2013 full year guidance range to 695 million to 700 million a day.
That increases the mid-year of our full year guidance to 698 million a day.
That's a nice jump from our previous midpoint estimate of 690 million a day especially when considering they were incorporating anywhere from 12% to 15% -- 12 million to 15 million a day of reduction into our fourth quarter numbers due to ethane rejection in Cana.
With our fourth quarter guidance projection of 714 million to 734 million a day we anticipate yet another quarter of sequential growth for Q4 albeit not forecasted to be as strong a jump as we saw from Q2 to Q3 and there's a few things that work here as well.
In addition to varying working interest rates product types recoveries projected timing to first sales for all the wells that we'll complete during the quarter we slipped in the drilling of a salt water disposal well into one of our Permian rig lines which took the slot of a producer.
And we have accounted for some likely downtime for the maintenance of our triple crown system later in the quarter.
The end result when it does settle however is that we will see continued significant quarter-to-quarter production growth for Q4 again a direct result of our activity in both the Permian and Cana.
We're pretty proud of where we see ourselves ending the year.
With the full year guidance range of 695 million to 700 million a day we're projecting year-over-year production growth of 11% to 12% as compared to 2012.
If we account for the property sales at the end of last year we're projected to be upwards of 14% year-over-year with our production growth.
On the LOE side our Q3 lifting cost came in at $1.15 per Mcfe slightly below the midpoint of our full year guidance range which was $1.10 to $1.22 and fairly well in line with our Q1 average of $1.17 and our Q2 average of $1.11 although we're seeing some cost pressure for our increased activity for the most part in items such as SWD compression power fuel and rentals our operations group has done a good job keeping our lifting cost in check I'd say so especially in the Permian where we generally see higher operating expenses for items such as lift compression and SWD.
In fact with our focus on LOE over the last 3 years we've been able to reduce our Permian lifting cost from $1.88 per Mcfe in 2011 to $1.50 in 2012 and we're currently on track to see levels of around $1.47 here for 2013.
So with Q3 coming in at $1.15 per Mcfe we did end up tightening our 2013 lifting cost guidance range to $1.11 to $1.16.
That did drop our midpoint to $1.14 for the year and that's down $0.02 from our previous projection.
With regard to service cost we continue to see most drilling costs components remaining relatively in check it's been that way for the last 2-plus quarters.
Day rates continue to hold flat with rigs still available and there does seem to be ample availability of tools equipment and services for each of our programs.
With flat cost for most of the year the cost reductions we've seen to date have come through our operating efficiencies.
We continue to focus on cutting down days to drill and we've made some pretty good strides especially in the Permian.
As an example we continue to use of bit technology and rotary steerables during Q3.
We decreased the average days to TD in our Culberson Second Bone program down to 15 days which is a drop from 17 days in Q2 and a drop from 25 days in late 2012.
On the completion side we've had no difficulty securing frac equipment and crude and we continue to experiment with different frac designs.
In general our per well frac cost have stayed fairly well in check with this partially offsetting the cost of larger jobs with increased efficiencies and reduced material costs.
In Cana after numerous years of program drilling we continue to see cost improvement.
Our recent core wells are now falling in the range of $6.5 million.
That's a marked improvement from last quarter when we quoted total well cost of $6.8 million and well below the $7 million to $7.5 million levels we saw in late 2012 as cost reductions as John mentioned have had a significant impact on generating some nice healthy rate of returns in the Cana program.
In the Permian our most mature Second and Third Bone Spring programs have seen the greatest benefit from program drilling.
Our current New Mexico Second Bone Spring AFEs are running $5.7 million to $6.5 million depending on debt.
That's down slightly from last quarter but down $400 000 to $500 000 from where we started at the beginning of the year.
Our shallower Texas Second Bone Spring AFEs are running around $5.1 million.
That's about flat with the number we quoted to you last quarter but we're down about $0.5 million from Q1.
In our West Texas third Bone program we're seeing AFEs continue to hold flat around $6.4 million to $6.5 million.
Again that's well below the $7.5 million-plus numbers that we were seeing in 2012 all of this as a result of program drilling.
In the Wolfcamp we're still in the early stages of our program drilling especially when we consider the broad geographic area we're testing with the play.
The 180 000-acre position we have extends from Southern Eddy County New Mexico down into Culberson Reeves and over to the east into Ward Counties and Texas fairly broad area.
And as we've drilled across that area we've encountered some fluid loss issues in some portions of the play.
In particular the Southern Culberson area which has forced us to experiment with and even alter the design of our wells.
Second factor that's coming into play as John mentioned is we've also upsized our completions into Wolfcamp.
And albeit at the same time seeing some very favorable results those upsizes and completion techniques are adding about $700 000 to our total well cost.
And so now as we go forward to account for both those items our current generic Wolfcamp AFEs are running in the range of $7.8 million to $8.7 million with our Culberson wells on the higher end of that range and our Reeves Ward County wells on the lower end of that range.
To the extent we push out the lateral lengths in the Wolfcamp with only a few wells under our belt and I want to emphasize that this is only with a few wells underneath our belt we see our early total well cost for a 2-mile lateral to fall in the range of $13 million to $14 million depending on whether or not we drill a pilot hole and then obviously depending on the size of the completion.
And if we were to drill a 7 500-foot lateral we would take approximately $2.5 million to $3 million off those numbers.
But again we've drilled less than a handful of long laterals down there.
And as we do with every well each and every well we learn more.
As Tom mentioned we're really just getting started in the Wolfcamp not only from the geologic and reservoir side but also on the drilling side.
We're certainly in the early stages of fully understanding and developing the play.
That said similar to what we've seen in Cana and Permian with our Bone Spring programs we fully anticipate program efficiencies to take root in the short term here in the Wolfcamp and show up in the form of decreased well cost as we take the program forward.
So in closing we had a great quarter.
As John mentioned our programs are doing well seem to be hitting on all cylinders.
We saw record Q3 production.
Our LOE's in check and we continue to see improvements in our development cost for program drilling.
So with that Chad I suppose we'll turn the call over to question and answers.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Brian Gamble with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to start with the longer laterals and the increased frac stages.
Maybe you could go through both.
How many more wells of each type are you guys thinking about doing before making that a standard? And then to that end are there pieces of your asset base where those sorts of techniques don't work? Or is it just a matter of determining that that's the best use of a well in each location as the case may be? Yes this is John.
Let me first address the increased frac size jobs.
I will tell you that we've seen enough not just in the wells that we've talked about today but even the wells that are early flow back that we're very encouraged with the results we're seeing there.
Going forward right now all of our Wolfcamp wells regardless of Culberson or Reeves or wherever they are located all off them are planned with an upsized frac job going forward.
Now obviously we will monitor those results as we go forward to make sure that the increased cost is justified.
But as I mentioned earlier so far every early indication including the Tim Tam well will say that this is the right thing for us to do.
In regards to extended laterals no that one is something that we just don't have that many under our belt.
But again I would say so far the few we do have we're very encouraged with the type of production profile we see from them and the type of rate of returns that they're generating but that's also a function of our acreage.
Some acreage may allow us to do that some may not and it also will be a function of just how comfortable we get with just the drilling and completing of these.
As Joe mentioned we've done a just a few of them and then they're not easy especially the 10 000-foot laterals.
We do run in to some completion difficulties that I think we're going to overcome over time but when it comes to extended that's going to take a little bit more time on our part before we get more comfortable.
Broad strokes saying we do that everywhere.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then as my follow-up Tom you mentioned you wanted to have the Wolfcamp essentially fully delineated by the end of the year.
It seems like a pretty bold task.
Maybe you could walk us through how you're trying to get your guys to think about it and how many one-off wells that really means how many down spacing wells that really means to fully understand that play in the next 12 months.
Yes hopefully if I use the word fully I'll go back and edit the transcript but we're just -- we have long-term plans.
I mean this is an asset base when we look at it when you look at our acreage position there are -- it's really emerged as multiple zones almost everywhere.
I mean we've talk about Culberson County.
We knew we had a D zone that was productive.
We knew we had a C zone and we speculated that we'd have an A zone.
And now at least with the 1 well we've tested I think we can say we've had very encouraging results.
Even in Reeves County one of the things that's changed in the last 3 to 4 months is that it's also emerging as a multiple zone.
We think there may be as many as 3 or 4 independent zones in Reeves County and that's based on our own experience but also some of our competitors are helping us there.
So what we're doing is we're looking long-term with an asset that size.
Our first goal of course is we're going to hold every acre that we view as perspective and so we're still drilling to hold acreage.
We're still acquiring new acreage.
But we're also looking ahead to when it will be appropriate for us to go into a development mode.
And it's probably going to be a case where we'll go into development mode in some portion while we're still holding to drill acreage in other areas of the play.
So in order to make good decisions on development mode we have to know spacing in terms of how many wells per section how many zones per section and can we put those directly on top of one another do we stagger them.
So just to repeat what I already said in 2014 we're going to be doing some spacing experiments both vertically and horizontally to make really good at least intermediate-term development decisions.
And why? Well one is some of our best returns are coming from development and we like returns.
Secondly is we have to think ahead in terms of getting the midstream take away capacity to facilitate development and then third is we have a great balance sheet.
We're outstanding position but we don't want to be surprised by financing these either.
So we're really looking at some long-term plans.
I don't know that we'll have it fully delineated in 2014 but we are steering our experiments to gather as much of those critical pieces of information so we can make some really good decisions on development.
Our next question is from Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I know you won't give official 2014 guidance until early next year.
But can you talk a little bit about general trends in 2014 spending levels how much you might be wanting to spend relative to cash flow? And possibly any granularity that you can provide around maybe year-on-year increases in County or Wolfcamp versus Bone Spring anything of that order? Sure Brian this is Tom.
Yes we've talked openly that we would be comfortable increasing our borrowings next year a little bit.
I think we wouldn't have hard time borrowing $200 million to $400 million next year and that's certainly not a limit on that.
I mean we're going to look at our programs.
We're going to look at our opportunity set look at the prudent pace of development.
I would expect -- so our capital next year I think it's reasonable to think it will be up a little given that commodity prices hold and we continue to have the kind of success we're having.
And I would look for a slightly larger percent to be in the Permian than it was this year.
I mean we're -- we'll be upsizing our Permian program.
We have a great opportunity set and lots to do.
As far as Bone Spring versus Wolfcamp I think it's going to be a higher Wolfcamp program as a percent of our total capital and that's just naturally evolving to -- for us to develop this really premier resource play.
Research Division</strong> Are there any areas of the Wolfcamp in particular where you see -- like over the next 12 months where you see infrastructure being more of a bottleneck than in other places? Well there's the Delaware Basin involves infrastructure planning.
And so everywhere we're working we're putting a lot of energy in the infrastructure.
Our operations our marketing our midstream group has done a phenomenal job getting ahead of it.
We're currently planning very diligently and I'm very confident that we're going to be ready for program when they come online.
Joe do you want to add to that? Yes.
I'd echo what Tom said here as far as our 2 biggest areas the Triple Crown area we've obviously got our main 34 mile trunk line that we're trying to stay out 6 months ahead of our anticipated development from a well standpoint to make sure our laterals are in place our CDP is in place our CDPs are in place.
We're looking forward to salt water disposal wells to try to get out ahead of any water disposal in particular in Reeves County where we're seeing more water.
In Triple Crown we're looking for and have obtained additional markets coming off the middle of that pipe.
So we will have at least have gotten further down the road of trying to maintain and capture some of that market optionality that we have out there in the area by now have the markets to the north in the middle and to the south with our own JT.
In Reeves County we're putting the infrastructure together to be able to handle a fairly healthy Wolfcamp Bay development program not only from the gas takeaway standpoint but also from the salt water disposal infrastructure and even the oil takeaway.
So we are -- that is one of those areas that we have to be out ahead of this type of development in these plays.
Yes this project as you can tell from our release as we get more information it's getting better and better.
And the mandate we have to our organization is let's get that infrastructure out ahead so that if we increase our capital we're ready for it.
So we're planning for success.
Research Division</strong> And I guess if I could ask one -- that's very hopeful and if I could just ask one more.
You mentioned a tighter spacing test you did in the Culberson County Second Bone Spring.
I think 5 wells in the section rather than the traditional 4 and that the results were kind of in line with expectations.
Is that -- should we expect that to be from your base case from now on or is that something you feel like you need to test more broadly across the play? Ryan this is John.
I think it's safe to say for similar net thicknesses across the section then that certainly would be our base case going forward in that immediate area and I want to stress that immediate area.
But I would also say there's still room to test additional things there.
I mean this was not much of a step-up to go from 4 to 5 but we are very encouraged by that.
And so even internally we ask ourself is that still the right spacing but so far we've been very pleased just with those initial 5 well results to date.
The next question is from Gil Yang with DISCERN.
Inc</strong> Yes maybe following on to that question.
Is it probably fair to say that while you don't know what the spacing should be in the Bone Springs are you closer than what it might be for the Wolfcamp because of the tighter formation? Gil this is Tom.
We don't know.
I mean we haven't tested it yet.
And one of the things of course these upsized fracs we're talking about it's taking the industry by storm.
It's not just Cimarex.
If you look from basin to basin you obviously -- a lot of our peers are coming forward with the same evolutionary or even revolutionary change in completion technology.
And the primary benefit in addition to uplift in production is greater near wellbore recovery and potentially a tighter spacing.
So with this upsized completion technique we're probably now more interested in exploring tighter spacing than we were before and we were obviously deeply interested.
So we need to get out and test it.
I mean this Wolfcamp is a thick thick section and we might still be underestimating the number of laterals we can put in it.
So we've got to get out there and test it.
We can do all the forward modeling in the world but until you to drill test and have empirical evidence.
Your confidence is very low.
Inc</strong> So it sounds like not only are you going to be testing the lateral spacing you're also going to be staggering the wells Chevron-ing them within a thicker section so that the -- they may still be relatively far apart but when you look down upon in sort of the helicopter view they're close together? Yes no Gil you said Chevron-ing we may get there.
Our first test will be putting them directly in the top of one another just to see if that works.
And then if we can stagger a Chevron then we can do that as well.
But it's -- as I said it's a huge resource.
And in Culberson County there are now 3 independent zones producing and in Reeves County there are now 3 independent zones producing.
Now we don't have those 3 independent zones but if we look at our competitor activity there are at least 3 different landing points in the Wolfcamp producing and so a lot and lot of work to do to find its ultimate potential.
Our next question is from Ipsit Mohanty with Cannacord.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at your Wolfcamp curve that you've provided before and then seeing your press release it kind of seems like the oil percentage in the yield mix has gone up.
Is that a function of doing more of the Wolfcamp C? You've talked about how maturity sort of reduces as you go shallower and that's where we look forward to the A as well.
But is that a function of more of Wolfcamp C versus D? Well first off I guess the tight curve that we published is on the average compilation of a lot of D wells that we've drilled.
Pretty sure it's just D the tight curve.
And you have to keep in mind that even within the D geographically as you move throughout Culberson you're going to get variations in yield.
And so there is an overprint of geography relative to just that tight curve.
So that overprint is probably there.
In terms of this latest well we announced it does seem to have a slightly higher yield.
But I don't know that I could say that that's a definitive trend yet or not.
I mean we need more wells on our belt to really establish that that's happening.
Yes but the A is oilier than the C and D.
So as we bring a lot more of our Reeves and Ward County into development we're going to see an oilier overall mix and the A in Culberson looks like as we predicted it's oilier than the C and D.
Research Division</strong> And just moving a bit for a second to the Avalon is it too early to ask you sort of number of potential locations that you can talk about? And in addition to that what's your leftover locations left in the Bone Spring to drill? Well first on the Avalon given our current acreage position we see around 200 to 250 locations currently with our position just in that kind of Southern Southwestern part of Lea county.
And I'd just caution because that's really where we see right now the really good returns and that's where we focus our efforts.
So 200 to 250 locations there.
When it comes to Second Bone Spring it's as we've always said it's the revolving inventory that as we drill up we come up with new ideas.
We keep adding and we're still sitting there with that 200 to 250 locations for Bone Spring as well.
Culberson is now taking a bigger share of that.
Obviously as we drill more and more in Culberson we get more and more confident of additional locations there but it's still that ever-moving kind of 2-year program and that's kind of how it's been a trademark for us for the last 4 or 5 years.
Research Division</strong> And my last if I may then how comfortable you would be yet.
But you gathered some acreage in Ward County.
That's getting a lot of good positive vibe.
Would you care to comment on the cost play that you've got there how much did you spend per acre? Well we -- yes this is Tom.
We bought it at a public sale so it's public record and then...
Yes we've advertised that at the sale we picked up approximately 10 000 acres and we spent $25 million.
So 2 500 an acre at that sale.
Research Division</strong> That's a great buy.
Hope so.
we'll get back to you on that.
Our next question is from Jeb Bachmann from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering Tom if you can give us an idea of the rig count operated rig count exiting this year in the Permian and where those rigs will be working.
Well we currently have 12 rigs working in the Permian.
And of those 12 rigs 8 of them were drilling Bone Spring plays and that's several different Bone Spring plays but those are sands more conventional reservoirs and 4 of them are currently drilling in the Wolfcamp shale.
Of those 4 in Wolfcamp shale 2 of them are in Culberson County.
One is in Ward County and one is in Reeves County.
So amongst that Wolfcamp play we have 4 active rigs.
As John said our plan is probably not by year end but probably around year end we'll have 2 additional rigs moving into the area and certainly we'll see an increase in Wolfcamp drilling.
So I think you'll probably see going into next year we'll probably early on the fourth quarter have 14 rigs running and probably the increase will be Wolfcamp.
No that's right Tom.
I think you can anticipate that beginning of the year kind of about an even split between what we call Bone Spring Avalon versus Wolfcamp.
But keep in mind at any one time we move those rigs around.
I mean there's a lot of moving parts there to rig schedule in terms of permitting or what's ready to be drilled but that's a fair look at it going forward into '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just quickly on the Avalon give us the cost on that first well there.
Our generic AFEs for Avalon are running around $7.3 million $7.4 million.
I think we've been hitting that.
We're doing a nice job there.
No it's right just north of $7 million drilling complete.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me.
Any idea what's causing the fluid loss in Culberson? Well yes.
There's area there where we have in the shallower section a highly fractured interval mostly Avalon.
And as we drill through that we take massive losses and so we don't see that -- we don't see that most parts of the play but we have experienced it with quite a number of wells and so we adjust.
As Joe alluded we'll either make adjustments to our pipe program or we'll make adjustments just to the ability to just take those losses and get our way through it and then get pipes up through it.
But we're making plans now that we don't see this as something we can't overcome fairly quickly.
Jeb I want to just chime in.
This is Tom.
We like to talk about what we're spending.
We don't typically talk about target well cost and our drilling group has done a remarkable job when they've had a reputable program of not only getting our efficiencies down but also our cost.
So this is something that I'm highly confident we're going to get these costs down.
But the real news and that shouldn't be lost is even with these increased costs because of some of these drilling issues we've seen a significant uplift in our return on invested capital.
I mean this is very good news and it will only get better.
So we're -- obviously we're focused on cost.
We're going to I think achieve what we've set out there and getting them down but our turns are improving not degrading.
We're really seeing some nice results on invested capital.
Our next question is from Matt Portillo with TPH.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick question for me.
Just wanted to confirm on the Reeves 10 000 foot lateral how many stages you guys ran in that well? That would have been a normal frac job.
I'm pretty sure it would have been around 20 stages 20 to 22.
It would not have been the upsize job as I mentioned.
Our typical jobs in the past were around 10 on a 5 000.
So I think it was a natural uplift.
That's why I would say why we're very encouraged off of that results because that was again more of our normal job and not the upsized tighter stage job.
I can tell you that going forward our next 10 000-foot lateral we currently plan to -- that job is planned for 35 stages for that job.
So that's a pretty hefty uplift from what we did with that first 10 000-foot lateral the Ruby that we talked about.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just last conference call you guys mentioned your first 7 500-foot lateral in Culberson and it had an initial uplift to the production rate and maybe a little bit slower decline than expected.
I was wondering if you could give us an update on how that's performing and if you've been encouraged at all by the longer lateral length there? Yes it's continuing to perform very well.
We're very very pleased with that well.
It -- in no way has it diminished at all from our last conference call which is why we're very again excited about the site of the extended laterals.
I think our challenges is again as we go longer and longer there are operational issues that we have to deal with as we do that and so we'll get past those but yes still the day start the 7 500-foot lateral still looks very very good to us.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one last quick question on the drilling side.
Maybe just curious if you could give us a little bit of color in terms of where your targeted depth is in the play in Culberson and Reeves for the Wolfcamp.
And as we've seen you squeeze a lot of the cost out of the Bone Springs moving towards a full development what kind of opportunities exist in the Wolfcamp play today? Is it days to drill is it the pad development? Can you give us maybe a little bit of color on how you potentially see some of those costs coming down over time? And then just my last follow-up question to that is on these wells as you complete the wells how long do they flow on natural production versus being put on artificial lift? And that will be it.
Okay this is Joe.
I'll let John answer more specifically the landing points for the Wolfcamp wells when we get there.
But bigger picture is take a look at Cana we've drilled hundreds of wells that's taken 5 years.
We looked at Barnett we looked at our days to TD.
In Cana we've made a ball projection early on in that play internally that we should be able to see that same reduction in days that operators saw on the Barnett which is about a 40% improvement in number of days to TD.
Our early Cana wells are running $8.5 million $9 million there in the quarter.
We're down to $6.5 million today.
That's due to drilling hundreds and hundreds of wells and then you throw on top of that the program efficiencies of pad drilling and consolidated batteries and everything else and you can create those types of benefits.
The Wolfcamp holy cow it covers 4 separate counties.
And if you just do a straight line through all the counties it's like 200 miles swath of area.
So we're talking about hundreds of square miles of potential development.
We've drilled 40 wells.
In Cana we've drilled hundreds.
In the Second Bone Spring we've drilled hundreds.
So 40 wells although it sounds like a fair number of wells it's still young in that play learning how the heck to drill it.
So I just want you to understand that.
From the standpoint of improvements that we've seen with bit technology rotary steerables consolidated equipment hydrating our rigs all those things in general at least in the Bone Spring heck it knocked 10% to 20% off some of the early AFEs.
So I anticipate that as we go into full-scale development if we start focusing in on any one particular area that has the same common characteristics we'll see similar type of reductions in the Wolfcamp.
We're pretty excited about what we think we can be able to do down there.
We just got to get the program going.
Now the other thing as far as when we put these wells on lift we're -- a lot of that depends on the product mix the flowing pressures is it more gassy than oil or is there a lot more water being produced so forth and so on.
Some of our wells have gone a year-plus without needing any kind of lift or even compression for that matter.
We've had some long stretches there.
So it's a matter of whether how long it takes to get our flowing pressures down to lime pressure.
As to when we've even think about putting them on compression and we can put them on compression without having them on gas lifts.
Our practice to date has been to equip these wells with gas lift on tubing that we snug in early so that if and when we do get to that point where we need to lift it we're able to flip a switch so to speak and put the wells on gas lift.
But we're even challenging ourselves there with that design and looking at where we set the tubing inside the lateral length.
Bone Spring wells we'll need to put on compression and gas lift quicker than we might a Wolfcamp well.
So a lot of it just varies on the product type the pressures and so forth.
And I know it's a very vague answer but that's about what we're saying.
All right.
I'll just add a little color.
The depth range again because it's such a broad area varies as you move from Culberson to Reeves to Ward you go shallower to deeper.
You're typically in the 10 000-foot range down to 12 000-foot over the course of the play.
But then you have to consider the interval itself is over a gross interval 1 000 to 1 500 feet or more thick.
So it depends on what zone you're targeting and then where you're planning to land.
So shallower over in Culberson and then we pick up a couple thousand feet as we go and finally head our way off into Reeves and Ward.
Our next question comes from Jeff Robertson with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Tom as you drill longer laterals is it difficult to keep the bit in zone in any of this or more difficult at any of these formations than others to keep in the landing zone you're trying to target? Jeff that's not really an issue here.
It's such a large broad zone.
We don't really micro steer and it's such a thick organic rich resource that we don't have any problem getting out of zone.
The challenge is we've had challenges building the curve you get at 10 000 feet you're on the hole a long time.
It's pretty easy to leave a fish in the hole and then you end up fishing.
Just longer lateral just gives you opportunity for more things to go wrong just in the everyday course of business.
Research Division</strong> Do the -- does the enthusiasm for these plays Tom make you think any differently about how much acreage is the right amount to have in the Delaware Basin given the focus on after-tax rate of return? Well yes absolutely.
We look at that very carefully and we ask ourselves how much is enough.
When we lease land and yes you know this but indulge me here we look at the capital required to bring that land to be held by production.
So when we add leases we look at the long-term capital that that requires.
And then we'll also look at permutations at downside of commodity case.
We're looking at $75 oil or $60 oil and then we'll also look at a case where we say "Okay what if we lease this land and we delay the drilling for 1 to 4 years".
And we'll look at the value of that.
So we look at the broad range of value.
To make sure one we're not biting off more than we can chew; two that we have the capital to bring that net present value forward; and three that we have the luxury that if we do defer it we're not destroying capital in the process.
So it's a fairly complex formula but we're disciplined.
And that's one thing that when people look at Cimarex they need to understand that fully.
We are about return on invested capital.
We're not about growth.
We're not about having nice pretty slides about a wonderful resource play.
We're about return on invested capital.
And so I think we might approach the problem slightly different than our peers and that's beauty of our balance sheet.
We can still add a little asset here and we have plenty of wherewithal to develop and create value for the shareholders.
Research Division</strong> And lastly Tom.
As you think about laying out a 2014 capital program and even looking out into 2015 I guess with some of the answers you hope to get on these plays over the next 12 months or so are there other assets within the company today that just from a rate of return standpoint all the way in you all would consider selling as a way to fund what maybe an outspend in '14 and '15? Well we always ask that question and we do have assets that would be non-core that we'd consider divesting.
We don't have to do that.
I mean we really look at it against cost of our borrowing our overall balance sheet structure but we do look at that.
I'll say one thing Permian Basin is a wonderful place right now.
We're getting absolute top tier returns very oily and the oil price is our dominant revenue phase but we still like to have gas in our portfolio.
We wouldn't want to sacrifice that balance.
So although the Permian is obviously a topic of today's call we really like having Cana in our portfolio.
It gives tremendous optionality to shareholder for future increases in gas price.
Our next question is from John Nelson with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Hoping first just as a clarification I missed it.
The Ruby well in Reeves County did you guys give the oil cut on the 60-day rate if you could repeat that? I think I quoted a percentage of oil.
Did I not? Yes.
That's right.
Oil cut as a percent of oil water? Research Division</strong> Yes exactly.
58% of..
Oil and water yes it's...
Research Division</strong> Okay we could follow up.
I guess just staying on that well.
You noted the 60-day rate the decline was pretty shallow.
Are you choking back the well or can you just give us sort of any color on why you think the decline was so shallow there? Well no we're not choking back the well per se as much as that so far has been kind of a characteristic of the longer laterals.
I mean that was certainly true of our first extended lateral on the Day Star we talked about last call to where we're very pleased with the shallower decline we saw on that well.
And so far and again I'll caution so far given the 60-plus days of production we have we've been very pleased with what we've seen out of it as well in terms of its decline profile but it's early and we'll have to monitor over time to see if we continue to see that type of shallower decline in what a normal 5 000-foot well will do.
This is Joe.
To some degree we are still above line pressure but the flowing pressure has dropped over the period of time that it's been flowing and hence that will have an impact of potentially supporting the rates.
So as we get closer to line pressure we expect the well and even below that when we get on the compression obviously we could maintain those higher rates as well.
So when we get to the point where we are at the bottom end of our pressure capability on the tube inside the well will most likely start to climb quicker than it is today.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just the 2 other I guess I'll call them shorter laterals but the 5 000 laterals in Reeves County that you guys disclosed last quarter just any comments on sort of how they're holding up and sort of the oil percentage longer on? Again so far very good wells.
Very very pleased with the results out of those wells.
They're pretty much on forecast of what we expect out of them.
And so no there's been no degradation whatsoever in the production out of those wells.
Yes and we -- this is Tom.
We look at that daily.
We have some engineers that send out a update of some of those new wells and they include all of our old wells as kind of a benchmark.
We currently are flowing back 5 wells with our new frac style.
We're having the executive team watching them very carefully and it's nothing but encouraging.
You talk about the long laterals having shallower decline.
These upsized fracs also have shallower declines.
So this really does look like a potential game changer for our returns.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And the last one for me I think I have an idea of the answer I'll get but I'll go ahead and try anyway.
The Culberson County-Wolfcamp A you mentioned that it sort of has a higher oil and liquids mix.
Can you maybe just give us a ballpark on sort of where that range might be? Well no but I'll answer your question in vague terms.
We talked about the Wolfcamp B the deepest zone has oil rate that's roughly 90 barrels per million cubic feet of gas so 90 barrels of oil per million cubic feet.
As you move up to Wolfcamp C we talked about some of our wells having oil rate of 150 give or take per million cubic feet of gas.
There's some more some less.
And we said early on before drill the well that we -- we're anticipating the Wolfcamp A would extend that trend and be oilier than the D and C and be trending that way.
And we've said in this call that yes it is confirming our model that it's oilier.
But right now it's not that we're trying to be coy.
It's just that we really want to stick to our knitting.
We like to talk about 30-day averages.
If we don't have a 30-day average we're just going to wait until we do.
Our next question is from Jason Smith with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to -- a quick clarification in Reeves.
I think you guys talked about industry testing multiple zones.
You guys have been focused on the A zone I mean are you guys looking to test in the other zones as well? Well yes we are.
We currently in fact have finished a well in the C zone that we actually started frac-ing just today.
So that's an additional zone in the A.
But also we are recognizing that given the thickness of the A in Reeves we're noticing the trend to try and in fact at least 1 operator stacking laterals in the A.
And we also will be doing that probably early first quarter the same type of test that is putting 2 laterals in the A itself stacked above each other.
So that right there potentially depending upon results could lead to 3 unique intervals that one could put laterals in in Reeves County that we're currently going to test.
Yes and this is Tom.
In Reeves County just to follow-up on what John said we have wells that have are landed in the upper part of the A.
We have wells that are landed in the lower part of the A and now we have a well we're completing that's in the C.
So we've tested at least 3 different zones.
We just need to confirm that they are in 3 different zones and you can stack laterals and have independent wells.
Research Division</strong> Good color.
And where is the focus initially going to be on the A zone or you're going to test the multiple zones there as well? It's right now as we look at it it's A -- that's how we look at it.
It's a very thick A over there.
Right now we just want to get some of those under our belt just to see -- hopefully we've seen some results from other operators.
We're very encouraged what we've seen from other operators.
So we just want to go there and get a few wells down ourselves and then we can worry about whether want to stack or do other things.
Right now it's just strictly A.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
We had a really exciting quarter and have a lot more wells coming up and look forward to reporting to you our further continuation of our Wolfcamp extension and understanding.
But thanks again for participating in today's call and we'll hopefully see you soon.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Cimarex fourth quarter and yearend 2013 results conference call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Burford Vice President of Capital Markets and Planning.
Mr.
Burford the floor is yours sir.
Thank you very much Mike and thank you everyone for joining us today on our fourth quarter conference call.
And today here in Denver speaking will be Tom Jorden President and CEO; Joe Albi Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; John Lambuth Vice President Exploration; and also present will be Paul Korus Senior Vice President and CFO; and Karen Acierno Director of Investor Relations.
We did issue our financial and operating results this morning a copy of which can be found on our website along with our latest presentation which might be you finally find useful when I make the references to it during the call today.
And I need to remind you that today's discussion will contain forward-looking statements.
A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss.
And you should read our disclosures on forward-looking statements and our latest 10-K other filings and news releases for the risks factors associated with our business.
With that we'll have a full call.
I'll get the call turned over to Tom.
Thank you Mark and thank you to all of you on the lines participating in today's conference.
We sincerely appreciate your interest in Cimarex.
I'd like to take a few minutes to touch on some of the highlights of the year before turning it over to John and Joe for a more detailed update.
We ended 2013 with 2.5 Tcf equivalent in proved reserves which was an 11% increase over 2012.
Production was up 11% year-over-year as well and we look forward to grow roughly 13% in 2014.
Because of our efforts in the Permian region 26% of our proved reserves are now oil.
Revenues reached a record $2 billion in 2013 and our debt increased to $924 million which represents 19% of our total capitalization.
Operationally 2013 was a remarkable year for Cimarex.
We saw continued high rates returns from our Bone Spring drilling in both the Mexico and Texas.
We unlocked oil-prone Avalon Shale development in our Lea County New Mexico acreage through new completion technology.
And we saw opportunity in a multi-pay Wolfcamp shale expand across our Texas acreage.
Without a doubt the sheer size of Cimarex's Wolfcamp opportunity became much clear in 2013.
One of the things that happened in 2013 as we saw a dramatic increase in competition in the Delaware Basin.
We normally don't welcome competition but it added a lot of data points the information floor accelerated greatly and the stars aligned deploying to the high-quality of Cimarex's core position in that play.
We started the year with a good but albeit fragmented opportunity in Culberson County which was based mainly on the development of the Wolfcamp D bench.
Later in the year we proved that the Wolfcamp C and A were also productive and in June we signed a joint development agreement with Chevron which solidify the Culberson acreage making it possible to test long laterals and ultimately optimize development.
Simultaneously we found multiple Wolfcamp pay across our acreage in Reeves and now Ward Count as evidenced with today's announcement of initial 30-day production from the Worsham well a Wolfcamp A test in Ward County.
In addition we tested long laterals and have been working on perfecting well completion by using upsized fracs and include more stages as well as higher volumes of profit.
Today we were proud to announce results from our first well that combined two.
The Montrose LL 45 Unit Number 1 a Culberson County Wolfcamp D well was completed using an upsized frac with a 10 000 foot lateral and had a max 30-day rate of just over 2 800 barrel of oil equivalent per day.
This is significantly higher than our original completions of Wolfcamp D wells.
The Montrose looks to have an after-tax rate of return in excess of 85% and the peak 30-day rate now well may end up being even higher than what we've announced because we haven't seen the well declining yet.
This well and the opportunity it has really speaks to the opportunity that joint development agreement allows us to capitalize.
In Culberson County that entire over 100 000 acre gross position is available for full development with long laterals and these results with long laterals and more that we're currently drilling will allow tremendous development efficiencies as we exploit this with long laterals.
We're currently working to determine development parameters in Culberson and Reeves County.
We have four separate spacing pilots underway and each tends to go along way and giving Cimarex the information we need to begin Wolfcamp development in 2015.
And we look forward to sharing those results with you as we go.
One of the things that you see as you look at Cimarex is we try to stay disciplined and when we talk about 30-day results and with some of these wells we've had to kind of restrain ourselves because the initial flow back has been extremely encouraging.
As we look ahead I think I can speak up for the entire executive team we're very proud of our organization.
We're proud of the way our organization is adapting to a changing business for doing multiyear planning for acquiring the science we need in order to make prudent development decisions in the future or building and identifying the infrastructure we'll need for future years.
And really organizing and performing in a way that will allow us to optimally exploit this tremendous resource that we control.
You're going to see some detail here in the comments that Joe and John make.
And with that I'll turn it over to John Lambuth to discuss those details.
Thanks Tom.
I'd like to quickly cover some of the highlights of our overall program before getting in to the Permian region.
I'll then finish with our Mid-Continent drilling program.
Cimarex had a busy 2013 we drilled and completed 365 wells during the year investing nearly $1.6 billion 65% of that was invested in Permian region and over 30% in the Mid-Continent region.
In 2014 we estimate capital expenditures to be $1.8 billion up over $200 million from 2013 a result of the continuous success we've had in the Permian region.
Speaking of the Permian in the fourth quarter we drilled 43 wells bringing our total wells to 175 for the year which equates to 115 net wells contributing to our growing production and reserve base.
Throughout 2013 our drilling was focused on the Bone Spring and Wolfcamp formations in the Delaware Basin.
The 2013 Bone Spring program included 18 net wells in the Mexico and Texas.
Results continue to be good generating some of the company's highest rate of return with oil volumes representing up to 84% of the first 30-day production.
The 2014 program looks to provide similar returns on the $375 million of invested capital plan for the year.
Although our inventory of Third Bone Spring wells in Ward County is dwindling we continue to have about a 200 location inventory Bone Springs which equates to about two year inventory of drilling.
These locations identify throughout our acreage in the Mexico and in Culberson County where we've identified a thick highly productive Second Bone Spring sand.
Moving to the Wolfcamp as Tom mentioned 2013 was an exciting year.
With the drilling of 26 wells we worked our whole acreage while adding production from five new Wolfcamp zones the Wolfcamp A and C in Culberson; the Wolfcamp A and the B/C zone in Reeves; and the Wolfcamp A in Ward County; all of this at very attractive rates of return.
In addition we tested the long lateral concept and have worked to optimize completions with upsized fracs.
To illustrate I'd like to direct you to Slide 12 in our latest Corporate Update posted on our website.
This graph compares to traditional Wolfcamp D completion with our first upsized frac the Tim Tam well.
As you can see not only has the upside frac had an impact on the initial production and initial decline rate but most importantly on the returns.
Investing additional $700 000 increased this before tax internal rate return from 30% to 77% and NPV10 more than doubled from $4 million to $10.7 million.
Now in fairness this well has only been on production for five months.
However two additional wells using the same frac design have been completed in Wolfcamp D with similar results to that Tim Tam.
The Montrose well announced today which has a 30-day IP of 2 800 barrels of oil equivalent incorporates both long lateral and upsized frac technologies.
This 10 000 foot lateral was completed with 36 frac stages.
We have another 10 000 foot lateral flowing back now in Culberson that was completed using 43 stages.
The product mix on the Montrose well is 765 barrels of oil 7.5 million cubic feet of gas and 65 barrels of NGL assuming full recovery.
It's a fantastic well.
About half of our Permian drilling capital in 2014 or about $685 million will go toward further delineation of Cimarex's Wolfcamp opportunity on the 180 000 net acres we have currently identified as perspective for the Wolfcamp.
This includes down spacing pilots and wells drilled to hold acreage.
I'd like to briefly take you through the design of the pilot we have currently underway.
You can see an illustration of them on Pages 15 and 16 in the presentation.
In Culberson County we have two pilots underway.
One is testing the concept of producing from lateral stack in the Wolfcamp C and D.
These two wells are currently waiting on completion which is scheduled to begin in late March.
The second Culberson pilot is designed to test 80 acre down spacing in the Wolfcamp D.
This is a four well pilot and the wells are currently drilling with a completion date schedule for May.
We also have two pilots drilling in Reeves County both are down spacing pilot and both are in the Wolfcamp A.
One of the four well 80 acre pilot similar to the one in the Wolfcamp D in Culberson while the second one will test a 106 acre spacing which is equivalent to six wells of section as well as testing the liability of stacking laterals in the thick Wolfcamp A section.
Lastly in the Permian Cimarex has added Avalon drilling to its portfolio for 2014 and we plan to invest upon a $150 million drilling Avalon wells this year.
Avalon has become perspective because of the redesigned completion technique we tested in 2013.
It is an upsized frac design that includes more stages higher volumes of profits and adding 100 mesh to the mix.
The five Avalon wells drilled in 2013 had average 30-day IP of 1 080 barrels of oil equivalent per day with over 700 barrels per day of oil.
We plan to drill another 15 to 20 wells this year and identify over 200 potential locations on our acreage.
Now onto the Mid-Continent.
The Cana-Woodford Shale play continuous to account for the lion share of our Mid-Continent activity.
In 2013 we participated in a 149 Cana-Woodford wells completing 52 net wells.
CapEx in 2013 totaled about $400 million in Cana and will drop to about $250 million in 2014 as our partner has suspended drilling activities in Cana to focus on other opportunities for the time being.
Of that $250 million Cimarex plans to spend about $200 million will be used for drilling and completion activities including approximately $60 million for drilling new wells and $140 million on completions of wells drilled in 2013 and 2014.
Of note the success we've experienced with the upsize fracs in the Permian is now been tested in Cana.
The most recent set of completions included four wells that were fraced using 20 stages.
We are at the initial stages of the flow back of these wells but early indications are very encouraging.
As planned in January we move two of our operated rigs from Cana to the Permian leaving two operated rigs working in the Cana region.
With that I'll turn the call over to Joe Albi.
Thank you John and thank you all for joining our call today.
I'll touch on usual items our 2013 production.
I'll talk about our 2014 and first quarter of production outlooks and then I'll follow-up with a few words on our operating and service cost.
While we closed out Q4 reporting average net daily production for the quarter of 704.5 million equivalents a day.
That came in about as expected after accounting for the late November and early December whether in pipeline shutting impacts that we reported to you in our December press release.
And as we're all aware we've had an extremely cold winter this year and its impacts on our production not only impacted us in Q4 but also a flowed a little bit into Q1 albeit not to the extent we saw at the end of last year.
And I'll touch on Q1 here in a minute.
With Q4 coming in at 704.5 million a day our full year 2013 average net daily equivalent production equated to 692.6 million a day.
That was above the midpoint of our beginning year guidance which if you recall we gave and issued at 680 million to 700 million a day.
It was also a record for the company and an increase of over 11% over 2012.
As you recall we had some property sales at the end of 2012 which if we incorporated that into our numbers for 2013 as the impact of that we were up 13% over 2012 and we're pretty proud of that statistic.
With our focus on the Permian our 2013 oil production jump to a record 36 659 barrels a day.
That's up 17% from 2012 and if we adjust that for those yearend 2012 property sales our Permian oil was up a very respectable 23%.
As expected our Permian activity drove our production growth with our 2013 Permian equivalent volumes averaging 319.9 million a day.
That's up 56.2 million a day or 21% over 2012.
On an oil equivalent basis that's an increase of nearly 9 400 BOEs per day.
As John and Tom both mentioned our Delaware Wolfcamp and Bone Spring programs turned out some great results during the year and they're showing up in our numbers.
Our 2013 Permian new drills added equivalent production of over 114 million cubic feet equivalents per day that's an addition of 19 000 BOEs per day to our production for the year.
With our Texas and New Mexico Bone Spring program making up about 80% of that wedge and the Wolfcamp program making up the balance.
With our continued focus in Cana we also saw a production grow in the Mid-Continent during the year.
With our 2013 Mid-Continent net equivalent production coming in at 346.2 million a day that's up 7% over 2012.
The majority of our '13 Mid-Continent activity was in fact in Cana which bumped our 2013 Cana average production up to 221.9 million a day that's up 42.7 million a day from 2012 and again another 24% jump.
So significant production increases in both Cana and in Permian with that being the focus of our activity.
So as we look forward into 2014 our updated model continues to support our beginning year 2014 guidance projection of 760 million to 800 million a day and that corresponds to a 10% to 16% growth rate over 2013.
And as was the case in 2013 our projected growth is expected to come from the Permian where we're directing nearly 80% of our 2014 capital.
We'll have the strong focus on the Wolfcamp in the Permian this year and as such we anticipate the Wolfcamp to be the dominant contributor to our 2014 drilling wedge.
Similar to the profile we saw last year from a total company standpoint our forecasted production this year calls for production ramp-up post Q1.
Our first quarter net equivalent daily volumes are forecasted to average between 696 million and 700 million cubic feet equivalents per day.
That's in essence flat to Q4.
Well there is couple of things at work here.
First our Q1 volumes incorporate a reduction of about 13 million to 15 million a day for recent weather-related downtime and the plant shutdown of our Triple Crown pipeline facility in Culberson County.
We're excited to get started on the work in Triple Crown.
We're going to be enhancing the liquid recovery capabilities of the system to better conform to new delivery points of the central portion of the system and also to help protect against future line freezes like we've seen over the last two winters.
Also limiting our first quarter volumes is the initiation of the four Wolfcamp spacing pilots that John mentioned.
We have the two in Reeves County and two also in Culberson County.
Combined these four projects comprise a total of 16 wells.
Our plan is to grow the wells in each pilot first and then complete the wells in each pilot once drilling has been completed.
And as such none of these 16 wells will have first sales until the second quarter.
Also with varying working interest in the wells that we drill the overall timing of total company net completions has been varying quarter-to-quarter.
And taking this into account for both the Permian and the Cana areas our total company net well completions just dropped from an average of 17 net wells per month in Q3 '13 to 10.5 net wells completed per month in Q4 and we're projecting to increase that number of completions from back up to our Q3 '13 levels here in late Q1 and Q2.
So the bottomline to all this is is similar to the production profile we exhibited last year we're projecting 2014 growth to take foot in the mid-to-late Q2.
Jumping now over to our operating cost.
Our Q4 lifting cost came in at $1.11 per Mcfe that was at the low end of our full year guidance range of $1.11 to $1.16 right in line with our Q1 '13 average of $1.17 our Q2 '13 average of $1.11 and our Q3 '13 average of $1.15.
And with that our full year 2013 lifting cost settled in at a $1.13 per Mcfe that's flat with 2012 despite the cost pressures we've seen in items such as SWD compression power fuel rentals et cetera.
Especially in the Permian where we're generally seeing higher operating expenses for items such as lift compression and water disposal.
With our focus on LOE over the last three years we've been able to fight off those pressures while reducing our Permian lifting cost from $1.88 per Mcfe in 2011 to $1.50 in 2012 and now down to $1.48 in 2013.
So across the board our production team has done just a great job of keeping our operating expenses in check.
As we look forward into 2014 with our continued focus in the Permian and our overall focus primarily on liquids growth we're projecting our 2014 lifting cost to fall in a range of $1.12 to $1.22.
A few words on service cost.
First with regard to drilling cost.
With tools equipment and services readily available in each of our programs we continue to see most costs components stay relatively in check.
Day rates appear to be in the same boat although we are seeing the market for top-drive rigs tighten up a bit from last quarter.
With these costs somewhat flat our drilling group has made great strides to reduce our drilling cost through program efficiencies especially in the Permian where our continued focus on bit technology and rotary steerable drilling has helped us cut our AFE drilling days over the last year in each one of our programs the Texas and New Mexico Bone Spring program the Avalon program and the Wolfcamp program.
On the completion side we've had no difficulty securing frac equipment or crude and we continue to experiment as John mentioned with different frac designs.
In general through operating efficiencies and I need to mention the efforts of our service providers we've enabled to capitalize on stable to softening service and material cost in order to help offset some of the cost that we've been seeing with the larger jobs that we've pumped.
In Cana after years of program drilling we continue to see performance and cost improvement during 2013 cutting our growing cost per foot by 25% from the levels we saw in 2012.
And with that our current core AFEs are now running in a range of $6.3 million to $6.9 million again that's primarily depending on the size of our frac.
In the Permian our Second and Third New Mexico Bone Spring AFEs continue to run in the range of $5.7 million to $6.5 million depending on debt.
That's down about $400 000 to $500 000 from where we were a year ago.
Our shallower Texas Second Bone Spring AFEs are holding flat at $5.1 million.
That's also down about $500 000 from a year ago.
And our West Texas third Bone Spring AFEs continue to hold flat at $6.4 million to $6.5 million.
That's well below the $7.5 million that we were incurring back in 2012.
In the Wolfcamp we're gaining some traction with program efficiencies.
As an example on Culberson we've seen our average days to TD for 4 500 foot Wolfcamp lateral dropped from 39 days in 2012 to 33 days in 2013.
We have seen the same improvement in the Reeves Ward County areas with our Wolfcamp average days to TD again for 4 500 foot lateral dropping from 28 days in 2012 to 22 days in 2013.
That said we're still in the very early stages of program drilling the Wolfcamp.
Especially when considering the broad geographical area that we're testing with the play extending itself from Southern Eddy in New Mexico down into Culberson and then over to the east into Reeves and Ward Counties.
As such we're obviously excited about the progress we've been making but we are also seeing potential gains still yet to be made as we get more wells under our belt.
As John mentioned we've upsized our completions into Wolfcamp and we've seen some vary favorable results.
Those upsized completions are running us anywhere from $600 000 to $700 000 per well.
And incorporating those costs our current generic Wolfcamp AFEs are now running in the range of $8 million to $8.5 million with our Culberson County wells falling on the higher end of that range and our Reeves Ward County wells on the lower end.
As we continue to experiment with long laterals we are projecting our 10 000 foot Wolfcamp laterals and Reeves County to run into $13 million to $14 million range and that's solely depending on our whole design configuration.
If we drill a 7 500 foot lateral we'll probably take about $2.5 million off those numbers.
Again we're still in the very early stages of not only the Wolfcamp but drilling these long laterals and our drilling team is pretty excited about creating the efficiencies that we've seen in other programs as we continue to drill more of them.
In closing we had a great 2013.
Our programs are doing great.
We saw record 2013 production.
Our LOEs in check and development cost continue to head in the right direction great momentum to start-off 2014.
Reiterating what tom said part of our growth last year was helping our organization grow together to develop these program plays from just finding the locations to drilling them to producing them and putting the infrastructure in place and then the overall administration of the program.
So we'd made great progress.
And we're very proud of the organization.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) The first question we have comes from Drew Venker of Morgan Stanley.
In your opening remarks you talked about multiyear development planning just hoping you could talk about Culberson County to begin with I guess going through how long you need to hold your acreage there? How many wells that entails? When you might be able to be drill more Wolfcamp A wells and I guess also when do you think you might be drilling more of those 10 000 foot laterals? Well Drew this is Tom.
We are indeed looking at a multiyear time horizon and we have to.
I mean we've got decisions to make today that will impact 2018 2019.
We have to collect the science and do the spacing pilots in order to come up with prudent development plans.
We don't know what ultimate spacing will be.
I mean John talked about 80 acre spacing.
He talked about 105 acre spacing.
Today we can't tell you that it's not 40 acre spacing.
We just don't know until we go out there and test it.
And we're looking carefully at competitors but right now we're not throwing a lot of spacing pilots going on the Delaware Basin other than our four.
We have one competitor doing another space pilot issue but we're having to create these data points to setup our out years.
So we have to do the science required for out year developments.
We have to build the infrastructure and we have to club the financing plan.
So we are looking at that year at out years.
You asked about Culberson County overall in the Basin we're on a glide path to hold all of our acreage certainly all of that we see perspective which is darn near every acres.
And that's a very manageable program.
If we do the minimum it would probably be $350 million a year for the next few years but we're accelerating that and we'll front load that so we can get that held earlier.
Your question also was about Culberson County and Wolfcamp A Wolfcamp C Wolfcamp D.
It depends by large on the lease.
Some of our leases we can hold all Wolfcamp with one well so we can choose the zone.
Other leases we have to drill the deepest target first in order to hole the deepest interval but a lot's changed since we have gone into this project and one of which there was a day when we would have said we think the Wolfcamp A is our most economic target.
Today we don't know.
That Montrose well was landed to Wolfcamp D.
And it's arguably the best economics of any well we've drilled in basin.
And so we don't know if leases were a concern I can't tell you today which would be our primarily target.
We've got a lot of experimentation with these long laterals and upside fracs before we can make that kind of economic high-grade.
And finally you asked about future development.
We do have a development plan and its changing everyday based on these pilot projects that's why we're doing them.
We don't think we're going to have any issues with land going into full development whether that would be Culberson Reeves or Ward we don't know today but we're getting for it.
I guess going back to the HBP question.
Do you have a sense of when do you might have that Culberson position held? And then I guess going back to those long laterals what would I guess changed your -- how many wells you're drilling on that 10 000 foot lateral basis? I can address right off about the laterals.
We have drilled two now I mean we have talked about one.
Going forward currently in Culberson for the rest of this year we have three more 10 000 foot laterals planned One into D two into C.
We also have seven 7 500 foot laterals.
Now you might ask yourself why not 10 000 and quite frankly that's because of the way the acreage lined up we were able to drill 7 500 because of the way the o sections were.
We have seven of those going forward four into D and three in the A.
So we have quite a few now that that we're planning.
And obviously from the results we talked about we're very excited and trying to move quicker towards the path and towards drilling those type of wells.
I mean as far as holding our acreage I mean we have a schedule and we kind of know each year what kind of capital that schedule requires.
We do tend to front in that meaning we try to get ahead of it.
It's safe to say with certainly by the end of 2017 we'll have a majority of that held or maybe just a few wells maybe we have to do but we'll be in pretty good shape by '17 for sure.
I want to make one follow-up point.
All of our pilots are 5 000 foot laterals and we don't see that as -- in everything we learn on the pilot we view it will be directly applicable to a longer lateral.
And so we're doing our pilots on 5 000 foot laterals quite frankly because we can get them drilled faster completed quicker and we spend a little less per well as we experiment but everything we're learning in this pilots should directly translate to longer laterals.
One last one for you do you have exposure to the stack play in Merrimack in Oklahoma? Is that something you've been testing? As we recognized the play as we see what our competitors are doing and as we map it we do feel as though that that interval definitely carries over into our Cana HBP acreage.
Quite frankly it looks very perspective based on where they're putting their laterals.
And we are developing plans to aggressively move forward and tested here in the near future on our acreage at least some initial tests.
Next would Cameron Horwitz of U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Question Tom you talked about Culberson being pretty well set out to moved along longer lateral development there.
Can you just talk about the setup and reason Ward counties? How much of that do you think you can move toward the longer lateral development? We have a fair amount and I'll let John chime in but certainly in Reeves County there is a fair amount of our acreage that would support long laterals.
I'm looking at John half maybe? I would say at least half.
The challenge in a lot of these areas is it's parsed up land-wise.
So it's a nice thing when you get these continuous acreage blocks.
Ward County we have some good continuous acreage blocks but whether that will be -- I don't know if that will support for 10 000 foot lateral.
We may have some 7 500 foot laterals to drill there.
But when we think long laterals based on what we seen we're going to do it everywhere we can.
But it really harkens back to the real value of that agreement between Chevron and Cimarex.
Long laterals were strong motivator for both companies to enter into our joint development agreement and the results we're seeing are really really reinforcing that decision.
And I guess sticking with that topic I mean can you just talk about the interplay with moving the longer lateral I mean obviously you're getting much more right upfront and just how that dovetails with thinking about facility and midstream build out there? It obviously plays a big role in that.
The resources needs not only as far as batteries equipment but also people.
And as we continue to look forward down the road as to our resource needs this all plays a big role in that.
So we're trying to optimize every which way we can.
There is not only just operational efficiencies to be gained we also firmly believe there is tremendous capital efficiencies to be gained as well.
And then just jumping same to Culberson and then jumping at Bone Spring it looks like you had a pretty nice uptick in terms of the average productivity on those wells from last quarter.
There is some talk about some upsize frac from some initial comments in that area.
Was that playing at all into the results or is that in the balance of just the natural variability.
I would probably lean more towards the natural variability.
We have played with the frac design.
Tom mention it is kind of nice in Delaware Basin that there are a lot of competitors and we pay very close attention to what others were doing.
We learn from that.
In the case of the Bone Spring we have tried some upside fracs.
I would say right off the bat we got the kind of uplift we were looking for but still the jury is still out.
Those wells are still in early flow back.
I would also point out that we're just getting more and more comfortable with that region in terms of what we're looking for in terms of what we're putting those laterals in the Bone Spring.
I think that's what's showing up in the kind of activity results we're getting there.
I mean it's turning out to be without a doubt that Second Bone Spring in Culberson some of the highest rate of return wells we're drilling right now.
And then just lastly Permian.
I know it's not a focus area for you guys but I think you drilled a few wells over in Reagan County.
Just kind of curious what the plan is there if that's an area where you look to expand or potentially a monetization candidate? Probably in that case more monetization and we have some legacy acreage there.
Our team did a nice job of identifying the potential there and there was enough acreage to justify what's going out there and doing a couple well test.
We're still in flow back on those wells but we were encouraged enough from the results that we have budgeted some money this year to drill some additional wells on that acreage block.
But this is not a very big position for us at all.
It's more about just taking advantage of having that relatively small track of land right there in Reagan and drilling on it.
Next we have Jason Smith of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
When thinking about the drivers behind your production guidance growth for 2014 have you assumed any uplift from the upsize fracs like you've seen from Tim Tam or from the longer laterals or is there a bit of conservative in both in there? When we first put our plan together we had limited data.
So the answer to your question at a fairly high level is yes.
We've incorporated production uplifts on a risk basis for our Wolfcamp program and that's built into our numbers.
And with your initial Ward well out of the way and with you saying earlier that you probably don't have as much acreage to drill longer laterals on there.
Should we expect you to maintain a fair amount of activity there or do you expect to shift the focus really back to Reeves and Culberson? And what do you have to hold acreage-in in Ward? Well we expect to be still fairly active in Ward.
We do have acreage to hold.
As you know we picked up a nice block of acreage last year that we will need to overtime here drill on.
But no the actively level will be pretty good at Ward because we have a lot of acreage there but we also have a lot of testing delineations still to do there.
Of the three areas is the one where we've done our lease drilling.
So we still have a lot to do to learn and understand how perspective that acreage is I'll just point out not just in the A but I would argue throughout the entire Wolfcamp section there.
We haven't really stepped down into the deeper section yet although we talk about doing that at some point later this year in Ward.
We're quite high on Ward.
It's not a stepchild by any means.
We currently have 18 rigs running in the Delaware Basin and four them are in Ward County.
So it's a good project.
And I'd like to squeeze one more and you guys haven't talked at all about potentially testing the Delaware zone.
Do you have any plans to do that as you go through this delineation here? We don't have any plans as of right now as we always talk about we recognize it.
It's just obviously our first primary purpose when we drill the well in a new section like that is to hold acreage and so we're going to the deepest target where we can get good rate of returns.
We will get there eventually but as of right now we don't have any plans.
There's no mystery there.
We like the Delaware group.
We've drilled a lot Delaware in our history.
The thing is it's relatively uncontrolled out here.
It's a big thick package sands come and go and you need to map it with control.
So every time we drill a Wolfcamp well we add another point of control we're mapping as we go and we see it as future objective but it certainly will be part of our 2014 program.
The next question we have comes from Phillip Jungwirth of BMO.
There were some well in Ward County had a pretty comparable IP rate to the typical Third Bone Spring well that you've drilled in the past over there.
But is there any reason to expect that you might see a shallower decline rate in the Wolfcamp than you've seen in the Bone Spring? We don't know.
I think honestly just time will tell in that case.
I don't know that -- I guess I'll just say we don't know.
We just need more production history here to tell us whether or not we can get a different type of decline profile than what the typical Third Bone Spring sands do.
So we'll just have to wait and see.
And then on Slide 14 in the presentation where you mentioned Ward County in that slide are you saying that you don't think the Wolfcamp B through D is perspective and Ward that you just haven't tested that yet? And you're referring to Reeves County? Ward County? Right now I can't really comment on D.
Honestly when we look at Ward County the next sound that we get really excite about is really the B/C.
Now I don't know that really look much at D I think it does thin there some but I can't really comment.
Nobody's really to my recollection has drilled a D well in Ward County.
Just on Slide 14 our wells and targets that we're currently exploiting that we view our economic.
So in Ward County we only have one target there because that's all we've drilled.
We will be testing the B/C as John said.
It looks highly perspective to us.
We didn't include on the slide because we don't have any results.
And then on Slide 12 the old curve looks like the 5.5 Bcf case from last year.
But I was wondering what the EUR assumptions are for the Tim Tam well? Just looking at the graph and the PV10 it looks like it could be a little bit higher than the 30% increase in IP range that you've talked about from upside fracs? We're not prepared to comment on EUR for a well for which we just have a few months of production.
We're going to have to watch it.
And it does look like it's a little shallower decline in our original wells.
And we're seeing greater than a 30% uplift certainly on sustained rate.
But time will tell our EUR there.
Then the last question how much opportunity is there to expand your existing Avalon oil acreage and then also the Reeves County acreage positions? I must say that Avalon position we have is right in kind of the sweet spot of where the best Avalon wells are being made.
And so it's pretty tightly held by a number of operators.
We're fortunate enough to have the position we have to develop those locations.
So I don't see much in a way.
There is no acreage necessarily just go out there and lease it's tied up pretty tight.
Your second question? I'm sorry.
Reeves County Wolfcamp? In terms of additional acreage? Yes.
Well it's safe to say yes.
We are still actively trying based on our mapping to continue to acquire acreage and we continue to be somewhat successful in doing that.
But we still are having some success picking up new leases in that play.
Next we have Brian Gamble of Simmons &amp; Company.
Guys just a follow-up on the acreage question over there.
As far as your position in Culberson and the relative availability of the longer laterals does that new tactic of doing this many long laterals as you can focusing more attention on potential acreage swaps and bulking up acreage in prices where you and some of your neighboring operators will be benefited from that sort of agreement.
Well boy I'd love to think we could do that.
Obviously what made the Chevron JDA so perfect for that is because it was a check report.
Essentially they were the white squares and we were the black.
So by putting that together it was a natural fit.
In other areas it all kind of depends on how your acreage flows relative to your competitors and your peers and what you could do there.
I mean if there was a situation where we felt like there was someone who had a comparable acreage position that we paired up it would lead to longer laterals we would probably entertain talking to them.
But I just don't know if there is going to be that many situations just given the lay to land there.
And then you mentioned stack you mentioned plans to test it any sort of timeframe you wanted to put around that as we talk in to something that's eminent something that's a back half '14 event? No.
I would argue it's more of a latter first second quarter event for us.
This time we're obviously watching our competitors carefully on that and we see their enthusiasm for the play.
We also understand that there are a lot of technology challenges that were faced and dealt in that play.
We understand those technical challenges probably.
And we see the potential but boy there is so much we don't know.
We don't know what the yield will be is it oily is it gassy what the deliverability will be.
We're going to test it and we'll report back when we have some results.
And Tom you kind of alluded that with [indiscernible].
That's underway and we'll report it will be midyear.
And last one from me as you guys walking through the Q1 production impacts and how those wells come on in the very variability of timing of things.
It seemed to indicate that the run ramp for production obviously starts in Q2 but the back half of the year from a percentage gains basis would probably be stronger is that a fair assumption to make? I mean to get to the 760 to 780 and start off where we are in Q1 it's obviously a ramp up.
And the ramp up as we've currently got it scheduled and all this can vary with completion schedules frac schedules crews and what have you calls for a good ramp up here in the later part of Q2.
And reality always can intervene on the best plants but I'll say this we have shy of one rig of the rigs that are fully baked into that plan and we're on track here.
So the model is what the model is.
It's back half loaded.
This is the exact same type of profile that we put out in front of you guys last year and we did it.
The next question will have comes from Jeff Robertson of Barclays.
Can you all talk about the time you need to evaluate these new frac techniques to figure out if you're having the right recipe before you start deciding whether or not there is a variable you need to change? I guess it would depend on which engineer I talk to because depending on who I talk to they all wanted a difference amount of time.
There are certain things we look for obviously what's and rather so excited about Culberson is just that initial IP and that 30-day rate we see that clearly was a step change relative to our other wells as our graph shows.
But I'll be honest some of these other wells it doesn't really show up some times early on in the production but it definitely shows up a good 90 days 120 days later in the client profile.
So sometimes it could take a good 90 days to 120 days before you really sell like you've made a type of change that's going to be material in terms of that overall EUR.
Do you think you'll have data by the time you start completing some of the wells some of that pilot test you're drilling on pads in the second quarter.
Well we feel very good about our frac design right now especially in Culberson very good.
Now I would argue in Reeves we haven't drilled as many wells.
And I would argue that we still have potential to dramatically change that frac and do even better Reeves.
The resource there is very thick.
It maps very good for us.
And so we still have some homework to do their in Reeves in terms of optimizing that frac but I'd like the job we have right now that we're doing as evidenced by some of the results we've talked about in the past.
So going forward we feel very good about our current stimulation for that area.
John I think you mentioned you all are going to take that technique or some variation of it up to Cana this year? Did you say how many wells you have on inventory? What I can speak to is we have taken from the Culberson completion and we've taken it to one of our sections and we have completed four wells now in Canada using that frac style and we are inflow back and again you can sit here and argue how many months is it going to take to tell whether it makes a different or not.
But I'll just simply say as I said earlier the early signs to us are encouraging.
And certainly that's something probably by next earnings call we'll have a lot more information to tell you about on those wells.
Last question on the Reeves County where you all will drill the stacked pilot in the Wolfcamp A in Culberson or in Ward is a Wolfcamp A where you show it beginning a little bit thinner is it thick enough or is it there trying to do any kind of a stacked spacing test as well.
We don't know.
I would argue.
We will probably test it since we just don't know.
Is it thick enough? Is it sufficiently thick to absorb to pilots and stack them and we're going to probably test it.
We are constantly amazed based on what others are doing not just within the Delaware Basin but other Basins and how tight people are starting to put these laterals vertically from each other.
And so that's something we recognize and yes and in Culberson A we will more than likely touch that.
The next question we have comes from Abhi Sinha of Wunderlich Securities.
I just had couple of questions.
One on Avalon just trying to get how uniform the acreage is or how continuous the acreage is basically so I'm trying to evaluate how did you get to 200 locations? Is it just like acreage or spacing or there is more specific location wise? Again we're very lucky in the Avalon.
There is a lot of drilling that's taking place.
A lot of pilots have gone forward.
And right now everyone is kind of gravitating to six wells a section.
So really there's nothing more than just taking our current perspective acreage position and then planning out to six wells per section to get to that well count.
So just as a follow-up.
The technician that you've brought in Avalon versus what you experienced last time.
My guess is like in the last experience three years ago when you drilled some wells you experienced a high decline rate.
And the techniques that you're applying right now is geared towards getting a higher IP.
Are you doing something to tackle the high decline rate in terms choke size or anything like that or is it more towards getting higher IP which will get you higher returns.
In the cast of Avalon you're absolutely right that early on in that program when we drilled the completed wells we've got very good IPs but then they would fall like a rock within the first 30 days to 60 days.
Quite frankly with this new frac design we don't really experienced very high IPs at first but over time the wells continued to clean up to whereafter 30 days to 60 days we then reached our peak IP.
And then we see much slower decline.
So that's what's been the biggest change as per that frac design which has led to that kind of result we're having.
So we've fundamentally had changed kind of the flow back profile of those wells based on that frac.
And on the Wolfcamp side can you comment if you have any presence of Wolfcamp in your New Mexico counties like Lea or any counties like one of your smaller competitor just reported a well in Lea County I guess having the Wolfcamp presence? We have acreage in that play especially up in the White City area.
But we also recognize that that it could expand even beyond there.
We just haven't got to the point of testing it just yet in the areas like Lea County like you're mentioning.
White City is in Eddy County and that's actually where we drilled our first Wolfcamp well in 2009.
An area quite frankly we're looking back at now from along lateral standpoint.
It to us right now that area looks very perspective now because of these long laterals.
And lastly could you just remind us how your rig distribution looks like right now? I mean considering you increased the rig count in Permian from 12 to 16 and it decreased in the Mid-Continent but I'm not sure what the non-activity looks like in Mid-Content and how the rig distribution look likes versus Bone Spring versus what you have in Wolfcamp? Well I can tell you exactly what's going on today but also in 30 days it will change because obviously any one rig we have could move from a Bone Spring to a Wolfcamp well.
But as we speak right now we have nine wells soon to be 10 drilling Wolfcamp wells.
Six wells drilling Bone Springs and then one well drilling in Avalon and then there is another rig testing other types of concepts for us right now.
So right now that should bring you to 18 with the 19 rig coming some time in the April May timeframe.
In terms of Cana we have the two operated rigs and then we have a partners has six rigs.
But our understanding is they will be winding down the rig count to essentially zero some time here in the second quarter if not sooner in Cana.
Matt Portillo of TPH.
Most of my questions have been answered but I want to do just follow-up on a few.
In terms of your acreage position you mentioned perspective acreage in Reagan and then also some perspective acreage in the stack.
I was wondering if you could put any context behind that in terms of the size of those positions? Well I can say this much in terms of the Midland Basin right now we have seven wells scheduled for Midland on that acreage.
Again the 2014 I think there is some follow-up ones in '15.
It's not a huge position.
It's not going to be more than a few dozen wells in absolute total.
And then in terms of stack I honestly I don't know we really have a good number on acreage right now.
We're still trying to map it to get a better definition of it.
We have a lot of acreage over I'll just say that much.
I can tell you that most of what we know about stack we've gleamed from the internet.
And we see the same mystery that our competitors do and that the long response look somewhat enigmatic and competitive that's ahead of us to call core and now is unlocking the play to them.
We've taken a long-haul core it's currently being analyzed.
As John said as we map that interval it comes over most if not all of our 75 000 acres held by production acreage.
And I just told you about the full technical analysis.
We're analyzing the rocks.
We are going to test it and the proof will be in the pudding.
But one of the many unknowns two of them are the rate the ultimate deliverability and the hydrocarbon type.
And we can do all the science in the world and then the well will tell us the answer and that's underway.
And then in terms of the Avalon I was wondering if you could put any context behind how you guys are thinking about the EURs in the play even if it's kind of a wide range around it just trying to get a sense of what your recovery maybe there? I'm not going to quote an EUR as much as I'll just say again the rate of returns right now on our Avalon wells are pretty much competing right there with our Bone Spring wells.
It's turned into a wonderful rate of return play for us.
So we're very very pleased.
And then thus you see the amount of capital we're going to allocate to it this year and aggressively drill it this year.
And then just last question Gulf Coast has become kind of diminished within your overall portfolio.
I wondered if you could give us some color on the plans there kind of in 2014 and then on a go-forward basis on what you maybe looking at doing? It saddens me to say being a geophysicist that at the end of '13 we've made the decision to close down our Gulf Coast region as an active exploration region.
It really reached to point where with the totality of all the opportunity we had in the Permian and quite frankly Mid-Continent and the type of rate of returns we're generating we just felt like the Gulf Coast cannot be as impactful as it has for us in the past.
And quite frankly we have extremely talented people in the Gulf Coast that we felt like we could better deploy in both the Permian and the Mid-Continent efforts.
So at the end of '13 we did that.
We have at best maybe one or two prospects remaining that we like that we may drill in the '14 and then that would pretty much close the door on our Gulf Coast exploration program.
It's showing that we have reached an hour we will go ahead and conclude with our last question for today.
It will be Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank.
So a couple of quick ones for you.
Following-up on the Avalon the couple of hundred locations you have talked about in Avalon so far is that spread across all acreage review as perspective there.
Do you have any upside to that potential in Avalon acreage? I mean when we quote those locations we're really talking specifically to that one area in southwestern Lea that that quite frankly the best wells are being drilled.
And that's where we concentrate our effort.
As I said earlier for the previous call that acreage is tied up very tight.
There is not a lot of additional opportunity to expand upon that.
So right now that that's where we're concentrating our efforts.
The Avalon is perspective over a very broad part of the Basin.
In fact our one of the best Avalon wells drilled there's a well we drilled in Eddy County a very gassy well a very high deliverability.
So could the Avalon expand? Absolutely.
It's a function of product price.
So it's reservoir and it produces over much of the Basin.
Speaking of price obviously has pretty strong gas prices and slightly better NGL prices than we've had in a while.
Any thoughts on use of -- I mean I would imagine given the commodity prices that we have right now.
I know it's early in the year cash flow is probably tracking ahead of budget and ahead expectations.
Any thoughts on how you'd prioritize use of potential excess cash? And whether you think about increasing activity at all maybe Cana in or targeting opportunism in gas.
We have not changed our capital program expectations for the year yet.
We're still at $1.8 billion.
Coming into the year we envisioned outspending our cash flow by $300 million or $400 million.
The higher product prices and higher revenues simply mean we'll most likely borrow less.
And gentlemen did you have any closing remarks at this time.
Thank you everyone for joining us today on the conference call.
I appreciate your attention and I will look forward to seeing you in future.
Any follow-up calls please give Karen Acierno or myself a call and we'd loved to discuss any other question you might have.
But again thanks for attending and we look forward to report you further in the future.
Thanks very much.
And we thank you sir and the rest of management team for your time today.
The conference call has now concluded.
We thank you all for attending today's presentation.
At this time we may disconnect your lines.
Thank you and take care everyone.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Cimarex Energy First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mark Burford Vice President of Capital Markets and Planning.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much Marie and thank you everyone for joining us today on our first quarter conference call.
Speaking today will be Tom Jorden President and CEO; Joe Albi EVP and COO; John Lambuth Vice President -- and John Lambuth Vice President Exploration.
We also have Paul Korus CFO; and Karen Acierno on hand here today as well.
We issued our financial and operating results release this morning and also a release regarding a new acquisition that we announced yesterday after the close.
And a copy of the news releases can be found on our website along with the latest presentation which we may refer to from time to time today on today's call.
I need to remind you that today's discussion will contain forward-looking statements.
A number of factors could cause the actual results to differ materially from what we discuss.
You should read and -- you should read our disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest 10-K other filings and news releases for risks factors associated with our business.
So we have a lot of to cover today so I'll go ahead and get the call turned over to Tom.
Thank you Mark and thanks to all of you for participating in today's conference.
We sincerely appreciate your interest in Cimarex.
I'd like to take a few minutes to touch on some highlights for the quarter before turning it over to John and Joe for a more detailed update.
Our success in the quarter I think is best described with one word and that's innovation.
Innovation resulted in dramatically improved results in our Cana-Woodford play which led to record production of 740 million cubic feet equivalent during the quarter up 12% over last year but more importantly up 13% sequentially which was well ahead of our guidance.
This extraordinary success in Cana came from the implementation of upsized completions and some better-than-expected results from a workover program.
These results were a key driver in our decision to purchase additional Cana assets a transaction we announced yesterday.
Upon closing we'll have spent approximately $250 million for 140 Bcf-equivalent approved reserves and more importantly 50 000 net acres of which 30 000 are in our Cana focus area.
With this transaction we were able to increase our position in the field where we are a dominant player at a time when we are rediscovering its potential.
We're experiencing significant uplift to our returns in Cana from an upsized frac returns that compete with those in the Permian.
In addition we see additional upside in this acreage including the Merrimack potential.
As you know we at Cimarex seek a return on investment capital and we're somewhat agnostic as to whether those returns come from oil projects or gas projects.
We think it's to our advantage to be a multi-basin company with a portfolio of opportunities.
Every now and then you articulate a strategy you articulate a philosophy and you occasionally get to demonstrate it by living it.
What I want to say is that we've become very heavily Permian-weighted and I'll -- we'll talk about that a lot in this call but one of our challenges to our organization over the last 9 months to 1 year has been let's find other areas to get returns that can compete with the Permian.
We manage Cimarex and we manage our program by having a diverse exposure to a number of different play types a number of different commodity types and we believe the company is made stronger to have the flexibility of picking and choosing as opportunities arise.
We had some extraordinary success and I attribute that to our team in the Mid-Continent working Cana with their completion innovation and also some workover innovation.
And as we sit today we think our Cana program competes head on with returns with our Permian program.
And that is an absolutely wonderful outcome.
Now it's also gratifying to raise our guidance and give an increased growth trajectory and communicate it to you.
But I want to say again and we've said this before this is about return on investment capital and not about a growth target.
And we're delighted to be facing a landscape where we have returns on invested capital in the Permian and in the Mid-Continent area that can compete head-to-head that gives us the flexibility to adapt to market conditions and any constraints in this growing industry environment.
So I want to be clear this purchase and our excitement about Cana has not altered our plans for the Delaware Basin.
We are right on track and you'll hear about some significant new results.
Innovation has resulted in Cimarex continuing to make great wells and see improvements in our completion techniques in the Delaware Basin as well.
One thing we like in particular are the results we're achieving with long laterals.
So much so we're now moving our program to drill long laterals wherever possible.
We've put a lot of energy into building a land position that allows for long laterals.
And this year in 2014 approximately 40% of our Wolfcamp wells will be drilled with long laterals.
Our acreage position in Culberson County which we solidified by our joint development agreement with Chevron provides the perfect platform for long laterals.
Today we announced our second long lateral in Culberson County drilled to the Wolfcamp D target the well was the Gallant Fox completed using a 10 000-foot lateral and a 43-stage completion.
Despite some initial pipeline constraints that well had a 30-day average production rate of over 2 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
With long laterals in mind we added to our acreage position.
We added 45 000 net acres to our Wolfcamp play fairway in the first quarter including 35 000 acres in Reeves County.
Now some of that acreage was added through new leasing.
Some of it is added through an expansion of our fairway.
We had a couple of fairly significant wells that industry competitors drilled in Southern Lea County and that allowed us to recognize additional acreage that went into our Wolfcamp fairway.
Our pilot program continues.
We're flowing back our Wolfcamp C and D stacked lateral tests in Culberson County.
And our completion of our 4-well 80-acre pilots in Culberson and Reeves are underway and on target.
We'll share those results with you later in the year.
So with that I'll turn the call over to John Lambuth to discuss details of our drilling program.
Thanks Tom.
I'd like to quickly cover some of the highlights of our overall program before getting into the Permian region.
I'll then finish with our Mid-Continent region and the results in Cana.
Cimarex drilled and completed 74 gross 36 net wells during the quarter investing $467 million.
67% of this investment was in the Permian region with 29% of it in the Mid-Continent.
Of those 36 net wells 21 net wells were in the Permian region where we continue to be focused on the Bone Spring Avalon and Wolfcamp formations in the Delaware Basin.
Bone Spring activity in the first quarter included 13 net wells in New Mexico and Texas.
Results continue to be good generating some of the company's highest rate of returns with oil volumes representing up to 84% of the first 30 days of production.
Our Bone Spring program for 2014 is comprised of 56 net wells which results in a total investment of $375 million.
We continue to have about 200 to 300 Bone Spring locations identified on our acreage in New Mexico and in Culberson County where we have identified a thick highly productive 2nd Bone Spring sand.
At the beginning of the year we announced a new drilling program in the Avalon Shale in Lea County New Mexico.
Results to date have been very good.
The 9 Avalon wells drilled-to-date have a 30-day average IP of 1 003 barrels of oil equivalent per day with oil making up 77% of the production from these wells.
We have an inventory of over 200 locations and plan to drill from 15 to 20 wells in 2014.
About half of our Permian drilling capital in 2014 or about $685 million will go toward further delineation of Cimarex's Wolfcamp opportunities in the Delaware Basin.
This includes downspacing pilots and wells drilled to hold acreage.
As Tom mentioned we now have 225 000 net acres identified as prospective for the Wolfcamp Shale up from the 180 000 net acres we discussed during our last call.
This is the result of both acquisition of additional acreage and a slight redrawing of the Wolfcamp fairway outline due to recent well results.
You can view our new fairway outline in our updated presentation materials.
We are currently producing from 6 distinct Wolfcamp zones across the 225 000 net acres we've defined as our Wolfcamp fairway.
While they may have the same name they have very different characteristics across the play.
We define them as the Wolfcamp A C and D zones in Culberson the Wolfcamp A and B/C in Reeves and the Wolfcamp A in Ward County.
We currently have wells producing from all of these Wolfcamp zones.
As Tom mentioned one of the innovations of the first quarter was the proof of concept of long-lateral drilling in the Wolfcamp.
We now have 9 long-laterals wells producing across our acreage and expect 40% of our 2014 Wolfcamp wells to be long laterals which we defined as being longer than 5 000 feet.
Over half of the Culberson County Wolfcamp wells will be long laterals with 14 in the Wolfcamp D one in the C and one in the A and another 13 long laterals are planned in the Wolfcamp A in Reeves and Ward Counties.
A couple of examples of the recent success we've had with long laterals includes a well we announced today and then one that Tom mentioned earlier the Gallant Fox which had a 30-day peak IP average of 2 516 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
It is our second well in Culberson County to incorporate long-lateral drilling and upsized fracture stimulation.
The 10 000-foot long Gallant Fox well was completed with 43 frac stages.
Typical of a Wolfcamp D well it has a product mix that is comprised of 646 barrels of oil which is 26% of the production; 6.9 million cubic feet of gas a day which equates to 45%; and 730 barrels of NGL per day or 29%.
In Reeves County we recently completed a well we call Thunder which had a peak 30-day IP rate of 1 411 barrels of oil equivalent per day from the Wolfcamp A.
This well was a 6 400-foot long lateral and was completed with 30 frac stages.
This rate is 50% higher than our standard 5 000-foot lateral with a 12-stage completion.
Like other Wolfcamp A wells in Reeves County the Thunder was predominantly oil which made up 50% of the production.
Lastly in the Delaware Basin I'd like to give you an update on the status of the 4 unique pilot programs we currently have underway.
I'll refer you to our presentation for an illustration to the designs.
Our first pilot to be drilled and completed is the stacked lateral test in Culberson County.
These wells are testing the concept of producing from laterals stacked in Wolfcamp C and D.
These 2 wells have been fracture stimulated and have just started the flowback on them.
The 2 4-well 80-acre downspacing pilots one in the Wolfcamp D in Culberson and the other in the Wolfcamp A in Reeves County are both in various stages of completion.
Once all 4 wells in the pilot are completed the wells will be put on production and begin flowback.
The fourth pilot is in the Wolfcamp A in Reeves and is considered both a stacked and staggered as it will test the downspacing and the viability of landing more than one lateral in the thick Wolfcamp A section.
We currently have 2 rigs drilling this 6-well pilot.
As scheduled today all the wells and all of the pilots should be on production sometime in the third quarter.
Now onto the Mid-Continent where we have perhaps our most exciting news for this quarter.
We are pleased to report that our efforts to bring the upsized completion to our development in Cana has been highly successful.
To illustrate I'd like to direct you to Slide 18 in our latest corporate update posted on our website.
This graph compares the traditional Cana infield completion with our aptly named Golden Section the first section completed using an upsized frac.
Results are strikingly similar to those we've experienced when we upsized the frac in Culberson County.
This upsized frac had a positive impact on the initial production the recoverable reserves and most importantly on the returns.
Investing an additional $700 000 increases our before-tax internal rate of return from 38% to 86%.
And our NPV10 more than doubles from $5.5 million to $14 million.
At Cimarex we like having options.
And based on our results so far these wells most definitely compete with our returns in the Permian giving us more places to invest capital for good returns.
We have 2 more operated sections on the schedule to be completed in 2014 and we look forward to reviewing our future plans as we get further confirmation of upsized frac results in Cana.
With that I'll turn the call over to Joe Albi.
Thank you John and thank you all for joining our call today.
I'll touch on the usual topics.
Our -- first our first quarter of '14 production.
I'll discuss the remainder of the year from a production outlook standpoint and follow up with a brief discussion on our operating and service costs.
We truly had a great Q1 reporting average net daily equivalent production of 740 million cubic -- equivalent cubic feet a day a record for the company and 30 million a day above the upper end of our Q1 guidance which was 696 million to 710 million.
Both Cana and the Permian played a role in us exceeding our guidance with Cana being the real driver.
The step-change in performance that we've seen using upsized fracs in our new Cana completions played the biggest role on our production beat while we also saw some nice increases in our Cana-based property production as a result of a number of well-bore cleanouts and remediation projects that our production team performed during the quarter.
The bottom line is Cana just simply well exceeded our plan expectations.
In the Permian our new well forecast held very tight to plan while our Triple Crown pipeline turnaround project went about as smooth as it can go and therefore resulted in less downtime on the system than we had expected.
And it also played a role in helping us to exceed our guidance.
With a nice jump in our Q1 production we were up 5% from our Q4 '13 average of 705 million a day and 12% over our Q1 '13 output of 661 million a day.
Driven by Cana Q1 ended up being a quarter of records for us in the Mid-Continent where we set regional records for all product categories: gas oil NGL total liquids and equivalent production.
Our Q1 Mid-Continent equivalent volume of 371 million a day was up 28 million a day or 8% over where we were in the fourth quarter and 11 million a day or 3% from the levels we saw a year ago.
With the nice quarterly gains in Cana our Q1 Cana volume of 255 million a day was up 30 million a day or 13% from the fourth quarter and it actually set a new record for us once again in the play.
And with that level of production Cana continues to play a vital role in our overall program.
It now makes up 69% of our total Mid-Continent production and more than 1/3 of our total company volumes.
In the Permian we continued to see nice production growth during the quarter as well with our Permian Q1 net equivalent volume of 347 million a day up 4% or 15 million a day from Q4 '13 and up a very respectable 26% from the 275 million a day we averaged during Q1 '13.
Oil continued to provide the growth for us in the Permian with our Q1 Permian oil production of 31 624 barrels per day up 7% sequentially from Q4 and 22% from 1 year ago.
During the quarter we completed 22 net wells in the Permian.
That well count was constrained a bit by our Wolfcamp spacing projects that John mentioned which are projected to come on in the late Q2 early Q3 timeframe.
And as a result our net completions in the Permian are currently modeled to accelerate from 22 in Q1 to levels of 35 to 45 completions per quarter as we end out the year.
With this pickup in completion activity our modeling is showing that our Permian production growth should accelerate beginning here in the Q2 Q3 timeframe.
Looking forward into our guidance.
With our continued successes in Cana and in the Permian our updated model is now projected -- is projecting a full year 2014 guidance range of 822 million to 847 million a day.
That's up significantly from our beginning year range of 760 million to 800 million a day and it reflects a very healthy 19% to 22% growth in our production over 2013.
I want to make special note here that this range does not include any volumes from our recently announced Cana-Woodford acquisition and that acquisition will add about 35 million a day to our books and on top of these numbers upon our anticipated closing which is slated for June 30.
And obviously following closing we'll include these new volumes in any future guidance updates that we provide to you.
As might be expected from the tone of this call the increase in guidance from 760 million to 800 million now up to 822 million to 840 million (sic) [ 847 million ] is nearly all driven and attributable to what we're seeing in Cana.
As John mentioned we've seen a solid step-change uplift in well performance pumping larger fracs.
In addition our production group has done a great job of increasing production from our Cana-based properties by identifying underperforming wells and performing a variety of cleanout and wellbore remediation projects.
That work really kicked off in late February and March and we didn't see a full quarter's worth of that work.
But the work that we did perform equated to approximately 6 million to 8 million a day to our Q1 Cana production volumes and we expect that to increase as we close out the year.
In a nutshell both our exploration and operations teams are virtually hitting on all cylinders to boost production coming out of Cana.
We also continued to see strong results from the Permian.
With the number of Permian completions projected to accelerate in Q2 and Q3 our current model projects that Permian oil will jump from our Q1 levels of 31 625 barrels per day to well over 40 000 barrels of oil per day for an average in Q4 quite a jump with more than 60% of our fourth quarter projected oil coming from the wells that we drilled this year.
So that gives you an idea of the impact that our new wells will be having on our oil production.
So with our successes in Cana and our projected acceleration in the Permian we've got just a wonderful springboard as we jump into Q2 here.
And it's reflected on our Q2 guidance which is projected at 810 million to 830 million a day and that's a projected increase of 9% to 12% over just the first quarter.
So as our volumes continue to grow things we worry about product takeaway remains high on our priority list.
In that regard Culberson -- in Culberson County we're working alongside Chevron to evaluate proposals currently on the table for a third-party construction and operation of an oil-gathering system in our Triple Crown project.
In all areas of the Permian we're expanding the number of purchasers and haulers that we use to truck our oil out of the basin.
As a result we've recently added 3 new purchasers and are evaluating additional proposals from a handful of others.
And although we feel the pressures of increasing oil supply coming out of the basin as I'm sure all of our peers in the basin are also feeling we continue to be successful lighting up our production with sales all the while that we've been able to add new purchasers.
In general the pricing term for receiving reflect the WTI Midland-based pricing.
And when we do see some gravity adjustments we do find them to still be in the modest range.
We're also working diligently on the gas takeaway and processing side in all the core areas of our activity.
As an example I'll use Triple Crown.
Along that Triple Crown pipeline infrastructure we now have 6 available markets for gas takeaway and processing as compared to just one option that we had years ago when we started in the area.
Our marketing and midstream groups are doing a great job to work side by side with our exploration and production teams to ensure that we're building out infrastructure as far ahead of our activity as we can and ultimately providing for takeaway.
Shifting gears to OpEx.
Our Q1 lifting cost came in at $1.13 per Mcfe.
That was at the low end of our full year guidance range of $1.12 to $1.22 and right in line with our 2013 average of $1.13 per Mcfe.
Although we saw some cost pressure during the quarter in items such as chemicals compression power and fuel our per-unit operating expenses benefited from our stronger production obviously.
And as a result we've brought down the top end of our production expense range for full year to $1.18 putting our revised guidance for lifting cost for this year at $1.12 to $1.18.
A few words on service costs.
We continue to see most costs on the drilling side to stay relatively in check including our day rates which for 1 500-horsepower top drives have been holding in the $22 000 to $25 000 a day range for multiple quarters now.
That said top drives do seem to be in short supply.
And with that we are seeing that the number of new builds seem to be going up.
But with service costs flat our drilling team is continuing to focus and is successful on doing what they can to reduce our cost through operating efficiencies and we continue to see that in most all of our programs.
On the completion side we've seen some modest cost pressure from a tightening market for equipment.
But most of the cost pressure has come on the transportation side particularly in the transportation of prop when we're pumping these bigger jobs.
That said any real significant cost increases that we've seen on the completion side have come directly associated with us pumping bigger jobs more stages more fluid more prop.
And as a result the completion component of our AFEs can now make up more than 60% of our total well cost in programs like Cana in the Mid-Continent and in the Avalon Bone Spring and Wolfcamp in the Permian.
Our recent well results however are telling us that the incremental benefits are certainly well worth the additional cost.
From a total well cost standpoint incorporating the upsized frac into our new Cana well design puts our current Cana core AFE at the $6.9 million to $7.2 million level.
That's up from the $6.3 million to $6.5 million level we saw early in Q1.
With the smaller fracs -- on the smaller fracs in Q1 the increase that we've seen has been entirely attributable to the upsized fracs.
And as a good example of this we've made just tremendous strides on the drilling side in Cana over the last 6 to 9 months.
And it's very well evidenced by the fact that our current AFE including the large frac is running about where we were all-in for the small frac in Q3 '13.
In the Permian AFEs for a 4 500-foot lateral 2nd and 3rd New Mexico Bone Spring wells continue to run in the range of $5.7 million to $6.5 million depending on depth.
That's flat from last quarter and down about $400 000 to $500 000 from where we were a year ago.
In our shallower Texas 2nd Bone Spring program our AFEs are still in the $5.1 million to $5.5 million range.
We've bumped the upper end of that range from last call by pumping a little bit larger-sized frac but that's still down about $0.5 million from where we were a year ago.
And our current Avalon wells are running in the $7.2 million to $7.5 million range incorporating the larger frac.
As we continue to experiment with upsized fracs in our Wolfcamp program our current AFEs for a 4 500-foot lateral are in the $8.5 million to $9 million range that's depending on the geographic area and the size of the frac while our 2-mile Wolfcamp laterals our AFE are in the $13 million to $14.5 million range again depending on the size of the frac.
So in closing we're off to a great start here in 2014.
Q1 production came in very very strong and it gave us a wonderful springboard into Q2.
And with that we've raised our full year outlook for production.
We're keeping our LOE and our service costs in check and we're making very good progress finding ways to optimize production from the wells that we've drilled.
And with that I'll go ahead and turn the call over to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is Matt Portillo from Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question on the Cana.
Obviously the returns you guys have highlighted here are quite impressive.
I was curious if you could provide a little bit more color in terms of how you're thinking about the asset from an acceleration perspective as you move into kind of 2015 and in particular with regards to the recent acquisition? Yes Matt this is Tom.
We are looking at acceleration in Cana.
We're of course kind of in the midst of a lot of moving parts here with just announcing this transaction.
We're in the due diligence phase getting ready for the June closing.
We are looking at a potential acceleration that would have additional infill drilling really would be a 2015 issue.
We might get started later this year.
But obviously we have other companies to coordinate with.
Cana is a multi-company arena and no one company can just do things in isolation.
So we're looking at some plans we're lining it up and we'll get back to you when get a little more detail on it.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a second question kind of a bigger-picture question in terms of I guess both the Cana and Permian.
Given the resource base that continues to expand here I was wondering if you could maybe provide a little bit of context of how you guys think about kind of your drilling program and how it will progress over the next year or 2 in terms of the size and scale that this may move to from kind of your current position.
Well -- again this is Tom.
We see -- given commodity windage we see an accelerating drilling program.
And the beauty of what we've announced today is we think we have an equal opportunity to accelerate in the Mid-Continent in the Permian and/or both.
Now one of the things that we're concerned about the industry is concerned about is some of the pressures of so many Permian companies accelerating simultaneously.
That leads to pressures in rigs pressures in stimulation and other services pressures in oil and gas takeaway and pressures in manpower.
So one of the things that this allows us to do to the extent we look at accelerating we have a little built-in relief valve without sacrificing our return on invested capital.
I mean this is exactly the strategy Cimarex is built around.
So yes we'll -- we will accelerate.
And the way we're thinking about it is we have the flexibility that we've always cherished that optimize both our returns but also our ability to execute efficiently.
Our next question is Brian Gamble Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> On the long-lateral wells we've talked about a couple of them.
You said you had 9 producing now.
Any others to note anything of or is that something the -- for later in the future? This is John Lambuth.
Well obviously we don't talk about every long lateral that we drill.
We just try to point out significant ones which is why the Gallant Fox was talked about because it was a very nice confirmation of what we were able to achieve with the previously announced Montrose well.
And likewise the Thunder we talked about because besides being a long lateral it also incorporated a bigger upsized frac.
That really -- those 2 components are kind of the go-forward components in all 3 of those areas for Culberson Reeves and Ward.
And certainly as we get further long lateral results and let's say others zones that we haven't talked about we'll certainly add more color and comments to that once we have those wells to talk about.
Research Division</strong> And on that same-well results side the -- I'm sorry go ahead.
I was going to say obviously we're very encouraged that the program is moving in that direction.
We don't know that every well we drill is going to be representative of the 3 10 000-foot laterals we have announced.
But so far so good.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And the 30-day IP rate one of your slides the Eddy Lea County number moved up significantly during the quarter.
Is that all upsized frac or were you doing anything else there during the quarter versus last quarter? I think it moved up from 665 to 966...
Can you tell us what particular page are you referring to so we'd look at it? Research Division</strong> Sure of course.
On slide -- let's see on Slide 8.
You mentioned the 2nd and 3rd Bone in Eddy and Lea your 30-day rate for this quarter versus last quarter 966 versus I think last quarter was 665.
Is that all frac stuff? Yes it is.
In the Bone Spring we haven't talked a lot about that.
But we have definitely in the Bone Spring gone in and made adjustments to our frac design there as well.
And we're seeing some nice results by doing that especially in the White City Culberson area and so we're moving to that frac design in that area.
And going forward that's what we'll use.
But -- plus we're still tinkering with it.
We still think we can even get better results.
So we're very encouraged so far from what we're seeing out of that area.
Research Division</strong> And then one more if I may.
The gravity adjustment that you mentioned were modest thus far.
Are you intending to just continue to lock in modest adjustments in some of these new purchasing agreements or eliminate those adjustments moving forward? How do we think about any sort of deducts that may be involved in new deals or even better pricing that may be involved in new deals? This is Joe.
The current deducts that we're seeing are like $0.30 to $0.40 per degree gravity and they're over different API numbers depending on the contract.
Getting long-term contracts with these guys with our purchasers is not as easy as I guess we had hoped to have it be because I think they are concerned about the same things we are.
That said what I will tell you about our ability to get new purchasers into the game down there we've been very successful.
We've added 3 additional purchasers and all of them seem very comfortable in taking any of the gravities that we're giving them.
Our next question is Jason Smith Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on Brian's question on crude oil pricing again.
Is that gravity issue is that more just focused in the Wolfcamp C and D and as you guys kind of the move up to the A it's less of an issue? Yes.
This is Joe again.
The only areas we're really seeing any kind of adjustment in the Permian are in the Wolfcamp and so in the Culberson area as well as in the Reeves.
The Wolfcamp the Culberson is little bit higher gravity.
It's like 54 to 58 degree.
And when you get over there into Reeves it's 46 to 52.
We've got -- let's see we've got 3 specific purchasers that I'll speak of in Culberson.
And we're seeing the deducts in one case over 45 degrees and then the other one will take crude over 50 but it's just a little bit higher fee.
So their fee jumps up about $1.50.
So I don't know about...
Research Division</strong> But all the zones you're seeing -- I mean I know you haven't done much in the Wolfcamp A over there.
But you're seeing the Wolfcamp A in the high -- in the mid-50s as well? We -- this is Tom.
We do see a little lower API number in the A than we do the D and the C.
But it's still what you would call light.
It's in the 50s.
So really the variation we're seeing that's significant is more regional than it is stratigraphic.
We'll get a little lower API number in Ward County than we will in Culberson County and Reeves is kind of intermediate.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then in Reeves and Ward the acreage you guys tacked on can you just maybe give us some color on what you paid for that? Yes this is John Lambuth.
We added approximately as Tom said the 35 000 acres.
And the cost for that was right around in the $2 300 $2 400-an-acre range for that additional...
This was a leasing effort.
It wasn't one fell swoop.
This was dozens and dozens of incremental deals.
I mean we saw an opportunity from our -- in our explorations where we felt like we could expand the play and get more acreage and we were able to execute upon it and add that acreage.
So we're very pleased with that additional acreage position we've added to it.
Our next question is Joe Allman JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Tom for that Cana acquisition why flip half of it and not keep the whole thing? Well there's lots of answers to that.
Would we have been happy to keep it? Yes yes we would.
That said Cimarex and Devon had a long-standing cooperation out there and we typically offer assets like this to one another.
So that was part of the thinking.
We also are the biggest working interest owners out there.
And so both companies I think having a willingness to reawaken the drilling program in Cana is important to both of us.
So I will say this I was more concerned about just the willingness to invest and go forward than I was the $250 million or $500 million.
We do look at our debt and this is incremental to our debt.
We have lots of inventory and it was not a -- it wasn't a tough call for us.
We're happy to offer half of it.
Joe Cana is -- just I can't underscore how pleased we are with our recent results.
We're encouraged that it will translate over the widespread field and we're going to have a long road ahead of us of just top tier returns out of Cana.
The executive team we're here in Tulsa today and we're having an annual conference with all of our technical people from around the company.
And I walked up this morning and came in the middle of an argument that 2 of our junior engineers were having one was a Permian engineer and one was a Cana engineer and they were debating whose programs generates higher rate of return.
And that's a debate that we love and greatly encourage here at Cimarex.
And so we've got plenty to do here.
And you know what? Yes could we have taken all of it? You bet but we're real pleased with the decision we made.
Our next question is Drew Venker of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking ahead to the 2015 program you talked about potentially accelerating in Cana.
Are there any gas processing or pipeline takeaway concerns in Cana? And I guess how many -- how much running room do you have before things become tight there? Yes this is Joe.
We've taken a good hard close look at our production wedge and the marketing arrangements that we currently have.
And with our current takeaway options we feel very comfortable getting through the remainder of this year without any processing or compression issues with our primary purchaser.
We also have 3 other markets that we're pursuing now as we look forward into 2015 to try and understand our wedge there.
We really -- with the '15 program if we were to accelerate it'd be row [ph] drilling.
We'd start that in the fall and that completion activity probably wouldn't really start to hit the books until second quarter of next year.
And that would be the time that we hope to have these other potential arrangements locked up.
So I guess a high-level answer is we've got plenty of breathing room that we see right now in the short term medium term and we're worrying about our long-term ability to get out of there.
Yes.
And Drew it's Tom.
the -- like anything we do we have to look pretty far ahead and make sure that the infrastructure's ready the market's ready the rigs are there.
And so as Joe said we're in the process of doing that.
The nice thing about where we sit right now is Permian and Cana kind of complement one another and play off one another.
So any activity that's limited in one can be taken up by the other.
So we're intending to accelerate in Cana but we've got plenty to do in both basins.
So we're-- we feel like we've -- today are announcing a very significant safety valve for Cimarex in terms of our future growth profile.
Research Division</strong> And then just to follow up to that.
Do you feel like these new Cana completions can be applied across your position or is there anything that would keep you from being able to use the new completions across-the-board there? Yes this is John Lambuth.
That's a great question.
That's exactly what we're attempting -- or are doing right now with our current rigs.
We are both completing some additional new infill sections which are geographically separate from the Golden Section.
So that'll be a nice checkmark to show that we can get similar-type returns.
And then likewise we are out there drilling some initial parent wells or first wells in the section in areas where we're trying to reestablish what is the type of production we should expect using this new frac style.
So there's a lot of delineation in a sense.
It's hard to imagine me using that word.
But in some sense that is there that we're trying to kind of recalibrate ourselves as to what type of production profile we should expect with this new fracture stimulation.
And then let me also say we haven't really honed on -- honed in to actually exactly what is the best frac job.
Even within the Golden Section.
We changed it up some -- among a number of the wells there.
And we are still experimenting some that we think we could perhaps even -- can do even better than what we have right now.
So there's definitely some additional drilling and testing we need to do to just gain further confidence to how applicable this could be across the broad Cana area.
Research Division</strong> Is there any conservatism baked into your Cana production forecast just given how much production history you have on these new completions? That's a very...
In all of our modeling we're modeling what we book and -- as a starting point and that's with our base properties.
And those are based on current well productions levels and current well declines.
And as we start to see better and better well results the -- I guess the type curves of the wells that you're drilling are going to be integrated into those future wells that you drill.
And those are the wells that we model off of.
As far as guidance is concerned our beginning year guidance did not incorporate the impact that these upsized fracs had because we kind of wanted to wait to see if it happened first before we go ahead and do that.
And obviously now that we've upped the ante on our Cana production for this year we're sending the signal to the market that we're fairly confident that what we're doing is working and it's showing up in Cana.
So as we continue to see results we build those results into not only our future investment decisions but also to what we forecast that we'll produce in our cash flow models.
Yes.
Drew we always estimate what we think is realistic.
And is there conservatism? I mean there's always is.
And life in the oil patch can be a very humbling experience.
Things tend to go wrong.
So we always build in a fair amount of tolerance for either timing delays or operational issues.
But yes it is what we think we'll achieve.
Our next question is Cameron Horwitz U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> On your Delaware Wolfcamp map can't help but notice more dots there to the east and in Ward County.
Maybe a little bit early but I was hoping if you could potentially give us a little bit of color as to how you're thinking about kind of the opportunity set over there the relative productivity and the oil cuts on -- in the Wolfcamp over there to the east? Yes.
This is John Lambuth.
The word you used is very appropriate.
It is early.
A lot of those dots you see are in their flowback and we haven't really achieved peak 30-day averages for us to talk much about them.
It is definitely oilier as you get into Ward from Reeves.
That trend continues into there.
But we are still very early there in Ward and just trying to get a good understanding of the type of the well we're going to have there.
I would hope certainly by next conference call we'll have a lot more to say about our Ward County program.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of modeling for the rest of the year.
With the Cana acquisition how do we think about the average working interest there in Cana at the current pace once that acquisition closes? This is Joe.
I'll just rattle off some of the stats working interest-wise that pertain to our share of the QEP sale.
There were 793 properties that were in the proved category.
They operated about 243 of those.
We'll own an average working interest in all those wells of about 14.5% working.
That is where that 35 million a day level that we've quoted in our call comes from.
That production mix is about 64% gas 28% NGLs and about 8% oil.
About half those properties are in the Woodford.
In the Cana area they comprise probably 90% of the value and our working interest in those properties is at the 9.5% level.
The remainder of the properties are older vertical wells that obviously don't carry as much value as the Woodford section and make up the balance of the deal.
So hopefully that helps kind of give you a high-level snapshot of what you're looking for.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just lastly any evolution in terms of your view on the stacked concept? I think you alluded to a well that I think you had flowing back.
Just curious if your view has changed at all from last quarter.
I know obviously early there as well.
Well we're currently flowing our first Merrimack well back.
And we don't have 30 days production so we'll defer that to our next call.
But we definitely recognize the potential.
We follow the play carefully.
As I've mentioned before we've taken our own core.
We're in the process of analyzing it.
And so I would anticipate that we'll have other drilling to do and probably 1 or 2 wells to discuss on our next call.
Our next question is John Nelson Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to build on Drew's question in a little more detailed fashion if I could thinking back to our discussions on why 2013 production was able to beat -- I think you guys attribute it to haircutting -- the new Wolfcamp completion design as you sort of factored that into guidance.
I guess is there any reason to believe that you wouldn't be following a similar practice with the new Cana completion design or have you maybe learned a bit from 2013 and we're more in the gray area? If you could provide any color there.
This is Joe again.
I -- we don't set off and say "Hey here's this forecast.
Let's haircut it." If we don't have a lot of wells under our belt and we're really not certain if it's just a geographical thing or something's working versus something else we may look at it unrisked and risked and risk certain areas other than others.
So it's a very dynamic thing that I would hope that quarter-to-quarter and I think we've demonstrated in the past we're pretty darn tight on our guidance.
And in this quarter it was in my mind an exception for just a couple of extraordinary reasons.
We didn't know what was going to happen in Cana.
And so now that we've got a little bit of this under our belt we're going to incorporate that into our future guidance as if it -- we think it's going to happen.
And so I really just want to underscore that.
We don't start off and say "Hey let's just kind of really watch this thing and not put the right numbers out there." We got a budget and cash flow model and everything else here too.
We want to be as accurate as we can.
But -- yes I'll follow that.
Joe is absolutely right.
To the extent that we have meaningful data in these upsized completions we only have a long flowback period over a fairly restricted area of the core.
Now we do have a couple of outlying experiments that we're watching and we're encouraged but we don't have the calibration that we do in the core.
That's the thickest highest gas-in-place part of the field.
So we have modeled an uplift over the entire area.
But until we get some calibration we've left ourselves some room as we need to.
So we don't think we're being overly conservative in anything we're forecasting.
Research Division</strong> That's really good color and I can appreciate I guess not conservatism but not being aggressive I guess is the way I'll put it.
And then if you could just remind me what -- timing-wise with regards to Cana completions throughout the rest of the year.
I think the presentation notes 2 rigs but can we just -- should it be pretty steady the flow of completions over the course of the year? Yes.
This is John.
We are currently actually completing our next operating section as we speak.
We have 2 sections to complete.
But I would also point out that the other company in Cana has quite a bit of completions ongoing through the rest of the year that we have a pretty good interest in as well.
So I would say a good rest of the year.
John this is Mark.
Actually we had 14 net completions in Cana roughly in the first quarter.
Second quarter we should have about 11 net completions so fairly similar rate.
Similar into the third quarter with about 14 net completions.
But it really tapers in the fourth quarter.
In the fourth quarter yes.
The fourth quarter is where it tapers off.
And that's where -- again we have to get this closing done but that's where we look at -- once we start ramping up where do we do that.
Although more than likely no matter what we do we really won't get those wells online until probably sometime first second quarter '15.
So there will be a slowdown some in the fourth quarter but of course we've incorporated that in our guidance.
This is Joe.
From a high-level standpoint all these -- how all this is playing out underneath the hood you're -- what we're seeing is fairly consistent quarter to corner -- quarter-to-quarter -- I can't say that word apparently -- Cana completion count through Q3.
It tapers off in Q4 right about the same time we're starting to see the acceleration in the Permian.
So where the Permian is accelerating Cana is kind of rolling off and the bottom line is what it is.
Research Division</strong> That's really really helpful.
And then just one last one if I could sneak it in.
It looks like you widened sort of the Wolfcamp map specifically that acreage and sort of Central to South Central Reeves.
Are you chasing similar targets to what you have and sort of more north of that acreage or just stay tuned or any color around that? Yes.
This is John Lambuth.
And that is the area that we went out and pursued and was able to acquire that additional acreage.
And...
Southern Reeves.
Southern Reeves as you highlighted.
And that is an area that we'll be targeting our first well in later this quarter early next quarter.
But we see it as being very similar to the same section we're drilling in Northern Reeves in terms of Wolfcamp A as well as B/C as potential targets down there.
And if you were to go back historically you'd see some of our early trend maps included a lot of Lea County acreage.
We skinnied it up just because we weren't sure what it would do up there.
There was 1 or 2 industry wells there in the southwest corner of Lea County that were very very nice Wolfcamp wells and fully made us realize that that acreage we have in the southwest corner of Lea County is absolutely going to be Wolfcamp prospective.
Our next question is Michael Hall Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> Quite a bit have been answered.
I guess couple left of mine would be -- just curious to what extent is Devon also employing these sorts of upsized fracs and how much are you guys sharing I guess information on technology and whatnot? Yes.
This is John Lambuth.
Devon is applying the similar-type frac design as we are doing as well.
They have interest in our wells.
We have interest in their wells.
So we clearly learn from each other.
So they have quite a few sections now under their belt with a similar frac style and again quite a bit of experimentation within there too.
We're still trying to hone in on what works best.
Early data on that is encouraging so far but it's very early.
But they are themselves also trying to apply the same frac style.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I'm assuming -- it sounds like you guys are thinking about some acceleration.
Have you been in contact with Devon around that as well for the new properties or what's the -- any commentary there? It's too early to really get too granular on that.
We're just kind of talking about it at this point.
Got to close.
LLC</strong> That's fair.
Okay.
And I just want to make sure I heard you right in terms of the ramp in Permian oil production the prepared remarks there.
In the fourth quarter was that to over 40 000 barrels as a net number in the fourth quarter on average? That's correct.
That's a net number for our Q4 average that we hope to exceed that number.
Our next question is Jeb Bachmann Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question on these upsized fracs and looking at recovery factor.
Is -- are you expecting these upsized fracs to essentially accelerate the recovery of the reserves or do you also think you're going to get an increase in that recovery factor as well? Well I'll take a stab at it first.
I'm sure Tom will want to as well.
It looks as though we are I would say getting a higher recovery factor for the same gas-in-place section that's what's occurring.
So I would not call it acceleration as much as we're more effectively connecting to the rock and draining that resource.
That's what we think is happening.
But to the extent we're getting higher recovery and higher rate getting -- we're getting more gas out faster so.
Yes yes.
It's coming out faster.
But we are not -- I would say in terms of acceleration we're not really competing with other wells.
We are effectively just getting better connected to that total resource that's there in place.
That's what we feel is happening.
Research Division</strong> And going forward do you guys get a sense of when you're going to be able to come out and talk about maybe increased EURs associated with this new design or how long -- how much longer -- or how much history I guess do you need to establish before that? Yes I don't know.
It's just too early right now for us to think about when we might publish some type of EUR on that.
I mean again what we showed you today was an early idea of the flowback data what it looks like.
You can judge for yourself the type of wells we're making there based on that graph.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last one for me.
Do you guys have a resource-in-place estimate for Reeves County for the Wolfcamp in Reeves at this point or it's still too early for that? This is John.
We internally have a resource-in-place map but I'm not really going to talk about it.
Reeves County is a very competitive area.
We're still actively trying to lease.
So that's not something that I really want to talk publicly about.
Our next question is Nicholas Pope Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to get a little bit of granularity on the Cana wells and the upsized fracs.
I want to -- I did want to clarify that -- are -- what you all -- the data that's shown is that just a upsized frac with the same lateral length as what you all previously had been doing in the region? Yes.
This is John.
It is the exact same equivalent of a 5 000-foot lateral.
And what you're seeing within that graph is an average of the well results from that section.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And do you all have just a rule of thumb? It looks like a 2-stream volume that you provided.
As you all report on 3 stream do you know what the uplift is in the Cana from the wet gas to a 3-stream profile just volumetrically? Yes Nick.
It's approximately 20% uplift going from 2 to 3 stream.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And how many wells were included in that in the new infills? Yes.
That was an average of 8 wells.
On the graph.
On the graph.
We have completed a whole series of wells.
Yes.
But for that particular graph that's 8 wells.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mark Burford for any closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining.
We appreciate the -- taking time to stay with us and going over our results.
And then we look forward reporting to you in the future quarters.
Thank you very much.
Bye-bye.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Cimarex Energy second quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Burford Vice President of Capital Markets and Planning.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much Denise and welcome everyone to the Cimarex second quarter 2014 conference call.
Speaking today here in Denver will be Tom Jorden President and CEO; Joe Albi EVP and COO; John Lambuth VP of Exploration; and also here in Denver represented Paul Korus our CFO; and Karen Acierno our Director of Investor Relations.
We did issue our financial operating results financial release yesterday after the close.
A copy of the release can be found on our website.
We also posted our latest presentation which we may make some references today on today's call.
I need to remind you today that today's discussion will contain forward-looking statements.
A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we've discussed.
You should read our disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest 10-K and other filings and news releases for the risk factors associated with our business.
With that I'll go ahead and turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Mark and thanks to all of you participating in today's conference.
We appreciate your interest in Cimarex as always.
I'd like to take a few minutes to touch on some of the highlights for the quarter before turning it over to John and Joe for a more detailed update.
The second quarter of 2014 were strong in many fronts.
Production of 839 million cubic feet equivalent per day led the day and was up 22% year-over-year 13% sequentially and above the upper end of our guidance.
This coupled with strong product prices led to revenues of $623 million.
Cash flow from operations of $443 million came close to covering the 488 -- $498 million we invested in exploration and development during the quarter.
We closed our $238 million acquisition of properties in the Cana-Woodford area and raised $750 million of high-yield debt at the low price of 4 3/8% interest.
Cimarex ended the quarter with $129 million in cash.
And on July 31 we closed on the sale of our Kansas properties for an additional $136 million of cash.
As always we're happy to report our quarterly results and look forward to a detailed discussion and question-and-answer session but as you've heard us say time and again we do not manage around quarterly goals.
We're looking to maximize the rate of return of our projects over the long haul.
We're looking to maintain a focus on solid execution and innovation and keep a disciplined approach as we do that.
We're going to be giving you a number of updates on a number of fronts and we look forward to some good questions.
But I will say that a lot of it is work in progress.
We're wholly encouraged across many fronts.
But one of the things we've learned in our history is that you have to keep that discipline and focus don't make early calls stick to your knitting and make sure that you understand before you proceed.
So we'll give you all the detail we can.
Our progress continues in the Permian Basin.
3 of the 4 pilot programs begun earlier this year are now producing and generating good returns while providing valuable information for use in our future development.
We've seen markedly improved results with long laterals in Culberson County and improved results in Reeves County with changes to our frac design.
And we have successfully applied larger completions to Bone Spring wells which should generate higher returns.
In the Mid-Continent our new completion is allowing us to redefine the core of the Cana-Woodford shale and we're intrigued by the early results in the Merrimack formation.
We sit in an enviable position in that we have 2 premiere basins on which to balance our portfolio.
Both the Mid-Continent and the Permian are generating top-tier returns and that's giving us tremendous flexibility in investing our cash flow for the highest rates of return.
With that I'll turn the call over to John and Joe to discuss the details of our progress and look forward to any questions you may have following their comments.
Thanks Tom.
I'd like to quickly cover some of the highlights of our overall program before getting into the Permian region.
I'll then finish with our Mid-Continent region and the results in Cana.
Cimarex drilled and completed 85 gross 51 net wells during the quarter investing $498 million.
71% was invested in the Permian region and the rest went toward activities in the Mid-Continent region.
Of those 85 wells 47 were in the Permian region where we continued to be focused on the Bone Spring Avalon and Wolfcamp formations in the Delaware Basin.
Bone Spring activity in the second quarter included 12 net wells in New Mexico and Texas.
Results continue to be good generating some of the highest -- some of the company's highest rate of returns with oil volumes representing up to 84% of first 30-day production.
Cimarex has drilled some exceptional Bone Spring wells in the White City area which is located in Southern Eddy County New Mexico just north of our Culberson County Texas acreage.
In particular the Marquardt 12-H was completed in the 2nd Bone Spring sand and had a 30-day average IP of 1 620 barrels of oil equivalent per day including 1 047 barrels of oil.
The Bone Spring in White City is similar to what we see to the south in Culberson County a fixed section with more gas and higher rates.
The Marquardt well was completed with a 15-stage frac a larger completion than we've traditionally used in the Bone Spring.
We have now completed several Bone Spring wells using upsized frac jobs and are pleased with the results so far.
As you know about half of the Permian drilling capital this year approximately $685 million will go toward further delineation of the company's Wolfcamp opportunities in the Delaware Basin.
This includes downspacing pilots wells drilled to hold acreage testing long laterals and delineation wells designed to help us understand this vast resource.
We have increased our acreage position to 235 000 net acreage in our Wolfcamp fairway up from 225 000 acres the last time we spoke.
This is the result of the acquisition of about 4 000 additional acres in Reeves County and an increase of 6 000 acres in Culberson County.
We are currently producing from 6 distinct Wolfcamp zones across this Wolfcamp fairway.
One of Cimarex's innovations during the first quarter was proof of concept with regards to long laterals in the Wolfcamp.
We define a long or extended lateral as anything over 5 000 feet.
We now have 11 extended laterals producing across our acreage 6 of which are in Culberson County.
Between now and year end we have 14 long laterals planned in the Culberson area with 8 being in 10 000-foot laterals while the remaining 6 are 7 500-foot laterals.
3 of those 3 500-foot tests will be located in the Wolfcamp A interval.
We also have 8 long laterals planned in Reeves County all located in the Wolfcamp A.
One of those wells is being completed as we speak with you today.
That well is a 10 000-foot lateral which is an offset to the RUBY well which we announced on our earnings call a year ago.
The RUBY was the first 10 000-foot lateral Cimarex drilled in the Wolfcamp and has accumed [ph] 190 000 barrels of oil in its first year of production a very good well.
To more fully understand our excitement about long laterals I'll refer you to Slide 13 in our presentation.
This chart updates our previous chart which illustrated the increased returns we have experienced from upsized fracs.
You'll see we've added a new line in green which plots the performance of the Gallant Fox a 10 000-foot Wolfcamp D well that was completed using 43 stages.
Simply put the result is amazing.
Even at a downside chase of $75 oil and $3 gas this well generates a before-tax internal rate of return of over 100%.
We continue to work on an optimization of our completions in Reeves County.
When we started using the larger fracs in Reeves we saw uplift but less than we experienced in our Culberson wells.
We've been able to improve that result and recently completed the LIVINGSTON well a 5 000-foot lateral which had a peak 30-day IP of 1 368 barrels of oil equivalent per day a 30% uplift to our previous Wolfcamp A completions.
When we started in Ward County we tried a landing zone and a completion style similar to Reeves County.
Just like Reeves was different than Culberson Ward has proven to be different than Reeves.
We do see a large resource in place in Ward but are slowing down our activity to 1 rig while we work on the proper completions and landing zone for this area.
Lastly in the Delaware Basin I'd like to give you an update on the status of the spacing pilots we currently have underway.
Please refer to Pages 16 and 17 of our presentation for an illustration of the designs.
I'll speak to them by area starting first with Culberson County where the 2 pilots drilled earlier this year are now producing.
The stacked lateral tests did confirm that the Wolfcamp C and D are separate benches with the wells exhibiting different initial yields and flowback pressures.
We are still evaluating the performance of the wells in order to determine our next step.
The same can be said of the 4-well 80-acre downspacing pilot in Culberson County.
We have preliminary production data with the 4 wells having a 30-day average IP of over 1 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
While generating good economics this is not enough production data from which to draw any conclusions on spacing yet.
That said we do have plans in place to drill another 80-acre downspacing pilot in Culberson later this year where we'll be making some adjustments to the initial design such as staggering the landing zones vertically between wells within the deep edge.
Our 4-well 80-acre downspacing pilot in Reeves County is now producing although it's too early for 30-day rigs.
And like the Culberson pilot more data will be needed before we can draw any type of conclusions.
The fourth pilot is our stacked and staggered pilot in Wolfcamp A and Reeves which will test for the downspacing and the viability of landing more than 1 lateral in the fifth Wolfcamp A section.
The sixth and final well for this pilot is drilling now with the completion of all the wells planned for September.
Now on to the Mid-Continent area.
We are pleased to report that our ongoing efforts to introduce upsized completions in our Cana program continues to provide good results.
In addition to applying the larger frac to development wells we are also testing the concept on acreage outside of the core development area.
Success outside of the core means additional acreage and locations available for development.
We are pleased with the results we've had so far.
We drilled and completed a delineation well called the Leota 1-19H in an area up dip to the Cana core area.
The Leota is a 5 000-foot lateral completed with a 20-stage frac.
It achieved a peak 30-day average IP of 11.4 million cubic feet equivalent per day including 662 barrels of oil.
The 8 offsetting wells had an average 30-day IP of 3.9 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
Those 8 wells of course have the older-style frac thus the Leota's IP is a threefold uplift to that to the surrounding wells.
We have 5 more Woodford delineation wells planned for later this year with one of them being a nearby offset to the Leota designed to confirm this excellent result.
We've also completed our first long lateral in the Woodford.
The Bomhoff 1H-11X was a 2-mile lateral completed using 41 stages.
This well has been on production for over 70 days and has an average 30-day IP of 12.9 million cubic feet equivalent per day including 436 barrels of oil per day.
Another outstanding result.
Finally we drilled our first Merrimack test located in the same section as the Woodford long lateral the Bomhoff 2-11H had a peak 30-day average IP of 9.4 million cubic feet equivalent per day including 306 barrels of oil per day.
Our preliminary mapping of this interval would suggest that we have between 50 000 to 100 000 of perspective acreage for the Merrimack although further delineation wells will need to be drilled in order to confirm this.
We currently have plans to drill 4 additional Merrimack wells this year.
Inasmuch that we are encouraged by this first well we are a long way from determining the ultimate potential for this geologic interval.
With that I'll turn the call over to Joe Albi.
Well thank you John and thank you all for joining our call today.
I'll touch on the usual suspects first hitting on our second quarter production.
I'll discuss our revised 2014 production outlook and then follow up with a brief discussion on where we see our operating and service costs.
Our second quarter net equivalent daily production came in at 839 million equivalents per day.
As Tom mentioned that is 9 million a day above the upper end of our guidance range which was 810 million to 830 million.
And in doing so we set a new record once again for the company.
We had a great quarter from a production standpoint with very nice production contributions from both our new well completions as well as solid performance from our base properties.
At the total company level our second quarter production was up 6% from our Q1 reported volume of 740 million cubic feet a day and 22% from our Q2 '13 production level of 687 million a day.
We saw production gains in both the Mid-Continent and the Permian wherein both programs we set new records in all product categories whether it be gas oil NGLs total liquids or equivalent volumes.
In the Mid-Continent our Q2 '14 volume of 426 million a day was up a healthy 15% for Q1 and 24% from second quarter last year.
Cana continued to be the driver here with our second quarter Cana volumes coming in at 309 million a day.
That's up 21% or 54 million a day from where we were in the first quarter in Cana.
In the Permian our second quarter equivalent volumes of 393 million a day were up 13% or 46 million a day from the prior quarter and 23% or 74 million a day from our Q2 '13 volume of 320 million a day.
Permian oil production continued its growth trend during Q2 coming in at 33 317 barrels per day and that was up 5% from Q1 '14 or the first quarter at 11% over where we were in the second quarter last year.
So looking forward.
With solid production during Q1 and Q2 and strong momentum going into Q3 and Q4 we've upped our full year total company guidance range to 860 million to 875 million a day.
That's reflecting a 24% to 26% growth over our 2013 average of 692 million a day.
To get there our model is projecting our Q3 production to fall in the range of 920 million to 945 million a day.
That's a forecasted increase of 28% to 32% from Q3 '13 where we averaged 717 million a day.
A couple of things to talk about with regard to what's happening underneath the hood with our guidance.
Built into our projection is anticipated production acceleration from our Permian program during Q3 and Q4.
Through June we completed 51 net wells in the Permian that's approximately 40% of the total wells that we plan to drill for the year.
As such our model incorporates 80-plus new Permian wells to come on during Q3 and Q4.
That's a 60% increase in the number of Permian wells in the latter half of the year as compared to what we completed in the first half of the year.
Also with the larger mix of our higher oil-producing Reeves County-Wolfcamp wells and our Avalon completions coming on in Q3 and Q4 we're modeling our Permian oil production to accelerate as we close out the year.
As an example we completed 7 of our Reeves County-Wolfcamp wells in the first half of the year and we have plans to complete 20 more additional wells in the second half of the year.
Likewise we had 2 Avalon completions in Q1 and Q2 and we're planning to have 11 more in Q3 and Q4.
And that's what's really driving our accelerated oil production growth as we close out the year.
Our revised full year guidance is up from our previous 2014 production update which projected an average of 835 million to 860 million a day when incorporating the Cana acquisition.
That's a midpoint increase with a revised guidance of 20 million a day and I want to emphasize that our latest increase in guidance to 860 million to 875 million a day is entirely due to our new well and base property results not the inclusion of our Cana acquisition which has been incorporated into both our current estimates and obviously our prior update.
The drivers to our full year guidance increase are coming from multiple fronts strong new well performance in both the Permian and the Mid-Continent our focused attention on our base property production focusing on reducing downtime accelerating -- enhancing our compression run time our reworks our cleanups et cetera.
That's all having an impact.
And in addition -- on top of that excuse me we also have seen some improved recoveries in the Permian.
So all these factors are coming into play.
The improved recoveries in the Permian are particularly due to us obtaining 2 new takeaways off the Triple Crown system.
Those takeaways are providing higher netbacks in their processing than we've seen on the system and have impacted our NGLs in the second quarter and I anticipate for that to continue as we close out the year.
In addition to gas takeaway out of Triple Crown we've got a good focus on a long-term solution to move oil out of Culberson County by lane are planting the seeds now for the addition of an oil-gathering system along and around the vast project area.
Shifting gears to OpEx.
Our Q2 lifting cost came in at $1.13 per Mcf that's flat with Q1 and at the low end of our full year guidance range of $1.12 to $1.18.
Although we're seeing cost pressure in areas such as labor compression rentals and SWD our strong production levels and the continued focus on controlling cost have kept our lifting costs in line.
So with Q1 and Q2 coming in at $1.13 as well as a good number of our liquid-rich Permian wells yet to come online by the end of the year we did pull down the top end of our lifting cost guidance range down to $1.17 which then gave us a projected range for the year of $1.12 to $1 17.
A few comments on service costs on the drilling side.
Top drive rigs continue to be in short supply with the delivery dates for newbuilds now extending into 2015.
Despite the pressure for rigs all other drilling component costs continue to seem to remain in check and has been that way for the last few quarters.
And with the service cost relatively flat our drilling team continues its focus to reduce total well cost via operating efficiencies.
And a good example is in our Culberson-Wolfcamp program where our average days between spud and rig release have dropped from 57 days when they first started the program in 2010 to 32 days in 2013 to 29 days here in the first half of 2014.
On the completion side we've seen some slight cost pressure in the market for services and materials primarily associated with the transportation of crop not the raw material cost from crop.
Any significant cost increases that we've seen on the completion side are directly associated with pumping bigger jobs more stages more fluid more crop.
And as a result completion costs are now making up 60% to 70% of our total well cost in programs like Cana in the Mid-Continent and Avalon Bone Spring and Wolfcamp in the Permian.
With the larger jobs our total well costs have increased.
However our well results and totals to incremental benefits are definitely worth the additional cost.
As we continue to experiment with our upsized frac design our current Cana total well costs are now in the $7.2 million to $7.6 million range.
And that's up from the $6.3 million to $6.5 million levels we saw in early Q1 when we were employing the smaller fracs.
The increase in Cana is entirely attributable to our upsized frac.
Our initial AFEs for a 2-mile Woodford well in Cana with an upsized frac are now coming in the range of about $11 million to $12 million.
In the Permian our current AFEs for 4 500-foot second and third New Mexico Bone Spring well is running in the range of $5.9 million to $7 million depending on depth and frac size now as we begin to experiment with more frac stages in the Bone Spring.
And our shallower White City in Culberson's 2nd Bone Spring program our AFEs with the larger fracs are running in the $5.7 million to $5.9 million range.
And our current Avalon wells are running in the $7.3 million to $7.6 million range also incorporating these larger fracs.
As we continue to experiment with upsized fracs in our Wolfcamp program our current AFEs for a 4 500-foot lateral remain in the $8.5 million to $9 million range depending on the geographical area that we're drilling and the size of a frac.
And our 2-mile Wolfcamp lateral AFE is running in the neighborhood of $13.2 million to $14.2 million range again highly dependent on frac design.
So in closing we had a great second quarter.
A strong new well production adds and solid production performance from our base properties resulted in us exceeding our guidance.
With strong wind in our sails we've raised our full year production guidance.
We're keeping our LOE and service cost in check and we're making good progress fine-tuning our completion design to optimize our new well production.
We're extremely proud of our entire organization for hitting on all cylinders.
And with that I'll turn the call over to question-and-answer.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Brian Gamble of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I think first let's start with that Slide 13 and that wonderful green line.
Maybe you could talk about how you plan to replicate that through all of your locations? I know that you're planning another 20 10 000-foots or -- excuse me 20 long laterals by the end of the year.
How much variability do you think you're going to see in the rest of those wells as well as how many 10 000-foots do you think you have in both counties in Culberson and Reeves if you've thought about that ultimate number yet? This is John.
I guess I'll take the first stab at your question.
Obviously we're very pleased with the Gallant Fox result but I will just point out that the Gallant Fox itself is just a confirmation of the Montrose which we talked about earlier.
So it's a nice confirmation that these 10 000-foot results in Culberson are repeatable so far.
But now I must caution you that obviously we need to duplicate this over the broad acreage position we have in Culberson.
So it's hard for me to sit here and tell you that every 10 000-foot lateral is going to be a Gallant Fox throughout that whole area.
But so far obviously we've been very pleased with what we've seen there.
As far as the total number of 10 000-foot laterals I don't have that number right off the top of my head.
I mean obviously the beauty of the shares on JDA is that entire acreage position is entirely set up for 10 000-foot laterals and that's why it's such a wonderful acreage position to have with Chevron there.
In regards to Reeves County our ability to drill 10 000-foot laterals is strictly a subject of continuity of acreage.
We have quite a few long river tracks which enable us to drill wells like the RUBY.
But I would also point out we have areas which we call Grisham which is a nice continuous block that indeed we intend to set up with 10 000-foot laterals there as well.
Yes Brian this is Tom.
I'll just chime in here.
When you look at Culberson County the entire acreage block is available for long laterals and that's because of their joint development agreement.
A block in Eddy County where we're also getting outstanding results is mostly available for long laterals.
I wouldn't quite say all but close to all of those available for long laterals.
And then our working land model in Reeves County so it's about half of it is going to be available for long laterals.
And that's 7 500 feet to 10 000-foot long laterals.
So we have tremendous runway ahead of us to exploit that green curve.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's perfect Tom.
And then switching gears first Merrimack well.
That number sounds pretty good to me as far as having the first test down.
4 more wells this year.
I guess how far apart are you planning on drilling these wells? I mean you mentioned 50 000 to 100 000 potential net acres.
How spaced out of the remaining 4 are going to be as far as trying to delineate that to some degree? Well this is John again.
Clearly these additional wells we're drilling are designed both to step out in the range of 5 to 10 miles away in some cases.
I mean they're designed to do many things.
They're designed to test different yield expectations within the rock itself.
There's even 1 design just to reconfirm the results we've had right there.
So we've given a lot of thought as to where these delineation wells will go all of it geared towards just getting a better handle over what ultimately decides the price here.
And I would just point out inasmuch as we say there's 4 wells now there will be many more depending on the early results.
If we get any encouragement from those initial wells you're going to see us then layering even more wells to further delineate this position.
Let me just finally say that the acreage number we quoted which is a wide range the 50 000 is kind of what we see based on this well and how we map it is something that we feel pretty good about.
But we need those delineation wells to even carry that out even further to possibly up to the 100 000-acre number that we quoted.
Yes.
And then the other issue with the Merrimack as John pointed out is yield.
We think we're in a window of that play that's quite thick and has excellent deliverability.
And the deliverability may be increasing as you go from the liquids into the gas.
So we need to test that deliverability.
There will more likely be an economic limit where it goes to dry gas.
We're rather suspecting that the rates will be eye-opening but the economics will be great because it will lose our liquids contribution.
We don't know that until we get down there and drill it.
And we're always ready for surprises and we'll react when we get them.
Research Division</strong> And just to that point real quick Tom.
The NGL and gas cut if you could of that well you gave the oil cut and can you give the other breakdown? John is looking for that.
I don't have that committed to memory.
I don't have it either.
I can calculator it.
Why don't we go on? Why don't we go to the next question and we'll come back in with that answer while we look for it.
The next question will come from Matt Portillo of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions for me on the Delaware side.
I continue to hear a lot of positive industry commentary around the Avalon and I was wondering if you could provide a little bit of context on some of the delineation work you're doing kind of further south of your lead position.
And then I guess the second question in regards to the inventory depth that you provided.
I think that's based on a 4-well per section downspacing.
But curious how you guys are thinking about the downspacing opportunity within the Avalon Shale in and around acreage position given kind of other industry success so far? In regards to the Avalon a yes we are trying to delineate and expand the opportunity for what we consider to be the oil window for the Avalon within the Delaware Basin.
As of right now I don't have any results to talk to you about but we are definitely looking at ways to expand the opportunity set for the Avalon.
As far as spacing we have noticed a number of operators initially started 4 wells.
We now see people going even tighter spacing 6 wells even tighter than that.
We have a number of pilots that we have planned that will be coming on here later this year where we'll be testing a much tighter spacing.
I would just say let us get those under our belt before we say anything more clear about what we think the ultimate spacing will be there.
But without a doubt what we observed in the trend in this play is too much tighter spacing than the original 4 wells per section that people originally talked about.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a second follow-up question on the completion front.
Kind of 2 different points.
I guess on the first I know that I think you guys were testing a tighter density stage frac in Culberson County.
It was up to 30 stages on a 5 000-foot lateral and I was wondering if that has been flowing back? Or if there's any color that you can provide on how that well is performing? And then a second question in regards to the profit.
I know that you guys have really moved the needle on the Delaware Basin for the amount of profit you're using per well.
We're starting to hear about an additional increase on the Midland side of the play as guys move to kind of 1 600 1 700 pounds per foot.
And I was curious if you're looking at potentially even upsizing your fracs from what you've done so far in the play? I'll take that.
Second question first.
We're studying that hard as to what the optimum pounds per foot is and it's not always clear to us that more is better.
I mean we're looking at stage spacing.
We're looking at cluster design.
And then we're also looking at optimizing our fracs but depending on whether we've got a parent well or an infill well.
Our pilot project has given us a lot of data to chew on and one of the things that we're setting is that the proper frac for an infill well may not be the optimum frac when you go to put them 80 acres apart or 660 feet side-by-side.
So that's something we need to seriously test.
We also are testing landing zones and John mentioned that and I just wanted to underscore that that we are -- our current pilots with the exception of the one in Reeves County that we're still drilling on were landed in the same stratigraphic zone and that Wolfcamp is a very thick zone.
So we're looking at a follow-up pilot where we'd still go into that same 8-well per section but we would stagger the landing zone.
So we think that may be an important innovation.
So a lot of things still in the works.
We're not anywhere close to figuring this out but we're very pleased with our results.
We've got a tremendous resource in place in the acreage position and it's working.
Yes in regards to your question about the wells -- a well in Culberson where we went from 20 stages to 30 stages on a 5 000-foot lateral I would just say we definitely saw an improvement in the performance of that well.
But so far the economics don't really lead us to believe that that's the optimal design just yet.
But I'll also caution you that when you go to 30 stages like that some of that uplift may be in the longer-life production of the well that we -- it would be surprise -- it won't surprise me one bit that 6 months from now we'd look at that well and go that it's a much better design for us.
We don't know.
But as of right now it wasn't a tremendous uplift like we've experienced with some of the recent changes.
But it's a close call.
I mean essentially that 30-stage job initially we looked at it and we said no it's probably not giving us the uplift we need.
And then a month or 2 down the road we looked it and said well wait a minute this thing's looking like it's holding in a little stronger.
And so it's a close call.
And it just underscores that you can make these calls off 30-day data.
I mean you can do an okay job on the parent wells.
You go into these infill wells and you don't want to fool yourself.
That decline is one of the critical elements that parameterizes success or failure.
Our next question will come from Jason Smith of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So Tom CapEx this year is still 75% Permian but you're starting to add a bit of incremental capital to the Cana.
So with the confirmation success in the Cana how should we think about capital allocation now going into '15? And I guess what I'm getting at is where does that rig count go from today? Well in Cana the rig count's increasing.
We have plans to do additional infill drilling starting late this fall and in the first quarter of 2015.
So there will be some additional infill drilling.
We've committed 2 additional rigs moving in.
And we'll be picking up the pace of Cana.
The -- we haven't formed our 2015 plans yet but I will say that every decision we make will be around rate of return.
And as we look at some of these recent results in Cana-Woodford I can say that we're becoming almost indifferent as to whether that capital lands in the Permian or lands in Cana-Woodford.
I mean that's how good our Cana-Woodford returns are.
I don't want anybody to mishear me.
The Permian we love as much as ever.
But all of a sudden the Cana-Woodford with this new completion design and the delineation we're doing is looking to us like it's delivering heads-up comparable returns.
And that gives us tremendous flexibility.
The Permian is under a lot of pressure as to a midstream standpoint from markets from field availability from service availability and it gives us a relief valve on our capital program.
So as we look we'll probably do a little more in Cana probably a little higher percentage than it was this year as we look into 2015.
We haven't figured out yet what that will be but it's a great problem to have.
Research Division</strong> And you guys provided some color on gas price sensitivity for the Culberson long laterals.
With the upsized fracs in Cana can you just talk about what gas price you would potentially have to reconsider there? Well again this is John.
I would just state that with those summer prices that I quoted we always run our downside sensitivities and those wells are still very attractive to us at both the $3 flat and $75 oil a very good rate of return on that.
I don't have it right in front of me but still they generate good returns.
We ran a case on the Golden Section just the section that is in the book that we illustrated and we ran a downside case to 2 50 and still had returns that were close to 50%.
So...
Yes that may not be the average.
I mean that's a good result.
The sensitivity is a judgment call and we run sensitivities to oil price we run sensitivities to gas and NGL price and then you kind of have to lay back and say all right are they going to all fall together? Or is one going to fall and the other not? So I'll say this.
If we have a Cana play that can stand $3 or $2.50 gas that looks pretty good to us.
And so we're quite happy with these results in Cana from a top line rate of return standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I can throw maybe one more quick one in on Ward County.
I know water has been an issue there.
I mean so I might have missed this in the prepared remarks but are you guys looking at altering the completion design? And as you kind of go down to 1 rig are there still delineation tests planned for the B/C? Yes and yes.
We are definitely altering our completion design.
Again as I stated in our remarks we definitely recognize that what works well in Reeves doesn't necessarily work well in Ward.
We've made some significant changes to our completion design and we have several wells that are in the process of either flowing back or have been stimulated with these new designs.
And we're monitoring those wells very carefully.
Likewise yes we are currently drilling a lateral testing the B/C zone as well within there.
This I would just say is no different than what we experienced and as I said earlier on in Culberson and what we experienced early on in Reeves and that you don't get it right the first time.
What's important and what we recognize is again there is a tremendously thick resource in place there and it's just a matter of us finding the right recipe in order to capture good economics out of it.
And that's exactly what we're doing.
I will also point out though again that we have the luxury of going down the 1 rig essentially the 2 rigs that we moved out one went to Reeves one went to Culberson because of the breadth of opportunity we have we can do it right in Ward.
We're not in hurry we're going to get it right.
Our next question will come from Jeffrey Campbell of Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Inc.</strong> The first question I wanted to ask was what percentage of your Cana liquids production is condensate? Yes on average it's 5% over the bulk of...
Condensate.
It's all condensate.
I'm sorry.
What percentage is condensate? Yes it's all condensate.
Thank you.
I was giving you a percentage of the total stream.
Inc.</strong> What did we end up with what percentage? Cana will be -- we call it oil in Cana.
It is the condensate in Cana what we produce there.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So I was just wondering I mean is it -- are the volumes significant enough now or are they going to get significant enough with your growth that you could consider taking advantage of any of the recent Department of Commerce decisions to allow stabilized condensate exports without license? We've heard from some other operators say that they're getting a significant price uplift by trying to reach the export market.
Yes Jeffrey we are obviously marketing our condensate barrels through purchasers and they might be working on applications to export those condensate barrels which hopefully translate to better realization to us.
But no we're not looking to make applications to export directly.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And the other thing I wanted to ask about today is I just want to confirm that I thought this -- you seem to outline that there is going to be an increase in Permian completions in the second half.
And I was wondering is that -- was that just due to faster drilling than you had planned? And if so what were the primary drivers of the faster drilling or was it something else? This is Joe.
That was basically nothing more than how we scheduled our rig lines.
And most of our early-year development activity was focused particularly on the Wolfcamp because it generate -- takes up such a good chunk of our budget.
Our Wolfcamp was really focused on Culberson in the first half of the year and teeing up our Reeves County projects really culminated and then coming online here at the end of the year.
So it's nothing more than a product mix and rig timing and so forth and so on how it all played out.
This is Tom.
As much as you'd like to think that if you have 18 or 30 rigs running it ought to be smooth it tends to be lumpy and it just works out that way.
And our program is going to be lumpy in the second half.
It will be lumpy for a while.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And if I could ask one last one real quick.
You said you're going to drill 4 more Merrimacks in 2014.
But do you know how many you'll likely complete? And I mean how many more results we might hear before the end of the year? This is John.
We just now have spudded and are drilling the first of those 4 that I mentioned.
And again I say 4.
It could even expand.
But we're on the first one now which to me implies we won't get completion for another 2- to 3-months production.
You probably won't hear from us until probably sometime in early '15 on any additional Merrimack results now because we're just now getting started on those delineation wells.
Our next question will come from Drew Venker of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to the stacked lateral tests in Culberson.
It sounds like you had positive results versus what you're hoping to test the independence of the zones producing from one another but you mentioned you want to see similar of the performance.
Can you speak to us specifically what you're looking for? Yes this is John.
There are several things that we want to monitor closely in order to ultimately determine how much communication if any is between those laterals.
We quite frankly even have a lot of science that we haven't fully evaluated for that stacked lateral whether it's microseismic or tracer data.
And so there's a lot of outstanding data that we're still looking at accumulating that we want to look at before we can really set -- put a marker down as to what truly was the outcome for that stacked lateral.
We at least wanted to give you a little bit of flavor of what we saw initially which is as I've described different yields different flowing pressures.
But again time will tell what that stacked lateral and what its implication would mean for us.
Another test that we have yet to do is we have a tremendous amount of work to do on landing zones.
We've already done a lot but those 2 laterals are pretty close together and we have a lot of flexibility to lower that detest.
We haven't determined yet whether they are in pressure communication.
It looks to us like they're most likely not.
They're producing different yields as we had to expect and hope.
But yes as John said we have a lot of science to do and we just have to be disciplined and focused on making sure we get it right.
This is Joe.
I'd just comment one other thing.
It's not and you hit on this Tom it's not those first 30 days.
It's what happens to that well 30 60 90.
How does your decline rate change? How does your yield change if it does? And what is that really telling you about communication and landing zones and then resource recovery? I'll just -- a final follow-up.
I mean Joe is right.
From these wells we have an expectation of what a parent well decline should look like.
So 30 days out 60 90 we have an idea we put our tight curve on it what it should do.
That's what we're looking for.
We're looking for that they perform along that same type of a profile.
Research Division</strong> And Tom and Joe just to go back within -- you mentioned the landing zone.
How much experimentation have you done to date with different landing zones within the D? We've done a small amount of experimentation.
We're looking now -- the pilot for example.
If we do a follow-up pilot one thing that's being discussed is landing those little deeper and staggering them.
So we can put -- we have latitude in the D to put wells 80 to 100 feet apart in vertical separation and it would still be D wells.
So we've been all over with landing zone.
We haven't really tried it though side-by-side stacked with staggered.
So we have a lot of data yet to collect on that.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
And one last one just on the marketing side.
Have you any efforts underway to get your crude to the coast either Gulf Coast or West Coast? Yes this is Joe.
What we're -- we have been focused on and will continue to be focused on is direct purchase to a purchaser off the lease.
Where we see some potential relief is come early 2015 when there are -- there's new infrastructure between the Delaware Basin and Colorado City and then alternatives to the Coast and we're hoping that we'll see that reflected in the pricing which would take into account the Midland [indiscernible] differential.
Our project and I can't elaborate too much on it in Culberson would consist of not only just the gathering of that oil off the Culberson system but hopefully a good long-term takeaway solution out of the Delaware.
The next question will come from Ipsit Mohanty of GMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> You introduced the upsides to Delaware in the quarter before.
Last quarter you did that in Cana.
I just wonder as you stand right now what's the extent of your application of upside across Bone Spring Wolfcamp and the Delaware and then in the Cana are all wells going forward going to be all upsized fracs? This is John.
I'll try to answer your question.
Upsize is a phrase we throw out fairly common.
I want to be clear.
With each play we're constantly asking ourselves is our frac optimal for that particular well.
And what we have experienced over the last year is in the areas like you mentioned in Wolfcamp and Avalon and Cana that clearly no that our previous frac design wasn't optimal.
We've made changes.
With each play those changes are different.
There is no one recipe within -- in each play.
So if anything I would say that every play is kind of upsize for us now.
I mean we're always looking to say what is the right recipe to get the most hydrocarbons out of that well.
We've been a little bit I would argue slower in the Bone Spring.
Here recently we made changes in the Bone Spring and we're very pleased with what we're seeing.
That will probably not be the last change we make and we'll probably test something else there.
And I think that's probably the message you should take is that in all of our plays we're going to always be constantly asking ourselves are we optimal and should we be trying something else? And that's really the message you should take from us in regards to these frac designs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a slightly broader question on your development strategy into Delaware.
Look it sounds like as you -- there's a lot of data to do before you can declare a win in the stacked concept.
So as you get -- as you develop the great wells in Wolfcamp D and some of the other ventures like A what's your base of trying to delineate the various stacks? Or what's your motivation for trying to go ahead with the stacked concept versus just drilling some of these highly profitable wells in the separate ventures going to be? Yes well I'll take a stab at that.
A year ago we talked about getting teed up and ready to go to development in the Delaware Basin.
And these pilots initially were designed for us to make decisions that will allow us to go in the full development mode into 2015.
Now if we had to do that we would do that.
And I think that our results have been very good and if we had to make decisions today to proceed based on what we know today we would achieve very nice rates of return if we were to go into full development.
But then something wonderful happened to us.
The innovations that we've been experimenting with in the Permian Basin we applied to Cana and we had an absolute game-changing result at Cana.
So today we have the flexibility of taking that capital redirecting it to Cana and doing additional science in Permian.
So we don't have a schedule today for when I would say we'll be going into full development mode in the Delaware Basin.
I will say that our top line capital will be growing assuming that prices hold up and our cash flow holds up.
And we have outstanding places to invest in out of the Permian or Cana.
But we'd like to do a little more science and get it right.
Because you only get one chance to get it right.
If you're in development mode and experimenting as you go you really run the risk of wasting capital and we want to get the best returns we can.
And right now we think that's probably deferring full development for a while and the nice thing is we don't sacrifice an iota of rate of return because of what we're seeing in Cana.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then one last on acreage.
You mentioned you added some acreage in the Culberson.
Do we assume it's going to bolt on to where you were already? In other words is that something you can leverage to extended lateral as well? We're always looking to add acreage.
The Culberson was really a recounting.
I mean we -- as silly as it sounds you always circle up.
You want to make sure you understand your ownership you understand your right and that was just kind of truing up on accounting of our acreage not necessarily leasing new acreage.
We do always look for new opportunities.
We've recently leased new acreage.
And I will say we recently chose not to lease new acreage because it's gotten highly competitive and we think our returns -- it has to compete for returns.
The next question will come from Cameron Horwitz of U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> You guys have obviously been at the forefront of the upsized frac phenomenon in the Permian.
And I was hoping you could just give us some comment about some of the steps you may be taking to secure the sand supply that you're obviously going to need and just the logistics of getting all that sand to the well site? Yes this is Joe.
We have not procured any long-term relationship with the sand mines what-have-you but we are working hand-in-hand with the 2 majors Schlumberger and Halliburton laying out our frac schedule if you will 2-year out.
We've got a well-to-well cruise assigned and lined up and we're trying to stay well out ahead of our frac schedule with our materials and getting them in place.
We have had absolutely no indication at least from our end that there's a shortage of getting this stuff.
We're trying to procure it.
The only -- we've seen a very modest increase in service cost but we've offset that with our optimal performance in getting our stages done quicker.
The materials have remained relatively in check.
The cost of crop has stayed somewhat flat but it's the transportational profit is where we've seen any kind of cost increase.
And most of that is due to the trucking.
And you're up in more sand you got to truck more sand and that's kind of the supply/demand relationship that happened there.
It's maybe in start white sand cost up from about $0.08 of a pound a year ago to $0.11 now.
So where I'm heading with all this is although about a year back we did look at a potential relationship with an outfit to provide the sand and then we transport it to our wells.
It's a heck of a lot easier for us just to work with our service provider to arrange for that.
We've talked in the past about as we're putting a lot more effort in the planning and that effort is an ongoing and ever-going process.
We've got an active 5-year plan where we look ahead to our rig schedule and we're scheduling all the resources that we think will be required to execute our program.
That includes sand as you've mentioned it also includes rigs it includes water water disposal electrification includes services field services materials and most importantly people.
And we're ahead of the game.
We've met with vendors and midstream companies.
We think we have a good plan.
We think we have an execution and path forward.
And we're putting a lot of energy into it.
We typically try to avoid long-term commitments if we can.
We're generally market-takers and the markets are very efficient at adjusting to supply and demand.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I appreciate that color.
And then I just had one more quick one and moving over to Cana I'm realizing it's obviously very early but are you detecting any evidence from the longer laterals there that you're going to see a better decline profile? I think you said maybe you had 70 days under your belt and just maybe remind us about how the acreage is set up over there in terms of if you were to go to a longer lateral program and what the dynamic is from a lease standpoint there? This is John.
While we're 70 days in that well has taken quite a while to clean up.
So -- and quite frankly we have yet to even reach our peak 30-day average.
What we gave you was a trailing 30-day average.
So the well I mean we're very pleased with the well but we're long ways from making any comment about what the decline profile will look from that well.
Yes I mean the rate is still increasing still playing out.
It is.
We drilled that well specifically in an area where we have a great acreage position to leverage that toward long laterals.
If we choose to do that in the future there's upwards of around at least 8 contiguous sections which lend themselves -- operator sections lend themselves to long laterals.
But that's something that we just have to wait and see how this well performs and then possibly even follow up with another one before we get comfortable looking at that from a development standpoint.
But yes our position our acreage position is well-suited for this if we decide to go that route.
Our final question today will come from Irene Haas of Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> A question on the Merrimack.
Just trying to get my head around the whole exploration process.
So you have an area towards the north that's probably more liquid-rich and as you go to the southwest you got a little gassier.
How many wells do you think you would need to get comfortable with how continuous the trend is? And are you targeting different zones? How continuous is your reservoir? And really ultimately what kind of reservoir is it? Does it have a lot of water issue? These are my questions on the Merrimack.
Well my first comment is you ought to come work on our exploration test.
Maybe you can help us answer those questions.
Yes as we've said about the Merrimack there's a lot still -- believe it or not we don't understand about the Merrimack.
Although we are actively acquiring data with the core data logs and so on.
Some of the things that we are recognizing that is similar to the Woodford we believe there will be a variation in yield as you go let's say from immature up-dip various to more mature down-dip various.
And so that's one thing that these delineation wells are going to try to test is the boundaries of essentially that yield expectation.
As Tom alluded to earlier we -- I think we kind of know where dry gas is going to be.
We certainly know as you get very far up dip where some of our competitors are we kind of think we know where the oil window is.
What we're still trying to figure out is just what is the true sweet spot.
Obviously we're very pleased with the first well but that doesn't mean we're in the right spot yet.
The other thing I would say is yes it's very thick.
And we happen to choose this one particular landing zone quite frankly based on where a lot of competitors were landing.
I will tell you that if we're drilling our next well right now we had a very healthy debate internally as to where we should land that well.
Again we're learning as we go along here.
I would argue a good -- we talked about 4 wells probably in the range of 8 to 10 wells under our belt before we really start getting a good handle over what the true opportunity set is here that we have in front of us is the way I would think about it.
Yes Irene one of the challenges that we see is it's not a reservoir that just jumps out on longer slots and you say wow look at that let's go drill it.
It's a combination of core data month-long shows.
But there are also empirical results from ours and competitors' wells and we look at those carefully.
So we don't know what the thickness cutoffs are we've got a ream of maps but until we get out there and test it we are forging new ground.
And one of the challenges to Cimarex is most of our competition is north and east of us in an oilier part.
So we're in a little different maturity fairway and we're very encouraged by that based on our well and 1 or 2 competitor wells but it means that we don't have a tremendous amount of analogs.
The competitor wells are generally drilled in a little different oil/gas mix.
So we're going to have to sample the reservoir.
It does appear to produce less water than we were expecting.
I will answer your question there.
Production tends to dry up a little faster than what we observed in the Woodford for example.
Research Division</strong> And is it a true shale or is it a mixture? Is it really deposit on base in offsetting or is it a slope kind of thing? This is John.
I think it kind of a -- the answer to your question depends on how you define a shale.
How's that? We debate that a lot even internally in terms of that -- if you show shale could be a matter of grain size or the fizzled nature of it.
Depending upon who you ask some would say this is a shale.
Some would say no it's more of a dirty silt stone.
Again it depends on who you ask.
What we care more about is just how do we measure it how do we map it and how do we prosecute it? Whatever you want to call it that's what we're concentrating on.
And Irene I want to just trend along with John.
The rock type is different and so we don't look at this rock and just make automatic arm-waiting facing assumptions to what downspacing there may now look like.
We are really early time here.
We are wholly encouraged by what we've seen thus far and we just need to keep our focus and do the work.
And ladies and gentlemen that will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mark Burford for his closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
I appreciate your attention.
We look forward to reporting our continued progress on different plays going in the future.
And ultimately that we have in the week after next we'll teach you some in the Enercom Oil &amp; Gas Conference here in Denver.
But again thanks for your participation and if you have other follow up questions please reach out us.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good day and welcome to the Cimarex Energy Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mark Burford Vice President of Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much Andrew.
Thank you everyone for joining us today on our third quarter conference call.
Speaking today will be Tom Jorden President and CEO; Joe Albi EVP and COO; John Lambuth Vice President of Exploration; and also in Denver we have Paul Korus our CFO; and Karen Acierno our Director of Investor Relations.
We did issue our financial operating results it was released yesterday after market closed.
A copy of which can be found on our website.
We also posted on our latest investor presentation which may make some references today on today's call.
I need to remind you that today's discussion will contain forward-looking statements.
A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss.
You should read our disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest 10-K and other filings and news releases for the risk factors associated with our business.
We have a lot to cover today so I'll go ahead and get the call turn over to Tom.
Thank you Mark and thanks to all of you for participating in today's conference.
We appreciate your interest in Cimarex.
A lot has happened since our second quarter call in August and I'd like to take a few minutes upfront to touch on some of the highlights before turning it over to John and Joe for more detailed update.
Well despite the impacts with severe weather on the Delaware Basin which had a significant impact on our third quarter Cimarex produced a record 942 million cubic feet equivalent per day which was at the high end of our guidance.
And this was a testament to the extraordinary efforts made by our field personnel to safely restore our operations and to a continued strong result in the Mid-Continent region.
We had a real mess in our hands with this weather in the Delaware Basin and I really do want to credit our field personnel for getting after it performing operations safely and getting our production restored in a clean environmental way.
When it comes to the Mid-Continent the Permian our technical teams have really refocused their efforts to improve the way we complete our wells.
In the Cana-Woodford this is having not only a strong impact in our production but it's also extending and completely redefining the boundaries of that play.
We've got an opportunity set and return profile that really puts us in a nice position and John will give you some more updates on that.
In the Mid-Continent we drilled 6 additional Merrimack wells and have completed our initial mapping in Merrimack opportunity.
And today we can tell you that we think we have approximately 70 000 net acres in that fairway of which 60 000 are held by production.
So a really really nice layer of opportunity added to our assets.
In the Delaware Basin initial results are in our first downspacing pilot in the Wolfcamp A in the Reeves County.
This was a 4-well 80-acre pilot situated in an area that's ripe with opportunity to drill long laterals.
We are very pleased with those results and I'll leave it to John to go over further details.
As we look to the future however the opportunity to drill long laterals 10 000-foot laterals in the Reeves County opportunity is really significant to us.
By far the biggest change since August has been a precipitous drop in oil prices.
And as you all know our near month WTI pricing in August was 96 -- $92 on our call August 6.
This morning the 12 months strip is trading around $77 so that's redrawn the landscape as we look ahead.
But I want to take just a minute here and talk about where Cimarex sits in the midst of this very rapidly changing landscape.
As we look 2014 in hindsight some of the things that we did in 2014 have put us in a very very strong position.
First off we got our bond offering this spring.
We placed $750 million that's 4.375%.
We were able to retire all of our bank debt and prepay our Mid-Continent acquisition.
The Mid-Continent asset purchase we announced earlier this year in hindsight looks really really strong to us and is generating some opportunities to have outstanding returns in this price environment and John will talk about that.
And then the third thing we did this year is we got off some property sales that brought in almost $460 million cash.
And as we sit today we have an extremely strong asset mix.
We have good flexibility with our commodity and we are on pace to end the year with almost $400 million cash on hand.
So as we look at this changing environment Cimarex is sitting exactly where we want to be by design.
I know we're going to get a lot of questions about 2015 CapEx so I'm going to have [ph] those right upfront.
And one thing I'll say is we're going to probably disappoint a lot of you if we're looking for a very refined guidance.
We're sailing in to a fog here.
There's a lot of things changing.
And one thing we can tell you is we don't see a lot of virtue [ph] in giving a lot of guidance in this rapidly changing environment.
We are in a very nice position to have the kind of flexibility that we talked about and that we cherish.
But we'll tell you as we look into 2015 how we're looking at it.
There's 3 critical elements that really prioritize our viewpoint of 2015.
First is what's the robustness of our investment opportunity.
In this commodity environment do we have things that we want to invest in? And to that I could say absolutely.
As we look at the quality of our portfolio and we want our commodity price down even as low as $60 NYMEX oil and $3 NYMEX gas and hold flat we have an extremely robust investment opportunity.
If we chose to keep our CapEx at a level roughly where it is today we have plenty to do at that stress test.
Second is what our cash flow going to be and how do we want to preserve our balance sheet? We're still going to have good cash flow in 2015 at these current prices and we have plenty of balance sheet flexibility.
The third that we'll prioritize how we look at 2015 is the overall market psychology.
How deep do we think this trough is going to be and what are other players going to do? Because right now as we look at what's changed over the last couple of months we see a decreasing commodity price and yet service costs are still relatively high.
And so how we look at 2015 is going to be a function of our opinion of how deep is this trough and do we think we'll see this service cost reset? So we don't have any answers for you but I will say we're in a very nice position to be flexible there and adapt as we go.
We also don't have a lot of long-term contracts.
As we go into 2015 we'll only have 6 rigs under long-term contract and that gives us a lot of flexibility.
So we're not hanging our hands in Cimarex.
We're built for this.
This is -- these are times that our balance sheet and our capital discipline have really taught us allow us to seize our opportunities.
So we're going to have plenty to do next year and we'll be -- I'm certainly -- I'm certain we'll be entertaining a lot of questions on that.
With that I'll turn it over to John and Joe to discuss details of our progress and we do look forward to your questions.
Thanks Tom.
I'd like to quickly cover some of the highlights of our overall program before getting into the Permian region.
I'll then finish with our Mid-Continent region and some results in Cana.
Cimarex drilled and completed 66 gross 36 net wells during the quarter investing $460 million.
74% was invested in Permian region and the rest of it toward activities in the Mid-Continent region.
Of those 66 gross wells 36 gross or 27 net were in the Permian region where we continue to be focused on the Wolfcamp Bone Spring and the Avalon formations in the Delaware Basin.
Bone Spring activity in the second quarter included 12 net wells into Mexico and Texas.
We continue to have some of the best -- our best results in the Culberson/White City area which is located in southern Eddy County New Mexico and Northern Culberson County Texas.
This geographic area is defined by a fixed hand section that produces more gas in a historical Bone Spring production.
We have tested upsize fracs with good results and thus our drilling program in these areas now incorporates a larger 15 stage frac design.
Cimarex has completed 29 wells in the Culberson/White City area in 2014.
Of those 12 wells have been completed with this new 12 stage frac design and have a 30-day average IP of approximately 1 150 barrels of oil equivalent per day of which 65% or 744 barrels per day is oil.
About half of our 2014 Permian drilling program or $650 million will go towards further delineation of our significant Wolfcamp opportunity in the Delaware Basin.
This number is down some of our $35 million from our previous estimates due to weather-related delays and our completion program.
The $650 million does include downspacing pilots wells drilled to hold acreage testing the long laterals and delineation wells designed to help us understand this vast resource.
Our Wolfcamp acreage position now stands at 235 000 net acres.
We recently completed a well in Ward County Texas that is producing from the Wolfcamp B C zone bring in the total distinct producing Wolfcamp zones to 7 across the entirety of our acreage.
We continue to test long laterals.
Since our last call 4 additional long laterals have begun producing bringing the total to 15.
Unfortunately we do not have any 30-day IPs on any of the wells as the heavy rains in the Delaware Basin delayed first production on some wells and the completion of others.
I will refer you though to Pages 14 and 15 in our presentation which provides updated information on the Culberson County long lateral performance to date and economic sensitivities to various realized oil prices.
Lastly in the Delaware Basin I'd like to give you an update on the status of the spacing pilots we currently have underway.
We are now producing from our third spacing pilot an 80-acre downspacing pilot in Reeves County Texas.
The 4 well in this Wolfcamp A pilot had an average 30-day IP of 1 029 barrels of oil equivalent per day of which 49% was oil.
However the Cleveland pilot these wells are located what Cimarex refers to as the Grisham area.
The location of this pilot can be seen on page 17 of our presentation.
These wells were completed with an upsized frac and compared quite favorably to our predrill expectations.
The Cleveland pilot is located in an area that is ideal for long laterals and we are in fact completing a long lateral directly offsetting this pilot right now.
We expect this new long lateral well to have an initial production uplift of about 1.7x the Cleveland wells with reserves to come in almost double.
This area definitely leads itself to long laterals and we expect top-tier returns in 4 of those wells.
Our fourth pilot in 2014 is a stacked and staggered pilot in Wolfcamp A in Reeves County which will test our downspacing and the viability of landing more than one lateral in the fifth Wolfcamp A section.
Those wells are literally coming on as we speak right now.
Now on for the Mid-Continent.
We are pleased to report that our ongoing efforts to introduce upsized completions in our Cana program continues to provide good results.
In addition to applying the larger frac to development wells we are also testing the concept on acreage outside the 4 development area except outside the core area means additional acreage and locations available for development.
We are pleased with the results we've had so far.
We have drilled and completed a delineation well we called the Glenda 1-23H which is located west of our Cana core area and Blank County Oklahoma.
The well was drilled to test the dryer portion of the field and achieved a peak 30-day average IP of 12.4 million cubic feet equivalent per day of which 69% was gas 27% NGL and 4% oil.
I will point out that that result and in terms of that IP is about 2.5x greater than the average IP of the older existing current wells around it.
Again a nice outcome given the application of our new frac design.
I can also report that the heart section another Cimarex-operated development section completed using upsized frac has achieved a strong result as well with those 8 development wells having an average 30-day peak IP of 9.7 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
This compares very favorably to our previously talked about Golden Section which had a 10.1 million cubic feet equivalent per day average.
We are gearing up for the development of a 10 section well in the heart of the Cana core area.
Cimarex has begun drilling on 2 of these sections and we anticipate operating as many as 7 rigs at the peak of our drilling activity on this row.
Cimarex currently has approximately 128 000 acres identified as available for Woodford drilling of which 110 000 are held by production.
And then finally as Tom mentioned we are now in various stages of drilling and competing 6 additional Merrimack wells since mentioning our first well on our last conference call.
Our mapping of this interval as Tom indicated to you suggests that we have about 70 000 net acreage perspective for the Merrimack of which 60 000 is held by production.
Plans going forward are to continue to delineate this drilling -- delineation drilling of this potential resource.
With that I'll turn the call over to Joe Albi.
Well thank you John and thank you all of you for joining our call today.
I'll touch on the usual items our third quarter production our fourth quarter and full year production outlook and then I'll follow-up with a few comments on where we see operating and service cost.
Starting with production.
We had another great quarter for production despite shut-ins of approximately 15 million to 20 million a day for the quarter as a result of September's severe weather and flooding in the Permian.
Our third quarter production came in at 942.4 million a day that put us at the upper end of our projected guidance which was 920 million to 945 million.
It also set a new record for us at the total company production level.
I want to echo a few words right behind Tom with regard to the storms and the severe weather that we saw in September.
We are extremely proud of the manner in which our operations teams responded to the rains and flooding that we had in the Permian.
The severe flooding impacted the majority of our Triple Crown our Reeves and our Ward County drilling completion and production operations over a fairly lengthy period 2 to 3 weeks.
Our teams acted quickly and most importantly safely to sustain drilling operations shut-in production secure facilities move oil off of our leases transfer gas markets to other markets evacuate field personnel from all the exposed area just a handful of thanks.
And as a result we saw virtually no damage to our facilities but we did experience the delays we talked about and that's in reestablishing our drilling completion and production operations in effectiveness across the board.
The impact wasn't the locations so to speak.
It was more severe row damage that was associated with the floods and our teams working alongside county officials and more importantly our peer operating companies.
We work hard and work together to regain our location access and we're able to reestablish our operations here by mid-October.
So we're very very proud of our entire team.
Although the storms cut back our production we saw excellent gains during the quarter.
Our total company Q3 volume of 942 million a day was up a very healthy 104 million a day or 12% from just last quarter and 225 million a day or nearly 1/3 from where we were a year ago in Q3 '13.
With our continued success in Cana we set new records for all product categories in the Mid-Continent during the quarter with our Q3 Mid-Continent equivalent volume coming in at 518 million a day that's up 22% from last quarter and 53% from Q3 '13.
Our Q3 Cana volume of 406 million a day was a record as well.
It was up 96 million a day or 31% from Q2 and a very respectable 189 million a day or 87% from Q3 '13 nearly doubling our Q3 '13 average of 217 million a day both very substantial gains.
With the increase Cana now really carries the heartbeat of Cimarex makes up 78% of our Mid-Continent production and 43% of our total company production.
Despite the storms we also set new records for all product categories again in the Permian.
Our third quarter Permian volume of 408 million a day was up 15 million a day or 4% from Q2 and 56 million a day or 16% from a year ago.
So as we look forward into Q4 with our modeling we've adjusted the model to really account for 3 significant items: Number one our Q3 property sales which took approximately 25 million to 30 million a day off our fourth quarter books but it also added $454 million to our bank account; secondly the impact of the storms on our existing production was incorporated into the plan; and thirdly the storm-related completion delays primarily in the oil-rich Reeves County area which in aggregate moved the number of net completions -- a number of them 16 from Q4 into 2015.
The end result was a Q4 guidance range of 930 million to 955 million which at first glance appears flat with Q3 when we adjust for the property sales at 25 million to 39 million a day.
We continue to shell quarter-to-quarter consecutive growth on a sale adjusted basis.
We did this all the while we were moving a number of our oil-rich completions into 2015.
So with that our full year guidance range comes in at 864 million to 870 million.
That's a midpoint that remains virtually unchanged from the midpoint we gave you last quarter despite the property sales and the impacts of the storm.
The only significant departure from our previous guidance is our projection for our 2014 average net oil production which as a result of our Midland Basin property sale and storm-related production and completion deferrals is now projected to range anywhere from 42 200 to 42 500 barrels a day and that's down from our previous estimate but still reflecting a very respectable 16% gain as compared to 2013.
Jumping over to OpEx.
We continue to keep our LOE in check.
Our third quarter lifting cost came in at $1.03 per Mcf.
That's down $0.10 from our Q1 and Q2 average of a $1.13 and well below the full year guidance that we issued last call of $1.12 to $1.17.
Our guidance speaks really comes as a result of 2 factors: First our production team's proactive focus on cost control; and secondly our production growth in the Mid-Continent where we typically see lower per unit cost.
All that said we're still seeing cost pressure and some big items such as saltwater disposal rentals and labor to name a few particularly in the less developed portions of the Permian.
And as such as we look forward with already strong year-to-date numbers on a good number of our liquid-rich Permian wells still projected to come online here in Q4.
We've adjusted our full year lifting cost guidance down somewhat to $1.08 to $1.12 and that's down $0.05 from last call.
A few words on service costs.
As Tom mentioned here we go again in the cycle and we've yet to see the market for top drives to get soft given the recent drop in price but -- and as such you can rig availability is still a little bit tight.
But despite that all other drilling component costs seem to remain in check.
Where we have seen cost increases it has been on the completion side.
We continue to feel the effects of cost pressure for service and materials in the frac market primarily for labor and for prop transportation.
But the biggest overall cost increases we've seen are direct result of us pumping bigger jobs more stages more volume more prop.
And as a result our completion cost for our major programs are now making up 2/3 to 70% of our total well cost.
All that said our well results continue to tell us if these incremental cost are yielding very favorable benefits.
As far as total well costs go with upsized frac designs now standard in our Cana completions our current Cana total well costs are falling in the $7.9 million to $8.4 million range.
That's up slightly from last quarter and the cost increase is all related to our increase frac design.
In the Permian with us adopting a larger frac design now in our Bone Spring program as John mentioned.
Our current AFEs for a 4 500-foot second and third New Mexico Bone Spring well are running in the $6.5 million to $7.5 million range.
All that is really depending on depth.
In our shallower White City and the Culberson second Bone Spring program our AFEs with the larger fracs are running in the $5.9 million to $6.1 million range while our current Avalon wells are running in the $7.5 million to $7.8 million range.
Lastly our current AFEs for 4 500-foot lateral Wolfcamp well with the larger frac are in the $8.8 million to $9.3 million with the 2-mile lateral on the Wolfcamp running to $13 million to $14.2 million.
So as we work our way through the drop in oil prices we're obviously going to be focused on looking at every avenue to optimize and reduce our total well cost.
And we need to do it for operating efficiencies a continued focus on that.
And also by utilizing the service providers who are the most willing to compete in this new low price environment.
Ultimately providing us with the best service at the lower -- at the lowest per unit cost.
So in closing Q3 was another great quarter for us despite property sales the weather impacts during the quarter.
Our strong new well adds good base property performance added together put us at the upper end of our Q3 guidance and kept our previous full year guidance projection in place that will leave us in check and we continue to make strides optimizing our completion design with a direct focus on maximizing our well results.
So with that we're on course for a record year here in 2014 and our current strong momentum into '15.
And with that Andrew I guess we'll turn the call over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you can talk about the price that you might plan to budget on for 2015 on a philosophical level whether you would start with a strip as we getting closer to year end or some discount to the strip.
I think particularly because you're not hedged.
So I want to know how you're thinking about pricing.
Drew this is Tom.
Our approach there hasn't changed.
We'll look at the strip as sort of our base case but we're also going to look at downside protection and we're going to run $60 oil and $3 gas and those are NYMEX pricing.
So we will subtract from those downside pricing when it takes to get back to the wellhead and that's going to be true on all of the price files that we quote.
We always look at wellhead when we see price.
And we're going to make sure that we get a reasonable return at that downside case.
So yes the strip will be our first half but we're going to really try to be disciplined and make sure that we see a $60 oil $3 gas environment we don't destroy capital.
So that's a little of both it's a bit of a polarity because we look at the strip.
But if you got something that works at the strip but it couldn't stand what we think is a reasonable downsize stress test we won't fund it.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful Tom.
And if we can shift to the Permian.
It sounds like for the most part operations are back on track.
Are there lingering impacts from the flooding? Can you talk about when you think everything will be fully back to normal in the Permian in terms of completions and general operations? Yes.
This is Joe.
We are back on track.
We had a little bit of production that was still impacted about a week or so back but that looks to be cleared up this week in a little bit.
I mean maybe 5 million a day out of what was a fairly significant volume during the flood.
So our completion schedule is intact roads are accessible and we're back to normal operation.
Research Division</strong> So I guess a follow-up on that.
So the run rate of completions will probably be back to a normal pace for a full quarter by 1Q? Yes.
If you look at the numbers we basically slid 15 16 net wells into 2015 and had -- ultimately now Q4 has about in the same number of completions that we've modeled last quarter when we gave our guidance and that will carry -- I suspect that it will carry itself over into January.
This is basically new things 3 to 4 weeks because you have to reconfigure your whole frac schedule.
You have some pilots involved in all this.
We had different interest in different wells and the way it plays out on a well basis is a really just cut into the tail end of September and early October November where things are really picking up here from this point forward.
The next question comes from Brian Gamble of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Tom you touched on the -- touched what I thought was an impressive plan for the Cana the 10 lateral section you mentioned the 7 rig peak obviously I'm sure that dovetails in with your discussion of '15 and successful return at various prices.
But any more color there as far as the timing to actually have that available to run the 7 rigs if you wanted to? And maybe even talk about returns vis-à-vis the new completions and how that may impact decisions to ramp that activity level up in '15? This is John.
I guess I'll try to answer that for you.
We have a plan in place.
I'll send our partner to ramp up our rig activity.
As I mentioned we're already at 2 rigs on it.
We envision ourselves being upward of 6 to 7 operated rigs.
Likewise our partner will be bringing in rigs again at the beginning of the year.
When you go to row development you really got to get a lot of wells drilled way ahead of you before even bring those frac crews in as you can imagine especially with 10 sections.
And so there will be a lot of drilling going on before you finally get to the point where those frac crews will start showing up some time probably in the June time frame.
And then finally about a month or so after that you start seeing the production coming in.
So we have a pretty aggressive plan for 10 contiguous sections to go forward.
And right now I would just say based on as Tom mentioned our stress testing of those wells with different commodity prices those 10 sections looks very very attractive to us.
So it's -- to us in a sense it's full steam ahead on those 10 sections going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on the Merrimack you mentioned obviously the one in the last quarter you got 6 in various stages.
How many results are we expecting to get potentially by Q4 results? We will have quite a number of those wells that we can comment on Q4.
We just don't have our typical 30-day peak average to talk about on any 1 well.
But of those 6 3 are currently flowing back -- actually 4 are flowing back 1 ready to frac and 1 is just about done drilling in terms of its lateral.
So theoretically yes we will probably have more information to talk about those going forward on the next call.
Yes.
This is Tom.
We stick to our discipline on that.
We really would like to have 30 days of peak production before we discuss wells publicly.
And that's just because that's a number that's meaningful to us and our technical teams.
And so we actually -- we are close on a well but we decided now we're going to hold off and make sure that we're consistent with the information and results we communicate.
Research Division</strong> And Tom one last one kind of a micro thing.
As far as your discussions with other operators and there was some discussion of cost pressures on the completion side but the rest of your '15 budget came here dependent on kind of how realistic we'll call it people are with their cost expectations.
Have you started having those sorts of conversations? And if so any color you can lend us to help other people that are looking at '15? Well I -- and I think you all on the call probably know more than we do because you have one-on-one significant engagement conversations with these companies.
But I'll say this we're looking at the landscape of companies that have been greatly outspending cash flow incurring nothing debt to do so and I said there were 3 elements: One is investment -- the robustness of our investment portfolio; 2 cash flow and balance sheet; and third is market psychology.
I think we're curious as to who's going to blink out there.
I mean how deep is this trough how low could prices go and there are people wanting to be continuing to incur narrowing debt in order to fund their program.
And it's going to take the market laying some rigs down to see service cost reset.
Service cost aren't going to respond to the oil and gas price they're going to respond to demand for services.
So -- and I know I'm not answering your question but we're watching that carefully.
And that something that will color our thinking as to how much we want to get aggressive in 2015.
Yes.
And this is Joe I'll add a little flavor to that.
Our operations teams have been in contact with our major service providers over the last 2 to 3 weeks.
And they -- the providers are fully aware of the fact that should economics dictate us laying out rigs we're going to align ourselves up with those that react the quickest and compete in -- this is not a new cycle we've been here before.
Market share will be important to those companies and we'll align ourselves up with the people who want to react first.
The next question comes from Cameron Horwitz of U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> Quick question in the Cana.
I know it's a fluid number but can you give us your best guess for what you think the Cana inventory looks like based on the step-out work that you've done so far to date? This is John.
Well that's a great question and I wish I had a number for you right now as I sit here.
We still are drilling additional what I'll call re-delineation wells throughout the play.
So with each new well like the one I just announced it just continues to grow.
I'll be honest.
It's -- it looks pretty promising for us in terms of that acreage number that I quoted in terms of the total amount of net acreage we have on those perspective.
And yes we still have more wells that we are going to be drilling and testing that will certainly define that.
I'll say this much the Glenda result certainly has given us some encouragement to push that road development further to the west and what we normally would've done.
And so again that got us to the 10 sections we're at right now.
And with each new well yes we're more and more encouraged with what we see there with the acreage we currently have.
But I don't have a number I could just lay in front of you like number of locations right now today.
Yes.
This is Tom Cameron.
Just to echo what John said.
We're -- re-delineation is a great way to characterize it.
We have been continuously surprised and impressed with how this new completion is taking areas that we would have looked at and said it's marginal maybe submarginal and all of a sudden it looks really really robust and that Glenda is a case in point.
And we have lots of areas in the field that we still need to test.
Thus far we're wholly encouraged.
I mean it's just redefining the investment landscape for Cana.
So we are really really optimistic.
But we don't have a number for you.
Research Division</strong> Okay I guess what goes hand-in-hand with that can you just remind us where you stand on what you all were thinking about spacing and maybe how that's evolving? I'm sorry rephrase -- say the question again? I didn't quite hear you.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of the unilateral spacing out there in the Cana which you all are testing at this point.
Yes.
I mean our typical development peers is 8 new wells in addition to the current well which will be 9 wells per section.
But I can tell you this that because of these well results and just the metrics we look at in this new well development we're going to that I mentioned we are going to go to some tighter spacing on subsection.
In some cases upwards of 11 wells on a section.
11 new wells.
11 new wells in addition to the parent.
And that's just a reflection of the great resource in place we have there.
When we truly look at the thickness of that shale look at the resource and again we do the different measurements we make yes we ask ourselves why not? Why wouldn't it support 11 wells with this frac design? And that in fact is what we're going to do on at least 1 section and it will vary by section by section dictated by that resource in place per section.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I appreciate that color.
Just going back to types of Permian.
On the Cleveland pilot is the -- I guess is the conclusion there that you think optimal development Reeves will be on 80-acre spacing or is it still too early to tell? I think the easy answer is too early to tell.
I'll simply say this.
If we take that result and then take our expectations for a 10 000-foot lateral which as I mentioned we're completing one right now those economics look pretty robust to us in terms if you were to go forward with an 8 well.
But in no way does that mean that we know that's the right answer.
There'll be more pilots in that area.
But suffice to say we're very encouraged with the results of that pilot and what that means for us going forward with that acreage block we have there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just last for me just so I'm clear.
In terms of the oil trajectory out of the Permian.
If you took the noise out from the completion slippage and the shut-ins do you all -- would you have cleared that 40 000 barrels a day that you all had talked about in Q1 and the Q4 period? Well you can start counting to 40 000 barrels per day and this is Mark.
In the Permian Cameron what are you referring to? Research Division</strong> Yes in the Permian I think in Q1 you had put out a 40 000-barrel a day number for Q4.
I'm just trying to understand.
Taking the noise out where you on that trajectory? Yes.
I mean Cameron taking the noise are meaningful trying to put back the wells when they would have been completed when we thought they would be completed plus take the storm downtime out.
Yes that's it.
It would be on that trajectory.
But we have 2 moving pieces there we both had wells on production that didn't produce like we thought they would because of storm down fund.
Hopefully shifting about 15 wells from this period to next.
So if you put everything back we had a construction which we could achieve or x the storm I think we would have hit those numbers.
Property sales that....
Same property sales are on top which we didn't have to opt into the number.
Now whatever is -- the minimum base in Wolfcamp which we did sell it was about 1 500 barrels a day in the fourth quarter that we didn't sell so.
That we had to open into our numbers.
There was no element in our numbers that we removed out post of sale.
That's a big piece of it.
The next question comes from Joseph Allman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Tom it sounds as if you already are in the process of ramping up especially in the Cana.
And so is that correct that just in terms of planning and getting ready to add additional rigs you're already there? Or are you are you already in the -- or are you tapping the brakes already to sort of waiting and seeing how this oil market plays out? And if...
Well -- go ahead.
Research Division</strong> No go ahead Tom I'll follow-up later.
No.
That's -- you're absolutely right.
We have committed to do this additional development row in Cana and we're bringing some rigs in to prosecute that and that's steady as she goes.
We think that project really can stand tall in this commodity-priced environment.
Not only standing alone but compares favorably our investment landscape.
Additional delineation we're doing in the Merrimack we think is really something that we want to continue to do.
And then as we look at the Permian we look at Culberson County and the joint development agreement we have when we look at really that whole fairway that's in our corporate update.
So we kind of think of Culberson County and then up to that White City block in Eddy County as one geologic province.
We're going to do as much of that as we can with long laterals where we can.
Those stand tall.
And then the rest of it is a jump ball.
I mean quite -- everything else either in the Mid-Continent Permian is up for discussion.
Now I will say that I think you're going to see a higher percentage of our capital be going to the Anadarko Basin next year than this year.
This year with 75% Permian.
You'll probably see a little higher percentage in Anadarko.
A little higher I don't think it will be half but we're working our way through it.
I mean the good news is we're really testing this on a rate-of-return metric.
We're not testing it on what our preferred commodity type is.
We're looking at which of our opportunities have the robustness to the downside of commodity and we have lots and lots to do.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Tom and just a follow-up on that so how much are you willing to outspend cash flow in 2015? And what metrics would you be looking at to judge a comfort level with outspend? That's -- Joe I can't answer that today.
I mean it's that -- I said there are 3 elements the third is market psychology and that's the most touchy-feeling of all 3.
I can drill a lot into that.
And then we want to see where do we think this oil price is heading? Where do we think service costs are heading? What do we think will be the duration and depth of this correction if you will? And make that -- we'll have to make that decision today and there will be -- it will be really clueless to do that today and talk about it.
There's one thing to talk about cash flow next year.
We also are going to exit the year with a lot of cash on hand.
I mean we think we're up really cash flow plus about $400 million cash on hand.
So that's all available to us before we have to borrow $0.01 next year.
So there -- we have a lot of flexibility.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Tom and just an operations question.
So in terms of the completion designs and the changes you're making what can we look forward to as some of the kind of most interesting things you're trying and where in particular? Well this is John.
Well I was allowed to say this much.
In as much as we really really like the type of returns and the performance we're seeing sales those Cana wells likewise what we're seeing now is the Bone Spring wells I mentioned.
We have a lot around here where we're not satisfied.
And yes we are constantly challenging ourselves how could -- what could we do better with the completion design.
And so there are more things that we're going to test whether it's stages whether it's the maker of the proppant but I'm not going to sit here and just tell you what our recipe is to that degree.
I'll say that we're not satisfied always we were at and always want to try to push that envelopes to make sure could we get more out of that lock and that's pretty much our go forward model in a sense -- in exploration right now.
This is Tom.
We have a lot of mysteries in our stimulations here today a lot of technical challenges and that's a good thing.
There's a lot of upside.
Now do we have our upside equal to what we've seen? Obviously we've taken bold steps.
We don't know.
But I will say this if I were to tell you that we understood every element of this that would be dampening because I would say that we don't have additional upside.
We have a lot of mysteries yet and we have a lot of really smart people really working at making this better.
The next question comes from Jeff Robertson of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
But just from a philosophical standpoint I guess it sounds like you all planned to enter 2015 with some flexibility around your capital program to see where cost go and maybe also if you have a prolonged period of lower prices to see what other opportunities may come up on the acquisition front is that fair? That's absolutely the case Jeff.
And one of the things that I'll say we don't wish for corrections but boy we all kind of leaned forward.
We're trained for this.
This is in our DNA and our history is that in these down cycles there is tremendous opportunity.
And we'll be as opportunistic as we possibly can.
We're going to stay flexible.
You're probably going to -- we'll talk about wide ranges in what we're continuing to do and we won't apologize if we have to accelerate or decelerate.
We're going to be as opportunistic as we possibly can.
Research Division</strong> And secondly Tom have you all talked much with -- as you're playing your 2015 capital program have you talked much with the service providers about cost directions and especially in areas where you know you're going to be busy? Are there -- are they -- have you shown any willingness yet to make any concessions or help you all out on prices? Yes this is Joe again.
I'll just react on what I mentioned a bit ago.
We have had initial discussions with our larger service providers.
They are aware of our position.
They're aware of the market.
They're finding some of the same things we are.
They've got cost that they're incurring that even as early as September we saw rate increases on the drilling side primarily on the labor side.
It's going to have to be a trickle-down effect but I will tell you this and Tom hit it right on the head.
Once rigs start laying down then it's a scramble for market share.
And once it's a scramble for market share we're in a pretty good position because we will be active and we will be a viable customer.
So it's going to have to trickle down and we're got to keep the heat on them.
Research Division</strong> Then lastly you all have not built any expectations of lower cost into some of the returns you're talking about yet have you? No.
This is John.
Any of our go forward economics we absolutely do not build in price reductions into our capital cost.
We assume the cost is what it is today and we base our decision on that today.
If cost come down then we will adjust at that appropriate time.
But no nothing built in on our go forward modeling for future well returns.
The next question comes from Irene Haas of Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions.
Firstly is at what level would you -- what's your maintenance CapEx i.e.
what's the minimum amount that you could spend to keep your production flat? And secondarily for the Merrimack the wells you have drilled that straw how variable are the pace? Are they kind of the same location where you expect or are they more scattered? Yes Irene this is Mark.
On your first part of your question there with the seen as capital required to invest to order production.
Honestly it's on the measure we spend really any time evaluating that is we still bottoms up and look what are the things we'll invest in the period.
And then based on a rate of return and we see the outcome of the production is.
We don't use a lot of sensitivities on that.
I don't have a hard number for you.
I mean honestly what that would represent at this point.
Obviously the mix of what we drill timing of what we drill.
Even as John touched on like with Cana really for development there's this amount of capital being incurred in the first half of the year that we won't see production until second half this is all a variability timing often this is development that always -- it just compares to some of our logical thinking too because timing and year-over-year comparisons are neat but clearly we had return in the cash flow which generate all the investments we're making that's what we focus on.
And this is John.
In terms of your question on the Merrimack.
Of the 6 wells they are very diverse in their geographic location as well as in their geologic intervals that they're testing.
I mean they are truly delineating our acreage position such that with those results in hand we'll have a much better feel for just what's the breadth and scope of this opportunity.
And so far I would just say "I'll just going to make another comment." We're obviously not alone here.
In the Merrimack there are lots of other wells being drilled by other operators.
And so far and I guess you could -- you can kind of draw that conclusion by the fact we have 6 wells now and plan to -- probably plan to drill more we do like what we see here so far.
But again we need those well results in hand to figure out just what the overall size of the price is right now.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say that this is probably more complicated than the Cana-Woodford play? In terms of how we see right now yes.
It is a play that we are quickly coming up to speed and in terms of our understanding of the rock the whole core we take the analysis of that core the logs we're really at the intimacy here of just understanding the nature of this play.
And so it will all take us some a while here to get more and more comfortable with.
But again so far we like what we see.
Also Irene this is Tom.
The play like Cana-Woodford has a lot of geological variation.
It varies in thickness.
And one of the things it varies is in hydrocarbon-type and also pressure.
And so the window we're playing it in is a little different than where a lot of the announced activities has been.
And so a lot of -- we as you know you know as well we study our competition and it's not always a direct analog to where we're playing at.
But as John said we're very very encouraged about what we're seeing thus far.
The next question comes from Jason Smith of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the Cana again.
Can you just remind us on infrastructure and availability of labor? I'm just trying to figure out is there any limitations to -- if we look at this differently to potentially going beyond the plan that you've laid out in this call.
This is Joe.
We don't see that to be an issue as far as personnel to get the job done and get the wells drilled.
Services are there.
We're proactively working with the -- our processing entity for market for capacity and for market availability for residue gas sales and NGLs.
And so we're about 6 9 months ahead of that and don't foresee issues there but everything looks like it's on track.
Research Division</strong> And on the 7 rigs that you guys mentioned I mean is that -- that's just Cana right? So are there other rigs that you guys are planning to allocate to the Mid-Con? Yes.
This is John.
Yes there will be some additional rigs drilling.
As Tom mentioned for sure some additional Merrimack delineation as well as other concepts and things that we're pursuing.
I don't have an exact number for you today.
Obviously that's depending upon where we think we're going to fund and what level next year.
But above and beyond the 6 to 7 rigs on that row development there will be other rigs active for us in the Anadarko region.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just a similar question but taking it to the Permian.
Can you maybe just update us on where things stand on oil gathering and gas processing for you guys over there? This is Joe.
We're right on track with our plans.
We continue to put pipe in the ground both in Triple Crown as well as in the Reeves County area.
We've locked in to some firm volumes with 2 or 3 additional processors since our last call.
We're aware of their capacity.
At the same time there's somewhere around several bcf a day of new processing coming on in the next 2 years.
So Triple Crown's working out as exactly as we'd hoped.
We got to take away to the North take away in the middle take away to the South.
And so far so good but again just like Cana we got to stay out ahead of this.
With the drilling activity is going to look like and then try and react in proactive manner rather than after we drilled the wells to ensure capacity take away.
Research Division</strong> And on the oil side Joe? On the oil side things are blowing and going.
We're not having any issues hauling.
We continue to be in discussions both in Triple Crown as well now in a new -- in 2 other areas the Reeves County and Lee County area for oil gathering projects both of those were working towards inking agreements and are in the process right away for oil gathering which has really take a lot of pressure of this by the end of next year.
The next question comes from Ipsit Mohanty of GMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of broad questions.
The delivery basin as good as anyone else.
When you look at various traffic scenarios in '15 do you look at your development at the basin equally across the 8 stage? Or would there be areas that you would rather focus and then some that you have not touched? And then as -- and in relation to that would there be particular zones that you're going to first? Or would you just develop the way that you're doing right now? I'm just curious to see how you look at developing that portfolio let's say if oil goes down even further.
This is John I guess I'll try to answer your question first.
You're absolutely right in that but our basin is a very broad large basin.
And within that basin itself we see lots of variability in terms of the type of hydrocarbons we make.
As we spoke about many times say for instance in Wolfcamp we have the breadth of acreage where we could be anywhere from being almost mostly oil in the reservoir to all the way up in Culberson where it's predominantly gas with a really good yield component to it.
And in some ways commodity price dictates where we go with that.
Right now as -- again we've talked about Culberson looks still extremely attractive to us from a rate of return standpoint.
On the flip side I will tell you right now Ward County Wolfcamp gets a little bit of a struggle right now given the current prices with oil.
And just given the depth we have to drill to and to the lack of pressure I would say within that reservoir Ward is a little bit of a struggle.
But the nice thing is that we have this large acreage position that we can move those rigs to again maximize our returns throughout that basin.
That's no different than also in the Avalon.
Right now we haven't really talked about it but we have quite a few Avalon wells that would be coming on in the next quarter.
And again we're targeting that area the Avalon where the product mix is such that we feel like we hit our best returns out of that basin.
So we have a lot of flexibility within that basin as the way I would put it.
Yes I might add to that.
It's not just a function of commodity price it's also a function of technology.
And our thinking on the various sweets spots has changed over time and they will change again.
So we're continuing to work it and adapting as we go.
Research Division</strong> Was that - and then in that case let me scratch in looking deeper and see that in terms of -- assuming that all your drilling from your own will be on upsized fracs how do you see the extended lateral program developing? So in terms of -- for example going forward I know it's dictated a large by lease geometry I understand.
But then as you look at spending that incremental capital going forward how do you see -- what's the extent of extended laterals that you'd be drilling across your region? This is John.
I will tell you anywhere quite frankly that our acreage allows us to do it.
Our main goal is to ultimately make it an extended lateral play.
Because as you mentioned that incremental capital to drill that extra 5 000 feet is more than offset by the type of returns we get out of that well from the hydrocarbons that we flow out of it.
So that's why areas like Culberson the JDA it's so valuable to us because that JDA gives the large continuous operated acreage position that allows us to do that.
In fact that this our go forward plans in terms of Culberson is long laterals.
Unfortunately I wish in all years we had acreage that we could do that everywhere.
But again where the acreage allows us to do it that is ultimately our plan and goal on a go-forward basis especially when we think about it from a development standpoint.
And that will also be true in Cana.
We have scenarios with Woodford where we think we have long lateral development to do.
And as we look at the Merrimack I think that we're going to be looking long and hard at long laterals.
Research Division</strong> Did you have any longer lateral drilled in the Cana in the third quarter? Maybe in...
No no long laterals in the third quarter.
The only long lateral is the one we've talked about in our last earnings release.
Again as I mentioned earlier in this mode of delineation of undelineating are not going to do it with long laterals.
I'm going to do with 5 000-foot laterals as I tried to establish economics.
I will say again we have future plans of development in Cana nothing written down just yet but we clearly have a large acreage position that would lend itself very nicely to 10 000-foot development in the Cana-Woodford shale for future drilling.
And Page 20 of our presentation highlights that 10 000-foot lateral in the Woodford.
And due to time constraints the last question today will come from Dan Guffey of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> You guys have been very clear in the past that you're focused on not leaving PV behind by entering development mode too quickly in the Permian.
So looking at Culberson I wonder if you can remind me approximately how many Wolfcamp A wells have you drilled? And then also provide some color on kind of a Wolfcamp A performance first the B bench and then also give a little color on your pilot between the C and D stacked lateral and really kind of how you're thinking of development on a long-term basis going forward in Culberson White City.
This is John.
In terms of the Wolfcamp A we have reported on a couple of them so far.
We have a few more that are coming on.
Again they look very attractive to us relative to the Wolfcamp D interval that we mentioned before.
In terms of build-forward development plans on our previous release we talked about the results of our 8 well spacing pilots.
I will tell you that we already have in the works our next pilot which tentatively we start drilling on sometime in the December time frame.
I think it's fair to say that we're still internally debating what is the right thing to do with that pilot to further understand and ensure that like you just said that we come up with the right plan so we do not leave any PD behind.
But that's where we're at right now.
We have both a pilot and the works and for later this year and we have still some more drilling that we have to do in terms of holding an acreage and still testing for the balance of that Wolfcamp Shale play for us in Culberson.
I hope that answered your question.
If there's a follow-up let me know.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> No I appreciate the color.
I guess you guys have additional data from the outside frac in Cana and throughout the Wolfcamp and throughout Delaware.
I guess when do you guys feel it's appropriate to put out a detailed cut-type curve in EUR estimates by player area.
I mean obviously you guys are modeling internally giving some of the guidance you have in terms of the long lateral and upsized at EUR.
Just wondering when you guys think it may be appropriate to publish some of those EUR estimates? Yes this is Tom.
When we have results that we think are meaningful.
And so I know that there's some pressure for us that talk about wells early but I just want to say again we're a company built on ideas technology and innovation and we really focus on the science and get a good meaningful data.
And we don't want to get ahead of ourselves and we want our investors to -- our credibility in our communication.
And so that will occasionally mean we're going to be able to slow and release data once it's in the solid results category and not in the promise or hope category.
And so we'll release that as we have it.
We have a lot a wells that are currently flowing back.
So I think certainly next quarter we will have much data to release and we'll release the data we have.
Now as far as EURs we typically don't talk a lot about EURs but we'll certainly show you our type curve and what it means to us.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mark Burford for any closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
We appreciate your time with us and we look forward to give you report -- results in the future.
And again thank you for your participation.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the Cimarex Energy Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
Please note this event is being recorded.
Now I'd like to turn the conference over to Karen Acierno Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Acierno please go ahead.
Thank you Pete.
Good morning everyone.
Our speakers today will be our CEO Tom Jorden followed by John Lambuth VP of Exploration; and Joe Albi our COO will conclude our prepared remarks.
Paul Korus and Mark Burford are also here in the room.
Last night an updated presentation was posted to our website.
We will be referring to this presentation on our call today.
As a reminder our discussions will contain forward-looking statements.
A number of actions could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss.
You should read our disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest 10-K and other filings and news releases for the risks associated with our business.
With that I'll turn it over to Tom.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Karen and thanks to everyone who is participating in today's conference.
We sincerely appreciate your interest in Cimarex.
I'd like to take a few minutes to share some thoughts on the current environment before turning it over to John and Joe for details of our results and our plans for 2015.
Cimarex had a great year in 2014.
During this call you'll hear details of our accomplishments our challenges and our prospective as we look ahead into 2015 and 2016.
We had some great well results to report.
Our operations group achieved outstanding production growth in-spite of some severe weather events and unplanned downtime.
We executed on some well time strategic asset purchases and sales.
We finished the year strong and entered 2015 with over $400 million cash on hand.
In these difficult times Cimarex stands out with quality assets the strong balance sheet and an organization that is eager and ready to face today's new challenges.
What a difference a quarter makes.
During October we met with a number of our current perspective owners in the midst to the drop in oil prices from the mid $90 per barrel to the mid $70 per barrel.
At that time we said that Cimarex would view the changing situations through a lens that focused on three key questions.
Does our portfolio contained investments are look attractive at current commodity prices and service costs? Do we have the balance sheet and cash flow to fund these opportunities? And once the overall market psychology and how should that impact our capital discipline? In other words will the industry slow dramatically and drive service costs further down? Since that time in October the situation has deteriorated further but the conversation still about asset quality balance sheet held and capital discipline.
First and foremost Cimarex has great assets.
Our Delaware Basin assets are providing excellent investment returns in the current environment.
Innovation and optimization continue to produce improved well results.
Our Anadarko Basin assets are top tiered.
The Woodford Shale is delivering solid returns.
We've continued to de-risk our Meramec position they are gaining increasing confidence to say that it provides some of the very best returns in our portfolio.
We have a great acreage position in the economic sweet spot of the play.
John will provide additional details on this.
Secondly our balance sheet remained strong and we planned on keeping it that way.
We do not know how deep or sustained this down cycle will be preserving a health of the company and our financial flexibility is paramount.
Finally we're committed to being highly disciplined in this volatile environment.
We may not have seen the bottom of this correction yet.
We do expect to see further service cost reductions.
Our go forward approach will be characterized by a mix of long-term and short-term thinking.
We're going to take a long-term approach with our assets and organization.
With few exceptions our 6-rig program can hold our acreage in 2015 without difficulty.
We'll let a little acreage go but it will all be second-tier acreage in which we've had marginal results.
Our organization is focused and fully deployed on adding value and capturing opportunity in this environment and I'll speak more on that in a moment.
We'll take a very short-term approach to our balance sheet and capital investments.
Our goal in 2015 is to live within cash flow and cash on hand.
We view debt as a long-term commitment and we are highly reluctant to incur additional debt until we see commodity prices and service cost stabilize.
Although we're guiding 2015 CapEx in the $900 million to $1.1 billion range.
We aren't really thinking about this as an annual budget.
The $900 million to $1.1 billion estimate is a snapshot in time.
We remain poised and ready to increase activity on the moment's notice.
Our decision to contract the six rigs as the prudent course of action until we see signs of stability that can have the confidence in the robustness of our investment returns.
At our current pace of activity will go production 3% to 8% year-over-year.
Furthermore we've projected Q4 2015 exit rate which is essentially flat or down only slightly from our Q4 2014 exit rate.
We can manage this downturn without sacrificing future growth.
Finally I want to comment on the opportunities with this down-cycle will present.
There will be acquisition opportunities.
We've already been presented with a number of them but the bar is high.
Any corporate or asset transaction will need to be value accretive from the Cimarex shareholder or we're not interested purely.
Our balance sheet gives us great flexibility and we're under no pressure to do anything other than play it smart.
Make sense deals are rear but will be ready.
Cimarex has a staff that is focused dedicated and hungry to continue to innovate and optimize.
We are not shipwreck victims waiting for rescue.
The mandate throughout organization is to figure out how to make a living and drive in today's environment.
We're not ideally waiting for commodity prices to bounce back to the pre-correction levels.
None of us can know where commodity prices will stabilize but we are proceeding on the assumption that the days of $90-oil are long gone.
In this new era the efficient low-cost resource producer will be the one that survives and prosperous.
Cimarex is dedicated to emerge from this current environment as a better more productive company.
We're using this downtime to refocus and retool our organization we'll be measured by what we've always been measured by results and we face this challenge without looking back.
In the end there is no substitute for great assets a great balance sheet and an outstanding organization.
During 2014 we continued to demonstrate that Cimarex has some of the best assets and the organizational capability in the business.
With that I'll turn the call over to John and Joe who will describe the progress we made in delineating and developing our outstanding portfolio.
Thanks Tom.
I'd like to quickly recap our activity in the fourth quarter and for the year before getting into some of the specifics about our new drilling results.
Cimarex drilled and completed 87 gross 53 net wells during the quarter investing $457 million.
78% was invested in the Permian region and the rest went toward activities in the Cana region including the drilling of both Meramec and Woodford wells.
Our Permian operations are in Delaware Basin where we grew up 39 net wells during the fourth quarter.
Our activities in this area were focused on drilling and completing Wolfcamp long laterals; second Bone Spring wells in our White City area; and Avalon wells.
We've had exceptional results drilling second Bone Spring wells in our White City area in Eddy County New Mexico.
I'll refer you to slide 10 of our presentation which illustrates the uplift we've seen in production using a larger completion.
We've gone from nine to 15 stages in order to achieve these results.
Similar to the second Bone Spring wells in Culberson County.
These wells have a higher gas components than our traditional Bone Spring wells which increases productivity and improves overall economics.
As of today we have identified approximately 90 second Bone Spring locations on our White City acreage with the vast majority of those being located on acreage which is currently held by production.
In our press release we've mentioned results from six new Culberson County Wolfcamp long laterals.
Five of those were Wolfcamp D wells which had averaged 30-day peak IPs about 2 236 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
And while we are very pleased with these results we continue to work on optimizing our frac design to both maximize IP rates while also paying close attention to cost.
Currently we have five long laterals flowing back with varying frac designs including some with pure equivalent stages.
These wells have been completed are in the early stages of flow back thus no conclusions can be reached yet for these wells.
We've adjusted our Wolfcamp acreage position slightly since our last update but still have a total exposure of 235 000 potential net acres.
In 2015 our Wolfcamp capital will be focused on drilling additional long lateral wells in Culberson County as well as meeting our leasehold obligations in Reeves County which will be fulfilled by drilling eight wells in 2015 at a cost of $70 million.
Lastly in the Delaware Basin I'd like to give you an update on the status of our fourth pilot drilled in 2014 which is the Stacked/Staggered Wolfcamp eight pilot in Reeves County.
This pilot was designed to test both down-spacing and the viability of landing more than one lateral in the thick Wolfcamp A section.
After delays caused by the September flooding these wells began producing in early December and have been online for about 75 days.
However due to intermittent downstream processing issues during December a good number of our Reeves County wells including this pilot were hampered with sporadic production down times thus making a 30 day IP meaningless for the purpose of this call.
With the addition of a new processing outlet in the area we anticipate having smoother production information as we get further into the quarter and thus enable us to better determine the true potential of this facing pilot.
Now on to the Mid-Continent region.
We drilled 57 net wells in Mid-Continent region in 2014 with 42 of those wells being Woodford wells.
We also drilled seven Meramac lineation tests all of which are now producing.
We now have enough production data on six of the seven Meramac wells to provide you with a peak 30 day average IP rate of 10.2 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
As was mentioned in the press release these wells have a wide range of oil deal.
In fact I need to issue a correction to the release and that the oil percentage range for these wells is actually 7% to 55% instead of the 20% to 55% that was stated in the release.
As illustrated on slide 18 of our presentation you can see that wells on the up-dip side of the line have a much higher percentage of oil averaging 49% versus down-dip wells which average 16%.
We are very encouraged with these wells results especially when you take in account that all of these delineation wells were just 5 000 foot laterals.
Our 2015 plans are to continue to delineate our acreage position with 5 000 foot laterals while we also embark on drilling a number of 10 000 foot laterals in the Meramec.
If we achieve similar uplift and going from 5 000 foot to 10 000 foot I've seen in other plays then these wells will generate some of the highest rate of returns within our portfolio drilling opportunities.
Current plans are to invest $70 million in the Meramec drilling in 2015.
Regarding our acreage position Cimarex has approximately 115 000 acres that are prospective for the Meramec 70 000 acres of which have been de-risked by our and competitor drilling activity.
And then finally in November we commenced a seven-section infill development program in the Cana-Woodford shale.
Originally planned to be 10 sections commodity prices caused this year's development to be downsize.
We will operate two of these sections.
Drilling capital allocated for the Woodford infill program in 2015 is approximately $180 million for both operated and non-operated wells.
With that I'll turn the call over to Joe Albi.
Director &amp; EVP</strong> Thank you John.
And thank you all of you for joining our call today.
I'll touch on the usual items our fourth quarter production our first quarter and full year 2015 production outlook and guidance and then I'll follow up with a few comments on (13:55) really drove the increase there with Q4 Permian oil volume of 38 246 barrels a day being at the 11.5% or 3 947 barrels a day over Q3.
Over last year we've seen exceptional production growth overall in the Permian not just in Q4.
Our Q4 2014 equivalent volume was up 34% or 114 million a day from a year ago and our Q4 2014 Permian oil volume was up 29% or 85 095 barrels a day over the same time period last year.
On an annual basis our average 2014 Permian equivalent production came in at 399 million a day that's up 79 million a day or 25% over our 2013 average of 320 million a day.
As we anticipated with fewer net Mid-Continent completions coming online in the latter half of 2014 we saw our Mid-Continent net equivalent volume drop slightly from Q3 to Q4.
We completed 35 net wells during Q1 and Q2 of last year in the Mid-Continent as compared to the 9 that we completed during Q3 and 14 that we completed in Q4.
And as a result our Q4 Mid-Continent equivalent production averaged 488 million a day down slightly from the 518 million a day that we posted in Q3.
That said we posted nice production gains overall in the Mid-Continent during 2014.
Our Q4 2014 Mid-Continent exit rate of 488 million a day was up 42% or 144 million a day from Q4 2013.
And our full year 2014 Mid-Continent average of 451 million a day was up 30% or 105 million a day over our 2013 average of 346 million a day.
So overall at the company level it was a great year for us from a production standpoint.
We set record marks in all production categories whether it'd be oil gas NGLs or equivalent volumes at the company level as well as at both the Permian and the Mid-Continent regions we're pretty proud of that.
With the contributions from the Permian and the Mid-Continent our full year 2014 total company net equivalent production average of 869 million a day was up a 176 million a day or 25% over our 2013 reported average of 693 million a day.
When you throw in the 2014 property sales that we had on a year-over-year apples-to-apples basis our production growth was 27%.
As we look forward into 2015 our 2015 total company average equivalent volume guidance of 895 million a day to 935 million a day is modeled using the low-end of our 2015 productions or capital projection and results in the 3% to 8% projected growth over 2014.
The carryover the current geographic focus of our drilling program into 2015 coupled with our reduction in shipping of rigs as we move further into the year results in our 2015 production growth coming from the Permian early in the year and the Mid-Continent later in the year.
With our current 2015 rig and completion schedules we're focusing approximately 50 net wells to be completed in the Permian during 2015 with 35 to 40 of those wells projected to come online during the first half of the year.
With that our current modeling calls for Permian production to continue to grow in 2015 with projected Permian equivalent volumes up 13% to 19% over our 2014 levels.
In contrast we're targeting 30 net wells to 35 net wells to be completed in the Mid-Continent during the year but five to six of those wells coming on production in the first half of the year and 25 to 30 coming on in the second half.
That coincides with our Cana-Woodford development.
With the back-end loading of completion activity our Mid-Continent production is expected to drop somewhat through mid Q3 and then increase significantly during Q4 and really reaching a peak with the full development of row 4 in December of 2015.
The bottom line at the Mid-Continent level – is that the Mid-Continent will see relatively flat year-over-year production as compared to 2015 – 2014.
As we start-off into the year we've issued our Q1 2015 guidance of 920 million to 940 million a day which incorporates a negative impact of 25 million to 30 million a day for early Permian downtime associated with weather in January and some pipeline facility maintenance that we're doing in Culberson and Reeves County here in February.
With our current drilling schedule our projected fourth quarter 2015 exit rate is forecasted to be as Tom mentioned flat to down slightly compared to our fourth quarter 2014 exit rate.
But again this forecast is based on the low end of our capital spending projection and as Tom emphasized just a minute ago we have a lot of flexibility in that regard as we watch the market conditions react accordingly.
Any changes in our capital spending will obviously affect our current production forecast.
Jumping over to OpEx with the continued focused on our LOE our Q4 lifting cost came in at a $1.05 per Mcfe puts us in our full year average of $1.08 per Mcfe right at the bottom end of our guidance of $1.08 to $1.12 and down $0.05 from our 2013 average of $1.13.
Our production group is keeping their focus on reducing cost in all areas and we're seeing signs of modest cost relate here in Q1 for items such as saltwater disposal rentals chemicals contract labor and well servicing.
The purpose of the guidance will project in our 2015 lifting cost to come in at a $1.07 to $1.17 which takes into account the front-end loading of our projected higher lifting cost Permian new production in the first half of the year.
Our service costs are concerned with the precipitous drop in industry activity we've seen significant drops in service cost since just the beginning of the year.
First we saw on the drilling side and more recently on the completion side.
Geographically the reduction seem to come quicker in the Mid-Continent then in the Permian.
Most likely result of the backlog of industry Permian activity during Q3 and Q4 especially on the completion side.
That said current costs are now down in both areas.
On the drilling side we've seen anywhere from 5% to 15% reductions in day rates and 10% to 20% plus reductions in virtually all other cost components the mud rentals bits directional tools just to name a few.
And just recently we've seen drops on the completion side.
The significant decreases in all of the major frac cost components whether it'd be sand transportation chemicals or service.
As a result at the total company level our current average per well frac costs are down about 20% from late Q4 levels all the while we're pumping on the average 10% more fluid and 40% more sand.
The bottom line is that depending on the program our total well costs currently are down 13% to 20% from where they were just two months ago.
Our current Cana Core Woodford AFE is in the range of $6.8 million to $7.2 million that's down approximately 14% from the $7.9 million to $8.4 million that we quoted last call.
In the Meramec with just a half dozen wells under our belt the current single mile lateral AFEs are running in the $7.2 million to $7.6 million neighborhood that's down 13% more they were in late Q4.
In the Permian our focus in 2015 will be the Wolfcamp primarily in Culberson primarily during long laterals.
The cost reductions we've seen today uphold our projected two-mile lateral in Culberson down 15% to 20% to levels of $11.3 million to $12.3 million.
With our Reeves County two-mile Wolfcamp laterals running slightly higher at $12.1 million to $13.1 million primarily a result of the need to add for us to run additional string of pipe in certain portions of the Reeves County area.
In closing we had a great 2014 with strong contributions from both our Permian and Mid-Continent programs.
We set new records for the company in all production categories.
Both our proved reserves and our net production were up 25% over 2013 with the strong fourth quarter and carryover of our 2014 activity were set up for production growth again here in 2015 despite falling in the range on our capital program while we preserve our balance sheet.
And with some nice decreases already under our belt we continue to focus on reducing LOE and total well cost so as to be that low cost resource producer to be able to capitalize on whatever the market throws at us here in 2015.
We want to commend the organization for the great year that they had in 2014 and for the great job they've done early on in the year retrenching us to make the best and a very successful year for us in 2015.
And with that I'll turn the call over to question-and-answer.
Yes.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
And the first question comes from Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Drew.
Just wanted to get some color on how are you thinking about capital allocation between Cana and the Meramec the return is obviously for both programs look great on current prices but Meramec looks a bit higher.
Are there infrastructure needs that prevent you from flipping that to be selling more in Meramec or is it just too early to have a great sensitive production profile there? Yeah Drew this is John Lambuth.
I'm not aware of any infrastructure issue whether on drilling Meramec or Cana.
They have fairly similar production flow stream.
So that's not a hindrance to us in terms of our decisions there.
It really comes down to in the case of Cana or the Woodford shale there we're pretty much in development mode.
And so there it's kind of that dance we do with our partner Devon and ensuring that we're working together and we've already laid out a plan in terms of what will be developing this year and that's the amount of capital we talked about.
As far as Meramec really it's still all about delineation for us further expanding the opportunity set here as far as what acreage is perspective.
And then as I stated there's also the need to get after and get a few 10 000 foot laterals under our belt get some production history under those to get more confident as to what kind of returns those will generate.
So that's kind of the balance we're striking right now for this year as we go forward.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Jerry this is Tom.
I would add to that.
A lot of that's baked in.
We started this development project in the Woodford last fall.
We're pleased to have and the returns are excellent.
To the extent that we have additional capital and it's competing Meramec is going to be top tier and probably we'll be getting additional capital if indeed we accelerate.
That's very helpful color.
Then I was just curious if you've seen longer production history on these upsides Cana completions.
Can you talk about the decline rates in the production profile on the new completion versus the old style.
Is that just a one-to-one shift up in a curve.
Does that come off that improvement come off somewhat as you get further out in the production profile? Well this is John Lambuth again.
I mean so far we're very pleased with what we're seeing with those upside fracs and what we're seeing at the production of those wells.
We're not falling off let's say faster than what the – say the old style frac was doing.
And I guess I'll reference you to slide 21 which actually shows some relative data as far as flow back time to both the Golden and the Hartz wells.
Let me also say that we are still not fully optimized within the Woodford when it comes to our frac design we are currently fracking wells right now where we're testing even more stages and more sand I will tell you that embedded within that Hartz section which what we're showing you there is an average result of Hartz we have a number of wells two of them in particular where we did go to even more stages and those wells definitely exhibited better production rates.
So we're pretty confident that we're actually going to be able to get even more out of this rock based on those results and again we have some wells right now we're fracking that we think will lead us to the ultimate design that we'll use as we go forward on well four and its development.
Thanks for the color John.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Phillip Jungwirth with BMO.
Yeah good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
You mentioned the 3% to 8% growth was based on the low end of the budget or $900 million.
So do you anticipate spending at the low end of the range based on this six operated rig program and the range assumes the potential of second half increase? And then could you give us a sensitivity in terms of growth rate year-over-year it is a higher CapEx meaning we were to spend at the midpoint this could add an extra 200 basis points or 300 basis points to grow or is this just help your exit rate in 2015? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah this is Tom.
I'll – I'm going to take that in the back going forward.
Yeah we have modeled that.
I just want to remind our listeners that it's only been within the last 10 days or 2 weeks that we've seen oil prices inch up slightly and we were in an environment where prices were self-falling so fast and it was very difficult to have any capital model that allows you to make intelligence statements about what your balance sheet would be at the end of the year.
So we made a decision to go to six rigs and we stand behind that decision even in today's environment we think what is that exactly where we are to be.
So we modeled our production at that low end of our capital.
But as I said in my opening remarks we don't think about this as an annual plan.
It is a snapshot in time that's appropriate for today and in fact we may make a decision to accelerate a rig or two here next week if we really are confident that the situation is stabilized.
Our capital model for 2015 as we'd currently plan under current conditions involves us having cash on our balance sheet at the end of the year and we don't see the need to have cash on our balance sheet.
So we do have the wherewithal to increased activity.
Now guilty as charged that we have not come out with a production model that captures any increased activity.
Our production model we released this morning is at that lower level of activity where I want to just ask for your indulgence in reminding you that was made in a following commodity price environment.
So we'll see as we go we're poised to accelerate.
Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> Yeah.
This is Joe.
Couple of the points I'd like to make with regard to that too there is so many other factors that play here.
Drilling and completion costs do they reduce further or are they flat? How that affect our activity and our production? The timing of that CapEx.
If we were to increase our capital expenditures as of Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 is it applied to road drilling in Cana where we drill wells first get them all drilled and then come back and complete them later or is it single wells in the Permian.
All these factors really tell us that if we were to accelerate our capital spending this year chances are it's not going to have an immediate impact on the middle of the year projection and would most likely show itself up in the latter part of the year.
And to that point what's your ability to accelerate or increase net activity in the Chevron JVA and if you were to add back rigs with which place do you think would see the first incremental dollar allocated to them? This is John.
We have plenty of locations in the building to bring rigs back into Culberson with Chevron.
We're in constant communication with them and they see as we see some of the great way to returns we see there.
So we are tied up to do just that indeed that's one area as we talked about where we see very good returns.
But likewise just north of there in the White City our Bone Spring wells are generating some outstanding returns as well.
And we have a very nice inventory wells permitted ready to go there as well.
And then as someone else mentioned we have lots of Meramec locations that we can nearly get after as well.
So this is not a question of the opportunity set we are ready to go we're just waiting for the right conditions to tell us it is time to go.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
This is Tom.
It's a lot easier to start than stop.
The decision to lay down rigs can take 60 days to 90 days depending on the rig and what project it's on.
Decision to add a rig can be executed in the matter of couple of weeks.
So we're poised and ready.
And then last question.
During the 2009 downturn if memory serves me right you guys used that as an opportunity to focus on efficiencies and really kicked off the Bone Spring play into Mexico as a horizontal play.
Just wondering if there is any less obvious efficiency improvements that are worth highlighting that you're focused on this cycle as you look to do more with less capital? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well yes.
This is Tom.
We are absolutely looking at becoming better executors at resource play development.
We have huge resource plays in our inventory and those involve very complex project management challenges.
It involves not only drilling the wells it involves infrastructure it involves water sourcing water disposal it involves electrification it involves air quality it involves a host of things that in order to be a low cost operator demand is strategic focus.
And in the high growth high level of activity in some sense we've been in reactive mode more than the kind of strategic planning mode there that will take to become that low-cost operator in a lower margin business.
And we are absolutely focusing our organization on this challenge.
So our organization is highly engaged and we're building plans for when we come back with a roar.
And I appreciate your – reminding us and reminding the listeners of the downturn in 2008 2009.
I think if you look at that periods in Cimarex history it was some of our finest efforts and we came out of that correction a far far better company than we came into it and we are fully dedicated to do that again.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Brian Gamble with Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
Couple of things one on the upside just looking at some of the well results in the Permian for the quarter.
It looked like some of the IPs maybe a little bit short of what you'd recognized through third quarter but the oil cuts were outstanding is there anything specific that was being done in each of those plays to change that or is it just the matter of geography maybe you could walk through that a little bit? Yeah.
This is John.
I think in particular you're making reference to our Culberson long laterals entity (34:47).
And you hit it right on the head one of the biggest factors there is geography.
We're obviously delineating more and more of our acreage with those wells.
And in some areas it's very good in some areas it's not.
And so that's one driver to that.
And then the other is we always are tinkering with our frac design.
And some of the newer wells we've been really pumping a lot of fluid.
And quite frankly and flowing back those wells that will in some ways have an impact on the overall IP 30 rate.
We don't think it's really material to the EUR of the well but it does have some potential impact on the flow back on that well.
But mostly it's geographic diversity as we continue to explore across our large acreage position there.
Great.
And then maybe on the strategy side of things Tom you kind of mentioned that it's obviously the flexibility is the keyword taking it down to six as we've – if we call a bottom here on crude in the low $50s looking at the slide that you have provided.
The (35:53) are still pretty impressive in multiple areas.
And when you think about ramping capital up from the low-end do you need to see improvement in the oil price to make that happen or do you just need to have – I guess from a company standpoint some reasonable certainty or some reasonable comfort with the current levels because even at current levels it seems like your returns are more than acceptable? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Brian you hit the nail on the head there.
We have great assets and there's lot of things I am grateful for.
There is no substitute for asset quality and we have great assets.
Assets that in today's climate with current costs and current service costs generate very-very nice returns.
So that's not a barrier just picking up activity.
It's we want them to just become convinced that we can see a stable future.
There is still some speculation out there that we haven't seen the bottom in the oil markets.
And the last thing we want to do is get out there and accelerate and then see oil slide into the $30s.
Now maybe that's not going to happen maybe we've seen the bottom and if you're willing to call it on this call Brian I think that'd be great.
We're just going to watch this a little while.
And I want to be clear here we're not committing to what a little while means.
We may go next week and say it's time to add a rig or two but we want to be very forthcoming with you today as to how we see it and our most prudent course of action is to say you know what we're just going to watch this until it clarifies.
So no we have great assets and we think our assets can generate acceptable returns in today's commodity pricing.
Great.
And then one quick last one on the Meramec you mentioned either the plans or the future possibilities of drilling 10 000 foot laterals are we drilling a 10 000 foot Meramec in 2015 should we expect that before year-end or is that a 2016 event? This is John.
We definitely are drilling in 2015.
In fact we have one come up here real soon on the schedule.
We right now have three scheduled and really in drilling those we're trying to place them close to – we have an established 5 000 foot lateral that way we can measure the uplift and get a good sense of is that a good investment decision for us.
So we have quite a few planned for 2015 and as we get that data and get the production data in hand we'll give you an update on it.
And John do you want to throw an approximate AFP on that 10 000 foot? Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> This is Joe.
I'd probably run it somewhere in the $11 million to $12 million range.
Great Joe.
It's very helpful.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Thanks operator.
Hi everybody.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Joe.
Hi Tom I know we're just trying to figure out what you guys are going to do next week or next month.
But can you just help us think about 2016 in terms of – I know you're not going to give your budget you don't have one but just give us kind of the guidelines and the parameters given that as of right now you're going to be running six rigs would you expect to see production decline in 2016 given the status quo? You mentioned you expect to have cash on hand would you expect to have cash on hand at the end of 2015 close to the level at the end of 2014? And anything in particular to consider about 2016 from an operations perspective? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let me take the last question first.
No we're going to – the cash on hand issue – we currently model somewhat less than $100 million cash on hand at the end of this year.
And as I said we don't see any virtue in keeping cash on our balance sheet.
So I would not anticipate that we have cash on hand at the end of 2015 that would be comparable to 2014.
Now as we look into 2016 we are looking at plans for when will be the appropriate time to accelerate and after that balance sheet is formed and we've said that for years and we mean it.
So we're willing to tap that balance sheet as long as our investment returns are excellent and as we've always said they can stand that downside test.
So you know Joe the issue is accelerating in 2016 is what's the downside test? In October when oil was $75 we pulled our group together and said look let's run a new flat case on oil of $50.
And at the time we thought well that's just ridiculous and we blew right through the bottom of that.
So before we would make a decision to accelerate we would want to have confidence in knowing what our downside case was because we wouldn't want to borrow and wake up and find that our credit statistics are well outside the balance of what we're comfortable with.
So we have not abrogated growth in 2016 under any way shape or form.
We think we have the assets demanded and the balance sheet that supports it.
But as you started out your question we are taking this in kind of day-by-day right now.
Okay.
It sounds – that's helpful.
And then a different question maybe it's for Joe or for John.
You guys talked about 4Q 2014 to 4Q 2015 flat-to-down slightly.
Could you just give us a break out by product oil – how do you see oil over the same timeframe and that gas and NGLs? Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> Mark you want to add.
Yeah Joe.
Yeah I'll take that.
This is Mark Burford.
We look at our production mix and the combination or components or commodities Joe.
We see it fairly stable oil gas NGL mix.
In the fourth quarter we averaged 49% gas 27% oil and 23% NGLs and look out into 2015 it might be a percent of variability in oil as Joe mentioned the front-end loaded nature of the Permian and then the second nature of the Beacon (42:24) into the fourth quarter for our average 2015 oil breakdown is still about 48% gas and oil 29% and 22% NGL.
So very similar mixture of oil gas NGLs going into 2015 with some variability quarter-to-quarter depending on the ramping of the Permian in the first half of the year and ramping in the second half of Mid-Continent.
Okay.
I think it's helpful.
I'll work with that and contact to you guys offline but just one final question with the new completion designs are you increasingly confident that not only are you increasing production but you are actually increasing reserves per well? This is John.
I think we are gaining confidence with every months of more production day that we have from those wells yes so they clearly are getting – they're giving book at a higher EUR.
And so now we don't think this is in anyway just acceleration.
I would also point out though that we are really-really focused way to return.
And so way to return in some ways is really driven by those first three months of production and clearly these wells are generating much higher production rates than what the over spot fracs were doing.
All right.
All very helpful.
Thank you guys.
Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> This is Joe Albi.
I wanted to clarify some to the previous question on the two-mile Meramec.
Our current AFEs are probably closer to range of $10 million to $11million rather than $11 million to $12 million.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Matt Portillo with TPH [Tudor Pickering Holt] Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning all.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Matt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Just one quick clarification on the cash comment.
You mentioned that you could be down to $100 million in cash by the end of 2015 and I was just curious under that scenario and kind of the $900 million capital program what commodity deck would you be assuming to kind of generate that sort of cash draw down? Yeah hi Matt.
This is Mark.
Yeah.
We have run (44:33) primarily measure when we look at our cash flow projections in that one that we're looking at more recently was Friday the 13 strip price that we most recently ran into that that's about $56 oil about $3 gas – and into that strip environment and strip price that price environment we were looking at just a little south of $100 million in cash exceeding the year at the $900 million capital plan.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay perfect.
And then I guess just a follow-up question in regards to the activity levels.
I believe the majority of the rigs here are under contract right now or are currently running in the Cana.
As you guys wrap up your operated drilling program in the first half of the year how should we think about kind of rig allocation between the Cana and the Permian into the back half of 2015? Yeah.
This is John Lambuth.
Essentially by the time we hit June – May June we will be at the six rigs.
Three of them will be operating in Mid-Continent and three of them will be in the Permian region.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And then my final question just is in regards to your 2015 plans in the Wolfcamp in Culberson County.
You guys highlighted you're focusing in the Wolfcamp A and D and I assume the D is because of the strong well results you've seen so far and the ability to hold the depths in the A given the higher oil cut could you talk a little bit about the Wolfcamp C wells you've seen to-date and how does that compares on a rate of return basis or how that fits into your program in the medium term? Yeah this is John again.
Well clearly right now both the D bench and the area are generating the best returns for us in that particular acreage block in Culberson.
Our C results are not as strong as they are in the D and the A.
We still need to do some work on the C to try to get it to a level that it would justify further expenditure for us.
Now again you made a good point there.
By drilling our D wells we don't sacrifice those opportunities in the future.
And indeed as we keep working at it we see may at some point raise its level from a rate of return standpoint that we'll want to go and capture it.
But right now today based on our results it's the D and the A that clearly shine best in that region.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I might add to that this is Tom.
Well we're going to full resource development.
There is a pretty good chance we're going to exploit all three of those benches and not leave those reserves stranded.
So we've a lot of work to do and plan for that.
We're not for – if it's a-la-carte the A and D are certainly sharing the day for this – it's full payable service.
We're going to probably develop that C simultaneously.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Ipsit Mohanty with GMP Securities.
Yeah hi.
Good morning guys.
My first question is on Meramec.
You showed a variation in oil cut across up dip and down dip and not to know – knowing you guys don't throw out a curve without adequate confidence in the play.
How does your program look like in 2015? Are you going to focus on up dip and have you held what is needed to be held by production? Any more color that you can provide? Yeah this is John.
Let me first say on the acreage side of things.
Of our upside acreage almost 85% of it is already HBP.
And so we really don't have much of the lease exploration issue at all for the Meramec for us and what little we have will be easily satisfied with the wells we have planned both this year and the coming years.
So that's not of a concern to us.
In times what are we targeting? We are still trying to fill our way across this fast position as to where are the best returns.
Clearly some of those up dip wells are outstanding wells.
But I will also tell you some of the down dip wells have some phenomenal gas rates associated with them and still generate very nice returns even for 5 000 foot lateral.
So right now as far as 2015 goes we are not going one area using other we are again trying to expand the opportunity set with our delineation wells.
And then we'll see as we go further long.
But again right now the returns look good whether on one side of that mine or the other right now.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I just wanted to add.
This is Tom.
It's the wrong viewpoint only to look at commodity mix when you look at the Meramec.
A very very significant over (49:13) is pressure.
And as in so many place up dip to down dip you go from essentially normally pressure to overpressure.
And we think we really like our position in aggregate and we've got a lot of energy in that reservoir we're over pressured where we have our acreage.
And I'm not sure if the map was all clean and we're releasing today we're not clear (49:38) for our acreage exactly where it is.
Okay.
And then just looking at the first quarter is it going to be very frontend – frontloaded with completions? Are you going to exhaust your entire backlog coming from 2014? And my related question would be would you run if you keep your rigs as is would you run a risk of not having kind of any headroom or any kind of backlog going into 2016? This is John with our rigs moving from the Permian and to the Mid-Continent we're obviously going to finish up all the completions that we have in the Permian.
So as far as future wells are concerned we've got a number of them permitted and queued up and ready to go.
So it's just a matter of drilling on them and then getting them fracked and back on the frac schedule.
If I understood your question...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think the only comment I'd add is that are waiting on completion well (50:35) against the derivative of I don't know which are running and assist (50:41) the client from completing drilling the well and completing it that's what the backlog as of the year-end represented albeit we're low (50:47) on our rig counts that backlog will decrease until this represent what (50:51) that rig finishes drilling? So certainly by the way we're looking at it from a capital expenditure standpoint.
We don't say drilling or completing we just say dollar spent.
And that carryover evolves from 2014 and 2015 as capital associated with them that we incorporated and we're fine and that's completion capital.
Got you.
And with predominantly you're moving into longer laterals extended laterals.
I was just curious if you've got the operational risks that are generally associated with during such laterals if you got it into science now looks like you're.
But if you can talk about how well you understand the risks involved in drilling such laterals especially when you are in a capital constrained environment? Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> This is Joe.
Knock on what we are gaining that that efficiency in our operations and find very very comfortable drilling two-mile laterals whether it's in Cana in the Woodford or the Meramec or in the Wolfcamp.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Michael Hall with Heikkinen Energy.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I guess first of mine is on the Cana program correct me if I'm wrong I think in the past call or early last fall or late last summer you'd initially talked about I think a full 10 section development as a part of that infill program versus like seven now.
Is it right number one I want to guess is that right? And then number two is is it right to think about that as your just – you'll still be developing that full 10 section row but it will just take longer and so that program that really then just bleeds into 2016 and provides a nice tailwind as you move into the 2015 period? Well this is John and you're absolutely correct.
Again that as we're planning for this well development given our commodity prices we have fully expected to do 10 sections led to development.
Commodity prices have changed.
And so right now a number of the sections we find right now not to be of a sufficient return that we want to make the investment today.
Those sections don't go away they're always BT (53:19).
So we have made the election to only develop seven of those for now and just essentially save the other three for another day when commodity prices justify making an investment then.
Okay.
So it sounds like maybe it's more about the economic sensitivity of the unit as oppose to just overall decision to slow the pace of the development of...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well it was a little of both.
I mean the wells that we've decided not to drill this year are down the drier gas portion but they still generate reasonable returns.
And depending on our results with the infill project we've discussed as recently as this morning that we could add additional development sections on to that development this year.
And so that certainly I would say this an additional extension of that development program is among our options that are active that we wanted to up our capital slightly this year.
And I'll call off with that.
Tom's absolutely right and that couple of those sections are queued up permitted ready to go and we have that optionality.
And so don't be surprised if indeed we add on from seven.
We will – Mark obviously make that decision as we monitor the commodity prices as well as our capital and what we want to do.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And maybe it's a little too granular but is it fair to say that that's the low point from a quarterly perspective this year would be second quarter.
Is that the right way to think about it? Actually Michael this is Mark again.
This is actually our third quarter will likely be our low point for the year but (55:05) activity in Permian in the first quarter and second quarters as it'll be growing it's going to be pretty flat and in the third quarter it'd be – it looks like our low quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think (55:14).
Ish we'll put a big ish after it.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
Okay.
And then last one's on mine I think on the Meramec good update there.
I guess any way you provide a range of the DOE or MMTSE (55:37) flow rates across those fits I'm just trying to get a sense for like you said there is maybe quite a bit of dry gas rate associated with those down dip wells.
I'm just trying to better understand how the distribution looks around that average? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I mean for now we've elected to give you the average rate for those wells.
I'll just put it this way there is still a lot of drilling to do and there is also quite frankly some leasing to do.
So as much as we're very proud of these results.
There is still a lot to be done here.
So I think what we've given you is I think is a good snapshot of the kind of results we're having right now.
Okay.
Great.
And then...
(56:28) in that average.
These are really good wells.
Okay.
On the economic comparison you put on slide 20.
Is that well I assume that's the averages of the hydrocarbon mixed in average well or is that...? Yeah.
That's just not taking a generic type curve for both ways.
And giving you an idea of what those returns are like.
But clearly depending upon where you are those numbers can swing quite a bit one way or the other but that's just the generic type curve the book plays (57:01).
Great.
It's all very helpful color.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
My question and going back from there Meramec has turned around to understand (57:22) it's still delineating.
So far the wells have been – they have been really good.
So should we think of this spread as having very low exploration risk and really what I'm after is how continuous is this interval or how heterogeneous the play really is and so how many more wells would you need to truly understand the reservoir architecture? Well I'll try to answer that first.
This is John.
We did talk about on an acreage position that we consider to be delineated meaning that from those wells we feel very good about going forward from an investment decision.
I will tell you and again Tom mentioned this we've been very pleased that along those wells that formed that average – as Tom said there's not a dog among them.
And so that does in some way speak to the lateral consistency of results that we're getting across that position.
And then so that's encouraging very encouraging to us.
But we're only technically seven wells into it.
So hang on let us get more wells drilled.
But so far I would say we're very encouraged again for that immediate variable we drilled our wells to the consistency we've seen from the production of those wells.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Irene this is Tom.
I mean we're in the business of being romanced by upside and the Meramec offers tremendous romance.
And one of the things that we don't know and I really want to be clear we don't know – we don't know what the spacing will be.
But we also don't know if there will be multiple zones.
I mean the Meramec is a fixed section.
And there are some of our competitors out there testing stack laterals and as we look at that section and we have indeed varied our own landing zone as we drill these wells we will be testing that there could be multiple zones in the Meramec possibly a couple of layers to this.
So we just don't know.
And John's point is really the right one that with just six wells or seven wells an area this large we have a lot of work to do before we can really get too granular with it on what this asset can deliver.
So I think very encouraging so far.
Inc.</span></strong> It's great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the last question today comes from Cameron Horwitz with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Hi Cameron.
Hey Tom you referenced in deal flow early in the call.
I was hoping you could just talk about what you're seeing out – out there from that perspective.
I guess asset quality wise if you've seen any reconciliation of some of the wide bid/ask spread that we've heard so much about? And also maybe just the competitive landscape? And how that's maybe changing here over the last few months seems like there's been quite a bit of an influx of private capital competing looking to take advantage of some of the same opportunities that you all are so hoping you could just give us some color there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'd be happy to and none of what I'm about to say is news to you.
There's a lot of capital in our sector in chasing opportunities and there's a lot of private equity money on the hunt.
Now there are some assets for sale and they're good assets but there is still that bid/ask spread.
I think that there's still a sellers' intent to try to find last year's work if you will I mean I think – I think asset prices have to rationalize around current commodity over look and we haven't seen that yet.
There is also corporate opportunities that get whispered to us from time-to-time we've looked at a couple of them and wouldn't surprise you to hear that some of these companies have a lot more debt than we do and when we do a pro forma we're – you got to just love the asset in order to take on that burden.
And it's – as I said the outset our hurdle is high but – I think a lot of these management teams out there are going to try weather through this to the extent they can it's just going to be a function of how brutal does this get and how sustainable it will be.
As I said in my opening remarks we're not waiting around for a recovery I mean at Cimarex we've got assets that can work in this environment and we're getting our cost structure so that we can move forward and not looking back.
And I think there is going to be have to be more sellers with that viewpoint before there's going to be pricing that makes sense.
Okay.
Thanks for the color on that Tom.
And then can you just talk about how Ward County kind of fits into the strategic picture I think you talked about that somewhat falling down in terms of the (62:16) on the Wolfcamp and just some of the challenges there some of the water and stuff.
Can you talk about and how you think about Ward County is that they're better potential monetization candidate for you or is that just kind of wait and see how things evolve.
How are you tracking that in obviously a much more constrained environment? This is John.
It is clear to us that Ward County currently based on our drilling results doesn't compete versus Reeves or Culberson and that was even true at a much higher oil environment and there are challenges in Ward County that we've yet really been able to overcome with our drilling program.
That said we don't have a lot of exposure this year.
I think at last we're looking at about 3 000 acres of explorations in 2015.
And so and as much as we're not going to be actively drilling there.
We will certainly be monitoring other companies who have assets around us who will be drilling and pay careful attention on what they do.
But I'll just say as of right now we have no plans to do any drilling this year for Ward County.
And we haven't really explored monetizing it.
I think our – always our first preference is to figure it out and Joe and John's right we're going to be starting it and watch our competition carefully.
Thanks Brian.
Cameron (63:44) once the Culberson County is going to work and now it's out there in our portfolio.
Sure.
I appreciate all the color.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And with that I would like to turn the call back over to management for any closing comments.
I don't think we have any comments just thanks for participating and have a good day.
Thank you.
And the conference is now concluded and you may all disconnect your phone lines.
Thank you.
Hello and welcome to the Cimarex Energy First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
Now I'd like to turn the conference over to Karen Acierno; Ms.
Acierno please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to the Cimarex first quarter 2015 conference call.
Last night we updated – we posted an updated presentation on our website.
We'll be referring to this presentation during our call today if you'd like to take a look at it.
And as a reminder our discussions will contain forward-looking statements.
A number of actions could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss.
You should read our disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest 10-K and other filings and news releases for the risk factors associated with our business.
So today's prepared remarks will begin with an overview from our CEO Tom Jorden followed by an update on our drilling results and activities from John Lambuth VP of Exploration; and finally Joe Albi our COO will update you on our operations including production and well costs.
Paul Korus and Mark Burford are also here in the room to help answer any questions.
So with that I'll turn it over to Tom.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Karen and thanks to everyone who's participating in today's conference.
We appreciate your interest in Cimarex.
I'd like to take a few minutes to share my thoughts on the current environment before turning it over to John and Joe for the details of our first quarter results and our plans for the rest of 2015.
During this call you'll hear about new wells that are outperforming our expectations which has led to our Q1 production beat.
We have several new long laterals in the Delaware Basin that are in the Wolfcamp on line and they've reaffirmed our enthusiasm for the long-term potential of this play for Cimarex.
Our improved well performance is primarily driven by ongoing well optimization but is also driven by certain changes in our horizontal landing zone.
You'll also hear some of the results from our second Bone Spring oil play in our Eddy County White City acreage.
These wells are among the best in our portfolio with multi-year running room.
We've always been a company that emphasizes the science and that emphasis is yielding results in spacing pilots well design completion design and unraveling geologic complexity.
We will also update you on our continued success in the Cana-Woodford shale and the emerging Meramec plays.
Oil prices have recovered modestly since our last call but are still at a level that we view as unsustainable.
Natural gas prices remain depressed.
Our projected 2015 cash flow outlook is similar to what it was at our last quarter call in February.
Owing to our commitments to be fiscally disciplined our 2015 capital expansions remain at the $900 million to $1.1 billion that we've previously announced.
We have seen service costs decrease 15% below Q4 levels and we look forward to further service cost reductions.
For now we intend to leave within cash flow and not incur additional debt during the remainder of 2015.
We view debt as a long-term commitment and we're hesitant to make long-term commitments in this volatile environment.
Our focus has been on asset quality.
As we have high graded our activity we have continually scrubbed our project returns to ensure that we're investing wisely and not destroying capital in this depressed commodity environment.
The robustness of the returns in our portfolio has surprised us to the upside.
We've a deep inventory of projects that make great sense in today's environment and when the time is right for acceleration we're ready to roll.
The quality of our inventory is a testament to technology innovation and great geo-science that have become hallmarks of Cimarex.
There's also a splash of luck in there too; our assets are in great basins with tremendous multi-pay geologic targets.
Finally as always our focus is on creating shareholder value.
These depressed commodity prices make our task more difficult.
(04:30 – 04:41) President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> I thank you for your patience.
Apparently our emphasis on technology does not include telephone technology but I'm not sure where we got cut off; but I was just saying that oil prices have recovered modestly and we're so committed to the $900 million to $1.1 billion that we previously announced for 2015 CapEx.
And also I think I it was fading when I was telling you that we've seen service costs come down 15% since the fourth quarter and we're expecting further service cost reductions but we intend to remain within cash flow for the remainder of 2015 and that's based on our core hesitation to incur addition debt in this volatile environment.
Our focus has been on asset quality and as we've managed through this price correction we've continually scrubbed our returns and looked to make sure that we are funding the very best projects and that we are not destroying capital.
And as we've done that the robustness in quality of our well level returns have surprised us to the upside.
We've got a great inventory of projects.
We have lots to do in current environment and when the time is right for us to accelerate we'll be ready and we got lots teed up.
And as I was saying the quality of this inventory is really a testament to our organization our emphasis on technology and innovation and great geoscience; and it's nice to have a little luck as well.
Our assets are in great basins; they're multi-pay basins that really allow us to leverage technology and play against our core strengths.
And finally as always our focus is on creating shareholder value.
These depressed commodity prices make our task more difficult while but are uncompromising on our focus on shareholder value.
We have the organization and the assets to emerge from this down-cycle stronger than ever.
With that I'll turn the call over to John Lambuth who'll provide additional detail.
Thanks Tom.
I'll start with a quick recap of our drilling activity in the quarter before getting into some of the specifics about some of our latest results.
Cimarex invested $308 million during the first quarter drilling and completing wells.
67% of that investment was in the Permian region with the rest going toward activities in Mid-Continent region.
Companywide we brought 53 gross 33 net wells on production during the quarter.
Our Permian operations are in the Delaware Basin where we completed 30 of those 33 net wells during the first quarter.
We focused on completing our backlog of Avalon wells and Wolfcamp long laterals.
We also began production on several new second Bone Spring wells located in our White City area.
We continue to have exceptional results drilling second Bone Spring wells in this area since incorporating larger frac jobs into our completion design.
We've gone from 9 stages to 15 stages in order to achieve these results.
We now have 15 wells with 30-day peak averages of 1 344 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Oil represents 68% of the production stream on a three stream basis with the 15 wells averaging just over 900 barrels per day for 30 days.
As of today we have identified approximately 100 second Bone Spring locations on our White City acreage with the vast majority being located on acreage which is held by production.
Our long lateral program in the Wolfcamp D in Culberson County continues to provide solid results.
Eleven long lateral wells are now producing and seven wells now have enough data to provide an updated average 30-day peak IP of 2 378 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
As I said on our last call we continue to work on optimizing our frac design to both maximize IP rates while paying close attention to costs.
In fact we've recently brought on a number of Wolfcamp wells with various frac designs in order to determine the best design for our next spacing pilot.
Based on these recent well results we have chosen a stimulation design which places the same amount of sand per well as the previous pilot had but we accomplished this with fewer stages.
As for this pilot which we just recently began to fracture stimulate we are testing the equivalent of six wells per section with the wells spaced 880 feet apart.
A diagram of this pilot can be found on slide 15 in our new corporate presentation.
The new pilot was drilled directly south of our first Culberson down-spacing pilot thus enabling us to be able to review well results without worrying about geologic variation.
Also in the Delaware Basin I'd like to give you an update on the status of our stack staggered Wolfcamp A pilot in Reeves County.
This pilot was designed to test the down-spacing and the viability of landing more than one lateral in the fifth Wolfcamp A section.
After delays caused by the September flooding these wells began producing in early December.
I'll refer you to slide 18 in our presentation for a diagram of the pilot.
The wells landed in the upper part of the Wolfcamp A produced at higher rates than the lower wells achieving a peak 30-day average of 1 068 barrels of oil equivalent per day of which 59% was oil.
The wells in the Lower A had a peak 30-day average rate of 761 barrels of oil equivalent per day 56 barrels of that being oil.
Slide 19 shows the production of the upper and lower wells for the first four months.
We had a very difficult time placing sand in the wells landed in the lower A which we attribute to a poor choice of landing zone which led to a higher amount of carbonate instead of shale in the lateral.
We have reviewed the landing zone in question and are confident with a small landing zone adjustment we can achieve much better results in future wells landed in the lower part of the A.
In 2015 our Wolfcamp capital will continue to be focused on drilling additional long lateral wells in Culberson County as well as meeting our leasehold obligations in Reeves County which we expect can be fulfilled by spudding eight wells in 2015 at a cost of $70 million.
Now on to the Mid-Continent; we brought three net wells on production in Mid-Continent region in the first quarter.
The rest of the wells drilled are awaiting completion.
You may recall that we began drilling on the Cana-Woodford Row 4 infill development program late last year.
We and our partner are nearly finished with the drilling on this row and expect to begin completions around mid-summer.
To help ensure we use the most effective fracture stimulation on Row 4 wells we recently completed and are currently flowing back eight wells in the Haley section.
We varied our completions on these wells with changes in total sand pump ranging from 9 million pounds to 12 million pounds or same way of saying it 1 800 pounds per foot to 2 400 pounds per foot as well as varying stage count from 24 to up to 30.
We will monitor these well results and then choose the appropriate frac design for Row 4 wells.
In our emerging Meramec play we now have enough production data on seven 5 000 foot laterals to give you an average 30-day peak IP rate of 10 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
The seventh well the Peoples 1-29H had an average 30-day peak IP of 9.8 million cubic feet equivalent per day or 1 628 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This well has a very high oil yield averaging 788 barrels of oil per day.
We will watch the performance of all the wells drilled to date as we continue to delineate our position refine our geologic model and further enhance our frac design.
We currently have two Meramec wells flowing back with a third being completed right now.
We have also recently commenced drilling the first of several 10 000 foot laterals in the Meramec.
Results from the long laterals shouldn't be expected before our third quarter call in November.
Cimarex has approximately 115 000 acres prospective for the Meramec 70 000 of which have been de-risked by our and competitor drilling activity.
From a capital standpoint current plans are to invest $70 million in Meramec drilling in 2015.
Once we have finished Row 4 drilling one of the rigs that is currently working the Mid-Continent will be redeployed to the Permian Basin bringing our rig count to three in each region.
With that I'll turn the call over to Joe Albi.
Director &amp; EVP</strong> Thank you John.
And thank you all of you for joining our call today and especially for bearing with us during our little phone technicality there; and hopefully things are working well and it sounds like they are at least with the phone for the call.
I'll touch on the usual items our first quarter production update you on our second quarter and full year production outlook and then I'll follow up with a few words on operating and service costs.
We had another great quarter for production.
Despite expected shut-ins of approximately $30 million a day for January weather and February pipeline and facility maintenance in the Permian our first quarter net equivalent daily production came in at 947 MMcfe a day; that was virtually flat to our record company production level that we posted last quarter.
We were up 28% from a year ago and we beat our guidance of 920 MMcfe to 940 MMcfe a day so a strong quarter from that perspective.
Really guided by our strong 2014 exit rate; and with that our Q1 2015 total company reported volume was up 206 MMcfe a day from a year ago with our Permian equivalent production up $141 million a day or 41% from Q1 2014.
And our Mid-Continent production up 73 MMcfe a day or 20% from last year both statistics reflecting our strong activity levels in each of those areas over the last year.
As we mentioned last call with our – with the – excuse me the geographic focus of our drilling program and the shifting of rigs as we moved into the year we forecasted our early 2015 production growth to come primarily from the Permian and we saw just that in Q1.
Despite freezing and pipeline maintenance issues our first quarter Permian equivalent volume of 488 MMcfe a day was up 42 MMcfe a day or 9% from fourth quarter.
Oil production drove the increase with our Q4 Permian oil volume of 43 089 barrels a day – excuse me our Q1 Permian oil volume of 43 089 barrels a day up 13% or 4 843 barrels a day over Q4.
With that the Permian now makes up 52% of our total company equivalent production and 84% of the net oil we produce as a company.
As we mentioned during our last call that with fewer net Mid-Continent completions planned for the first half of the year we projected our Mid-Continent volumes to drop somewhat through mid Q3 of this year.
Our Q1 Mid-Continent production came in accordingly at 444 MMcfe a day down slightly from the 488 MMcfe a day that we posted in Q4 yet still up 20% from the 371 MMcfe a day that we posted a year ago.
Nothing has changed at our modeling where we project our Mid-Continent production to pick up in the second half this year as we bring on our Cana infill (20:03) project.
We completed 3.1 net wells in the Mid-Continent in Q1; we anticipate a similar number here in Q2 and then are projecting a rapid increase to 30 net wells to be completed during the second half of the year.
So looking forward with strong Permian results we're really off to a good start here in Q1.
Our current model projects 2015 total company net equivalent production to now be in the range of 920 MMcfe to a day to 950 MMcfe a day.
That's reflecting a 6% to 9% growth over 2014 and it's up from our previous guidance of 895 MMcfe a day to 935 MMcfe a day.
As was the case in our beginning year model our current projection reflects a geographic focus to our activity with the Permian driving production during the first half of the year and our Cana infill (20:57) project providing the catalyst during the last half of the year.
Our Q2 guidance of 965 MMcfe a day to 985 MMcfe a day is up 15% to 17% from our Q2 2014 average of 839 MMcfe a day and it reflects continued production growth in the Permian with a slight drop in our Q2 Mid-Continent production just prior to the onset of our Cana infill completion operations which should begin here in Q3.
With our current drilling schedule our projected fourth quarter 2015 production rate is forecasted to be flat to down slightly to Q4 2014 but as we've mentioned before and Tom alluded to earlier in the call our forecasts are based on the low end of our capital spending projection and any changes in that regard will obviously effect our future forecast for production.
Shifting over to OpEx our production team's focus on reducing LOE continues to show up in our numbers driven by strong reductions; in items such as rentals compression SWD and in particular well servicing our Q1 lifting cost came in at $0.96 an Mcfe below the bottom end of our guidance which was $1.07 per Mcfe to $1.17 per Mcfe and down $0.09 from our Q4 average of $1.05 per Mcfe.
So counting for our strong Q1 all the while the variable nature of work over expenses we're guiding our remaining year lifting costs to be in the range of a $1 to $1.10; and again that's down from the $1.07 to $1.17 that we quoted last call.
We're extremely proud of the strides our production team has made to reduce LOE and even prouder the resolve to reduce them further yet.
A few comments on service cost.
With the continued decline in industry activity we've seen further softening in drilling and completion costs since our last call.
On the drilling side we've seen further cost reductions in items such as bits cementing tubulars directional equipment; all the while day rates today are certainly more negotiable than they've been in years.
On the completion side since about February we've seen anywhere from 10% to 40% decreases in all of our major frac cost compound whether would be sand transportation chemicals or service costs.
And as a result to give you a perspective of 30 000 feet at the total company level our Q1 average crude oil frac costs were down 20% from Q4.
All the while we're pumping an average of 12% more fluid and 20% more sand per job.
The bottom line here is our total well costs are down 13% to 20% from where they were at the end of 2014.
Our current Cana Core one-mile lateral Woodford AFE is now in the range of $6.7 million to $7.1 million.
That's down approximately 15% from the $7.98 million to $8.4 million that we quoted last year – late last year.
In the Meramec with just a handful of wells under our belts our current single-mile lateral AFEs are running in the $7 million to $7.4 million range; that's down about 13% from late in Q4.
And in the Permian our primary focus as John has alluded to is in the long lateral development of our Culberson County Wolfcamp program.
We've gained tremendous drilling efficiencies and cost reductions both in that program.
And our current two-mile lateral Culberson's AFE for Wolfcamp are now running a $11 million to $11.8 million and that's down 17% to 20% from year end.
So we're making strides.
Our LOE costs are down our drilling costs are down we're seeing some nice production results.
We've come off a very nice quarter.
Our late 2014 drilling activity has carried very strong production levels into early 2015 even into the latter parts of the second quarter.
Our drilling program continues to generate positive results despite the lower commodity prices; and our organization is acting swiftly to reduce costs across the board while we're keeping a focus on optimizing program results.
So with that I guess I'll turn the call over to question-and-answer.
Yes.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
And the first question comes from Andrew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Drew.
Hi Tom.
I just want to start with the Culberson density pilot; just curious aside from the spacing are you doing anything different on the completions versus that first density pilot? Yeah Drew.
This is John Lambuth.
As I mentioned for this particular pilot which as I said directly located south of the first pilot we did we are changing the frac design some based on some recent well results.
We're not changing total amount of sand.
We're still at around 6 million pounds over the length of a 5 000 foot lateral.
But we're going to do it with fewer stages; instead of 20 we're going to do it with 16 and then what we're also doing is adding more clusters within each stage.
We have a few wells that recently came on with this type of design and although we don't have a lot of production on those wells just yet the early time data we see from those particular wells is encouraging and that's why we're making this particular change for this pilot.
And is that a cost savings measure a capital efficiency measure or do you really think that well design just gives you the best performance? Yeah.
Clearly it was a decision of best performance.
That said because we're going to less stages there will be some amount of cost savings because we haven't quantified that just yet.
Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> This is Joe.
I'll elaborate.
We've seen significant reductions in our service cost per stage upwards of 30% 40% per stage just over the last three months as a result of not only the market itself but our efficiencies in pumping the jobs.
So really all those cost components are intermixed in us changing these designs but overall we anticipate that to be down slow – somewhat from our prior jobs.
Okay thanks.
And then just as far as the completion design and the landing zones overall for Culberson can you talk about how that's evolved and how much room you think there is for improvement from here? Have you played around with I guess the landing zone a fair amount and where do you think you're on the completions? Well on the landing zone front – I'll take that first.
This is John again.
We have a lot of wells drilled now that we've tried many different landing zones and so I think we're getting a good sense of where its best to land a well in terms of both achieving the best EUR being able to actually place all our sand and even getting a very high drill rate through the rock.
All those things come together to leading to the most economic wells.
I think we're very comfortable now saying the Wolfcamp D as to where we want to be there and I think we're definitely getting there on the Wolfcamp A from Culberson as well.
As far as the completion design I don't know we'll ever probably reach the optimal design.
Obviously year and year-and-a-half ago we had a major step change when we went from 10 stages to 20 stages and we are very pleased with that outcome.
In the case of Culberson Wolfcamp we actually took it even further going to 30 stages and we did not really get our bang for the buck doing that.
And that's when we start to ask ourselves well maybe we want a little too far on stage count and those are the things that we've been testing as I said.
These latest wells where we backed off on the stage count but still were able to place the equivalent amount of sand just doing it with less stages but more clusters.
Again as I said early time data is encouraging to us but I am sure we'll find ways to even adjust that as we go along with our future wells.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah this is Tom.
I just want to comment on that.
Having the two basins really makes us better and you've heard us talk about that.
We get a technology arbitrage from basin-to-basin from time-to-time.
And although in 2014 we hit a major step change in our Cana-Woodford completions we're kind of undergoing another one right now.
We're trying some things in Cana that are leading to significantly better results and we are discussing what implications that may have on the Permian.
So I think that this advancement in completion and well performance is still well underway and it would be I think foolish for us to say that we've got the right recipe in the Permian because we're learning some things in Cana that causes us to rethink some core assumptions.
That's helpful color Tom.
Just one last one; Tom you mentioned in your prepared remarks that you would be ready to accelerate when the time is right.
Can you give us any color on if there's specific criteria there that you're looking for or is it just kind of a different feeling of the environment? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well a lot of it is feeling and that's the hardest to get specific on.
I will say I think we'd like to see what happens at the OPEC meeting in June and at least get some kind of a directional confirmation of oil prices.
It's been nice to see oil prices firm up a little bit over the last couple of weeks; we'd like to see that trend continue.
And every increase is a big positive to our cash flow and our outlook.
So we've said in the past that our current capital program is a snapshot in time and we'll be reevaluating that here I think come midsummer and make our best determination.
We are absolutely getting ready to accelerate if indeed it's prudent.
Thanks for the color Tom.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Brian Gamble with Simmons &amp; Company.
I'll take a stab at the other county that you have the spacing pilots down for; maybe you could walk us through the Reeves County issues with the lowers just – what was different on the landing zone? I'm assuming you landed in a similar spot to the parent well but how much variability do we think that is there and just other lessons learned that may not have been part of the prepared remarks? Yeah this is John Lambuth.
I think what it just shows is there is a quite bit of variability in terms of the Wolfcamp in regards to these inter-bedded carbonates that we encounter from time to time.
And indeed that's what occurred with those lower wells on this particular pilot.
What we didn't do which we would do now is if we do encounter that we will be more aggressive in our directional planes to get out of that and get back into shale and that's something now we do do with the wells we're currently drilling.
And then furthermore we will pay more careful attention to the local well control to make sure we avoid those particular zones.
That's really what it comes down to is just ensuring that you place most of that lateral in good shale because we've seen now when we do that we're able to get our sand our frac jobs off and we get the best wells.
And so that's really the main lesson we learned from that particular pilot on those lower wells.
And when are we going back into the lower with another similar spacing pilot? Is that something that's ongoing? We don't have a current spacing pilot right now lined out for Reeves.
We're still looking at this one as well as our previously mentioned 80-acre Spacing Pilot and monitoring those results very carefully over time.
Secondly really what we're doing now is doing more long laterals in Reeves.
We have a quite a number of 10 000 foot laterals that are coming on now.
And it's really the combination of these two different spacing pilot results along with long laterals that will help us better line out what does development look like for that particular area; so that's kind of where we're at right now.
Great.
And then one bigger picture question.
Tom on the M&amp;A market maybe give us an update on any sort of changes in bid/ask spread as oil prices have increased appetite for different deals things that maybe you've seen come across your desk.
Any update there would be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
This is Tom.
We really haven't seen a lot of assets recently but I think our viewpoint is probably what's out there in the writings that there's still I think – what did I see a quote from CERAWeek whistling past the graveyard; they said that our industry is whistling past the graveyard.
If we get into a lower longer environment we're expecting that bid/ask spread to collapse a little but we have not seen it yet.
I appreciate it guys.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Jason Smith of Bank of America.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Jason.
Hi Jason.
Hey Tom so to follow up on the earlier acceleration question the returns on your Culberson long laterals per your slides were I think about 100% at current commodity prices.
So when you think about moving up from six rigs where does the potential for hedging fit in? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well boy I wasn't expecting this.
Well I am wondering if you're something to protect your downside versus if your trends are that good then...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's a good question.
I want to say first off when we talk about our returns they're well level returns; they're not fully burdened I want to be clear on that.
Although fully burdened they still look very very good.
And then when you have a program things go wrong and you have opportunity for over expenditures.
So I wouldn't want to represent that our entire inventory anywhere in our program is 100% after-tax rate of return.
We do have a fair amount of that but we have a mixture of a return landscape.
But your core question is on hedging; we're discussing a different hedging approach at Cimarex.
I think one of the things that philosophically appeals to us is some kind of a program hedging where we would take volumes periodically and just commit to hedge them without making a determination whether price is high or low; layer them in and kind of have a feather over time of a hedge book.
But the tough question is all right when you're going to start that.
And I think we're kind of reluctant to layer in a lot of hedges at these price environments.
We were at a dinner recently where an individual we really respect made the comment at the heels of a big discussion on hedging he just kind of quieted the room when he said if Cimarex were to hedge today at $60 oil and prices were to recover to $90 there'd be a riot.
And you know we maintain that balance sheet.
We're fully equipped to ride through the down cycles and participate fully in the uptick.
So yeah we're arguing about it but I wouldn't be waiting with bated breath for some new approach.
Got it.
Okay.
So then that the three rigs I think Joe you mentioned that the third rig is going to move back to Permian could you just talk about where those are going to concentrate? Is it going to be all Culberson? And I guess what I'm curious about is you guys completed 16 wells in the Avalon; you said some of that was running through backlog but obviously one of your peers this morning had some pretty positive results out of that place.
So can you maybe just talk about what you're seeing there and how that fits into the portfolio going forward? This is John.
In regard to the rigs in the Permian the three rigs for the rest of the year they will almost primarily be Wolfcamp wells either in Culberson or Reeves.
A lot of that is to ensure we hold our acreage; some of it is delineation as well but that's primarily what they will be doing for the remainder of the year.
In regards to the Avalon we did in fact bring on beginning of the year around 18 gross Avalon wells.
Those wells were really spread across four different sections and they were essentially spacing pilot wells.
We were testing both spacing and turns of 80 acres and 107 acres or the equivalent of eight or six wells a section.
We also in one section stack and staggered and on another one we even varied frac.
So there's a lot going on there.
All of those wells are flowing back now and really we need a little bit more time to review those results and I feel pretty confident by probably next earnings release we'll be able to give you a good update on the result of that – of those wells in the Avalon at that time.
Thank you.
And just one last quick one from me I know you guys aren't focusing there this year but just your thoughts on the Ward County acreage and how that kind of fits in the portfolio.
And maybe you can talk with any acreage exploration issues in 2015 and 2016 there that would cause you to have to drill.
Yeah.
In regards to Ward County it is a struggle.
Ward County has not been a good rate of return area for us at Wolfcamp so far.
And we still talk about it and we still monitor not just our own but competitor wells to make sure we fully understand that asset.
We don't have any major explorations but they really start coming in pretty big next year in 2016.
We're currently looking at that acreage and asking ourselves is there anything left that we haven't tested on it to see that we can try but so far within our portfolio of Wolfcamp opportunities the Ward County is much lower prospective than the other two.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
This is Tom.
One of the things we've seen in Reeves County and I think we have a little bit of work to do in Culberson County is so much subtle changes in landing zone are having a fairly significant impact on well performance.
And we did a fair amount of (39:47) physics work and have just recently completed a couple of wells that we're optimistic will reconfirm for us what we're seeing in some competitors that landing zone makes a huge difference.
Now is that going to save Ward County? We don't think so today but we're looking long and hard at it and as John said we study our competitors' as well as our own activity.
Stay tuned.
I mean there was a day when we expected Ward County to be our best and it cycled.
I mean there was a day when we looked at our entire Wolfcamp landscape and we thought that Ward County would be our best.
And so it comes and goes.
Appreciate the answers.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Dan Guffey at Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
You gave rates on your four 7 500 foot Wolfcamp A laterals and Culberson and I'm curious if you can kind of walk through – I know they're more oil rich but they come in – come on at lower rates.
I guess can you walk through and compare the economics versus the D? And then on top of that how many locations have you identified and are 10 000 foot laterals feasible across your acreage? Yeah.
This is John Lambuth.
I'll take a stab at that.
The Wolfcamp A wells and Culberson are definitely higher yield higher condensate but they do come in at a little bit lower rate and that's simply because you're a little bit less pressure than you are in the D.
But that said those lower rates are more to make up for because of the amount of oil we do make; but right now just as I speak on a comparative basis the Wolfcamp A laterals to us look just as good economically as do the Ds.
The first few A wells are 7 500 and that's just a matter of the way that acreage laid there in Culberson.
We share that JVA with Chevron and we just have an odd number section so at some point not all of them could be 10 000 foot laterals so in this case those basket of wells were 7 500.
The remaining of our acreage we fully anticipate to be 10 000 foot for A and in fact I think we have one of our first ones coming on here right now.
So the lateral length it's just because of the acreage itself not because we don't think we can't do 10 000 in the A and that would be our plans going forward for the A.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then on locations and how much of your acreage you think is prospective across Culberson and then does the A thin I guess as you move across your acreage to the north and to the west? As far as the A is concerned it does begin to thin as we go toward the west and a little bit to the north.
But to be honest we haven't really determined how thin is still good.
We haven't pushed that edge yet so it's hard for me to say how much of the acreage is good for A or not.
Those are some of the things we'll have to do here in the coming – with the drilling program is to test that boundary.
We don't know the answer to that.
I mean clearly we started in an area where we had a very good thickness in the A; but again to be honest and it's kind of nice there are other competitors drilling wells nearby us testing some of these thinner intervals of the A that will go a long way to helping us to determine just how prospective is our entire acreage there in Culberson.
But I don't really have an answer for you today but stay tuned; over time we'll be able to give more clarity as we get more wells on line.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just two follow-ups kind of defining acreage in the Avalon just piggybacking on the last question; previously you guys have talked about 200 plus locations.
You guys are obviously doing down spacing test among the others that you listed.
I guess what is your identified inventory in the Avalon at this time and I guess what base assumptions are you using to back that up? Yeah.
This is John.
I think in today's commodity price and cost environment we see around 186 gross 5 000-foot laterals and that's I believe based on six wells per section.
So that could change dramatically based on the spacing pilot results.
But that's just how we see it today but that number is always changing.
That's just as of today that's how we see it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then switching gears over the Meramac you guys have talked about 70 000 net acres you feel is de-risked and 115 000 net acres total.
You guys have provided a map and you guys have mapped that geologically with significant well control across your acreage.
I'm wondering how much do you feel is kind of in the up-dip – up-dip kind of normalized pressure versus the down dip over pressured regime? This is John.
I don't remember the numbers off the top of my head.
Clearly we have a good representation of acreage both in the up-dip as well as the down-dip but I don't recall the break – breakout of their – off the top of my head.
We could probably follow-up with you on that to give you that breakdown; I just don't have it with me.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Yeah.
That'd be great.
Thanks for all the color today guys.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Investment Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I appreciate the color you just gave a few minutes ago on the Wolfcamp A and Culberson.
Just kind of like to extend the idea a little bit and ask is the prospectivity of the Wolfcamp D and the Wolfcamp A similar across – I'm looking at slide 11 across the Culberson acreage or are there different parts to the acreage that are discretely prospective for each zone? Give me a minute while I get to slide 11.
The Wolfcamp D is prospective over all of our acreage there in terms of thickness.
The Wolfcamp D is much thicker.
I think the only issue we have there is of course like in the Delaware Basin as we go from east to west you begin to lose your yield as you go to the west.
And it just becomes a matter of economics at that point as to how far west you can go.
We don't really – we haven't really defined it as of yet.
But the D is a much thicker interval across the breadth of our acreage than what the A exhibits thus more prospectivity.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> This is Tom.
The nice thing about this Culberson block when we're talking about economic limits is we have a wide open playing field for long laterals.
In fact 10 000 foot laterals I think will be the standard out here and that gives us tremendous range of economic liability.
And that's going to be true on the A and the D.
And then I also do want to discount the C.
We've talked about the C not competing with D and the A.
But when we go to full development I would anticipate that the C will be developed alongside of it.
I'll follow-up with Tom's comment.
That's especially true when we look at the C on a 10 000 foot lateral basis; then it becomes more economically viable for us.
And it starts to make sense that in a full development mode while you're there you'd want to capture that interval while you're doing the D as well.
And that's something we'll clearly need to be testing once we get further along and actually into development mode whenever that occurs here.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And this speaks back to our opening remarks on asset quality.
When we look at our Culberson block and that Eddy block – Eddy County block to the north of it there you have also great Wolfcamp prospectivity and then our central Reeves acreage all of it is nicely blocked out.
So the opportunity for longer horizontal wells is pretty deep in our inventory and that allows us a lot of robustness.
Inc.</span></strong> And it sounds like from what you just laid out that there's certainly going to be some potential for maybe A C and D in some locations when you're full bed development.
That is especially true on the eastern side of our block.
And then as we move to the west we'll just – we'll have to take a wait and see based on well results.
But certainly the eastern side of Culberson definitely aligns itself up to that and with further drilling we'll see how far we can push that full three stacked opportunity.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Although we don't have results to discuss there's also a push for a second D landing zone.
So it's too premature to even hint that we may have two zones in D but we're testing it.
Inc.</span></strong> Look forward to some color on that one when it comes out.
On slide 22 you showed by my count six locations in the Meramec so it looks like maybe the seventh one hadn't shown up on that slide yet.
I was just wondering was the seventh completion an updip or down-dip well? No.
This is John.
I believe there are seven stars; just got to look up to the north west or up.
Inc.</span></strong> Oh there it is; yeah so which one was the seventh? That was the seventh.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So you've also tested a little bit further away from kind of the area where you've been drilling.
Yes.
That was a delineation up there.
Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then as a final question I just wanted to go back to the lower A landing zone subject in Reeves County.
I just wanted to make sure that I understood it correctly.
Is it – based on the need to move the landing zone does this affect the amount of acreage that you thought – previously thought was prospective for the lower landing zone? In other words is this an adjustment that you can make in your – within your existing vision and prospectivity or does it change anything? It really doesn't change any prospectivity as far as acreage.
It just means we have to be a little more careful when we drill those laterals and pay a little more careful attention to what we are in.
To us like I said it's literally a very small adjustment to lateral zone and then very careful attention to why we are drilling that lateral if we do encounter a carbonate to quickly adjust and get out of it.
And no we don't see that as a hindrance at all going forward.
It's just a lesson learned.
A tough lesson learned but we've learned our lesson there in regards to how we will drill those wells going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great thanks.
I appreciate it.
Good quarter.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Michael Hall with Heikkinnen Energy Advisors.
Thanks good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Michael.
I guess maybe one on the Mid-Con first.
Just curious around what sort of discussions have you had what's the thought process behind any additional row development with your partner in the Cana-Woodford as we think about formulating a 2016 plan.
This is John.
We have lots of discussions with our partner and there are two rows currently being discussed as future development.
Potentially even to the point we began drilling on at least one of those rows later this year.
So there's still funny to do here and both us and our partner are very pleased with returns we're seeing from our development which is leading toward the discussion I just mentioned about a couple more rows of development that potentially may begin later this year and go into next year.
As we firm up those plans then certainly we'll let you know probably by next quarter's call we'll see.
But discussions are underway about more development in the Woodford.
Okay.
And I guess maybe just high level then thinking about just the capital cycle 2015 and 2016 is it fair to say then that 2016 might be a similar look to 2015 as it relates to Permian outperforming in the first half and the Mid-Con coming in in the second half in a stronger way? Is that...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah this is Tom.
It's really premature to get that granular with 2016.
We're still wrestling with what 2015 is going to look like.
So we've got lots to do but how we stage it and what that will look like it's way premature for that.
Okay.
That's fair.
And then I guess jumping over to the Permian can you give a little more color around the thought process on the six well spacing versus the tighter spacing on the prior pilings in Culberson and what you're hoping to learn outside of the varying completion designs from a spacing perspective? This is John.
I'll take a stab at that.
I think we all recognize that when we do go to development mode on the – in Culberson that's a very critical step for us; lot of capital and we want to make sure we do it right.
And so we knew all along that one pilot would not be sufficient to answer that question.
And we kind of knew all along that we would have to do a couple pilots where we varied the spacing in essence so we can bookend results in terms of what does six wells looks like per section versus eight.
Please understand it us going to six wells a section with this particular pilot in no way infers that that's what we think our spacing would be.
It just helps us with those results and our previous pilot really hone in on what is the right spacing from a standpoint of both rate of return and PV.
And that's why we are doing that it is to kind of create those bookend results and then review that and then make an informed decision on how to go about and develop that acreage.
So that's the thought process.
That's super helpful color.
Thanks.
And then just in the Permian program in 2015 how much of the program is on full two-mile laterals at this stage for rest of the year? This is John.
All of Culberson is either 7 500 feet or 10 000 feet in regards to Wolfcamp; and in regards to Reeves I would say the majority of the wells are 10 000 foot.
There are some that are 5 000 foot just simply because we don't have the acreage to do 10 000 foot but we're at that point even in Reeves that if the acreage allows us then we're drilling 10 000 foot.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The one exception the pilot we've discussed is 5 000 foot.
We choose to do – to the extent we're doing science and it's an experiment we like to go with a more cheaper well.
Yeah.
Thanks.
And then last one on my end in that Reeves pilot the mix shifted a little bit over the course of the 90 days in the lower A.
Is there anything to read into there or is that again somewhat a function of the carbonates encountered during drilling? I don't know there's a lot to read into that.
Obviously over time these wells tend to – our GOR does go up as we produce these wells so I think you're seeing a little bit of that there.
But in the course of four months I don't know you can read too much into those numbers just yet.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah this is Tom.
You know when we forecast these wells we forecast the declining oil yields and that's built into our economics and we have raging debates internally as to whether we've got that forecasted correctly.
I think there's some organizations would think we're a little conservative in our forecast but we just need to have a few more years of production history.
Fair enough.
I appreciate the color.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Ipsit Mohanty with GMP Securities.
Good morning guys.
Most of my questions are answered but if I could just – I couldn't stop but notice your impressive results in the Second Bone Spring in White City.
But if I understand correctly you're probably not going to do much on it for the rest of the year.
Is that a component of HBP there and no need to go back there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well yes.
It is held by production and our need to go back there is our need to generate top tier returns and it's about the best in our portfolio.
I will say this as I've said repeatedly our current plan is a snapshot in time and if we were to accelerate activity I think you'd find that to be a strong contender for increased activity.
We're ready to go there and those wells are phenomenal.
Got you.
And as you think about the second half of the year sort of more held up by Cana – Cana's program what's the extent of longer laterals – the longer laterals that you're going to drill there? What's the percentage of other wells that you're going to drill on long laterals? Yeah this is John.
Clearly Tom talked about this how we leverage off each region.
And clearly based on our experience now in Culberson we've gotten extremely comfortable as a company in terms of drilling and completing long laterals.
So we haven't – but done but one of those 10 000 foot laterals in Woodford so far although we have a few 7 500.
But without a doubt we have areas now where we have a large acreage position that we operate and control where we envision long laterals being our go-to method for developing that acreage.
We're not there yet we still talk internally about it; but we do make plans that eventually we will be developing with 10 000 foot laterals in the Woodford.
Because again we've gained great confidence in our ability to do that based on our experience in the Permian.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And then to follow-up on John's comment I want to just remind our listeners at our Meramec program the wells we've announced are all 5 000 foot long horizontal wells and you will be comparing those with competitor wells that are largely 10 000 foot long horizontal wells.
We've – are just in the process of our first 10 000 foot long Meramec well and we're very very interested to see what that will generate.
Yeah that's great color.
But would you be drilling any longer lateral Woodford wells in the second half? Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> As of today we don't have any definitive plans but plans can change.
I mean we are talking about quite frankly maybe one or two where we further delineate our acreage with 10 000 foot laterals but nothing has been approved just yet.
Great.
The rest all sounds good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Paul Grigel with Macquarie.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Your previous production guidance that assumed CapEx at the low end of the range.
How should we view the latest production guidance relative to CapEx and how much flexibility is built into production and CapEx? Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> Yeah.
This is Joe.
We've done the same this go-round as we did last.
So what we've really done is just incorporate the first quarter well results that we've had and our projected timing and anticipated volumes for the remaining part of the year with the same budget.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's the low end of the range.
Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> It's the low end of the range.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And we've – although we're always updating our projection based on our latest well results.
Some of the improvements we've made we're modeling in in our projection but we're testing a lot of things and we don't have any future improvements modeled in.
We're modeling current CapEx and current well performance.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So just to be clear there there's no acceleration or anything assumed; it's just the current program of six rigs running forward for the rest of the year and that's the production.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's correct.
Low end of our range and 900 MMcfe is our guidance.
Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> And as we talked about last call because our (01:00:20) had a couple of questions on this already the profile itself is such that we see a peak in our total company production here in Q2 as we roll off the Permian completions and then into Q3 we start to pick up the Cana completions that give us a boost in the latter half of the year.
So – and that's obviously implied when you look at our Q2 guidance versus our current forecast for our full year guidance.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And would we expect a production mix shift between gas and oil as we head into the back half of the year of a material amount given the change to the Cana projects? Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> Ironically enough our Q4% gas was running around 49% and we'll end up there this year at around 49%.
We'll have some – a little bit of a dip in there in Q3 as we transfer out of the Permian into the – into Cana.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's all for me.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
And as there are no more questions at the present time I would like to turn the call back over to management for any closing comments.
Thank you Keith.
So I guess we'd just like to thank everybody for participating in the call and please let us know if you have any further questions.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Cimarex Energy Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
Please note this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Karen Acierno.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Amy.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Cimarex second quarter 2015 conference call.
Last night an updated presentation was posted to our website.
We will be referring to this presentation during the call today.
As a reminder our discussions will contain forward-looking statements.
A number of actions could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss.
You should read our disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest 10-K and other filings and news releases for the risk factors associated with our business.
Today's prepared remarks will begin with an overview from our CEO Tom Jorden; followed by an update on our drilling activities and results from John Lambuth VP of Exploration; and then Joe Albi our COO will update you on operations including production and well costs.
Paul Korus and Mark Burford are also here in the room to help answer any questions you might have.
With that I will turn it over to Tom.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Karen and thanks to everyone who's participating in today's conference.
We appreciate your interest in Cimarex.
I'd like to take a few minutes to share my thoughts on the current environment before turning it over to John and Joe for the details of our first quarter results and our plans for the rest of 2015.
During this call you'll hear about new wells that are outperforming our expectations leading to another production beat.
We now have 18 long laterals with over 30 days of production in the Delaware Basin Wolfcamp several of which have been online for more than six months.
We're gaining a much better understanding of the production characteristics and potential of these longer horizontal wells.
The data we've gathered has strengthened our enthusiasm for the long-term potential of this play for Cimarex.
We've always been a company that emphasizes science and innovation and this emphasis is yielding results in spacing pilots well design completion design and unraveling geologic complexity.
The second quarter was punctuated by advances in each of these areas.
Of particular interest subtle changes in our horizontal landing zone have had enormous impact on well optimization.
We're now at a point where we're ready to move ahead in our first development project in the Wolfcamp D in Culberson County with drilling scheduled to begin in January on a six-section project.
More about that in a moment.
Also in the Delaware basin Second Bone Spring results continued to impress.
These wells are among the best in our portfolio with multiyear running room.
We will also update you in our continued success in the Woodford Shale and the Meramec play.
The Cana-Woodford shale and Meramec continue to be a laboratory for continuing improvements in innovation.
We have further delineated our acreage optimized our simulations and are testing new landing zones.
We remain quite bullish on the long-term multi-pay potential of our Cana and Delaware basin assets.
To that end we see the opportunity for a modest acceleration as we move into 2016.
We have $730 million of additional capital following our issuance of equity in May.
As a result our 2015 capital expenditures have an increase by $100 million which will fund the beginnings of several exciting projects including a Wolfcamp A downspacing pilot in Culberson County and more Bone Spring and Meramec activity.
But perhaps most exciting is what we have on tap for 2016.
In addition to Cimarex beginning its first Wolfcamp D development in Culberson County the first development in Reeves County will begin as well.
We're also planning additional infill in the Woodford and Meramec including the possibility of a long lateral development later in the year.
We'll conduct down spacing pilots in the Meramec as well as stack testing of the Woodford and Meramec for future development.
These development projects in the Delaware and Anadarko Basins are complex and require considerable planning.
The multi-zone stack potential of our asset provides tremendous opportunity and challenges.
We have the opportunity to significantly increase capital efficiency by exploiting multiple zones within a single development project.
We have challenges in that this requires careful planning and understanding of the geologic complexity for you cannot always back up and capture a zone that was missed in the initial development.
Our organization is hard at work preparing for effective execution of these projects.
John will provide additional color on these efforts.
We intend to live within our current capital structure and with the recently added equity funding to not incur additional debt during 2015 or 2016.
We do debt as a long-term commitment and we're hesitant to make long-term commitments in this volatile environment.
We have seen service costs further decrease.
Looking at current well cost in two of our most often drilled well designs a Cana-Woodford infill well and a Wolfcamp D long lateral we've seen total well cost decline 30% and 20% respectively from their peak in 2014.
We've also made significant progress on lowering lease operating expenses driven primarily by reducing saltwater disposal cost.
Joe will give additional detail on this during the call.
Since our last call the recovery we saw in oil prices was short-lived and natural gas prices remain depressed.
Despite this negative backdrop Cimarex is moving forward investing in our exceptional assets.
The conversation since last fall has been dominated by discussions regarding the commodity price cycle and expectations of a recovery.
I said at the time that Cimarex was adapting to this new environment and figuring out ways to survive and thrive in it.
Our challenge is to adapt our business to be sustainable in this new normal.
There is good news to report.
With the reduced cost environment and advancements in well performance we have a deep portfolio of opportunities that offered very attractive returns.
Regarding our plans for modest acceleration we've been asked why now? Isn't it more prudent to wait for the macro environment to settle out and recover? To that I'd say we have no special insight on the future direction and timing of commodity prices.
We view the world through a lens of greater return and through this lens we see the opportunity to modestly accelerate projects that offer outstanding returns provide a cushion against further commodity downside and strengthen the foundation of the company as we look ahead into 2016 2017 and beyond.
We have the wherewithal to fund these projects and are ready to go.
Although we would enthusiastically welcome a recovery in commodity prices we've always managed Cimarex with commodity cycles in mind.
We'll survive and thrive through this one.
Finally as always our focus is on creating shareholder value.
We are uncompromising in this focus.
We have the organization and the assets to continue to deliver shareholder value through the cycles.
As I tell our employees we are building an ark not a party boat.
With that I'll turn the call over to John Lambuth who will provide additional detail.
Thanks Tom.
I'll start with a quick recap of our drilling activity in the quarter before getting into some of the specifics of our latest results and more color on our planned activity increases.
Cimarex invested $190 million during the second quarter drilling and completing wells.
66% was invested in the Permian region and the rest went toward activities in the Mid-Con region.
Company-wide we brought 45 gross 33 net wells on production during the quarter.
Our Permian operations are in the Delaware Basin where we brought on 16 of those 23 net wells during the second quarter meaning we have now worked our way through the backlog of completions we had built up at year-end.
That backlog was caused by some severe weather in the second half of 2014 and in addition to a lot more activity overall.
We had 18 rigs running in the Permian region at 2014.
We then dipped to a low of two in the second quarter and are now operating three rigs with plans to add more.
I'll share some of those details a little later.
But first we continue to have exceptional results drilling second Bone Spring wells in the Culberson White City area.
We've drilled several wells using a larger 15-stage completion with very favorable results of which you can see in the presentation on slide 17.
Cimarex recently completed a 7 000-foot lateral in the second Bone Spring sand section called the Klein 33 Federal Number 5H.
This well had an average 30-day peak IP of 2 753 barrels of oil equivalent per day which included 1 870 barrels of oil per day.
This outstanding well result gives us greater confidence that a combination of our upsized completions along with the extended laterals in the second Bone Spring can generate superior rate of returns.
Our long lateral program in the Wolfcamp D in Culberson continues to provide solid results.
We have 30-day peak IPs averaging 2 255 barrels of oil equivalent per day from 11 long lateral Wolfcamp D wells.
We continue to work on optimizing our frac design to both maximize IP rates while paying close attention to cost.
As Tom mentioned in his remarks optimal landing of the horizontal leg can be the key difference between a good well and a great one.
This is clearly illustrated by one of our most recent long lateral well results in the Wolfcamp A interval in Reeves County.
The Big Timber 57-25 Unit 1H had an average 30-day peak production rate of 3 309 barrels of oil equivalent per day of which 50% was oil.
This well was drilled and completed in the Upper Wolfcamp A zone the first Cimarex long lateral in Reeves County to be landed in this zone.
We now have plans to drill a number of additional long laterals in this Upper A in order to determine repeatability of this very economic zone.
In Culberson County we have results from our second downspacing pilot in the Wolfcamp D.
As you can see on slide 15 these 5 000-foot laterals have strong 30-day initial peak production rates that average 1 340 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This pilot was drilled on 107-acre spacing the equivalent of six wells per section.
It's fair to say we've learned a lot from these two spacing pilots and when coupled with the data from the stack CD test completed in the first half of 2014 we are now ready to move forward on our first development in the Wolfcamp D.
As illustrated on slide 16 this will be a six-section development that would be drilled with 7 500 foot laterals essentially four 1.5-mile sections of development each.
Drilling will begin in January on the southern sections.
First production isn't expected until early third quarter as completions will coincide with the start-up of the recently announced MarkWest processing plant in Culberson.
We plan to drill 14 7 500-foot development wells in the Assault and Sea Hero 1.5 mile sections bringing the total well count to 16 when you include the two existing current wells.
These infill wells will be staggered in the thick D interval.
The two northern sections which we call Sunday Silence and Silver Charm will begin drilling in the third quarter 2016 with completion set for early 2017.
As you can see in the wine rack illustration on slide 16 the Silver Charm 1.5 mile section will include an additional row of wells in the Wolfcamp C whereas the Sunday Silence 1.5 mile section will test an increased density of 10 wells per section in the D.
As far as Wolfcamp capital plans for the rest of 2015 is concerned we plan to start a six-well Wolfcamp D spacing pilot in Culberson County later this year with the rest of the capital allocated toward meeting our leasehold obligation in Reeves County.
Now on to the Mid-Continent.
You will recall that we began drilling on the Cana-Woodford Row 4 infill development program late last year.
Completions on this 57 gross wells covering seven sections has finally begun.
In preparation of these completions we recently completed eight wells in the Haley Section with a variety of frac designs.
Total sand pumped ranged from 9 million pounds to 12 million pounds or put another way 1 800 pounds per foot to 2 400 pounds per foot and we varied the stage count from 24 to 30 per well.
As seen on slide 21 of our presentation the Haley wells achieved a 30-day average peak rate of 10.3 million cubic feet equivalent per day with a 90-day average of 8.8 million cubic feet equivalent per day very good results.
Based on learnings from these wells we plan to make use of primarily a 30-stage frac design on our Row 4 wells and will pump between 13 million to 16 million pounds of sand or again the equivalent of 2 600 pounds per foot to 3 200 pounds per foot.
In our emerging Meramec play we now have enough production data on ten 5 000-foot laterals.
These wells have an average 30-day peak IP rate of 9.3 million cubic feet equivalent per day with oil yields that vary from 15 barrels per million to 330 barrels per million.
Our first 10 000-foot lateral in the Meramec is in early flowback while our second one is drilled and awaiting completion.
We plan to provide you with an update on these wells during next quarter's call.
In the meantime we will be participating in our first downspacing pilot in the Meramec as well as drilling our first two-well stacked test in the Meramec which we've actually commenced operations on now.
Additionally we now have plans to drill a stacked stagger pilot within the combined Woodford and Meramec intervals.
All of these are critical data points as we think about development of this potentially vast resource.
In closing I'd like to summarize our capital plans for 2015 and 2016 as we see it today.
There are two slides in the presentation that illustrate this.
First on slide seven you'll see our capital allocation for 2015.
As Tom mentioned we've added $100 million to our capital investment plan this year.
This is really the kickoff to the increase in activity we have planned for 2016.
Slide eight shows how we see allocating capital in 2016.
While we're haven't given you a dollar amount we've based this allocation on what we project our cash flow will be based on the current strip and then adding in the remaining equity proceeds of $630 million.
The Wolfcamp and Woodford make up 90% of our 2016 drilling and completion dollars.
While that may come as no surprise the complexion of the Wolfcamp capital has changed with about half of the investment in 2016 being earmarked for development drilling.
With that I'll turn the call over to Joe.
Director &amp; EVP</strong> Well thank you John and thank you all for joining our call today.
I'll touch on the usual items: our second quarter production; our Q3 and full-year production outlook; and then I'll follow up with a few comments on LOE and service costs.
Q2 was another great quarter for us.
With little impact from weather or pipeline downtime we proudly surpassed the 1 Bcf a day mark for the first time as a company with our total company second quarter net equivalent volumes coming in at a record 1.026 Bcf a day.
That's up 22% from the 839 million a day we produced a year ago and it handily beat our second quarter guidance of 965 million to 985 million a day.
Our guidance beat comes as a result of two areas.
One the strong new well performance that we should see in our completions.
In fact they way outperformed our projections in particular in the Permian.
And then strong execution from our production group operating our base properties with their focus on minimizing downtime and optimizing production from the wells.
And as a result our Q2 2015 Permian equivalent production hit an all-time high of 595 million a day up 202 million a day or 51% from Q2 2014 while our Mid-Continent production came in about as we expected at 419 million a day virtually flat to Q2 2014 which we reported 425 million a day.
And we anticipated the production of Mid-Continent to hold flat as we waited for our Cana-Woodford Row 4 completions to begin here in late Q3.
As we've mentioned in our last few calls with the geographic focus of our drilling program and the timing of our new well completions as we move throughout the year we forecasted our early 2015 production growth to come from the Permian and we saw just that.
Our second quarter Permian equivalent volume came in at a record 595 million a day.
That's up 107 million a day or 22% from the first quarter all the while setting new region record marks for oil gas and NGLs.
With our Q2 Permian oil production of 48 448 barrels a day up 12% over Q1; our Permian gas production of 189 million a day up 26% from Q1; and our Permian NGL production of 19 169 barrels a day up 46% of our first quarter volumes.
With a significant production growth Permian now makes up 58% of our total company equivalent production and more impressively 86% of our total company oil production.
As we also discussed in our last two calls with fewer net Mid-Continent completions planned for the first half of the year we've projected our Mid-Continent volumes to drop somewhat through mid-Q3.
Our Q2 Mid-Continent production came in accordingly at 419 million a day that's down slightly from the 444 million a day we posted in Q1.
We're still on track with our plan projecting our Mid-Continent production to pick up here in late Q3 as we bring on our Cana infill project.
We completed just nine net Mid-Continent wells in the first half of 2015 as compared to our projected 30 net wells to be completed during the second half of the year.
As we look forward with our strong Q1 and Q2 results our current model projects our 2015 total company net equivalent production to be in the range of 960 to 980 million a day.
That's reflecting 11% to 13% growth over 2014 and it's up from our previous guidance for the year of 920 to 950 million a day.
As was the case of our beginning year forecast our projections reflect the geographic focus of our activity with the Permian driving production during the first half of the year and our Cana infill project providing the catalyst for production during the last half of the year.
Our Q3 guidance of 920 to 940 million a day reflects our anticipated slowdown in Permian completions along with approximately 20 million a day of planned Permian pipeline and facility maintenance here in early Q3 and just modestly Q3 contribution from our Cana infill completion operations which will begin late in the quarter.
With our current drilling schedule and the anticipated Q4 production contribution of our Cana Row-4 project we project our Q4 2015 production rate to be up from Q3 with us exiting the year slightly above Q4 2014 – our Q4 2014 average of 949.5 million a day.
Jumping over to OpEx Tom mentioned a little bit about this.
We had a great quarter from an operating expense standpoint here in Q2 and that was really driven by both strong production results and our production group's diligent focus on LOE.
Our Q2 lifting cost came in at a very strong at $0.76 per MMcfe and that was well below our guidance of $1 to $1.10.
It was down $0.20 from our Q1 2015 average of $0.96 per MMcfe and down $0.32 per MMcfe from our 2014 average of $1.08.
We're extremely proud of the effort of our production group has put forth to reduce operating costs.
Over the last six months they have realized sizable reduction for items such as rentals SWD compression and well servicing and our results continue to progress.
As we look forward into the last half of the year accounting for a number of items including our Q1 and Q2 results our forecasted production in Q3 and Q4 and the variable nature of workover expenses we're guiding our remaining year lifting costs to be in the range of $0.90 to $1.05 per MMcfe down from the $1 to $1.10 mark or range we quoted in our last call.
On the service cost side with the slowdown in industry activity we continue to see a somewhat soft market in drilling and completion costs although we see our overall total well costs that will quote in this call somewhat flat since our last call.
We do feel that on both the drilling and completion side service companies understand the importance of market share which is helping to maintain a soft competitive market and perhaps more cost relief as we continue into the latter half of the year.
On the drilling side since our last call we've seen a majority of our cost components stay flat all the while supplier costs for tubulars have come down slightly.
Day rates for idle I'll call them top-notch rigs 1 500-horsepower rigs are more than negotiable today than they've been in a long while down significantly from the rates of $26 000 to $27 500 per day quoted last year to levels today at $17 500 to $18 000 a day.
On the completion side as we mentioned last call beginning about February we started seeing 10% to 40% decreases in all of the major frac cost components whether it be sand transportation chemicals or service cost.
The end result was that at the total company level our average Q1 per well frac cost were down 15% to 20% from Q4 with us pumping an average 12% more fluid and 20% more sand.
In Q2 we kept our average company per well frac cost in check while pumping bigger jobs yet 30% more fluid and 16% more sand than we did in Q1.
The bottom line is today we are pumping much bigger jobs than we did in Q4 perhaps 45% more fluid up to 40% more sand and we're pumping them at a reduced cost.
The end result is we've kept our total well costs flat while pumping the bigger jobs with current – total well costs – down 13% to 20% from where they were at the end of 2014.
Our current Cana Core 1-mile lateral well Woodford well is still in the range of $6.7 million to $7.1 million with our larger frac.
That's down approximately 15% from the $7.9 million to $8.4 million range we quoted last year.
In the Meramec as we continue to get more wells under our belt we expect to see our current single-mile lateral wells fall closer to the lower end of our range of $7 million to $7.4 million and that range is down about 13% from where we were in Q4 of last year.
In the Permian our primary focus as we've mentioned this year is our long lateral development and the Culberson-Wolfcamp program.
Our gain in drilling efficiencies are hitting the chart and market cost reductions have kept our 2-mile lateral cost in check and we're running anywhere from $11 million to $11.8 million per well with our AFEs.
That's down 17% to 20% from where we were in Q4.
So in closing we had another great quarter.
Our strong first-half results and operating efficiencies resulted in a nice production beat.
We're proud to be over that Bcf a day mark.
Our drilling program is generating positive results despite the lower commodity prices and we've seen some excellent cuts in our LOE.
While the organization is focused in keeping our development cost in check all the while we're optimizing our program results.
So with that I guess we'll turn the call over to question-and-answer.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Drew Venker at Morgan Stanley.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Drew.
Tom I was hoping you could just provide a little more color on when we would get to that 16 rig program? Is that by January 1? And then if you can provide maybe just some bookends general thoughts on volumes for 2016 whether we – should be accelerating growth somewhat similar to 2015? Could you help us there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well partially yes.
The rig ramp we have all that John commented on were – we had a plan there to ramp up so that we'd be essentially at 16 rigs as we enter the year – but we're obviously working our development projects and it's a flux issue.
John why don't you comment on that? Yeah.
As Tom said we're not talking of course single individual wells now.
We're talking lots of wells that we have to plan for.
I think our latest schedule will have us at 16 rigs right pretty much at the beginning of February next year.
But that can slide and move forward just depends on how well we put those plans together.
But that's what it will show right now as of today.
And then Mark Burford's here.
I'm going to let him comment on production next year.
Yeah Drew.
Just in terms of production with the fact that as we mentioned in the Permian half our capital is going now transitioning from single wells individual wells and half our capital now will be going to infill development.
And if you look at Culberson County itself specifically the Wolfcamp D in Culberson County three-quarters of our capital will be attributed to those infill development projects.
So we had a major shift in the complexion of our capital compared to 2015 to 2016.
And as we point out on slide 16 of our presentation those two secs – that six-section development – the first completions don't occur on that until June of 2016 and the northern sections don't complete until the first quarter of 2017.
So we definitely have a mixture change in the complexion of our programs so the efficiency – previous capital efficiencies probably don't hold true going into 2015 as we transition to infill development.
And production is delayed in those areas and even in Reeves County where we have infill development in Reeves County.
So our overall Permian program half of it now is infill development.
So it does have the impact the major production are more lumpy and more backend-loaded.
Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> This is Joe.
Just a couple of comments there too.
When we have these development projects depending on how many wells per section and how many sections we won't begin completion operations typically until all the wells are drilled and completed.
And Cana Row-4 is a great example of that.
We drilled those wells all throughout the first half of this year.
We're not going to see the production until the tail half of next year.
To the extent that our development program becomes the majority of our capital expenditures we're going to start to see this roller coaster type production profile that may not coincide with a January 1 to January 1 timeframe.
Okay.
Maybe so maybe just to make sure I have it right due to the timing of completion in these big pads does it make sense to think about 2016 as potentially a little bit slower growth and then 2017 probably much stronger growth? Drew that's logical.
Yes.
That's the way – yes.
It's the way the development plans work.
Yes.
That would be logical yes.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Drew.
We're a strong growth profile.
It's going to be lumpy but I think that's probably fair.
Our acceleration into 2016 is going to be quite a bit back-end loaded because of the nature of these development projects.
Okay.
That's all very helpful.
And maybe we could just dig in on the Culberson County Wolfcamp C and D infill program a little bit.
I was somewhat surprised to see you're already going into development with – mode – with two zones and the Wolfcamp D.
Can you just provide some color on how you settled on that configuration? Yeah.
This is John.
A lot of debate I would say internally.
I mean what's nice is as I mentioned we have those two spacing pilots.
In addition we have that stack pilot.
We've incorporated those results.
In addition we have a lot of individual parent wells that have been landed in different zones within the D itself as well as the C.
When we take all that information we come away with a model that would clearly suggest to us that we have plenty of room within the D itself to stagger and stack which is what we intended to do to start with and feel very confident with that initial design again based on our spacing pilot results and based on leveraging that – the 7 500-foot laterals – that we're going to achieve very nice rate of returns.
The way this schedule sets up then is we will get those online; we'll get early production from it.
If it's meeting our expectation then that just gives us even greater confidence to move forward to even more tighter as you see in those follow-up sections.
So I would say that the two sections we call Sunday Silence Silver Charm are somewhat dependent on the result of Assault and Sea Hero and that's why we built that schedule that way.
But again we really are looking at the results of those pilots and looking at our landing zone results from a number of other parent wells and come away very convinced that this initial design is going to work very well for us in this interval.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I just want to remind you that this Wolfcamp is a really thick zone.
And every play is different and has its own attributes.
But in some plays you worry about resource in place and the overall storage capacity.
That's not the concern here in the Wolfcamp.
The Wolfcamp is really a mechanical issue and what's the best way to poke straws in there frac the wells and space them to recover it.
So we're – based on our experience – we're highly confident that this rock can support this development plan.
Just wanted to clarify again I know in the past you had done a C and D stack test.
Have you tested two laterals stacked or staggered in the D as of yet or is this the preliminary test of that? Well maybe I – let me just put it this way.
I guess I would love that we go forward that we don't even call it the C D.
We just call it lower Wolfcamp.
Really we don't – C and D is more of a geologic marker.
What you really should think about is it being a very thick over 500-foot to 800-foot thick interval and that going forward we're going to start with initial stack of two wells that we feel good about.
And then based on results then potentially add a third level to it with the next set of development.
That's really what we're talking about here.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Drew we have tested stack in the Wolfcamp A in Reeves County.
Yes.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And so that the analogy is direct here and John is absolutely right.
In fact our technical team is discouraging us from even using the nomenclature C D.
It really is one large section.
Thanks for the color guys.
Our next question is from Brian Gamble at Simmons &amp; Company.
Hey guys.
Maybe we can jump to the other exceptional results for the quarter in either the Bone Spring or the Wolfcamp A whichever one you want to tackle first.
But I guess specifically on the Bone Spring well huge oil cut there.
Anything other than the stages going up that you did differently in that well? This is John.
No.
That one made use of what would be equivalent of a 15-stage for 5 000-foot lateral.
The difference being is it was 7 000-foot.
It's just an outstanding well and it's just – it's a replication of what we've been able to do in other areas with that particular design.
I think what's exciting to me is we don't think we're optimized.
We still think that there's perhaps still room to go with that frac design.
And so we do have further wells planned in the area to go in and test the limit of that design.
So it's just – the way I look at it is again a nice confirmation that we can take it and go a little bit longer with the lateral and still get a very good result.
So essentially confidence in the repeatability is pretty high.
Is that what you're saying essentially? In this immediate area yes we feel very good about our acreage position and the well results there.
Thus why that was the first incremental rig we added was immediately to this type of drilling program.
Great.
And then same thing kind of on the Wolfcamp A you mentioned trying to more landing them in the upper part of the A.
Was this the first landed in the upper or was this just the first long lateral landed in the upper part of the A? Yeah.
This would be our first long lateral but I will remind you that we did have our spacing pilot which was the ANACONDA which was a stacked/staggered pilot where we had upper A and lower A.
And right away from those results we could tell that that upper A zone was giving us superior performance to the lower A even as you recall we've talked about some issues with the landing the lower A.
But even in the wells where we did not feel we had an issue the upper A was clearly performing.
But I will tell you than when we plan this well we had high expectations for it to the point that we even worked very hard as a collective group to make sure our production facilities everything was in line for this well because we had high expectations and it's met those expectations.
We've been very pleased with that well result.
We have a nice large contiguous acreage position there where this well is.
And yes we have plans now to go and see if we can't duplicate this result with a few more long laterals.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But like the C D it's not either/or.
I mean that A is a very fixed section and I anticipate multiple landing zones in the development scenario.
And then one last one from me guys the kind of extrapolation of your comment cash flow plus $630 million and/or using the 16-rig count.
That puts your capital up by my rough math at least 30% next year.
Is that a reasonable starting point year-over-year? Brian this is Mark.
I'm sorry 30% what increase in...
In total capital.
Total capital from year to year.
As you probably know we constructed eight-rig program – actually it's based on a $50 oil price deck and a $3 gas price deck.
And even at that price level those price decks we'd expect to have some remaining cash in the neighborhood of $100 million in excess at the end of the year.
So the $630 million right now the eight-rig program doesn't contemplate quite using all the equity proceeds.
We expect to have some remaining cash at the end of the year and fund that program from cash flow.
So the absolute capital we still would like to maintain some flexibility in that.
But the eight-rig program at $50 and $3 price deck we wouldn't expect to quite use all the remaining proceeds.
That's helpful Mark.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Philip Jungwirth at BMO.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Phillip.
Good morning.
So the Wolfcamp C D development section you laid out in the presentation I noticed it's focused in the northeast corner of your acreage block there in Culberson County.
I know in the past you've talked about how the (38:00) you move west.
So as development eventually does move west and south do you think this configuration of laterals and spacing is going to be applicable across the position or is it going to vary and can you provide some preliminary thoughts around that? Yeah this is John.
It will vary.
I mean as you pointed out we do recognize yield variations and that will have to factor into both our rate of return and PV calculations as far as the development plans.
The overall thickness itself is pretty consistent at least on that entire eastern side of our block and then we do thin a little bit as we go to the west but not to the point that I think we would lose a row necessarily.
Again I think it'd be more a matter of economics because I mean it is fair to say we do tend to lose our yield a little bit as we go to the west but that would just be a decision we'd have to make at that time.
I guess that would be how I'd answer it.
Okay.
And I think you've talked also in the past about the C bench in Culberson being a bit lower return than the D or the A.
So is there a reason that the C's included in the initial infill development as opposed to a D/A development? And then can you still come back at a later time and target those A bench reserves? Yeah.
I'll take a stab at that and I know Tom's itching to answer it too.
Let me just make clear that from our well results the Wolfcamp A in Culberson is mutually exclusive from the lower Wolfcamp C D.
So we can come back at any time and layer in wells and say in these developed sections in A and not worry about any type of impingement on those wells.
So that we've clearly have established from our drilling program.
In regards to the C D it is fair to say that our well results do indicate that Cs tend to have a little bit lower rate of return but we are fairly convinced that if we were to develop we wouldn't need to do it all the same time.
And so that's why we have the plans you see there with those upper northern sections that we'd like to move forward with that and demonstrate to ourselves what kind of returns we would generate and that full development pipe scenario because I don't think we're convinced that we could come back and necessarily go in with the Cs at a later date.
So that's why we're stepping into this the way we are with this plan.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
The challenge here as John mentioned is we've really pushed our organization to say we want to take a long-term view of how we optimally develop this asset.
And so to the extent that we can't go back later and get a layer even though it may have a lower rate of return we don't necessarily want to orphan it and abandon it for all time.
And so we're making those decisions on a case-by-case basis but we're really trying to develop this asset with multi-year look so that we don't find ourselves in a position five or seven years from now looking back and saying boy I wish we had done this differently.
And so that requires a lot of forethought a lot of planning but we want to get that while we can.
Okay great.
And can you talk about the reason why the Culberson B/D development is going to be based on 7 500-foot laterals as opposed to two-mile laterals? Do you think medium-length laterals are optimal for development or did this just have to do with the acreage configuration? No.
This is strictly based on the way that our JVA was set up such that these particular sections were just three sections.
So for long laterals we have to divide it up in a section-and-a-half nothing more than that.
Our plans for the rest of the acreage is 10 000-foot.
This is just a matter of just geography just the way the sections laid out.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Our next question is from Irene Haas at Wunderlich.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
My question has to do with the Reeves County Upper Wolfcamp A.
Is this a typical shale or are you really kind of looking for better porosity streaks within the Upper Wolfcamp A? And if yes how continuous would the interval be? This is John.
This is a – it's a shale – the Wolfcamp of course is a shale with interbedded carbonates.
The way we see it there is some definite variability to it but for the most part I would say in immediate area from our well results we tend to see some consistency in well results from section to section.
So we do expect some repeatability.
When we make a good well in a particular landing zone if we are to move a section over our expectation would be that we would still be able to achieve that type of result.
As far as the Upper A itself you know what I'm just going to say we do a lot of work with our rock data our log data – and coupling that with frac design and well results – that help us internally get more comfortable with that Upper A B and A an attractive target.
And I'll just leave it at that.
Inc.</span></strong> So what do you see in specific that makes these wells so much better? Well to be honest I'm not really going to answer that question.
That's something we do internally.
I mean we work very hard with our technology to understand this and so I'll just sat be happy with our result and leave it at that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I understand.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jason Smith of Bank of America.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> So on the Avalon can you just talk about the tests you performed there and the results you've seen so far? And I guess I'm trying to see if there's a significant difference particularly between the 6- and 8-well sections that you guys have tested? This is John.
We did update our slide.
For those who have the presentation slide 19 although we didn't have comments in our opening remarks.
But we're very very pleased with the results from our pilots that we've drilled in the Avalon.
And as we've mentioned we tested a variety of spacing to help the Avalon.
And I would just tell you that on a go-forward basis based on these results we are very comfortable with eight wells per section within an individual bench.
And in fact see multiple benches as being opportunistic on quite a bit of our acreage.
So we're very happy and pleased with that play.
As we've mentioned several times our acreage position is HBP [held by production].
There's no obligation drilling we have to do there.
And it's a really nice thing to have in our back pocket that if we need to we can throw rigs at it at any time.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think I might add there that in testing and delineating optimum spacing there's an approach that says you test it until you break it.
We haven't broken.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We have not broken it yet.
So there is a debate that eight wells is not tight enough.
That is a fair comment Tom that eight is a minimum at this point.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Eight or more.
Yes.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
So maybe John just to follow up on that I mean in your comments on HBP I understand that.
But your mix of CapEx I think for 2016 shows nothing at least at this point for the Avalon.
Are you guys doing anything in the balance of this year? And as you said I mean what changes your opinion there? What makes you kind of go back to work and ramp in that area relative to somewhere else? I will say we do have plans for another Avalon test where we're once again going to land with a pad well and test a newer frac design that we think could even leverage better rate of returns.
And outside of that again I think it's nice to have that flexibility of having that acreage sit there because quite frankly not everything goes as planned.
And so it's nice to be able to throw rigs over to it when we need to or more importantly if we need to deploy more capital.
It's sitting there waiting for us and that's kind of how we look at it right now.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Mike.
So the way it looks from my desk is as we manage our capital expenditures and come up with our overall capital plans these development projects take a lot of capital.
And so not every great project is getting funded.
So please do not infer from the fact that Avalon doesn't have a bigger slice that it means that we're – we like it any less.
So it's just you prioritize and these development projects are our top priority right now.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Thanks Tom I appreciate that.
And on Ward County I feel like I get to ask this question every quarter.
Given the improvements you've seen in Reeves County what if anything are you thinking about implementing there? I think you guys have mentioned where you have some HBP requirements in 2016.
So is there any capital going there or is that something that maybe you'd consider letting expire? Well as of today we've really not come up with a way to achieve sufficient rate of returns in Ward County.
It's just as simple as that.
We always constantly monitor; there's still wells being drilled there by competitors.
We keep a close eye on what they are doing relative to frac design landing length of lateral.
But I – to be honest – we just haven't been able to come up with the right recipe to date that makes that an attractive rate of return for us.
So unless we see a major breakthrough somewhere there's a good chance that we will not be able to hold that acreage next year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I want to just add to that and Ward County is our poster child for why we want to do forethought on the development.
Ward County a lot of our acreage was developed in that Third Bone Spring; we had drilled horizontal wells prior to the ultimate potential of that Upper Wolfcamp being understood.
Had we not done that I think we would be developing Ward County.
Had we not done that I think we would be developing Ward County and we would be developing a Third Bone Spring in at Upper Wolfcamp.
The problem with most of our Ward County position is we're drilling into a depleted fracture network in that Third Bone Spring.
So it's not to say we're disparaging the Ward County we're not.
If we didn't have that Third Bone Spring there we'd be having a whole different conversation.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> I appreciate the color.
Thanks guys.
The next question is from John Nelson at Goldman Sachs.
Good morning and congratulations on a great quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you John.
Also congratulations to Mark in his new role and I guess best of luck to Paul.
For my first question is you guys talked about transitioning into 2016 into a development program I'm just curious if there's any guidance on how we should think about infrastructure spend either over the back half of 2015 or as we move into 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'll let Joe comment on that specifically but we're studying that long and hard.
And there's a lot of issues around infrastructure with gathering systems how you develop your facilities and how you handle your water sourcing and water disposal.
And we're looking at the full-cycle model in trying to really optimize the return on these projects.
We're very wary of paving the future with gold bricks on infrastructure.
We want to balance having the efficiency of taking advantage of the development and not overspending on upfront costs.
So it's a bit of a balancing act and we haven't decided where we're going to land there but we're trying – I will say this – we're trying to optimize our capital efficiency and minimize our infrastructure spending wherever we can.
And Joe you can comment on that.
Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> I think Tom you hit it right on the head.
In many some ways it's a matter of where we develop in these areas.
And a majority of the big dollar infrastructure items have already been put in the ground our major trunk lines our laterals and so forth.
And to the extent these development projects lie along those existing laterals there's a minimal amount of infrastructure associated with it.
To the extent they're further removed it obviously becomes a little bit more pricey.
So what John and the midstream and the production guys are doing they're working in concert to try and develop these areas in such a means and such a way that we're optimizing our capital spending.
If you ask me for the budget we have this year I would say it'd probably line up pretty close to what we did this year with our infrastructure dollars primarily because a lot of that is driven by compression.
And this year's number was $50 million to $80 million.
Is that correct? Yeah.
In 2014 we spent about $75 million.
This year we'll probably going to spend about $50 million for midstream projects.
So I would say somewhere between last year's and this year's is probably a good run point for starting to look at 2016.
Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> It all depends on the timing of when we need compression.
Compression's a big part of it.
But a lot of that existing trunk line or what have you is already in place.
But as far as an overall percentage of our total Permian CapEx I would say it's a small part.
Okay.
And just to interpret some of those earlier comments is that to say that you guys don't necessarily want to overbuild production handling facilities such that we might think about especially in something like that Wolfcamp C/D development area some of those wells maybe being facility constrained early on but ultimately still having a positive standpoint kind of a flatter flat and longer production profile? Is that kind of what you're saying? Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> Well we've looked at a number of wells.
Our 7 500-foot Bone Spring lateral is an example of that where what was the cost to design for peak rate versus what was the cost to not design for peak rate.
And it was a very valuable exercise to our team.
So we're trying to understand all the efficiencies that need to come into play and that give us a maximum rate of return.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But there is an argument for that – that it used to be in five or six years ago – the well was always the driving force.
We would drill a well and we would build facilities in order to produce it at its maximum allowable – the maximum rate we could do.
Today where we have potentially 12 16 or more wells a section we're studying is it better to optimize our facility size and then drill to keep those facilities full and at peak capacity.
And it's a tradeoff and we're modeling the rate of return to that very carefully so that we get the greatest capital efficiency.
It doesn't necessarily do us any good to drill a dozen or 16 or 24 wells build facilities for peak production and then find six months down the road those facilities are underutilized.
That would be very wasteful.
And so we don't have the answer on this call but that's what our organization is hard at work studying not only studying economic models but we're studying our competitors very carefully how they've done it where they've had success and where they've had failures.
Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> And just to follow up on that facility in this case doesn't necessarily just mean the battery.
It can mean the pipe size; it can mean the compression a variety of factors that need to come into play.
That's very helpful and good problems to have.
Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> It's a good problem to have.
Second one for me I can appreciate that you guys don't want to give out a 2016 CapEx number.
But just when I think about your working interest levels in those two areas you highlight that's getting nearly 90% of the CapEx it can be kind of a wider or lower kind of band.
Is the 2016 rig number is that purely operated? Is that a minimum? Or is there some level of sort of non-op spend that you also envision happening in 2016 or any color when we think about sort of relating what's on that slide up to an aggregate number? Yeah.
This is John.
When we quote 2016 that's 2016 operated.
So it's fair to say we definitely anticipate quite a number of non-operated partner wells in the Woodford as we always have.
Typically they've been running around six rigs here recently.
So that certainly factors into our capital model as well in terms of what they plan to do in addition to what we will do.
Great.
I'll let somebody else hop on.
Congrats on the quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ipsit Mohanty at GMP Securities.
Hey.
Good morning guys and congrats Mark in person.
Just a quick – I couldn't help but notice comparing slides of 1Q over 2Q that you're Permian was a tad gassier than – in 2Q than 1Q.
Could you comment why? Yeah.
I'll take a stab at it first.
I think you're just seeing number one if I think about the different programs quite a bit more drilling in Culberson and the Wolfcamp especially Wolfcamp D.
And so that does tend to be a little bit more gassier than say Reeves County or other areas.
Secondly even the Bone Spring for us traditionally a lot of our Bone Spring wells were more in New Mexico in terms of Lee Eddy.
We're still in New Mexico let me be clear about Western New Mexico White City and Culberson.
They tend to be a little bit more gassier.
But I will tell you they're far better wells from a rate of return standpoint in terms of the type of productivity we get from those wells.
So I think that's just what's driving that slow change you're seeing and getting a little bit more gassier.
It's just where the nature of our rigs have been on that western side of the Delaware Basin.
Okay.
And then I think you alluded to this in a separate question.
But when you look at slides seven and eight – 2015 2016 over 2015 – you said the Avalon would be missing because you have HBP and you have that description going into 2016.
But when I look at Meramec and Bone Spring two of the regions that you've highlighted in your presentations and seeing improvement you see them sort of shrinking as a percentage of capital allocation.
Is there something to read into that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Development versus single well.
Yeah.
I think number one again as we keep saying when we go to development whether it be Wolfcamp or Woodford that's a major investment from a standpoint of deploying 17 wells or 20 wells.
The Bone Spring itself I think from a capital standpoint I don't think it's that much different from year-over-year.
You're seeing just at our capital the pie is bigger.
We still plan to have a similar type healthy drilling program.
The Meramec I would say yes it's going to slow down because we've reached the point where we delineated we think we feel comfortable where we have good rate returns from an individual well standpoint.
But as I said in my comments now we need to understand how do we develop it.
And so we have a number of major pilots ongoing between us and our partner spacing pilots stack/stagger pilots so we can better understand on our acreage how do we develop the Meramec concurrent with the Woodford.
And so that's why prudently we'll be slowing down some of the Meramec while we get those pilot results and understand how we move forward to get that acreage properly developed.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I also want to add that this is a snapshot in time and we want to give you color directionally as to where we see the remainder of 2015 and 2016 going.
But it's by no means set in stone.
And for example there is a chance that in this Woodford development we may have a layer of Meramec to add to it.
And so we may increase Meramec along with the Woodford development.
But we're still working our way through that but we wanted to give you our best read today on the direction.
We maintain a lot of flexibility as we work our way through this.
All right.
Appreciate it.
And then seems like as you go over quarter-over-quarter having followed you it seems you've gotten very comfortable with the longer laterals across your asset base.
Is going on from here as you go forward the remainder of 2015 and 2016 what percentage of your drilling are longer laterals just across Bone Spring Wolfcamp and Woodford? I'll take a stab at that.
This is John.
Essentially all the Wolfcamp is extended laterals I mean pretty much where we can.
I think the lone exception might be the occasional pilot where we find that we can achieve the answers we need from a capital standpoint through 5 000-foot instead of 10 000-foot.
But outside of that almost every Wolfcamp well if the acreage allows us is an extended lateral at least 7 500-foot to 10 000-foot.
Woodford traditionally we have been a 5 000-foot lateral developer.
But I will tell you because of our comfortableness with drilling 10 000-foot a lot of our future development plans that we review now incorporate 10 000-foot as our go-to for development.
Now that's not going to happen right away.
But as Tom mentioned in his comments we are looking at some areas probably mid to later next year that we will move toward long lateral development even in the Woodford.
And again I think that just speaks to something you mentioned.
We're getting very comfortable with our ability to drill and complete and flow back those wells.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And we've taken a little different approach than some of our competitors.
To the extent that we're delineating or we're testing spacing we prefer to do that with 5 000-foot long horizontal wells get the results a little quicker and spend a little less per well while we're doing experiments.
In particular if you look at our Meramec program Cimarex – our wells are dominated by 5 000-foot wells.
Many if not most of our competitors have chosen to go straight to 10 000-foot wells.
We're fairly confident that that was the right decision for Cimarex.
Thanks.
Congrats on another great quarter.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question is from Jeanine Wai at Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> In your prepared remarks you mentioned that you built your 2016 program around rate of return given that you don't have a crystal ball on future prices.
So I was wondering if you could just give us an update and rank in order of rate of return in your plays.
I know in the current presentation you gave an updated 78% rate of return for the Culberson Wolfcamp D.
So how can we slot in the other programs like the Wolfcamp A Reeves A Bone Spring Cana Infill et cetera? Yeah.
This is John.
I think before I answer that again there are so many moving parts that go to building that program that clearly yes rate of return is one of the first things we look at.
But there are obviously other mitigating factors such as takeaway concerns obligation drilling to hold acreage.
So there's many things that go into that program.
So I just want to be clear about that but rate of return is certainly one that we focus on strongly.
From a program perspective right now first and foremost White City Culberson Bone Spring wells generate by far superior rate of returns and we're very pleased with where we are with that program.
Once you step from there the long lateral Culberson program as you mentioned is very healthy looks very strong for us going forward both in the A and in the D which we've gotten very good results recently from the A now.
So we literally have two different intervals generating very strong results.
I would argue now with the latest results from Reeves with the well we just spoke about if we can continue to duplicate that type of result in that Upper A then Reeves becomes extremely competitive relative to Culberson with that type of result.
And then finally you get to Woodford where Woodford right now are very very good rate of return results.
I think what excites us about the Woodford is what I mentioned earlier when we start thinking about it from a long lateral standpoint.
When we look at Woodford and we look long lateral then those returns all of a sudden get to a point we get very excited about relative to say a Culberson long lateral.
So that would be just my take on it based on the current commodity price and what we see going forward.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And then I also want to add and I think everybody knows this.
When we talk about rate of returns to the extent we quote a number those are what's being called half-cycle returns.
Those are drilling-only returns.
They're not burdened by all the other things that make up a true investment profile.
But there'd be incremental decisions that we make every day.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
That's all for me.
Thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our last question is from (01:03:42).
Good morning guys.
Just a few on the Meramec just wondering – there's I guess a pilot doing an 80-acre downspacing test that you guys had an interest in if you had any kind of feedback on that result yet? This is John.
No.
We have no comments to make about that pilot as of yet.
We're carefully monitoring but no comments.
Okay.
And then John I guess the location of those downspacing and stack tests in the Meramec are those going to be in the up-dip or down-dip sections? They are in the up-dip as far as the spacing pilot as well as the stack test they would be in what we have called the up-dip.
Yes that's where they're located.
All right.
And then just last one for me.
There's been some talk about the variability of the geology in the Meramec across the play.
Just wondering if you guys think that your acreage is going to be fairly consistent on the characteristics? Well this is John.
I would say again to date we've been very pleased with the results of our wells.
But I will point out that we have 10 wells that go into our average.
It is fair to say that of those three new wells one of them was quite a bit of a step-out for us.
And yes it underperformed relative to the rest of the wells.
That's what happens when you try to delineate your acreage.
And so there's no surprise that we have reached a point where at least with that well we would start to think that maybe that particular area is not as prospective as others – from a 5 000-foot standpoint – let me be clear.
We do recognize there's a variability to this but I would also again point out that we've been pleased with the overall consistency of our results to date.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But the – John mentioned the three new wells – two of the three were choked back during a significant portion.
Yes.
So to be clear of the three new wells one of them was a significant step-out that definitely underperformed relative to our average.
The other two wells just to give you a little color are wells that are in an area that we consider very prospective.
We upsized the fracs quite a bit on both those wells and because of that we're trying to manage the flowback on those wells from a standpoint of both water and sand control.
Those wells were conservative on their choke settings thus we didn't achieve the same kind of 30-day average rates that the other wells have.
But we're very pleased with those well results those two wells based on what we're seeing to date.
All right.
I appreciate it.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back to management for closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Yeah.
I want to thank everybody for joining us.
And in closing I'm glad it was mentioned in our call I want to congratulate Mark Burford on becoming our CFO.
He's ready for the job and will just do a fantastic job.
But I especially want to commend Paul Korus for the contributions he's made to this organization over time.
Many of you on this call know Paul well.
We're going to miss him deeply.
It would be impossible for me to overstate what he's meant to this organization to our shareholders and to the building of Cimarex.
It's with a lot of bittersweet that we let him go.
We're going to miss him.
And part of the great contribution that Paul has given us is grooming and choosing his successor.
But Paul's contribution is something that we're very grateful for.
And I know many of you share me wishing Paul all the best and just deep deep gratitude for the role he's played as a founder of this company.
So with that I want to thank him very much.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Cimarex Energy Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Karen Acierno Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for joining us this morning.
Last night an updated presentation was posted to our website.
We will be referring to this presentation during our call today.
As a reminder our discussion will contain forward-looking statements.
A number of actions could cause actual results to differ materially from what we will discuss.
You should read our disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest 10-K and other filings and news releases for the risk factors associated with our business.
Today's prepared remarks will begin with an overview from our CEO Tom Jorden followed by an update on our drilling activities and results from John Lambuth VP of Exploration.
And then Joe Albi our COO will update you on our operations including production and well costs.
Cimarex CFO Mark Burford is also present to help answer any questions you might have.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Tom.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Karen.
And thanks to everyone who's participating in today's conference.
We appreciate your interest in Cimarex.
We have some exciting new results to report to you for investments made earlier this year including the completion of our first two-mile lateral in the Meramec.
This well the Clayton had a peak 30-day IP over 16 million cubic feet equivalent which is a 72% uplift versus the average one-mile lateral in Meramec we've drilled to date.
Cimarex also completed its second two-mile lateral in the Wolfcamp A in Culberson County.
That well the Cavalcade looks to be one of the best wells drilled in the Culberson Wolfcamp A to date.
In addition our production group has done an excellent job on both existing production and bringing on new wells wells which continue outperforming our expectation.
These two factors combined led to another production beat.
To begin with however I want to start with some conclusions.
I'd like to begin the call by outlining a few key takeaways that we hope you glean from this morning's call.
First our production beat is a result of significant and meaningful improvements in our well performance and increased focus on our base production and an emphasis on operational excellence.
Joe and John will give additional details on these operational improvements.
Second we hear lots of talk lately that the industry focus is no longer on growth for growth's sake.
This is heartening since we've been saying this for 20 years.
Cimarex has also maintained an unrelenting focus on return on invested capital.
To that end we do not have an overarching strategic preference on commodity type.
We drill the wells that offer the best full cycle returns.
We model our investments using realized prices with room for draconian downside.
Our production mix will shift between gas and oil depending upon our well mix and the returns we find within our portfolio.
Third Cimarex has a bias for pressured reservoirs and pressured tight reservoirs tend to produce a commodity mix that is both oily and gassy.
These reservoirs have tremendous deliverability and also contain the energy which gives longer horizontal wells a turbo charged uplift.
John will discuss the results of our first long lateral in the emerging Meramec play.
Don't miss the significance of this well to our acreage position and the future potential of this play to Cimarex.
Fourth Cimarex is entering a period of significantly improved capital efficiency.
You will hear lots of discussion today about upcoming development projects and pilots that involve 10 000 foot and 7 500 foot horizontal wells.
These longer horizontal wells are providing great improvements to our capital efficiency and our program is rapidly evolving to be dominated by them.
Our acreage positions in both the Anadarko and Delaware Basins support a growing long lateral program.
John will discuss our upcoming long horizontal well development projects in the Delaware Basin Wolfcamp A Delaware Basin Wolfcamp D and the Anadarko Basin Woodford Meramec.
And fifth and finally as we look into 2016 we see Cimarex positioned where we have told you we need to be.
We've told you we need to find a sustainable path in this downturn one where we can make a living add value and not wait for the rescue ship.
We will enter 2016 with 12 operated rigs.
Owing to tremendous improvements in drilling efficiencies completion optimization and cost reductions we may be able to accomplish with 12 rigs what we had previously modeled with 16.
As we look ahead we model a program for 2016 2017 and beyond which is within cash flow and cash on hand and allows us to survive and prosper in this difficult environment.
This has always been our goal and it is a tremendous complement to our organization and to our assets that we have found firm footing.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to John for further details.
Thanks Tom.
I'll start with a quick recap of our drilling activity in the quarter before getting into some of the specifics of our latest results and more color on upcoming activities.
Cimarex invested $184 million during the third quarter drilling and completing wells.
About 60% was invested in the Permian region with the rest of that money going toward activities in the Mid-Continent region.
Companywide we brought 56 gross 14 net wells on production during the quarter.
Our Permian operations are in Delaware Basin where we brought on 4 of the 14 net wells during the third quarter.
All were Wolfcamp wells.
Our long lateral program in the Wolfcamp D in Culberson County continues to provide solid results.
We now have 30-day peak IP rates averaging 2 308 barrels of oil per day from 13 Wolfcamp D long lateral wells.
As always we continue to work on optimizing our frac designs.
We have had great success in lowering drilling days along laterals meaning individual rigs can accomplish more than previously thought.
Joe will talk more about those details shortly.
On our last call we talked about our plans to spud our first Wolfcamp A down spacing pilot in Culberson County.
Locations are being built and drilling is expected to be underway this quarter.
This six well pilot will be drilled using 7 500 foot laterals and will test two different spacing designs.
Half of the wells will test eight wells per section spacing while the other half will test six wells per section.
Both will be drilled in a staggered pattern.
Regarding our plans to begin development drilling in the Wolfcamp D in Culberson we have adjusted our plans from what we discussed on the last call in that we will now drill five new 10 000 foot laterals stack staggered in the Wolfcamp D on the two adjoining sections immediately east of our two spacing pilot sections.
This change will insure the accuracy of the production data since unlike the original planned sections there'll be no parent wells embedded within these development wells.
Plus the added benefit that we expect to achieve very good A-tax rate of return for these 10 000 foot wells even in this challenging commodity environment.
Drilling will commence in the first quarter of 2016 with production scheduled to begin mid-year.
Now on to the Mid-continent you will recall that we began drilling on the Cana-Woodford row 4 infill development program late last year.
Completion on these 57 gross wells covering seven sections are nearly finished and production has begun.
We will be moving drilling operations to another Woodford row infill on the east side of the core.
This development covers six sections.
Cimarex will operate the westernmost two sections drilling 14 gross wells.
The entire row project consists of 50 gross 23 net wells.
Production from this east Cana development row is expected to come online in July of 2016.
And in our emerging Meramec play we now have production data on 11 5 000-foot laterals.
These wells have an average 30-day peak IP rate of 9.3 million cubic feet equivalent per day with oil yields that vary from 15 barrels per million cubic feet to 330 barrels per million cubic feet.
Our first 10 000-foot lateral in the Meramec has been on production for about two-and-a-half months.
The Clayton 1HX has an average 30-day peak IP of 16 million cubic feet equivalent per day which is a 72% uplift from the average of 11 5 000 foot laterals we've drilled.
We have another Meramec long-lateral producing now with a third currently drilling.
We are very encouraged from the early time production we are seeing from this second long lateral.
So much so that going forward we plan to drill long lateral wells on all of our delineated Meramec acreage wherever possible.
As we think about the future developments at Meramec Cimarex is focused on an area we call 14-10 (10:07).
This area is made up of 30 contiguous sections that have the potential to be developed in both the Woodford and Meramec using 10 000-foot laterals.
It's a big area.
To better understand the multi-zone potential for this area we have designed a down spacing pilot which we have commenced drilling on.
See slide 21 for an illustration of the design.
This pilot will consist of 11 wells to be stacked and staggered in both the Meramec and Woodford formations.
The pilot will be executed using 5 000-foot laterals on a little over half of one section.
The spacing in the Meramec will be the equivalent of 10 wells per section of which there will be five wells in the upper and five in the lower staggered within the Meramec.
The Woodford will be drilled with our standard nine wells per section development plan.
In addition to this pilot we have started filling back a two-well stack staggered pilot in the Meramec and our partner has commenced drilling on a Meramec spacing pilot testing five wells per section and one landing zone.
The data from these pilots will be critical in helping us design the appropriate development plan for this vast Meramec and Woodford resource.
With that I'll turn the call over to Joe Albi.
Director &amp; EVP</strong> Well thank you John and thank you all for joining our call today.
I'll be touching on the usual items.
Our third quarter production our Q4 and full year production outlook and then I'll finish up with a few comments on LOE and where we're seeing service costs.
We had another great quarter in Q3.
Our total company net equivalent volume came in at 978.9 million a day.
That's up 4% from the 942 million a day we produced in Q3 2014 and it beat our guidance of 920 million to 940 million a day by a fair margin.
As Tom mentioned and as was the case last quarter our guidance beat once again comes as a result of stronger than expected new well performance and our production group's focus on minimizing downtime and optimizing production with us seeing particularly exceptional results coming from the Permian.
As we have mentioned in our last few calls our 2015 production growth was forecasted to come from the Permian in the early part of the year and then from the mid-continent in the latter part of the year and we're seeing just that.
Our Q3 2015 Permian equivalent production came in at 562 million a day up 38% from Q3 2014 while our Mid-Continent production came in at 405 million a day down as anticipated from the 518 million a day we produced in Q3 2014.
Our Cana Row 4 completion activity as John mentioned began in late Q3 and is forecasted to arrest the drop providing us with a very strong boost in production as we finish off the year.
As expected our Permian completion activity slowed during Q3 with only four net wells coming online during the quarter as compared to 30 in Q1 and 18 in Q2.
As a result our Permian net equivalent volumes declined during the quarter down 5% as compared to Q2.
That said the Permian continues to make up the lion's share of our production representing 57% of our total company equivalent volume and 85% of our total company oil volume.
Our Q3 Mid-Continent production came in as forecasted at 405 million a day down slightly from the 419 million a day we posted in Q2.
We're on track with our plan projecting the Mid-Continent production to wrap up considerably here in Q4 as our Cana completion activity picks up steam.
With the activity we're projecting 21 net Mid-Continent wells to come online in Q4 versus a total of 19 for the first nine months of the year.
As we look forward into Q4 our Q4 guidance of 0.98 Bcfe to 1.01 Bcfe per day incorporates our forecasted ramp up of production from Cana coupled with a slight drop in Permian production with our most recent slowdown in Permian completions.
Our Q4 2015 guidance reflects an exit rate that's 3% to 6% above our Q4 2014 average of 915 million a day and it provides us with a great springboard into 2016.
With our strong year-to-date results we've once again upped our 2015 full year guidance incorporating our Q4 projection.
Our 2015 total company net equivalent production is now projected to be in the range of 983 million to 991 million a day up from our previous guidance of 960 million to 980 million and reflecting a 13% to 14% growth over 2014.
Shifting over to OpEx as Tom mentioned our production group continues to focus on trimming our operating costs.
With their efforts we've seen sizable reductions and optimizations in items such as saltwater disposal compression rentals power fuel as well as well service costs.
As a result our Q3 lifting costs came in at $0.70 per Mcfe well below our guidance of $0.90 to $1.05 flat with our Q2 2015 average of $0.76 and down $0.29 or 29% from our 2014 average of $1.08.
When incorporating our forecasted production by region and the variable nature of workover expenses we're guiding our Q4 lifting costs to be in the range of $0.77 to $0.87 per Mcfe down from the $0.90 to $1.05 estimate that we quoted last call.
The important byproduct of our LOE reduction is the additional funding we're supplying our drilling program.
Our Q3 2015 average monthly LOE of $23.1 million per month is $6.6 million per month below our Q3 2014 average of $29.7 million a month which over a 12-month time period equates to us bringing up about $79 million that we can direct towards our drilling program truly significant.
On service costs with the continued industry slowdown the markets for both our drilling and completion costs remain relatively soft and in check.
Since our last call most of our drilling costs components have remained relatively flat with us seeing some modest decreases in a few items such as cementing well tubing and surface rentals particularly in the Permian.
Day rates for idle rigs continue to be very competitive down significantly from last year's rates of $26 000 to $27 000 a day to current quoted levels that are in a range of $17 000 to $18 000 per day.
On the completion side after the first signs of cost relief in Q1 our average total company per well frac cost came down approximately 15% to 20% from Q4 with us pumping an average of about 12% more fluid and 20% more sand.
As we've worked our way through Q3 we've capitalized on the continued reductions in frac cost by keeping our average well frac cost in check while pumping even bigger jobs.
As a result our average total company Q3 frac cost is still down the same 15% to 20% from late last year but we're pumping 65% more fluid and 84% more sand on the average than we did late last year.
The bottom line is we're seeing a slight drop in our major program total well costs since last quarter while continuing to pump even bigger jobs with our total well costs down anywhere from 15% to 20% from where they were at the end of last year.
Our current Cana core one mile lateral Woodford AFE is running in the range of $6.6 million to $7 million.
That's down about $100 000 from our last call and down 16% to 17% from the $7.9 million to $8.4 million quote that we gave you last year.
In the Meramec with it still early in the program we expect to see our current single well lateral wells fall closer to the lower end at the $7 million to $7.4 million AFE range that we quoted last call which is down about 13% from late Q4.
In the Permian project drilling continues to be our primary focus.
With more wells under our belt we've cut our Wolfcamp two-mile lateral spud to rig release time 20% from 35 days in 2014 to 28 days in 2015 and have a record well this quarter that came in at 20.5 days.
We have seen similar drill time reductions in our one-mile lateral Bone Spring Avalon category of wells cutting the average days from spud to rig release 26% from 23 days in 2014 to 17 days during the last quarter again with a record well of a very respective 9.25 days.
We've established good momentum cutting the drilling days in our entire Permian program and as such we're getting more done with fewer rigs.
With continued gains in drilling efficiencies and market cost reductions we've dropped our two-mile lateral Culberson AFEs down about $200 000 with current AFE estimates of $10.8 to $11.6 million.
That's down 18% from late last year.
So in closing another great quarter's under our belt.
Strong year-to-date performance resulted in yet another quarter with a good production beat.
We've made significant strides to cut our LOE.
Our drilling program continues to churn out very positive results.
And we remain vigilant to keep our costs in check and optimize our program results.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Q&amp;A.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
The first question comes from Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Drew.
It looks like you have two objectives with the 2016 program one being to maximize capital efficiency and the other one to size up the resource base.
So I'm hoping you can shed some light on how you balance innovation or pushing the envelope on well performance on one hand and minimizing costs on the other.
And I guess as it relates to the pilots you plan to drill how much variation in well design do you expect to implement? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Drew.
This is Tom.
That's a great question.
You know certainly capital efficiency and return on capital remains our top focus.
But you always have to have room for innovation.
In particular our assets are in wonderful areas where we have a very thick stratigraphic column.
And understanding and identifying the full extent of that column and how many ultimate targets we're going to have is critical to full cycle development.
I would say first order is looking at the stratigraphic section and understanding how many unique landing zones you'll have.
And then second order is what the wells will be spaced side to side.
And the challenge as we develop these resources and go into full development is making sure that we've identified all the various landing zones that will become available to us because you cannot always go back and get them later.
If you don't identify all the landing zones up front you run a serious risk of orphaning some targets that will not be available to you either not at all or if you come back later you'll severely interrupt existing production.
So it's always a juxtaposition.
And some of the pilot projects that John has outlined allow us with small sample projects to test those various landing zones to try to optimize so as we go into full development we're doing it prudently and with the decades of inventory in mine so that we don't strand resources.
So it's always a tradeoff between innovation and capital efficiency.
Yeah.
This is John my only follow up with that Tom's right on point is what's nice about these projects we have outlined is we are looking for greater capital efficiencies out of these particular pilots especially the Meramec Woodford one that I described.
If we're going to be looking at mean ways to reduce our per-well cost on a per section basis and we hope to see those type of achievements with that type of pilot while also generating very good returns in testing those multiple levels.
So we hope to really achieve a lot by these pilots and put us in a very good position to go forward in our development plans.
Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> And this is Joe.
I'll just add something further to that.
With these pilots we'll also be experimenting with the optimal facility design the utilization of zipper fracs to try to optimize our completion costs to that end.
Everyone thank you for all that color.
Very helpful.
In the Meramec as you complete those that first pilot I guess the pilot you and Devon have the two pilots are you looking to move forward to drilling those long laterals later in 2016 or is the outcome of the pilot kind of predicated on that? Well this is John.
Like we've always talked about when we look at pilots and we ask ourselves what are we trying to learn from pilots in terms of the ultimate spacing as Tom alluded to the different landing zones.
Yes we tend to lean towards 5 000 foot laterals for those just from a standpoint of capital investment.
But as far as going forward especially in terms of holding acreage and future drilling in the Meramec especially once we understand the ultimate spacing pattern our plans are to drill 10 000 foot laterals over the majority of our Meramec/Woodford acreage.
The nice thing is our acreage is contiguous enough that we have that ability to do that.
I'll just ask one more.
Can you compare the returns in the Meramec as they look today to Culberson County Wolfcamp and Cana? Are they similar across those three? You know it varies obviously; in the Meramec as I talked about in my part of the script there is a large variation in yield and deliverability and so there are some sweet spots I would say in the Meramec that when we look at it especially from a standpoint of 10 000 feet those wells come right to the top as far as the type of returns that we can generate.
They compete head on with some of our best Bone Spring drilling as well as some of our best Culberson Wolfcamp long-lateral drilling.
So it's very nice to have that kind of portfolio that again we can go after here.
Thanks for all the color.
The next question comes from Irene Haas with Wunderlich.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah so question is can you give me the average number of rigs that you are running during the fourth quarter? And perhaps a little insight into first quarter are we going to just average 12 rigs for the first quarter and then the entire year? Just trying to get a feeling of your activity levels.
Yeah well this is John.
I think currently we have eight...
Seven.
Seven I think about to have an eighth rig and certainly by December we will be at 12 rigs.
That is our plan and that will be our plan going into the first quarter of next year is 12 rigs.
Those rigs will be deployed currently with six in the Permian and six in Anadarko.
And within each of those programs within the Permian two will be Bone Spring rigs the other four will be Culberson rigs.
Well three of them will be Culberson; the fourth one will be Reeves currently.
In Anadarko it's probably more of a mix of four Woodford and two Meramec but that will vary some during the course of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> And...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And to answer your question on the average Irene.
You can maybe call later and we can get that to you.
But we'll have 12 rigs by the beginning of the year and that's kind of where we want to enter 2016 too we think that's a good number and gives us kind of the flexibility we want.
Inc.</span></strong> Are you going to stay at 12 rigs? Or would you have any ambition to get up to 16? Or you don't need to? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we don't have any immediate plans.
We certainly have the capability but right now we'd like to stay at 12 and kind of watch and wait.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Jason Smith with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone and congrats.
Tom I just wanted to come back to some of your earlier comments on returns.
Can you maybe just give us some color around what you require for an investment maybe on a full-cycle and half-cycle basis? And can you also just frame some of the draconian downsides that you highlighted? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well returns are – everybody who talks about returns we're probably all talking about different things.
You hear people talk about half-cycle full-cycle I will say that at the end of the day we sum it up and we look at a fully burdened return and that's how we grade ourselves.
And that would include all land amortized all overhead associated with programs any and all capital and what we book for reserves.
And here at Cimarex we only look at proved developed reserves.
We don't -- you know if we book PUDs at the end of the year we don't count that in terms of our reserve adds that goes into our returns.
And so there's a lot of room for things to go wrong in that but our experience is that on a return basis if you're good at this business you're really good you can get consistently mid to high teens fully burdened.
Now different people may have different reads on that.
That's our experience.
But things go wrong in our business.
And that means if you're expecting to deliver to your shareholders mid to high teens on all investments you'd better be drilling wells that are A-tax 25% or better.
And it just so happens when you sum up a program that's A-tax 25% or better if you're good you may end up having fully burdened mid-teens.
Now there's a lot of variation around that answer but that's the way we see it and that's what our experience tells us.
So within your portfolio today what would see as generating A-tax 25% or better? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well certainly I would say just about everything we're drilling.
With very few exceptions we won't get below that unless it's some extraordinary piece of information we think we can leverage for the future.
And you also asked about our downside.
We're currently running our investments at a $30-flat NYMEX oil held flat forever at $40-flat NYMEX held flat forever and $2 and $2.50 gas held flat forever.
And then furthermore we take the dominant revenue phase of a well and we see how low can that dominant revenue phase go and will we still get an A-tax 15% on that investment.
So we try to stress test our investment.
We're not perfect at it and there's certainly an ongoing debate here at Cimarex as to how we should be looking at it.
But we tend to live in a world where things don't always work as we planned and want to leave ourselves some room for that.
Thanks.
I appreciate that answer.
And maybe just on 2016.
So I guess from your comments sticking with 12 rigs instead of 16 is more due to efficiency than anything else? And you've previously mentioned that you want to spend the proceeds from the equity deal earlier this year next year.
Are you still thinking that way? Or are you comfortable maybe preserving some of those proceeds into 2017 at this point? Well this is John.
I'll take the first part of your question.
Maybe Mark will follow up.
Based on our comments earlier especially what Joe talked about in terms of how quick we're drilling these wells when we look at our programs now when we run up to 12 rigs we come pretty close to spending the amount of capital that we envisioned spending in 2016 when we originally looked at it from 16 rigs.
I mean we are really drilling these wells fast.
And so it just means we get more done with less rigs.
We're still looking at a certain capital model but we're just more efficient with it.
Mark? Yeah.
Just to follow up on that Jason and also you might have seen in the pie charts that our mix of drilling in 2016 is slightly shifting a bit more Bone Spring and Meramec in that mix of drilling.
As John alluded to the net number of wells we can cause through 12 rigs with that shift in mix of drilling is not that dissimilar to what we're running with 16 rigs.
Capital is down with just a little bit less long laterals in that mix of wells -- so capital would be probably -- efficiency of drilling time and also just overall well costs currently at least capital will be down probably with where we had it 16 (32:33) but number of net wells we're looking to get done is pretty comparable.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll just finish up.
Jason when we did our equity offering and we first talked about 16 rigs we were in a -- what looks to us today as a significantly higher commodity environment.
We were at $60 $65 oil and looking at that as a go forward we've slipped quite a bit.
Now balancing that slip has been increasing well performance increasing drilling efficiencies.
So we're pretty pleased with where we sit today from a return landscape but we think it's prudent to be talking about the rig activity.
We are we maintain that flexibility and we hope that our Cimarex shareholders are listening will be glad that we're proceeding cautiously but moving ahead.
Appreciate the detail everyone.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from Michael Hall with Heikkinen Energy.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I appreciate the time.
I guess first just wanted to talk a little bit more about the Meramec and as you've continued to work through the delineation program there.
How much of your acreage in the Meramec with Meramec exposure do you believe will have multiple landing zones within the Meramec ultimately? Is it the whole slug? Or is there a particular portion? The whole slug.
This is John.
We don't know yet honestly we don't know.
I mean it's a pretty thick section and so we haven't written off any of our areas I don't think yet where we think we can only do one landing zone.
We just don't know.
Time will tell and it's going to take more drilling by us as well as our competitors.
I will say that we do continue to experiment with different landing zones.
We traditionally drill most of our wells in what we call the middle Meramec.
We have some more recent wells we've done in the lower Meramec and we've been very pleased with what we see there.
So it's hard to say right now because we're just so early in the game.
So yeah I hope it's the whole slug but we'll see.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> This is Tom.
One of the things I would add to that is we're almost internally talking about the Mississippian section more than the Meramec.
We certainly have the Osage that sits underneath the Meramec and there's a reasonable suspicion that there's lots of areas where that's contributing significantly.
And then we also look at the Mississippian Woodford as one continuous petroleum system.
So I think for a lot of our acreage we're going to easily say that we're going to have three different landing zones in that petroleum system.
That would include the Meramec Osage and Woodford.
But John's right we're still delineating that and right now it's premature to give you an acreage count but it's a lot of our asset.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Is it safe to say that whole 14-10 (35:43) area that you highlighted would all be prospective by you're thinking currently for multi-zone development side of it? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong></p>
<p>Yeah.
We're evolving here and we'll give you more color on that project as we get our plans further defined.
But when you talk about an area the size that John talked about essentially all of its Cimarex operated.
We can drill 10 000 full length horizontal wells with three landing zones.
It's a big I mean we did get out and pick up a nice block of acreage but that acreage has termed.
And so part of that capital you see is us getting out there and insuring that we hold that acreage position.</p>
<p>But I'll also say and true to our word we chase returns and as we continue to drill these long laterals and if we continue to see good type of returns then yeah.
I mean we're going to take a hard look at that and make a decision as we always do.
We like to maintain our flexibility in that regard but again this is Mark.
And even though the plans have not been established completely for 2016 is still in motion President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong></p>
<p>Thank you everybody.
Appreciate all the detail.
Congrats on the Meramec.
The question I wanted to touch on Tom was I guess specifically on the Mid-Con successful results definitely working through optimal spacing President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong></p>
<p>Well that's a great question.
This is Tom.
We would love to find assets in our core areas that are at reasonable valuations and are bolt-on either extensions or even the ability to drill 10 000 foot laterals because they're adjacent to our existing position.
That would be a wonderful thing.
As you know the Meramec is not a secret.
There are a couple of really aggressive private equity players out there there are public companies that are extremely aggressive and there are new entrants every time we turn around.
So valuations out here are pretty challenging when you look at per acre costs.</p>
<p>There was a regional BIA sale that you're probably aware of that was two or three weeks ago? And what we bid one what did we win one track yes.
Thanks for reminding me President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong></p>
<p>There was even the private equity players were standing there stunned because of the valuations.
So it's we're we would love to add assets either through M&amp;A or acreage bolt-ons it's another to say whether or not they're a poor operator or what could we do differently? So we look at that for sure.
But that's a tough challenge for us because again you're talking about bringing in something that would have to compete with the type of assets we already have under our belt in both the Permian and Anadarko.</p>
<p>So it's a pretty high threshold for us to get interested in something outside of those two basins just given the large inventory of opportunity we already have.
But we do look.
We're not -- we are always looking because we're always chasing the best return.
And if we think there is a better return somewhere else then yeah we'll go after it.
But boy President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong></p>
<p>We always have an active search ongoing either for assets or M&amp;A.
Not a week goes by where we don't have several meaningful discussions on opportunities.
But as John said the Q4 completion schedule Director &amp; EVP</span></strong></p>
<p>For Q4 Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong></p>
<p>Hi.
Good morning Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong></p>
<p>Hi.
You talked about trying to identify landing zones early to make sure that you don't go and orphan any zones.
And can you talk about that a little bit in regards to the Wolfcamp C because it looks like from the presentation the Culberson Wolfcamp C development dropped off in exchange for the longer laterals in the Wolfcamp D.
And then also in the Meramec and the Woodford this is John.
First off we have not given up on the C.
I want to be clear about that.
What we've elected to do is in this case we are going to go develop the D on those two sections.
Really what we're doing is we want the see the effect of a stagger on those wells within the fifth D (44:47).
And we want to get that result because that's not something we've achieved yet with our other two pilots.
I will tell you that we have plans after we finish with those long laterals to go right back up north to what we had previously talked about as our C hero assault (45:04).
And there's a good chance that based on what we see from this latest development area that we'll then layer in the C wells.
Right now it's just one step at a time.
Right now we really want to see the effect of stagger and we don't want to overcomplicate it in this case.</p>
<p>As far as the Woodford Meramec and I guess what we tend to call optionality that is can you develop Woodford and then come back later and develop Meramec? Those are things that quite frankly we're trying to ascertain right now with some of the wells that we've been drilling.
I don't know that we have a firm answer on that just yet as far as can we do one and come back and do another later President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong></p>
<p>Jeanine it's Tom.
If we had to take a risk on that I would say our bias would be to drill the Meramec first and come in later and get the Woodford underneath it rather than the other way around.
And that's just the Woodford and the Meramec behave very differently when you offset them.
But John's right we don't know the answer to that yet.
One thing we do know Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong></p>
<p>Okay.
Great.
That's really helpful.
And then in terms of the production profile for 2016 dovetailing on our previous question it looks like that for the Permian the approach for completions there for next year is just drill all the wells and then complete all the wells at the same time which I think is what you're doing in the Mid-Con there are areas within the Wolfcamp where I think we have satisfied ourselves that we could be less chunky in our development and that is maybe take a section at a time.
But honestly from a capital efficiency standpoint I don't know that's in our best interest in terms of planning out all the infrastructure involved in this.
I think from our standpoint it is best to look at it more in multi-section development if we're really going to achieve those future capital reductions we'd like to see on a per well basis.
So honestly I think that's just where the whole industry's going Jeanine we've drilled quite a few wells there.
And in fact of the two rigs that will be drilling Bone Spring that we anticipate in 2016 one of those rigs pretty much will be drilling down in that Culberson area.
There is great potential still there.
I know we always sound like a broken record when it comes to the Bone Spring.
You know we don't think of it as a regional resource play like a shale.
For the Culberson acreage it just takes more drilling on our part to get more confident and de-risking on more of the acreage.
So yeah Good day and welcome to the Cimarex Energy Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Karen Acierno.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter and full year conference call.
In addition to last year’s results today we will be discussing our 2016 capital plans which were released separately yesterday afternoon.
An updated presentation has been posted to our website.
We will be referring to this presentation during the call today.
As a reminder our discussion will contain forward-looking statements.
A number of actions could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discussed.
You should read our disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest 10-K and other filings and news releases for the risk factors associated with our business.
So today’s prepared remarks will begin with an overview from our CEO Tom Jorden followed by an update on our drilling activities and results from John Lambuth Senior VP of Exploration; and then Joe Albi our COO will update you on our operations including production and well costs.
Cimarex CFO Mark Burford is also present to help answer any questions.
So with that I will turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Karen and thanks to everyone who is participating in today’s conference.
We sincerely appreciate your interest and look forward to your questions during the question-and-answer portion of the call.
On the call today John will give a rundown of our recent results and update you on some of the delineation that we have underway in 2016.
Joe will provide an operational overview.
I would like to kick off the call with some overview remarks in our direction in 2016 and beyond.
During 2015 we put a lot of energy into long-range planning and we developed capabilities for running detailed iterations on current and future year’s CapEx cash flow and balance sheet configuration.
We scrubbed our assets and developed net asset value models that help us to fully understand our upside and plan accordingly.
Today we are making decisions for 2016 with a close eye on 2017 2018 and beyond.
Cimarex is better positioned for the future by slowing down a bit preserving our cash and assets and living within our means.
Our focus is on preservation of our assets and balance sheet.
We don’t have any special insight on when or how commodity prices will recover.
We do know that we will probably be as surprised by the recovery as we were by the collapse.
When prices recover Cimarex will be ready and will be stronger and healthier as ever.
We have never been more bullish on our assets our inventory and our organizational capability.
Our Delaware Basin and Meramec Woodford assets are top tier.
We continue to be pleased with our well results and associated returns on investment.
On the call today you will hear updates on our Wolfcamp spacing pilots and the implications for future development.
We continue to be extremely pleased with our Wolfcamp well performance and have room to run in achieving further performance improvements.
You will hear an update on the Meramec Woodford spacing pilot that is underway in Cana.
We are testing a combined 19 wells per section in the Meramec and Woodford.
The Meramec continues to surprise to the upside.
We are currently flowing back Woodford spacing pilots that are testing 10 and 12 Woodford wells per section.
Results are very encouraging.
Furthermore our improved Woodford results are showing remarkable consistency across the Cana core.
In both the Delaware and Woodford Meramec long horizontal wells are an increasingly important part of our story and our assets are well configured to allow for them.
We have a manageable lease exploration issue and we will preserve all of our prime acreage.
In spite of the downturn of activity we are emphasizing our core strengths in idea generation and innovation.
Our teams are hard at work developing new plays and new concepts.
During the downturn of 2009 our activity level dropped from 43 operated rigs to 3.
At that time we challenged the organization to be innovative creative and to find ways to make a living in spite of the downturn.
We were not victims.
During 2008 we developed plays that were going to carry us in the ensuing years and are still among our core programs today.
In 2016 our challenge to organization is to do it again.
We are built for these times however difficult they may be.
We will make the tough decisions around capital investments and activity levels.
We will remain disciplined and preserve our assets and the deep inventory that is our future.
We will also seek to build new things and to take advantage of this downturn.
No one is hanging their head at Cimarex.
We are hard at work to control our own destiny.
I recently heard a CEO describe some advice that one of his board members have given him.
The board member was a retired military officer who told the CEO that he had always told his troops that when the map doesn’t match the terrain go with the terrain.
Here at Cimarex we are going with the terrain.
During 2015 we increased our rig count to a high of 12 rigs with an original plan to keep 12 operated rigs throughout 2016.
As the year wore on and the commodity outlook continued to worsen we determined that a 12-rig program was no longer prudent.
Although we have the inventory to justify the higher activity level even at current prices we have decided to slow down and preserve our cash on hand.
Production growth will have to take a backseat to flexibility and balance sheet preservation.
Our focus is on a multi-year outlook.
We currently have 11 operated rigs running and will be decreasing our rig count to 4 rigs in the coming months.
Our 2016 program is designed to preserve our assets on leasehold and finish out some delineation and spacing pilots that are underway.
We plan to invest between $600 million and $650 million in exploration and development.
The range of investment is driven by timing of completions in one of the projects currently underway the Woodford infill well in the eastern core of Cana.
Whatever we do not spend in 2016 will be pushed into early 2017.
We will also continue to delineate the Meramec drill spacing tests in the Wolfcamp and the Delaware Basin and hold leasehold.
In the fourth quarter of 2015 we were impacted by severe weather events and took direct hits at both the Western Delaware Basin and in our core Cana field.
Furthermore a planned outage in Delaware Basin added to our problems.
I cannot overstate how pleased we were with the response to these events by our organization.
Although they had a significant impact in our production volumes our teams worked valiantly and safely in extremely hostile conditions in order to restore our production and find creative workarounds to market interruptions.
These extraordinary actions don’t always evidence themselves in top line reported production numbers but they humble us and make us deeply proud to be part of an organization that is so dedicated and focused.
With that I will turn the call over to John to provide further details on our program.
Thanks Tom.
I will start with a quick recap of our drilling activity in the quarter before getting into some of the specifics of our latest results and more color on our 2016 plans.
Cimarex invested $191 million during the fourth quarter on exploration and development.
This brought the total to $877 million for the full year.
About 55% was invested in the Permian region with the rest going toward activities in the Mid-Continent region.
Company-wide we brought 65 gross 28 net wells on production during the quarter which brought the total for 2015 to 219 gross 99 net wells.
Cimarex continues to push the envelope on well completions.
In the Permian we completed 2 upper Wolfcamp wells in the fourth quarter using a larger stimulation.
As you can see on Slide 14 of our presentation these wells have seen a 34% higher cumulative production in the first 120 days versus the previous upper Wolfcamp wells.
In fact one of the wells Mine That Bird 38 Unit #1-H had an average 30-day peak production rate of 2 020 barrels of oil equivalent per day of which 51% was gas 30% -- excuse me 51% oil 30% gas and 19% NGL a record IP from a 7 500-foot Upper Wolfcamp lateral in Culberson County.
As discussed previously we spudded downspacing pilot in the upper Wolfcamp and Culberson County in the fourth quarter.
Drilling on these wells will be finished this month with completion scheduled to begin in April.
First production is expected by the end of May.
This 6-well 7 500-foot lateral pilot will test two different spacing designs one testing 8 wells per section while the other will test 6 wells per section.
Both will be drilled in a staggered pattern.
The larger completion I just discussed will be used on this pilot.
For the rest of 2016 the vast majority of the capital that we will spend in the Permian will be earmarked for acreage obligations across our Wolfcamp position in both Culberson and Reeves County.
Part of this obligation drilling will include 6 2-mile long infill wells in Reeves County.
These infill wells are located next to our Big Timber well the best Wolfcamp well we have drilled in Reeves County.
Similar to our Anaconda pilot these wells will be drilled using a stack staggered pattern resulting in equivalent of 12 wells per section.
We currently have 6 rigs running in the Permian with one of them drilling a saltwater disposal well in Culberson County.
By June we will be down to 2 rigs for the remainder of the year.
Now on to the Mid-Continent you will recall that we began drilling on the Cana-Woodford row 4 infill development program in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Completions on the seven sections are now finished and all 57 gross wells are producing.
Cimarex operated two of these sections.
Typical development in the Woodford calls for eight new wells in addition to the parent well on a section.
The Armacost section was infilled with nine additional wells while the Philip section was infilled with 11 new wells.
For the Armacost section the average 30-day peak production was 9.1 million cubic feet equivalent per day 61% gas 8% oil 31% NGL.
And the Philips wells produced an average 30-day peak rate of 9.3 million cubic feet equivalent per day 54% gas 13% oil 33% NGL.
As you can see on Slide 20 of our presentation these increased density infill sections are performing very similar to previously infill Woodford sections with only eight new wells a very encouraging result for us.
In the fourth quarter 2015 we commenced drilling another Woodford infill well in the East side of the core.
This development covers six sections of which Cimarex again operates two sections.
The entire infill project consists of 50 gross 23 net wells.
Depending on the timing of completions something that will be worked out with our partner production from this East Cana development was expected to come online as early as October or perhaps as late as the first quarter of 2017.
In our emerging Meramec play we now have production data on 17 operate at 5 000 foot laterals.
In addition our second 10 000 foot lateral in the Meramec has been on production since early October.
This well called the Vessels 1H-3526x have a 30-day peak IP rate of 14 million cubic feet equivalent per day including 791 barrels of oil per day.
Page 22 of the presentation illustrates the average uplift we have seen from the two long laterals versus the 5 000 foot laterals drilled to-date.
We have outperformed the shorter laterals by 69% within 120 days.
While we are very encouraged by the initial uplift in IP that we are seeing in these 10 000 foot laterals we will be carefully monitoring the decline profile in order to determine the ultimate EURs for these long lateral wells.
To better understand the multi-zone potential for this area we have designed a down-spacing pilot which commenced drilling in the fourth quarter 2015.
See Slide 23 for an illustration of this design.
Due to the commodity price environment this pilot has been downsized will now consist of eight new wells to be stacked and staggered in both the Meramec and Woodford formations.
The spacing at the Meramec will be the equivalent of 10 wells per section made up of five upper and five lower staggered Meramec wells.
The Woodford will be drilled with our standard nine wells per section development plan.
Drilling should be finished by mid-April with first production expected late in the second quarter.
Once drilling is finished on the pilot and infill sections we will be focused on holding our Meramec acreage.
Since late 2014 we have added 12 250 net acres in the Meramec at an average cost of $1 650 per acre.
We will need to drill approximately 40 to 45 wells over the next 3 years in order to HBP our position.
In 2016 we will drill 12 operated wells to hold this acreage position with 10 of the 12 wells being 10 000 foot laterals.
We currently have five rigs operating in the Mid-Continent region with plans to go down to one rig by July of this year.
With that I will turn the call over to the Joe Albi.
Well thank you John and thank you all for joining us on our call today.
I will touch on the usual items our fourth quarter production our Q1 and full year 2016 production outlook and then I will finish with a few comments on LOE and service costs.
Our fourth quarter total company net equivalent production came in at 985.7 million a day up 4% from the 949.5 million a day that we posted in Q4 ‘14 and within our guidance of 0.98 Bcfe to 1.01 Bcfe per day.
Late in the quarter as Tom mentioned winter weather and facility disruptions negatively impacted our production by approximately 30 million cubic feet a day equivalent with the majority of that occurring in the Permian.
Late December winter storms caused significant downtime in not only the Delaware Basin but also impacted our Cana production as well albeit to a lesser degree.
When we adjust for the estimated impact of the weather and the facility downtime we would have exceeded the upper end of our guidance by more than 5 million a day.
With Q4 now in the books our full year 2015 equivalent production came in at 985 million a day.
That’s up 13% over our 2014 average of 869 million a day.
During Q4 our Permian equivalent production averaged 520 million a day.
That’s down 42 million a day from Q3 ‘15.
But as I mentioned a significant portion of the decrease was a result of not only the – was a result of the weather and facility downtime but we also completed fewer Permian wells during the latter half of the year than we did in the first half as we talked about in our previous call.
As expected with our Cana-Woodford wells coming online we saw a very nice bump in our Q4 Mid-Continent production with our Mid-Continent volumes coming in at 461 million a day.
That’s up 14% or 56 million a day from the 405 million a day that we reported just prior in Q3.
For 2016 with a number of moving parts the most sensitive of which is the timing of our 2016 completions.
We have issued full year total company equivalent production guidance of 890 million to 930 million equivalents per day.
With our focus on preserving our assets and protecting our balance sheet and the low price environment we are in we have opted to slowdown and more consistently spread out our completion activity throughout the year.
As John mentioned we also find ourselves needing to coordinate the timing of our Cana-Woodford completion activity with the completion timing of our offset operator.
As a result there is considerable variability in the inventory of uncompleted wells that we will have on the books at the end of the year.
As we best can project at this time we anticipate and we have modeled that our Cana infill fracking operations will begin in late the third – late third to fourth quarter and continue into 2017 with first production from the project not hitting our books until early 2017.
This program represents a lion share of our 2016 Mid-Continent activity consisting of 50 gross and 23 net wells.
With our current modeling we expect to see first production from approximately 50 gross or 16 net Mid-Continent wells during ‘16 and that’s down from 134 gross or 39 net wells that we completed in 2015.
With the anticipated Cana infill completion delay we expect to exit the year the 57 gross or 24 net wells awaiting completion hence moving associated production for those wells into early 2017.
In the Permian we also plan for a slower place of completion activity which will likely only require us to utilize just one completion crew the majority of the year.
We are forecasting approximately 31 net Permian wells to come online in 2016 that’s down about half of the 60 net wells that we completed in 2015.
As we progress through the year we project a number of Permian drilled and uncompleted wells to increase to approximately 18 net wells by mid-year and then drop off to just six net wells by the end of the year primarily a result of us dropping to the two rigs that John mentioned in the Permian in the middle of the year.
I want to take a moment to make a special point that a quick glance at our 2016 full year guidance could very easily imply a decline in our 2016 exit rate.
What’s not so easy to see is the forecast of production increase associated with the delayed Cana infill programs back to back completion activity in early 2017 which along with a handful of Permian carryover completions is forecasted to bring our total company production back up to Q4 ‘15 levels by as early as Q2 ‘17.
It’s all about the timing of our completions.
As far as our Q1 total company production is concerned incorporating anticipated Permian pipeline and facility curtailments of about 30 million a day for the first quarter our projected guidance for Q1 comes in at 925 million to 955 million a day.
Jumping over to CapEx with our production group’s continued focus on trimming operating costs our Q4 lifting costs came in at $0.85 per Mcfe.
That’s in line with our guidance of $0.77 to $0.87 and was down 19% from the $1.05 that we posted in Q4 ‘14.
For the year our 2015 lifting costs came in at $0.83 per Mcfe that’s down a respectable 23% from our 2014 average of $1.08.
As we look forward into 2016 our full year lifting cost guidance range of $0.80 to $0.90 per Mcfe takes into account our regional forecasts of production mix as well as the variable nature of work over expenses.
You may have also noted that our Q4 ‘15 transportation and processing expenses came in at $0.58 so slightly above our guidance range of $0.45 to $0.55.
As I mentioned our current production modeling forecast a slowdown in our completion activity during the year which resulted in a one-time accrual of approximately $8 million for anticipated minimum volume agreement shortfalls which increased our reported cost on a non-recurring basis by approximately $0.09 per Mcfe.
We have made great strides cutting our LOE and we will continue our efforts to reduce them further.
As we mentioned last call the important by-product of our LOE reductions is the additional funding we are providing our drilling program.
Our Q4 ‘15 average monthly LOE came in at $25.7 million a month and that’s $5 million below our Q4 ‘14 average of $30.7 million a month.
But if we average over 12-months time period has freed up nearly $60 million that we can direct to our drilling program.
A few comments on our drilling and completion cost.
Although we continue to push hard for further cost relief any cost reductions we have seen have been small single-digit reductions and modest in nature.
That said we continue our focus on operating efficiencies.
On the drilling side we have high-graded our rigs.
We are fitting out each and every service.
We are consolidating our equipment and resources everywhere we can.
All the while we are staying focused on reducing drilling days.
On the completion side we are focused on optimizing the cost of water sourcing by more efficiently fracing our wells in particular when we are completing multi-well pads.
The bottom line is that while we continue to experience – experiment with various frac designs our generic well AFEs have remained relatively flat.
Our current Cana core one-mile lateral Woodford AFE continues to run in the range of $6.6 million to $7 million.
That’s unchanged from last call.
While in the Meramec our current one-mile lateral AFE is in the range of $7 million to $7.4 million.
That’s also unchanged from last quarter.
In the Permian as we have mentioned last call we have made great progress with our drilling efficiencies cutting our Wolfcamp two-mile lateral spud to rig release times down 20% from 35 days in 2014 to 28 days in 2015 with a record of 20.5 days.
We are accomplishing similar drill time reductions in our one-mile lateral Bone Spring and Avalon program as well cutting average days from spud to rig release 35% from 23 days in ‘14 to just ‘15 in Q4 ‘15.
We continue to get more done with fewer rigs.
And with all that our current two-mile lateral Wolfcamp AFE is running $10.8 million to $11.6 million.
That’s flat again to the figures we quoted last call.
So in closing we had another great quarter.
We fought up significant Q4 downstream weather – downtime to stay within guidance and provide us with a strong springboard for production in 2016.
We posted solid year-over-year production gains over 2014.
We have made significant strides cutting our LOE.
Our drilling group stays focused on cost reductions and efficiencies.
And as an organization we remain vigilant to keep our cost in check protect our assets and optimize our investment program results.
So with that I will turn the call over to question-and-answer.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Dan Guffey of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Mr.
Guffey please go ahead.
Your phone maybe muted.
Sorry about that.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
In the past you guys have conveyed budgetary snapshot of the current environment and the company does remain flexible.
I guess key question here is at what price would you want to bring rigs back obviously with the extreme volatility in crude it may make that decision a little more cumbersome? But just curious when you think you would add rigs back since you do have some of the lowest cost production throughout the U.S.? This is Tom.
That’s a great question.
Mark I am going to – I will pass that to you.
We have run tons of models and it’s hard to make a definitive statement.
I will say this so before Mark comments we remain highly flexible.
And if we see daylight we are going to run for it.
Obviously in building a company and preserving a balance sheet you can have all kinds of optimism but you can’t run a company on that optimism to the extent that you are not preserving your balance sheet.
But Mark you know how to answer it? Dan surely what Tom referred to is we are on the two primary concerns we have right now watching our return on our investments making sure we get adequate return which isn’t the highest – isn’t the biggest concern more was not preserving our balance sheet.
So we have cash flow sufficient to really support our larger program which we are really trying to constrain our investment to make sure we preserve a very strong balance sheet preserve our cash position and a better way to do this.
So I think if you saw price environment settling in around $45 to $50 you could probably see us have the cash flow supporting a larger program.
But at the low $30 environment we find ourselves in and that’s where we are constraining our investment to the extent we are but there is – it probably have to be some clarity – certainty around that $45 to $55 for us to see that to make some upward adjustments in our investment page.
Okay.
I guess are there any limiting factors in terms of how quickly you could add whether that be personal or infrastructure? And then I guess what area would your first few incremental rigs target should we get to that $40 to $50 environment? Well this is Joe.
As far as our organization is concerned we can act quickly.
And depending on where we are drilling if it’s in and along our existing infrastructure that shouldn’t be a problem.
You got to remember that we had a bigger plan scheduled and modeled as far as our organizational activity and we just paired back from it.
So getting back on the track should not be that difficult for us.
We took a rig out of the yard.
We have got to ask that question last year and we took a rig out of the yard that on its first wells start setting records for us.
So we are not terribly concerned about our ability to ramp up.
And I would anticipate that our first place to ramp up would be the Permian.
Yes this is John.
Without a doubt we are ready to go.
Our Upper Wolfcamp wells in Culberson as I talked about earlier are really coming in performing very well.
And we’d love to get back to drilling into that program beyond just the spacing pilot I talked about.
Our long lateral Bone Spring play up in White City is very very strong economics.
And even part of our Woodford development in the Eastern core which is more liquid-rich especially as we look at it from a long lateral perspective which our acreage allows us to do looks pretty attractive to us but we would like to see a little bit more encouragement from the commodity price before we want to go and deploy capital in those programs.
Yes.
And I just want to finish your question but I don’t want to throw a marker down that’s $45 oil price.
If we see a recovery in oil price it looks better and better to us.
So I would even say if prices get north of $35 and our outlook is stronger we are going to look at it.
I don’t want to throw any particular number down and say that’s the number.
We have the flexibility.
We have the balance sheet to do it.
And it’s going to be what our vision is.
I mean if there were some structural changes in all markets and the reason for long-term optimism we would be prepared to act to that.
Okay great.
Thanks for the details.
Last one for me can you guys discuss if you still you have reached or surpassed the productive and economic limits of enhanced completions across your various areas throughout the Permian and the Mid-Con? Well this is John and the very simple answer is no.
In no way that we feel like we have reached the limits.
We constantly are debating entirely about all the different components that go in at our frac design.
And quite frankly I am constantly amazed how certain tweaks lead to even better and better wells.
So no we are not at all feel like we have reached a point where we can get even more reserves out of these laterals.
And quite honestly that’s some of our charge right now given the environment we find for every dollar we invest in those wells we need to get more out of those wells.
And so far I have been very pleased and that we have been able to achieve that with a number of our programs.
Yes.
And I want to – this is Tom I want to follow up to that.
John and I started off first thing this morning at 7 o’clock in my office arguing about just this thing not arguing with one another arguing the point that one of the nice things about having assets and through the most active prolific areas of the country is there is a lot of activity.
And we study our competition really hard.
It’s pretty important if you are going to have an innovative culture you can’t have and needs to be invented here mentality.
And so we are always looking to see what others are doing.
And I think we have a lot of room for improvement I would say in both our corridors the Delaware Basin and Meramec.
There is lots of things others are doing that yes we have opinions on but at the end of the day some of this is just trial and error and we need to try some things.
Thanks for the color guys.
Our next question will come from David Deckelbaum from KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Tom and everyone.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Yes good morning.
Just to follow up on all the commentary.
Tom in your opening remarks you said you are looking very closely at ‘16 ‘17 and ‘18 as I guess putting some color around that is it looking closely at what sort of goals would you like to achieve at the field level looking closely at what your debt metrics are looking closely at how much cash you have or a production growth scenario? Well you kind of run through the gamut there.
We are not changing our logo.
So we can take that one off the table.
As we look ahead I think the industry is having a sobering reset and I would love to sit here in the call put lipstick on and say you know what it’s one thing.
But as you look ahead in running a company we have to look at the ins and outs of cash flow balance.
And so we look into what – I said in my opening remarks we spent a lot of time last year looking at our assets and looking at the future drilling inventory and the value that adds.
And we have made a tremendous amount of progress on our flexibility and our ability to do real-time modeling of future increases in price future increases in activity and actually modeling the impact that has fully looking at our cash flow and our balance sheet.
But when you do that one of the reasons that we are doing that is because if prices don’t pick up at any point we want to make sure that Cimarex stays healthy and stays competitive.
And we don’t want to put ourselves in a situation where we have lost our flexibly.
So inherently that modeling is kind of a downside model.
It’s really easy to run an upside model.
But you have to kind of plan of the downside.
And so we are – as we look ahead to the next few years I will say that if things don’t materially improve over the current strip Cimarex will be just fine.
We will be healthy financially and we will be in a position where we attempt to throttle into that future without increasing debt.
But if things increase if commodity prices pick up we are ready to roll.
I know I am not giving you – I am not giving you detailed answer on what our 2017 and beyond model looks like but we are making decisions to keep Cimarex competitive and to preserve our assets.
Mark do you want to add to that? Yes.
Let me try Tom.
When you look at the different scenarios David it’s obviously some bookings were using strip influences a lot of our thinking right now in the four strips in the low 40s through ‘17 and only $45 by ‘18 our recent stripping holding.
And looking what our activity levels could be at those different price decks preserving our balance sheet strength and seeing what fits within that cash flow without really having occurred in preserving some portion of our cash balance and not incurring incremental debt what we can look like into those future years.
And it is current strip environment low-40s it’s been 30s are challenging for us to find a [indiscernible] with our cash flow can support our pace of development.
So there are lot of iterations we are running all the time looking at different sensitivities on different programs.
And then given – as Joe remarked in his comments even for this year have been impacted to a thorough completions can have a very big impacts on our timing of our production thing.
So we are running on iterations just looking at what the outlook could be for this year and for the years out.
I appreciate all the clarity around that.
There is one more if I might I know John you reminded all of us about LOE might not be appreciating the amount of production that can come on from 50 Cana wells and the infill towards the end of the year beginning of next.
And you said 2Q of ‘17 could be back up to the levels of 4Q ‘15 conceptually.
You are running four other rigs total much of that is for HBP and acreage.
So as you think about going into 2017 and 2018 is – would future rig activity or incremental rig activity be devoted to doing a very large pad our multi-section developments where we would have this sort of persistent lumpiness until things smooth out where you have a larger rig fleet that’s called up everything? Yes this is John.
I think it’s safe to say that when we reach that point that we want to get back towards true development drilling then certainly that’s going to lead towards that high intensity rigs and pads and so forth.
But we just don’t know at one point we will be back there.
Here is what I know.
I know for this year and going forward our main goal as Tom alluded to is both the balance sheet and more importantly protecting investments we made in the acreage that we picked up in both the Anadarko as well as the Permian Basin.
We have wonderful acreage and we have gotten it at a very attractive price and essentially for this year’s program as we go up to the end of the year that’s where our capital is going to be geared towards is preserving that acreage position so that we are in a very good position.
Whenever the time is right then go back to that full scale development when that will be I can’t tell you at this point.
Okay.
I appreciate all the answers guys.
It’s all for me.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Jeanine Wai of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi Jeanine.
Can you talk a little bit about your forecasted out-spend for 2016 on whenever price deck you are using it sounds like the strip there appears to be a fair amount of non-D&amp;C spend that might be driving some of the out-spend? Hi Janine this is Mark here.
Yes.
So in our 2016 out-spend about $600 million $650 million of capital using a recent strip price around $34 $2.20 gas.
We are looking at coming in the year with $539million of cash.
We are looking exiting the year somewhere around $400 million of cash add back to ‘16.
And can you give a little bit of clarity on what that non-D&amp;C is? Yes.
So the non-D&amp;C drilling is comprised of about $35 million.
We are targeting for the lease-hold acquisition about $120 million roughly for capitalized overhead it was about $40 million for production capital or at least for our production group capital for the re-completion and well maintenance eight wells.
Okay great.
And then I know that you have mentioned that IRR is not the only factor in determining activity for this year but can you give us a little sense of whether you have an after tax IRR hurdle in this environment or kind of what the after tax returns are on some of the plays that you mentioned that are performing very well in the current environment? Well this is John.
And yes we always have on our way to return hurdles.
They are a little bit challenging right now.
What we find ourselves – I guess what I find myself doing there has been a lot of time looking at just flat price returns I just don’t spend much time looking at strip right now.
And then we look at those flat prices and we ask ourselves is this a good investment.
Especially these wells we are drilling to hold acreage.
And in this environment it’s tough I will admit.
But when we look at that and look at the future potential of that section we are holding we still feel like we are making a very good investment in drilling those wells.
So right now again we definitely look at the IRR and quite frankly that means some of the acreage that we have will not be held because no matter what scenario whatever flat price I look at it’s hard to envision how holding a certain set of acreage is in the best interest of Cimarex.
That said we have a lot of good acreage to hold there on and I am very pleased with that.
Janine this is Tom.
We run everything currently down to around $30 NYMEX oil and $2 NYMEX gas held flat forever.
So those are index prices and then we will deduct whatever market deduct to get back to the wellhead.
And we would like to see our cost of capital are better at that flat price.
And then we will also look at the strip.
And let me just answer your question this way.
If we were forced to increase activity and we had an A-tax 25% hurdle rate.
We have lots to do in our portfolio.
If we weren’t tasked with holding acreage and we can just go drill at will and there were no other considerations when we look at these long laterals in the Wolfcamp the long laterals in the Cana Meramec play we have lots of them that generate what I would say are acceptable returns at current strip.
But as John said we have a lot of considerations currently.
We don’t think prices will stay here forever.
We have some outstanding acreage that we would like to hold not all of which can be developed with long laterals.
We have partner considerations.
And then we also have some science that we want to get done that will really set up the future.
So it’s a balancing act.
One thing that we will not do one thing we will absolutely not do is liquidate this company because we are in a $30 oil environment.
So we are going to make judgment calls as we see fit.
Okay great.
Thanks very much for taking my question.
Our next question will come from Drew Venker of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Drew.
If you could provide some clarity just on that you are targeting a leverage ratio or if you are still thinking about spending the remainder of the secondary offering proceeds or how you are setting the budget really? Drew this is Mark.
As I mentioned what we are looking at planning for ‘16 right now with our current $600 million $650 million of cash capital plan for ‘16 and the recent strip price forecast for cash flow we think we would use up from December 739 million we exited ‘15 with net debt of ‘16 out $400 million of cash in the balance sheet.
So no we didn’t expect to use remainder of the proceeds in ‘16 and we are going to see how the environment flattens out before we get that activity further but no we do not plan to use in ‘16 and then even in ‘17 we are still looking at different scenarios now and what pace will be in ‘17.
Mark is there a target leverage ratio or is that not really a primary consideration? Drew we really have one financial covenant which really in our credit facility which the debt to cap covenant which is limited to debt cap of 65% and we exited the fourth quarter of 35%.
And going into ‘16 we don’t see us having any issue of that covenant even with potential future impairments which are likely with the fact that prices are continuing to still – drilling 12 months average is still declining through ‘16 but we will have to watch that metric.
Our debt to EBITDA metric typically would have been 1.5x or less but with – in our dropping commodity prices that metric is obviously more challenging and the exit year 12-month price debt-to-EBITDA of 1.9x.
Going into ‘16 we expect that probably likely will go into low 3s or so into ‘16 with EBITDA still falling lower prices.
Okay alright.
That’s helpful color.
Because they are in fact thrilled we have a covenant that we have to watch carefully Drew with the rest of the covenants.
We just – we were projected as basically we are not in fact expect incurring incremental debt in this environment and indeed in the future for some time.
We expect to just have the $1.5 billion of senior secured notes outstanding.
We don’t expect any bank borrowings in the near future.
Drew it’s Tom.
I want to be clear and I think I have been but we have actually made this tactical decision to try to keep as much cash on our balance sheet so that we are well positioned when this situation turns around.
We think that the best activity level for Cimarex in 2016 is preservation mode.
We want to make sure we preserve our assets we preserve our obligations and we preserve our flexibility.
But our goal is to keep as much cash as we can on the balance sheet as we look ahead so that we are well-positioned to strike when we see some daylight.
Right.
Yes that all makes sense I think.
I guess and along that vein does it make sense to layer on hedges albeit I realized the forward curve is not really where you would like it to be but maybe for you and for 2017? Is that – does that make sense strategically? Yes Drew we have for sometime now.
We are working towards having a quarterly progression in our hedging program.
And we did take steps in the first quarter hedged 40 million a day for 15 months for second quarter of ‘16 to second quarter of ‘17.
And that was a layer that we will put in is targeting on about 10% of our four production roughly in that neighborhood.
And we look at it again.
And we were targeting 4 000 5 000 barrels a day of oil would be our target for the first quarter.
Other as you mentioned a forward strip in oil prevented us from taking that step on oil but each quarter we are going to look at that forward projection on our volumes and look at clearing maybe 10% on our volumes each quarter and over a period of time when you hope to get to about 50% our volume covered.
But we have been inhibited by low oil price for taking that step on oil.
Okay.
If I could circle back on the new Wolfcamp A completions is the plan to implement that new style on the rest of your program? I know you said you would use it on the density pilot but all of you are drilling in 2016 is that applicable to the Wolfcamp C and D as well? This is John.
Well it’s certainly applicable to come up with the next new innovation on it yes I mean we plan to use that current design on that spacing pilot.
We have a little bit different design for the lower grades.
Suffice it to say that even with that design as we talked earlier with one of the earlier questions we are still looking to see how we can even improve upon that to be honest very pleased with the results from that frac design.
What I really like about those wells and we are looking at the other day is just how well they are holding in over time from a decline perspective.
I mean they are very attractive wells for us.
But again it doesn’t mean that that’s where we are going to stay – standstill with that design we are going to keep asking ourselves how can we make it even better as we go forward? And John how do the returns compete with the rest of the portfolio assuming that this uplift is repeatable? Well I can simply tell you we look at our programs we look at different flat prices like the one Tom mentioned.
And certainly right now the two-mile Upper Wolfcamp and Culberson in that area is one of our top tier programs right now especially with the most recent well results.
So it looks very very good to us.
And we are very anxious to get that spacing pilot in so we can start to hone in on exactly what the full potential is for that zone for us from a development standpoint.
Great.
Thanks everyone.
The next question will come from Matt Portillo of TPH.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Matt.
Good morning Matt.
Just a couple of quick clarification questions on the theoretical 2017 production with the timing of the Cana completions I just wanted to see you clarify when thinking about the exit rate Q4 ‘15 of about $985 million a day would the thought be that with the Cana completions the total corporate production could reach that level again by kind of Q2 2017 if everything kind of stays on plan as you guys envision it at the moment? Yes Matt this is Joe.
I will answer that.
What we have modeled is kind of the worst case where that production doesn’t start until the first half or first part of ‘17.
And in that scenario we are about up to the same corporate total company levels by Q2 ‘17.
And if we speed up things we might find ourselves in maybe the Q1 time period.
So again it’s all timing.
And somebody with their questions alluded to the fact that these are big projects you have got multiple wells all coming on at once.
And you saw what roll forward did for us from Q3 to Q4 significant increase in our Cana production from 405 – Mid-Continent from $405 million to $461 million a day.
So those are big swings.
You can see the difference between the Q4 – if you imply a Q4 exit rate with a typical decline or whatever you might think we are going to be in the high 800s.
And all of a sudden two quarters later we are 100 million a day higher than that.
So it’s just the nature of the beast and it’s all about timing.
Great that’s helpful.
And then just the second question on 2016 guidance I was hoping that you potentially could provide a little bit of clarity around the midstream impact and the curtailments I think you guys alluded to some of those still impacting Q1 but was curious how that’s impacted your full year expectations as well.
And any color or timing on when those may ultimately reverse here? Yes this is Joe.
I will answer that one as well.
The gist of it is we are modeling that is going to transpire here in Q1.
We have been able to work some other marketing arrangements in and around the downstream curtailment that we have right now and hope to have those plus the remedy itself of the facility that was impacted with the fire that you are aware of.
I will finalize by March late March.
And then of course we have our Hidalgo plant coming on not too far after that and then there is a number of other processing alternatives that are on the map and pretty close to completion that we feel like mid to late this year we are going to be in very good shape.
Thank you very much.
Our next question will come from Jason Smith of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
Hi Jason.
So Tom the Meramec vessels well I think it was a ways away from your other vessels in the Meramec.
And I know you have the down-spacing pilot this year but any plans to test the flanks of your acreage position there at all in 2016? And also just curious if you have any near-term HBP requirements I guess outside of what you consider your de-risked area? Yes this is John.
Yes we will be testing quite a bit of extension acreage throughout the Meramec.
Part of that will be to essentially hold our acreage.
A part of it also would be delineation.
We are still constantly surprised not just by our results but as Tom alluded to a lot of competitor results that are kind of changing the landscape within the map in the Meramec.
And it’s given us some encouragement especially as we look more to the Western side is looking much more attractive to us.
Unfortunately for us we have a pretty nice position over there.
In fact that’s where lot of the new leasing that we have picked up is in more of that area.
So yes throughout the rest of this year will be geographically spreading across that map quite a bit with the wells that we would be drilling and that will just help us further delineate the full potential for this interval.
Jason it’s Tom.
Just let me follow-up on that.
One of the things that we are seeing in the Meramec is a fair variability but also a fair availability of results with landing zone.
Landing zone seems to have a fairly strong impact in a way that has surprised as compared to the Woodford below it.
And so I think as we go forward you are probably going to hear us talking more and more about the Mississippi as opposed to the Meramec that some of the lower section you hear the Osage being talked about as the target.
And that’s looking more and more interesting to us.
There are some really good wells out there that are hard to explain if you only have the Meramec to explain it with.
And so as John said there is a tremendous amount of upside for us not only in our acreage but also operational improvements as we test landing zones and then also completions.
We are pretty bullish on that play right now and our position.
And although we generally read competition everywhere there is some competition out there that’s giving us a lot of good information and it’s just shining a very positive light on our position.
Thanks for that detail.
And my follow-up is a little bit different direction here.
The dividend is now a lot bigger part of your cash flow at current prices you obviously have the cash on your balance sheet to cover it but just curious on your thoughts around where it fits and the benefits of maintaining at current levels? Well we are committed to dividend.
We have got some very long-term owners that for whom it’s important.
I will say I was expecting that call because I know so many of our peers in their end of your late release had addressed their dividend.
We have a Board meeting next week and that’s certainly going to been an active topic with the Board and we will make decision around what’s appropriate.
Thanks Tom.
I appreciate that.
Our next question will come from Michael Hall of Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hi Michael.
I was wondering if you could maybe just provide a little additional granularity around the planned completions in the 2016 program outside of these kind of key projects that you have highlighted.
First in the Permian outside of the Tim Tam and the Reeves County infill I guess you talked about 31 completions coming out through the course of the year.
I am just curious what the composition of those other wells looks like be it Bone Spring or Culberson Upper Wolfcamp Lower Wolfcamp etcetera? And then I have...
Yes this is Joe.
As far as the net well counts of wells that are being completed during the year we see about the majority of them two-thirds of them are in the Wolfcamp Culberson and Reeves.
And then the remainder is primarily Bone Spring.
And as I have mentioned in my discussion early on we got a couple of rigs hitting them right now right.
And we are going to drop them down.
So you are going to see our net completions in the area overall wells waiting on completion increased to about 20 or something in the middle of the year.
And then it’s going to come on down as we pull those rigs back and keep our frac crude running at taper itself down to just six waiting on completion at the end of the year.
So sorry two-thirds Wolfcamp one-third Bone Spring and really just kind of she goes consistent completion pattern during the year.
Yes.
No he is absolutely right.
I will just point out the Bone Spring component essentially those wells were drilled and so they will be completed in the first half.
And then all of the rigs for the rest of the year will be dedicated towards Wolfcamp towards finishing up the pilots.
And then the rest of the time it’s all about acreage holding.
So yes there is a component of Bone Spring but that’s early in the year and everything else to the rest of the year is Wolfcamp.
And that Wolfcamp activity outside of the Tim Tam and the Reeves and so is that predominantly upper or lower or that’s from a leasehold perspectives are you incentivized to...? As we have talked about before it all kind of depends on the lease and what we need to do in order to hold depend on the lease term a lot of them maybe lower Wolfcamp’s others could be upper.
I don’t have that breakdown for you.
I do know that as a program we are about half and half half net wells in Culberson half approximately in Reeves for the year.
Yes that’s helpful.
And then I guess similar question in the Meramec program I am just curious how many – I am sorry if I missed this but how many completions are you expecting in 2016 in Meramec? Yes this is Joe.
The majority of them about two-thirds will be – this is not counting the infill program which we said we have deferred into the Woodford development program which were deferred in ‘17 but of the ‘16 completions approximately two-thirds are in the Meramec and then just some little singles in and around that.
But John I don’t know if you want to move to that? No.
Joe is absolutely right.
Again we are pushing back in the Eastern core development theoretically into ‘17.
The majority of our completions will be Meramec.
And then we have the occasional Woodford one-off well where we still continue to expand and test the boundaries of our Woodford play.
And how many completions is that sorry if I missed it? It will be total of about 16 net completions.
Great.
Thanks.
Then I just wanted to understand a little better around the decision to – I guess yes just the decisions around the timing of that road development and bringing that on production late in the year early next year is that – it sounded like it’s more a function maybe of holding acreage and in the Mid-Continent as opposed to just logistical considerations with….? Well this is John.
And I will just say as I alluded to in my comments we have a partner and we develop these roads.
We coordinate with our partner from a standpoint of the frac calendar.
We recognize that to achieve the optimal result we have to work together.
We have to time our frac schedule appropriately as we bring these wells on.
Our partner has indicated to us that at this time they would like to delay that frac schedule.
And so we are working with them and coordinating with them to the best of our ability.
We have emphasized we would like to move it up some if we could.
We decide the positions were taken but I think we would like to move it up in the year if we could.
And we are having those ongoing discussions right now.
And we will see where it ends.
I think what we have done is we presented you maybe you could call the worse case scenario where they get pushed all the way to early ‘17.
But there is a chance perhaps we can push them up earlier into ’16 I think that would be our preference.
That’s really helpful color.
I appreciate it John.
And then last one or I guess two more quick ones for me.
Number one just to be clear I want to make sure I am reading this right the total CapEx is at $650 million to $700 million or is that $50 million of midstream included in that $600 million to $650 million? No Mike.
The $600 million to $650 million is the E&amp;D spending.
There is an incremental $58 million from midstream and other capital incremental to the $600 million and $650 million so the $650 million to $700 million with it.
Perfect.
And then last one you mentioned you had some minimum volume commitment payments is there much more exposure to that through the course of ‘16 anyway to quantify that? Yes.
This is Joe.
As best as we are modeling right now we have taken the gist of that.
Alright.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Karen Acierno for any closing remarks.
Well thanks everyone for joining us.
Apologies to those of you who are still in the queue we have run out of time but if you would like to call up with those questions feel free to do so.
And have a great day.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.