Good morning.
My name is Latangie and I will your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust first quarter earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions).
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Please go ahead sir.
Latangie thank you very much.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us for our first quarter 2011 earnings call.
Participating on today's call with me are Gabe Mainardi our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; George Johnstone Senior Vice President of Operations; Tom Wirth Executive Vice President Portfolio Management and Investments; and Howard Sipzner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to beginning I'd like to remind everyone that certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Law.
Although we believe that the estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
As our first quarter results indicate our 2011 business plan remains very much on track.
Market conditions continue to improve and we are seeing increased activity levels through most of our markets.
The pace of tenant contraction has slowed.
This dynamic coupled with increased tenant activity levels reflects the steady state of recovery.
While business outlook remains positive economic uncertainty does remain an ongoing concern.
Macro issues such as job creation the federal deficient the divide on public policy state and municipal budgetary constraints are all keeping uncertainty at the forefront of many business leaders’ thinking.
However bottom line consistent with our long held view we expect a real estate recovery for suburban office space to continue to be steady but remain slow.
Looking out over the next several quarters we anticipate the following within the Brandywine portfolio.
With the market still in the recovery phase we will generate leasing results primarily by increasing market share rather than through our markets operating at historical absorption levels.
Leasing activity levels will remain constant and in some markets continue to increase.
Most of our markets will continue to have a tenant-driven pricing dynamic but we are also seeing encouraging signs of rental rate growth in some of our core suburban markets where vacancy rates and Class A products have continued to decrease.
The flight up the quality curve by customers will continue and will directly benefit our portfolio.
This benefit will be additional absorption not necessarily across-the-board-upward-pricing pressure as many tenants are looking to move to higher quality buildings at lower price points because they anticipate a longer term rental-rate recovery.
In looking at our plan we are 82% complete on our 2011 speculative revenue targets and 46% completed on our 2011 renewals.
Pages 29 and 30 of our supplemental package summarizes our progress on these various business metrics.
George will review in more detail but all operating metric were in line with our business plan projections and we saw continued acceleration of our 2011 revenue targets.
Looking at the balance of the year we expect stable to-improving occupancies consistent same-store numbers and a declining negative mark-to-market all reflective of a continued improvement in market conditions.
Our concession packages have remained fairly steady and where we are seeing capital cost increase we’re getting more lease term.
So with those overview comments highlights for the first quarter results are we exceeded the first quarter consensus by a penny and posted FFO of $0.33 per-share.
As  such even with our debt issuance acceleration we raised the bottom end of our 2011 FFO guidance up a penny for a new guidance range of 1.27 to 1.34 per share.
Howard will review our financial performance and related implications in more detail in a few moments.
We also posted other quarter of leasing activity in access of 1 million square feet.
That strong performance was further reinforced by a tenant-retention rate of over 68%.
The overall tone of the market continues to be positive.
Our new leasing pipeline stands at 3.2 million square feet of which 482 000 is in active negotiations.
Our conversion rate also continues to improve.
For the first quarter that conversion rate was 40% and we executed 37% of our first quarter leasing transactions on a direct basis.
Four out of seven of our primary market experienced positive absorption for the quarter led by Austin Texas Richmond Virginia Philadelphia CBD and our New Jersey/Delaware region.
Leasing activity levels were up in all but one of our markets for the first quarter compared to the same quarter last year.
Another signature of improving market conditions is that traffic throughout portfolio was up 40% from Q4 and up 30% year over year.
All of our operations reported much higher levels of leasing activities in Q1 versus 2010 in some cases by very wide margins.
These activity levels are fairly broad based with no one particular industry leading the way.
As we’ve talked before market share remains key and on that front our plan continues to progress well.
By way of example in Southern New Jersey our leasing teams did 53% of all deals in the market compared to a 20% ownership stake.
That was accompanied by a strong performance in our Pennsylvania suburbs where we captured 32% of the market share for new leasing activity versus a 14% ownership stake.
The markets in which we expect to continue performing well in 2011 are the Pennsylvania suburbs Philadelphia CBD Richmond Virginia and Austin Texas.
We continue to expect to face continued leasing challenges in our New Jersey/Delaware operations as well as the Dulles Toll Road Corridor in Northern Virginia.
Both of these operations have been impacted by a fairly high number of known tenant contractions and move-outs.
These markets remain competitive but traffic through our portfolio in New Jersey was up 78% quarter over quarter and 16% year over year and activity in our toll road properties was up 33% quarter over quarter and 18% year over year.
So we’re seeing an increasing number of activities through our portfolio basis in those markets.
Looking at our overall business plan consistent with prior calls our 2011 plan business priority is leasing vacant space.
That’s clearly our biggest growth opportunity.
Our plan projects our year-end 2011 forward leasing percentage to be 88% but our stretch objectives anticipate exceeding that.
There is no single bigger contributor to our growth profile than simply leasing our existing vacant space.
We’re making strong progress on that front and that remains the number one priority focus for the company for the balance of the year.
Looking at the broader investment market the investment market clearly remains bifurcated between the gateway and the non-gateway markets.
During the quarter we continue to pursue a number of transactions in the Metro DC marketplace but no opportunities at our entry point pricing and future growth objectives.
Given the tremendous investment demand in pricing in that marketplace we are exploring a joint venture program on several of our Northern Virginia assets to harvest both existing value and to form a co-investment vehicle to acquire additional properties.
This process is going well and we would expect that if it is successful a transaction would close by the end of this year.
Additionally we continue to evaluate the sale of several other non-core assets in Northern Virginia in response to the very strong investor demand in that marketplace.
While this near-term tactic runs counter to our overall strategy of increasing our revenue contributions from the Metro DC region it does reflect our approach of defining core versus  non-core properties and taking advantage of pricing windows to optimize value on non-core assets.
Outside of Metro DC the investment market is still only in the [inaudible] stage of its recovery.
However pricing levels in those gateway markets are driving increased amounts of capital to look at some of our existing markets outside of DC.
We’re beginning to see this and we do expect that to demand in other markets will pick up significantly as the year progresses and we have identified a number of non-core assets for sale.
The plan is currently structured.
It incorporates the sale of about $80 million of properties in 2011 and the business model has those sales occurring with a more heavy weighting towards the second half of the year.
During the quarter we completed the acquisition of Overlook 1 and 2 which are two fully-leased buildings in Richmond Virginia aggregating 126 000 square feet for a purchase price of $12.5 million.
The price per square foot was $99 with a going in cash cap rate of about 11%.
We don’t have any additional acquisitions built into our 2011 plan.
We will continue to seek quality additions to our portfolio both directly and through joint venture opportunities and would anticipate that those investments would continue to be financed primarily on an all-equity basis.
During the quarter we issued about 200 000 shares of common stock under our continuous equity program realizing $2.2 million of net proceeds.
Subsequent to quarter end we issued an additional 500 000 shares under the program realizing just shy of $6 million of proceeds.
We have 8.6 million shares remaining under this program.
We remain fully committed to moving up the investment-grade ratings curve.
As we discussed before this is a multiple-year plan that we will achieve through a combination of NOI growth occupancy improvements disposing of slower growth assets and funding acquisitions on a balance sheet improving basis.
While reducing overall debt levels we’ll continue as part of our plan.
The largest driver in reducing our EBITDA multiple to our targeted level in the mid-6s is simply achieving our leasing objectives.
As mentioned on our last call our 2011 capital plan originally anticipated a $300 million 7-or-10 year unsecured note issuance in the fourth quarter of 2011.
As we previously announced we took advantage of a favorable debt margin to complete the early execution of a $325 million 7-year unsecured financing at a coupon of 4.9% with a yield of maturity of 5.137% and realized $319 million of net proceeds.
We used the net proceeds of this note issuance to repay the full outstanding balance of our unsecured revolving credit facility and established cash balances for both general corporate purposes that include the future repayment of maturing indebtedness.
At this point let me turn the presentation over to George Johnstone he’ll provide an overview of first quarter operational metrics.
George will then turn it over to Howard for financial review.
Thank you Gerry.
Leasing activity for the quarter was solid resulting in significant progress on the business plan.
During the quarter we commenced 1.1 million square feet of leases including 443 000 square feet of new leases and tenant expansions.
We had 232 000 square feet of contractions by tenants who did renew a portion of their lease; 200 000 square feet of which was in our Northern Virginia portfolio.
An additional 173 000 square feet of tenancy simply vacated at the end of their lease term; 75% of which were office closures and/or company downsizings.
This activity resulted in absorption before early terminations of 38 000 square feet.
In terms of early terminations for the quarter several of these were negotiated to accommodate existing tenant expansion.
Only 20 000 square feet of the 138 000 square feet that terminated is left to lease.
Occupancy at March 31 was 85.3% down 30 basis points from last quarter but in line with expectation.
As a result of our leasing efforts this quarter we have again increased the amount of speculative revenue on our plan.
Our revised target for the year is now $32.4 million up $1.7 million or 5.5% from previous guidance.
As of today we have achieved $26.6 million or 82% of that spec revenue.
As the graph on Page 30 of our supplemental package portrays only our Austin operation has yet to reach the home turn.
However the pipeline of activity is strong including several leases currently being negotiated that would bring this region into the 70<sup>th</sup> percentile of achievement.
Expectation on tenant retention remains unchanged at 56%.
We’re still estimating a decline of same-store GAAP NOI between 4 and 6%.
Rental rate declines have improved now down 1.5 to 3% on a GAAP basis and down 6 to 9% on a cash basis.
Our actual rental rate declines on the 82% of the plan achieved to date have been a decline of 2.1% on a GAAP basis and down 9.5% on a cash basis.
As we assess the open assumptions in the plan for 2011 for new leases there’s an active pipeline of prospects; 482 000 square feet of which are under negotiation and 2.7 million who are in receipt of a proposal.
In order to achieve the open leasing assumptions in our plan for new leasing we will need to convert 32% of today’s active pipeline.
As Gerry mentioned in his commentary our conversion rate during Q1 was 40%.
In terms of projected occupancy we now expect the troth to be 84.8% during the third quarter.
This is a 60 basis point improvement over our last update.
Occupancy will improve 90 basis points in the fourth quarter to close the year at 85.7%.
Two regions worth highlighting.
Austin as mentioned earlier has several deals and negotiations that will backfill the known move outs in the second quarter restoring occupancy to 96.2% at year end.
Richmond also has a strong pipeline of activity in advanced stages to offset its second and third quarter move outs restoring occupancy to 91.6% at year end.
We’re pleased with the level of achievements to date on our plans and with that I’ll now turn it over to Howard for the financial review.
Thank you George and Gerry.
In the first quarter FFO available to common shares and units totaled 48.2 million or $0.33 of FFO per diluted share which beat the analyst concession by $0.01 per-share.
It’s a high quality FFO figure in that our first quarter termination revenue other income management fees interest income and JV income totaled just $6.1 million on a gross basis or $4.6 million net of associated expenses in line with our 2011 guidance range for these other revenue components and below 2010 levels.
The FFO payout ratio in Q1 2011 is 45.5% on the $0.15 dividend we paid in January 2011 for each common share.
A few other observations on the components of our Q1 2011 results; cash rent at $115 million was up 5.1 million versus Q1 2010.
Straight-line rent of 4.7 million was up 1.8 million versus  Q1 2010 and up $200 000 sequentially versus  Q4  2010.
The quarter-over-quarter  increases are primarily attributable to the Post Office and garage completions related to the IRS campus and the Three Logan acquisition all in Q3 2010.
Recovery income at 23.1 million and our recovery ratio of 38.2% reflected typical expense recovery conditions along with higher snow recoveries and are in line with our expectations.
Property operating expenses and real estate taxes were essentially flat sequentially as higher snow cost in Q1 were offset by lower expenses in several other operating categories.
Interest expense of 32.4 million decreased sequentially by a full $3 million as we temporarily benefited from a higher level of floating rate debt and the accumulated benefits of 2010 bond repurchase activity.
Interest expense in Q1 includes 272 000 of non-cash APB14-1 cost related to our remaining exchangeable notes and just $380 000 of capitalized interest or 540 000 less than we had in Q4 2010 and 2.8 million less than in Q1 2010 reflecting the lower development activities.
G&amp;A at 6.2 million was in line with our expectations.
In Q1 2011 we had benign credit conditions with net bad debt expense of just $366 000 in line with expectations.
For the quarter same-store NOI declined 5% on a GAAP basis and 5.3% on a cash basis both excluding termination fees and other income items and largely as a result of lower occupancy in the same-store portfolio all in line with expectations.
2011 first quarter CAD decreased sequentially to 25.4 million from 26.5 million and measured $0.18 per-share.
We achieved a 83.3% CAD payout ratio for the first quarter.
Revenue maintaining capital expenditures were elevated due to timing of disbursements on previously executed leases.
In terms of 2011 guidance as Gerry noted we are increasing our previously issued 2011 guidance range from $1.26 to $1.34 per diluted share by $0.01 on the lower end to now be 1.27 to 1.34.
Notwithstanding the approximately $0.05 diluted impact of the early bond financing.
Following our $0.33 per-share Q1 result this translates to a quarterly rate of 29 to $0.31 if we exclude the $0.07 historical tax credit transaction impact that we’ll recognize in Q3 2011.
George mentioned many of the portfolio metrics that we expect to see going forward so I’ll just touch on a few other elements of our guidance plan.
We are still projecting 20 to $25 million of gross or 13 to $18 million of net all other income items such as termination revenues other income management revenues less management expenses if net plus interest income and JV income.
And in that case including the Thomas Properties investment as a preferred return on our investment and any bond repurchases losses to the extent we move forward on that front.
At the mid-point this bucket is about $6.8 million or $0.05 per-share below our $28.3 million gross $22.5 million net 2010 figure.
G&amp;A should remain flat at about 6 million a quarter.
Interest expense will rise now for 2011 and we see in a range of 136 to 140 million increasing slightly as move through 2011 quarter over quarter and up $6 million from prior guidance due to the impact of the early 2011 bond issuance.
As I mentioned previously the net historic tax credit recognition impact will be about $0.07 per share and we’ll recognize that in the third quarter of 2011 as $0.08 in a new revenue line item and an extra $0.01 of interest expense.
These are essentially non-cash and will be excluded for our CAD calculation and they reflect the per-share impact of 20% each year over five years of the net proceeds to be realized in connection with the historic tax credit financing on the Post Office project.
We still project $80 million of 2011 sales activity up to a 10% cap rate but as Gerry mentioned these are now more weighted to year end with approximately a $1.8 million income loss included in our model for these sales.
We don’t anticipate any addition issuance under our continuous  equity program in our guidance nor any additional  debt buyback activity.
And our assumed share count for FFO purposes is therefore 147 million shares.
On the capital plan we really are in great shape.
We have total capital needs of 350 million over the last nine months of 2011.
This would include 100 million of investment activity including incorporating up to 5 million to finish up any remaining billings on the Post Office and Garage 50 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures over the next nine months 30 million for remaining redevelopment outlays and lease up of recently completed or acquired projects.
And we still expect to fund $15 million in 2011 for commerce JV contributions.
We see 179 million of debt repayments $60 million for the 2011 exchangeable notes 6 million for interim debt repurchases and 113 million for mortgage repayments.
I will point out that we extended our $183 million funded bank term loan and $600 million unsecured revolving credit facility both to June 29 2012.
We also will distribute about $71 million of aggregate dividends on our common and preferred shares.
To raise this $350 million we are projecting or have already completed the following; $119 million of cash flow before financings and investment we’ll still fund an additional $3 million most likely in the second quarter the final installment on the historic tax credit financing the 80 million of sales and the now-completed 325 million unsecured note issuance.
The result of these capital activities will be an effective $170 million credit facility pay down through year end 2011 and a projected year-end balance of 27 million versus 197 million that we had at quarter end of March 31.
We actually now have about 70 million of excess cash on hand and zero outstanding on our credit facility following all of these activities.
Our receivables at 3-31 were $15.3 million – reserves I’m sorry at 3-31 were $15.3 million.
3.7 million on 22 million of operating and other receivables and 11.6 million on 111 million of straight-line rent receivables.
All of these percentages and aggregate amounts are in line with historical levels.
Our balance sheet and credit metric remains strong with debt levels in line with expectations our balance of fix and floating rate debt at a comfortable level and our overall unencumbered portfolio running at very high levels.
We are 100% compliant on all of our credit facility and adventure conveyances.
And with that I’ll it back to Gerry.
Great Howard thank you very much.
George thank you as well.
To wrap up our prepared part of the presentation fundamentally we’re very pleased with first quarter results and the progress made towards executing our 2011 business plan.
During the quarter solid leasing activity a very strong tenant retention rate good control on capital cost coupled with our investment program and bond offering solidified our frame work for success in executing our overall 2011 plan.
With that we’re delighted to open the floor up for questions.
We would ask that in the interest of time you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Market.
Thanks good morning.
Gerry I’m curious about the joint-venture plan.
It sounds like you are in the process – I know you might not want to be too detailed here but any addition color you could provide on the strategy and the thinking maybe the scope of such a sale and what kind of ownership you are looking to retain or the strategy on the assets longer term.
That would be helpful.
I’d be happy to do it Jordan and Tom please weigh in.
I think the structure that we are looking to achieve – really there are the two goals we have mentioned which is harvesting some value from some existing properties and then coupling that with an equity commitment from our institutional partner going forward to enable us to acquire some very high-quality assets that we bring in to our portfolio on a joint-venture basis.
We have identified about $150 million of properties that we would contribute to that joint-venture.
Tom is running that program for us we’ve just simply entered the mark within the last week or so in terms of contacting institutions.
The objective would be to spend the next quarter or so working with some of those potential partners on both underwriting our existing assets and developing a frame work for investing going forward.
If we can reach an agreement on those terms and consummate a venture the targeted investment area would be metro DC with primary emphasis on inside the beltway and inside the district.
So you basically feed the JV with 150 of your assets and then there is an equity commitment from an institutional partner and the objective is to basically increase the exposure to metro DC and maybe in the CBD within the JV.
Within the JV yes.
Okay and have you identified assets for acquisition for the JV? Well the good thing about metro DC is there is no shortage of assets entering the market on a daily basis for target investment opportunities.
We have identified the Brandywine assets we would contribute.
We have a solid pipeline of potential investments that we are reviewing as part of that discussion with joint-venture partners but no one specific asset has been identified simply given the uncertainty of both the execution and the timing of this joint-venture effort.
Jordan this is Tom.
We’ve been looking at assets as you know throughout the year so we have identified certain assets that we feel would be assets we underwrote so far this year that are recent transactions and we have planned those out as transactions we would target with the committed equity.
So we are showing a profile of assets that we would like to see in the targeted market which we believe should be inside the beltway and potentially including the district.
I assume the assets you’d seed with would be stabilized assets?  We’ve looked at a mix of assets; one stabilized and one that may have a little more role of leasing and a little more vacancy.
So we’re blending it to be a little bit of growth as well stable.
Okay.
I’m just curious why the joint-venture structure for that new investment? As we’ve been pointing out every quarter we’ve been looking at the assets and we feel strongly that the best growth is for asset inside the Beltway.
As we take a look at some of the transactions that have been occurring inside the Beltway the yields have been fairly low pricing has been high.
We feel that at least if we have a partner we can take advantage of the mortgage financings that are very strong for these assets.
We’ll be able to increase our footprint by bringing in an institutional partner.
Okay thank you.
I’ll get back in the cue.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
I’m just calling on the joint-venture from a size state perspective how much equity are you looking to raise above and beyond contributing your assets?  Is this a billion-dollar joint venture or this 715 million?  <br> Tom to your point yields are very low in the district I guess how do you think about that relative to your cost of capital on an equity side which is higher?  I would assume that the assets you contribute in the JV are going to be higher yielding.
If you have to raise equity your stock’s trading at a lower multiple higher-implied cap rate it become difficult to make the deals accretive.
To answer your question on equity we are looking to raise about 200 million of committed equity from an institutional partner.
The size of the platform will depend on a couple of factors including what interest we maintain in it.
Different investment partners are going to have different parameters on that as well as how much leverage we put on the asset.
It could range anywhere from 40-60%.
In terms of our yields I think when you put our equity position below 50% it could be as low as 25% and then you couple that with a modest mortgage in the 40-60% range the returns begin to not look as dilutive as long as we also maintain management leasing of the properties.
Hey guys it’s David here.
Just turning to your guidance it looks like your year-end occupancy hasn’t really changed from around 86 % but at the same time you are effectively increasing your FFO guidance by $0.06 in part due to better leasing so I was just wondering if you could explain that.
Yeah I think part of that is just the same level of leasing just earlier than anticipated is really the primary driver.
Some deals that we thought were going to commence third or fourth quarter we have actually been able to accelerate the timing on those.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Paolone with JP Morgan.
Thanks good morning.
On the $80 million of asset sales you had outlined I guess I was a little confused does that include the contribution of assets in to the joint-venture or is that other stuff?  I couldn’t tell if that also incorporated potentially going further out in to the non-core stuff outside of northern Virginia that you might sell.
Tony it’s Howard.
Those are two different initiatives.
The 80 million is sort of our baseline property disposition capital recycling program part of the capital plan part of the asset plan.
The JV that Gerry and Tom talked about is really a focused initiative on how to increase presence ultimately in the metro DC area.
So that 80 million then does that include the non-core stuff in northern Virginia that you said the bid looked strong enough that you are willing to cut those assets loose?  It could.
At this point a lot of that assumption is generic without specific assets identified until later in the year.
With those assets Tony it would be in the cue that we are evaluating for meeting that target.
Okay got it.
Then could you give us an update on your leasing progress at Three Logan both in terms of addressing the tenants that come to end I think next year and then also requirements for large states that you might be pitching for vacancy of that building? Sure.
We continue to be very pleased with the activity and the tone and the stage of the discussions we are having with both some of the existing sub-tenants and the new tenants on the vacant space.
You may recall we have about 400 000 square feet to lease in that building in the lower half of the project.
We are operating under a letter of intent – executive letter of intent and advance lease negotiations with one tenant for about 150 000 square feet.
We are also in very advanced discussions about another 350 000 square feet of tenants for that bottom half of the building.
The rental rates are very much in line with our projections capital is line on a couple of the deals.
It’s a little bit higher on a per-square-foot basis but we are picking up an additional 5-10 year lease term.
So when we look at it it’s a much more effective deployment of capital than even our pro forma contemplated.
On the upper half of the building we have made very good progress with extending a number of these subtenant leases.
We have frankly put a little bit of that on hold given the accelerated activity we are seeing on the bottom half of the building.
Once those activities achieve more clarity and we get some of that bottom level space put a way then we will reinvigorate some of the discussions on the upper banks.
So all in all great level of activity on the existing space.
The existing subtenants who we have not renewed continues to clamor for renewals so we expect to meet all of our targets on the upper half as well.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman with Bank of America.
Thank you and good morning.
I’m hoping you guys can just talk a little bit more about sentiment among tenants across your major markets.
How things feel this quarter versus last quarter especially given some of the macro headwinds we’re seeing and even with the removal of QE2 what people think may happen to their businesses.
I’ll start off with that George maybe can fill in based upon what you are hearing from field folks.
I think generally the best stale weather for us are the activity levels and the amount of activity that is actually converting to leases.
That tells us people are actually doing some forward planning perspective customers are assessing their options and actually making capital decisions on how they run their business.
Jamie there’s really been no change significantly up or down since we had this conversation in the last quarterly call.
I think even with the positive buys I do think some of those points we talked about at the beginning of the call in terms of the federal deficit the continued emergence of state budget crisis in almost every state we do business in including some of the major municipalities that’s crazy.
They have an overhang on where tenants look to relocate their businesses but generally speaking I think we are very confident with what we’ve seen.
Our customer base both existing and perspective have really shifted from kind of an expense controlled margin maintenance mentality and how they run their business to one that is much more focused on revenue creation.
When that shift occurs that tends to pertain good things for the office business because they look at what they need to do in terms of creating a platform to accomplish those revenue volts over the next few years.
Okay George maybe you can add some additional color.
Yeah Jamie I think we continue to see good levels of activity and we also see that we are still signing over a million square feet of leases per quarter and we have been able to maintain approximately a half-a-million square feet of forward leasing and a half-a-million square feet kind of in that advanced negotiation state.
So even with the success of converting proposals in to leases we are then also converting other proposals and inspections in to active lease negotiations.
The pipeline remains strong.
All of our regions reported increased traffic levels and as we alluded to in our prepared commentary inspections were up 40 % over last quarter.
Okay thank you.
Does that answer your question Jamie? Yes.
Thank you.
If I could just ask a quick follow-up.
Gerry could you talk a little bit about the decision to invest further in Richmond given it sounds like you want to stay in some of the better growth markets like northern Virginia or inside the Beltway that just seems a little bit off.
Yes it’s actually not too off in terms of how we assess things.
The property is located in Brook section of the Richmond suburban market.
The buildings were actually built by our team down there.
The buildings are fully leased with no real significant rollover for the next several years.
Rents are pretty much tight to where existing market levels are today.
From our standpoint it is really an opportunity to buy a property at a very attractive price per square feet very good going in return with good growth objectives coming off that specific asset base.
So that thought process we go through is very much in line with what we typically evaluate on any acquisition which is kind of entry-point pricing both in terms of price per square feet specific rollover characteristics and what we think we can actually realize from a growth standpoint off that one asset.
We looked at Overlook one and two the quality asset was very good so it was a very positive quality addition to our Richmond portfolio.
It was from an occupancy margin mixed standpoint it was positive for our market position in that marketplace and we take a look at the entry point pricing and the rental levels currently being paid we thought it had the ability to be the up rent of the performance curb of our existing Richmond portfolio.
Okay thank you.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
Thanks good morning.
Gerry or Tom could you give us a sense of how big the pool of assets is-the non-core assets?  I guess the 80 million that you are planning to sell this year how big is that pool overall and what we might expect as we look out over the next several years what those dispositions of non-core assets may look like.
As we look at it what we’ve done over the last several years in terms of selling non-core assets we really define what is core and what is not core through a collaborative process with our field personnel and our investment team here at corporate where we take a look at the property’s ability to generate additional tenant activity for us operating efficiencies cost to maintain that asset at a high leasing level and what we think the ultimate quality issues are compared to the rest of the portfolio.
So with that as a framework we’ve identified $80 million of sales as a target for this year and we would expect probably in 2012 to be in that level as well and we certainly look at being able to spin off some of these non-core assets in a fairly programmatic way as the investment market recovers.
The exceptions to that are obviously as we’ve announced publicly that one of our plans is to exit the California markets over the next couple of years.
So while those assets are good quality assets just from a market positioning standpoint they are not deemed to be core so we would expect that that $80 million might be accelerated beyond that level due to getting something done in California over the next couple of years.
And with the holdback in terms of increasing that target from this year or over the next couple of quarters just be on the flip side what you could invest in?  Is that what the difference is in terms of if you accelerated 80 million up to say 150 or something like that? That’s a great question Brendan and it’s really the reinvestment lag time so to speak is not really a primary determinant on how we set our sales targets.
It is certainly something we’re mindful of in terms of the impact on our guidance but the fundamental reality we do on all of these properties that we target for sale is we track the investment market very closely.
As we alluded to in my comments the investment market is really just starting to take hold in some of these non-gateway markets.
Pricing pressures in to DC and New York and some of the other real cache markets have now reached an inflection point where capitals begin to look beyond those key markets in to markets like a Philadelphia etcetera.
To the extent that that accelerates and we think there is an opportunity to sell some more assets at what we think is optimal best value pricing and define that as price exceeds the MPV of a hold then I think you could see that sales number accelerate.
We are not operating under any governor that says until we can find a re-investment solution we won’t optimize value on a non-core asset.
Sure.
Just a quick follow-up to earlier commentary on the 350 000 square feet of tenants that you are in advanced discussions with at Three Logan.
Are any of those tenants that would come out of your existing portfolio or is all of that organic growth for BDN? They would be new additions to our inventory.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Rodgers with RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning guys.
Howard with regard to the proposed asset sales the joint-venture and potentially investing in new whether it be value ad or core building in and around metro DC what is your outlook for fixed charge coverage?  Particularly this year as occupancy is relatively flat from the beginning to the end of the year and how do you feel that these changes to the disposition plans or accelerations would impact that number this year? Well the most significant impact to the coverage this year are going to be the early execution of the unsecured financing.
So as I mentioned earlier they will boost interest expense over the course of the year and put a little bit of downward pressure on those coverages until we see greater recovery in the overall occupancy levels.
Nothing outside of what we can tolerate given the rating but certainly putting a little bit of downward pressure on those numbers.
The transactions that you talked about in the guidance that you gave for the NOI at reduction from the asset sales in your prior comment what type of impact does that have if meaningful to the coverage going in to the early part of 2012? Going in to 2012 those sales would be fully annualized and would have impact as it picks up through the first quarter but still a bit early to match up with that what we expect to have happened either on the leasing side or potentially on the investment side so either of those could be a meaningful offset to that phenomena.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with BMO Capital Market.
Hey good morning everybody.
Just on secular revenue I was looking back at our notes from third quarter of 2010 and you had targeted secular revenue 25 million for 2011 and it’s now close to 33 million.
Can you bifurcate what’s driving those increases?  Is it just a conservative posture to begin with or could you comment maybe where it is coming from from a new leases or renewals?  If you could just break it down a little bit.
Sure.
I think when we put the $25 million target out that was based on the original roll up of our 2011 business plan which I think in some ways was conservative.
I think the field took the appropriate approach where if they didn’t have a live prospect or were not in active negotiations with an existing tenant then they kind of either left the space vacant or assumed that the renewal would not occur and wrote them out of the plan.
We have seen new leasing go from 13 million and that original 25 now up to 18 million and some of that as I alluded to earlier is the fact that some of that leasing has occurred earlier in 2011 than once forecasted.
Then we’ve also seen an increase in renewals from 12 million and the original 25 to where we’re not at 14.5 million in our current 32.4 million target.
Great.
That’s great color.
Thanks.
Then a follow-up question on New Jersey.
Obviously that had been a thorn in your side over the  recent past.
You have had some good progress recently.
Did that change your strategy at all as related to what you might end up doing in New Jersey? In terms for whether we are going to be selling assets there or not?  No I don’t think so.
I think that the strategy we have laid out for Jersey is pretty clear.
Mission critical for us was to recover from some of those large tenant contractions we had experienced in late 2009-2010 in to 2011 so we have some wood to chop there to stabilize some of those assets.
Conversely I think George and his team have done a very good job in terms of really outpacing what we thought our market share would be in the last couple of quarters both in terms of new and existing tenants but more importantly bringing new tenants in to our portfolio.
The other piece of color on that is the larger blocks of vacancy we have in South Jersey are literally in the best buildings in the marketplace.
I know that’s somewhat faint praise but you have to have vacancy wanted in good buildings so you can lease up at a pretty accelerated pace versus buildings that aren’t as good so I think that is part of the reason we are seeing some of the activity.
<br> We have a very strong market position good leasing team there and good quality inventory that is available in fairly large blocks of space which is really not the driver in that market.
There are a lot of smaller blocks of space available not a lot of larger blocks.
We did achieve some sales at the end of last year in south Jersey and we have certainly programmed some additional sales in New Jersey this year.
We would expect that to continue to progress.
Certainly one of the things that we have followed with great interest is the potential sale that BST announced on the Carnegie asset earlier this week with that pricing per square feet and the projected cap rate we think is very attractive and we hope that that will be a harbinger of more investors looking at New Jersey as viable place to invest capital on a risk adjusted basis.
If that trend line continues we would certainly anticipate accelerating our efforts in New Jersey to achieve some of those sales.
Just a related quick one the 88 % target occupancy what is the timeframe to get there portfolio wise? 88 % is our targeting leasing percentage at the end of this year.
We’re happy and we talked about it in the last call.
We are actually getting back to where we have historically been which is about a 200 basis point spread between occupancy and forward leasing and the game plan is to maintain that and hopefully accelerate it with some of the work that George and the operating teams are doing.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Mitch Germain with JMP Securities.
Hey Gerry.
The leasing pipeline came down from 3.8 to 3.2 million square feet.
Factoring in with your discussions about activity levels is that just based on execution? Yes I think we are actually able to take a lot of activity in the pipeline and are waiting to rebuild the tool back up but we have been able to maintain a pretty good percentage of the pipeline and active lease negotiations.
You have to remember the numbers that George cites really defines our pipeline as tenants who have received a proposal through lease negotiations not tenant that were [inaudible] we have done space showing-they’re more of [inaudible] so there are really two data points that you need to look at in terms of measuring the thru put in our portfolio.
One is the activity level-the actual number of customers that come through our portfolio as we talked is up nicely across the board.
Particularly as we talked about in New Jersey and then Dulles Toll Road carter.
The leasing pipeline as we cite proposals forward is down a bit from last quarter but that I think is just a function more of where some of those customer’s discussions stand versus anything other than an uptake in traffic.
Yeah Mitch the other thing is the 3.2 is new leasing only.
There is another 750 000 square feet of renewal proposals that are in the pipeline.
I’d have to go back and double check if the 3.8 was exclusively new but the 3.2 that we referenced in our commentary today was strictly new leasing and tenant expansion activity.
All right thanks guys good quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Donlan with Janney capital Markets.
Thanks.
Just a quick question I didn’t hear you give a yield on the Richmond acquisitions.
We did.
It was a going in cash yield of about 11 %.
Okay and as we think about your developments in Philadelphia going forward how do you look at the Navy yard versus what you have at University City and where do you think that shakes out in the next three or four years how do you look at that? Well I think the Navy yard as well as University City where we have a large presence I think are two very strong attraction points to continue to bring businesses in the city.
<br>The ultimate goal obviously is to continue to expand the amount of job growth and tenants who are [inaudible] within the city of Philadelphia and I think the good work that is being done at the Navy yard as long as some of the recent announcements coupled with the continued progression of tenant demand in the University City section all are additive to the overall health of the market place.
So I think what you will see going forward is the emergence really of some additional markets within the city of Philadelphia whereas if you go back a long time Philadelphia CBD was really from an office standpoint was really defined as South Broad Street East Market and West Market.
As time has progressed the premier office corridor in the CBD has really focused on the West Market Street corridor and I think within the last five years what you have really seen in the emergence of two new very vibrant submarkets.
One is the University City sub-market the second one is the work being done at the Navy yard.
So as we look at it it is an incredibly attractive selling point that brings businesses in to the city of Philadelphia and we would hope that both growth at University City and the Navy yard and the Market Street corridor would continue.
Do you feel like the Navy yard is coined more from New Jersey than it is from necessary suburban Philadelphia even though they have announced some tenants moving out to that way from CBD Philadelphia? Look I think the underlying premise of the planning process behind the Navy Yard was given its proximity to interstate 95 and close proximity to both the Benjamin Franklin and [inaudible] bridges that it would provide an attractive location for a company that had to draw either employees or customers from New Jersey or southern Delaware county or even up through Buxton Montgomery county.
I think you are seeing that happen with what’s happened in the Navy Yard in the last five years.
I think that is why you are seeing a lot of the buildings that are typically more suburban in nature versus urban high rise and that again I think would be a trend line that we continue.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of David Anderson with Green Street Advisors.
Good morning guys.
Two quick questions.
For the JV I’m just trying to get a sense of where you see that on a growth asset value.
Coming out I know you had mentioned about the $200 million equity investment from the institutional partners.
Could you give us a ball park of where on a growth asset basis you see that JV ending up? Depending on where the ownership interests align I think the growth asset basis will be over 600 million.
I guess the ownership interest that is still in flux but 25 or 50/50 are there a couple of goal posts that you can set in terms of where that might pan out? Yeah.
We are early in the stages of investigating this as a potential option for the company but the joint-ventures we have typically done Brandywine has retained a 20-25 percent stake.
That is clearly a function of entry level pricing.
We have a couple of dynamics taking place here:  One we have identified some assets to seed this venture.
As we continue this discussion with some of these potential partners how they are pricing that contribution will be a key determinant of whether we sell those assets outright or joint-venture them.
If we opt to joint-venture them the pricing will to a great degree determine what percentage of ownership we remain holding.
Another factor in our ownership stake going forward will be the appetite of that potential partner to invest equity to expand the platform.
We are going to be very mindful of our cost of capital being used to acquire assets that are clearly priced at or below our cost of capital.
The objective is to through financial investment structure to achieve a result where we can have very good returns for our invested equity dollars.
Okay great.
Thank you for that color.
Just one other kind of small follow-up.
I am just trying to reconcile something here.
I know on your capital per square feet per lease year you mentioned it seems like it was at its highest level since 2Q ’09 that is not a meaningful jump but I am just trying to reconcile that with some of the comments earlier about our CapEx going in but we’re getting greater lease term for it.
Was this just a case of one lead with the PI’s requirements doing the numbers  in the quarter or is that kind of broad based? I think it is a little bit broad based but keep in mind also that what is in the supplemental are for deals that commence during the quarter some of which were signed earlier going back in to 2010.
I think some of our commentary is more that we made during the call was kind of more based on the deals that we are signing today where we have seen a little bit of an increase in term and would expect going forward that those numbers would return back to where they used to be on a per square feet per lease year basis.
Thank you guys.
Your final question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Thank you good morning.
Two questions.
One operationally are there any markets that you are in that rents are still declining or do you think they have bottomed out everywhere at this point? We think they have bottomed out with the exception of potentially some of the larger deals in the Toll Road carter and in southern and central New Jersey.
The opposite of that question are there any markets where you have seen a noticeable upward kick that you think is sustainable over the rest of the year? We have.
The markets where we are seeing very good landlord pricing come back in to vogue is a couple of the core markets in the PA suburbs here primarily Radnor [inaudible] some our top product in Plymouth Meeting CBD Philadelphia we continue to be pleased with the levels of rent stability but also some increase we are getting in prospects down there.
George is there anywhere else you think?  I think some of our assets in Richmond we are starting to see some of the class A mid-rise product.
Okay.
Then lastly on the joint-venture just to flush out another question or two how many assets and what square footage are we talking about relative to that ballpark 600 million number that you just threw out to us? Look I think the $600 million number assumes a lot of things.
It assumes around a 50 % loan value on the portfolio going forward it assumes about a $200 million equity commitment from the perspective partner as well as the contributive value from our existing assets so it is hard to really put a number of square feet or a number of buildings on that because that would be the ultimate “bill data” of venture.
Once we make the asset contribution Brandywine commits some of its capital the partner commits their capital share and then we go out and acquire additional properties on roughly a 50 % LTVs.
What stage are you at here?  Are you down to a final couple of partners or are you really just dealing with one? No as I indicated and Tom reinforced we just really started that process.
We are in the market and we have identified about a dozen different perspective partners that our team is having discussions with.
Those discussions will ultimately winnow down that number to a few and then one or two advanced negotiations with a handful to see what the best results for the company is.
From a timing perspective would your goal be to have a transaction close by the end of Q3 or Q4? Well as I mentioned in my comments our objective would be if it is successful we will get it done by the end the year.
Obviously I’m assuming this is not in your guidance so the near term dilution that would occur from selling the stake and a portfolio of this size that is not contemplative in the numbers at this point? It is not in our numbers right now and the reason it is not factored there is we are not sure of the exact structure yet.
We just wanted to make sure that our investor base new what we were doing.
Secondly it is too pre-mature to identify what the dilutive aspect may be because we have not yet identified either the pace of investing those proceeds and new assets and the attendant returns we get from those assets plus the fee income that we’d achieve through the venture or identified what we would do with those proceeds in the interim whether that be other investment opportunities reduced debt or whatever it might be.
We would certainly anticipate it as if things got more in focused we would be able to quantify what the impact of those various points would be.
Appreciate it thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
Gentlemen do you have any closing remarks? Only to think everyone for their participation and we look forward to making continued progress in the plan and updating you on our next call.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for participating in today’s conference call you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust’s Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Please go ahead sir.
Well Angie thank you very much.
Good morning and thank you for participating in our second quarter 2011 earnings call.
On today’s call with me are Gabe Mainardi our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; George Johnstone Senior Vice President of Operations; Howard Sipzner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President Portfolio Management and Investments.
Prior to beginning I’d like to remind everyone that certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
Although we believe that the estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press releases as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
Moving in to the presentation our actual results are progressing well ahead of our 2011 business plan and we are very pleased to report solid progress during the second quarter.
Market conditions range from stable to improving and we continue to see strong tenant activity levels.
Certainly the return of strong real estate fundamentals generally is subject to macroeconomics events such as the federal deficit to divide on public policy which appears to be ongoing steady municipal budgetary constraints and private sector employment growth.
Essentially however we continue to see a steady recovery.
This recovery top with our tactic of aggressively pursuing occupancy has created a solid platform for Brandywine to exceed our original 2011 business forecast.
We will continue this market driving leasing strategy and this approach will vary by submarket.
In some we have been pushing rents and in others we will continue to buy occupancy.
In those weaker submarkets we will continue this aggressive approach until those markets returned to start activity levels.
We also continue to see a slight up the quality curve that has greatly benefited our portfolio.
Some observations on our second quarter leasing balance sheet management and investment efforts tacking leasing first.
On the leasing front we posted another very strong quarter.
There is no single bigger contribution to our growth profile than simply leasing up our existing space.
As evidence by our second quarter results we are making strong progress and leasing production remains our primary focus.
We had our third consecutive quarter of leasing activity in access of 1 million square feet additionally our 65% tenant retention rate for the quarter significant had plan and as a result we are projecting a 2011 retention rate of 60% versus 55% in our original plan.
The strength of this leasing production has resulted in the following positive adjustments to our key metrics.
We are increasing our projected 2011 core occupancy percentage at year end to be 86.6% a 90 basis improvement over our projection last quarter and 100-basis point improvement over our year end 2011 levels.
We have moved our speculative revenue target of 6.2% to $34.4 million and we are 94% executed on that planned component.
Our same-store has improved from our original forecast and from last quarter.
We are now projecting a same-store GAAP NOI decline of 3% to 4% versus our originally forecasted 4% to 6% and a cash-based decline of 4.4% to 5.5% versus 5% to 7% previously forecasted.
Capital costs are up quarter-over-quarter George will outline the detail in a few minutes but note that we have accelerated leasing activity and while doing so have increased the average length of our lease by about 20%.
We’re up to 5.4 years on average versus our 2011 business plan.
More importantly we’re up 35% from the 4.0 year average lease term that we experienced in 2010.
For leases commencing in Q2 the average lease term was 6.5 years.
Additionally as George will outline the size of our four leasing commencements as an early paying of commissions on leases that will not commence for a number of quarters.
We continue to make progress on managing rental rate declines even as we are aggressively pursuing tenants our GAAP rental rate decline has remained at 1.5% to 3% which is in line with last quarter but a significant improvement over earlier projections.
On a cash basis we continue to anticipate a range of between 6 to 8% which has tightened a bit from last quarter and the upper limit is down from the 10% we originally forecast.
Increasing market share remains a major objective and on that front the plan also continues to progress well.
By way of example in Southern New Jersey we experienced a 51% increase in activity Q2 over Q1 but more importantly our leasing teams did 36% of all the deals in the market place compared to 19% ownership stake.
In the Pennsylvania suburbs we had similar results where we captured 58% of the market share for leasing activity versus a 14% ownership stake.
So the overwriting goal remain to seal deals be aggressive where we need to be and execute as many transactions as we can.
We are currently 88.7% leased which is significantly ahead of our target.
We are maintaining about 200 basis points spread in our leased versus occupied percentage.
Our 2011 business plan anticipates that we will hold this 88 this 89% leasing level through year end.
So all in all nicely improving picture on the leasing front and we are seeing solid rental rate growth in several of our markets.
We also made good progress on expense control and improved our operating margins to the best levels in the last six quarters.
As a result of our leasing success and expense management programs we have increased FFO guidance range for the year from to $32 to $36 share.
This is an improvement over our previous range of $27 to $32 per share.
Given a high level of plan execution we believe this range is readily achievable.
Looking at our balance sheet and investment grade rating coupled with continued leverage reduction and maturity management programs remained key objectives.
As you know we recently completed $325 million bond transaction.
During the quarter we used those net proceeds primarily to reduce our 331 line of credit balance from $197 million to $42 million and pay up a $115 million in various secured mortgages on several of our properties.
These tales were part of our long standing plan to reduce property level debt to provide us more investment flexibility and to increase the strength and financial metrics of earning number four.
We also used access liquidity during the quarter to repurchase $21.5 million of our 2012 notes and 1.4 million of our 2015 note via opened market transactions.
We continue to monitor the debt markets with an eye towards reassessing them as the need arises our primary attention however is on investment program which has the potentially generated additional liquidity and reduce our need to reassess the debt market near term.
We are also engaged with the bank market as we assess the process and timing of redoing our line of credit and our $183 million term loan both of which matured in mid-2012.
That market has continued to improve particularly relatively to spreads cap rates and related covenants.
Looking at investments we had a quite quarter but a lot of work is in process.
Our 2011 business plan contemplates $80 million of dispositions weighted towards the second half of the year.
As such year-to-date we’ve only sold one property Three Greentree Center; a 13% occupied 70 00 square foot building Malta New Jersey for growth proceeds of slight less than $6 million and realize the $3.8 million gain on the sale.
Looking at a balance of 2011 we would expect the following.
We are in the market with a variety of properties undertaking price discovery to meet and possibly our $80 million disposition target.
The properties on the market range from single assets to small portfolios there are assets that we have deemed to be non-core from either a location future NOI growth or capital consumption standpoint.
We’d expect to provide more visibility on these efforts on our third quarter call.
The properties currently being targeted for sale our primarily in New Jersey Pennsylvania and Virginia.
We have also made good progress in our joint venture effort on several properties in Northern Virginia that offering memorandum was circulated during the second quarter.
We want to receive solid indications at interest and are in discussion with several institutional partners.
We expect to advance those discussions over the next 60 days as previously outlined this venture will consist of us contributing several assets receiving a forward equity commitment from our venture partner that will enable us to form at a street co-investment vehicle targeting assets insight the down way.
The total (inaudible) the initial property contribution could be between 150 to $175 million with a detention forward equity commitment between 75 million and 100 million.
We expect to report an attractive cap rate in price per square foot and the Brandywine ownership stake between 25 and 50%.
Overall we are pleased with the response and look forward to providing more clarity on our next call.
This venture if it proceeds we’d expect to close by year end and it is not factored into our 2011 business plan as we anticipate the effect on 2000 earnings to be minimal.
As we all well know the investment market remains bifurcated we are beginning to see some select opportunities in some markets outside of D.C.
that based on yield value added characteristics and price per square foot may present interesting opportunities for Brandywine.
While we do not have any additional acquisitions built into our 2011 plan we do continue to seek and underwrite quality value-added additions to our portfolio.
Those investments if they occur we’ll be financed primarily through either redeployment of sales proceeds or an equity basis to further improve our balance sheet metrics.
At this point I’ll turn the presentation over to George who will provide color on our second quarter operational performance.
George will then turn it over to Howard for a financial review of the second quarter.
George? Thank you Gerry.
Leasing activity for the quarter was strong with positive net absorption of 138 000 square feet and continued progress on the business plan.
During the quarter we commenced 1.1 million square feet of leases including 614 000 square feet of new leases and tenant expansions.
We had 120 000 square feet of contractions by tenants who did renew a portion of their space 58 000 square feet of which related to computer associates in our Northern Virginia portfolio as discussed on previous calls.
An additional 230 000 square feet of tenant fee simply vacated at the end of their lease term due to office closures and company downsizings relocations to other submarkets and a few who purchased their own buildings.
In terms of early terminations for the quarter 80 000 square feet were negotiated to accommodate existing tenant expansion the remaining 45 000 square feet were the result of bankruptcies and affections.
Traffic for the quarter was up 9.4% over last year with all but Metro D.C.
in California posting increased levels of inspections.
Despite inspections being down over last quarter the pipeline remains strong at 3.7 million square feet 3.2 million of new deals and 528 000 square feet or renewal deals.
We currently have 521 000 square feet of deals in leased negotiations with the balance all entertaining proposals.
In order to achieve the open leasing assumptions and our plan for new leases we need to convert 12% of today’s active pipeline.
Our conversion rate during the first half of 2011 was 39%.
So we are very confident of achieving our realized forecast.
Several of our core markets continue to perform well and we’re seeing the ability to push rents and leased term.
To illustrate is 100% leased in gap rents on leases commencing in 2011 are up 8.4%.
Radnor is now 97% leased with gap rent growth of 6.3%.
Philadelphia CBD is now 94.9% leased with gap rent growth of 4.9%.
For the balance of 2011 we expect that Pennsylvania suburbs Philadelphia CBD Richmond and Austin will continue to perform well.
We face challenges in both our New Jersey operations and Dallas Toll Road Carter until the market recovery is complete but we are pleased with the levels of activity in both of these markets.
Our regional teams remain focused on operating expense control whilst no removal accounts for our majority of the decline in operating expenses from first quarter our energy procurement and conservation efforts along with aggressively rebidding service contracts has contributed to improving our operating margin.
Last a comment on capital expenditures.
We report capital cost for CAD in the quarter on which they are paid which is not necessarily the quarter in which the lease commences.
As we continue to achieve higher levels of forward leasing you can expect this mix matching of capital and lease commencements to continue.
This quarter we had $22.5 million of revenue maintaining capital which was clearly one of our highest to-date.
To illustrate the $22.5 million we reported this quarter included $8.6 million of capital on leases that commenced prior to the second quarter $8.5 million of capital on leases that commenced in the second quarter and 5.4 million of capital associated with leases that will commence in subsequent quarters.
This completes the operational overview and I’ll now turn it over to Howard for financial review.
George and Gerry thank you.
For the second quarter of 2011 we reported FFO available to common shares and units of $47.5 million at $0.32 per diluted share we exceeded analyst consensus by $0.01 per share.
It is once again a high quality FFO figure in that second quarter termination revenue other income; management fees interest income and JV income totaled just $6.8 million gross or $5.3 million after management expenses in line with our 2011 guidance range for these other items.
The FFO payout ratio in the second quarter of 2011 came in at 46.9% on the $0.15 dividend we paid in April 2011.
A few other observations on the components of our second quarter performance.
Cash rent of $114.3 million was up $5.4 million versus second quarter of 2010.
Straight line rent of 4.7 million was up 2.2 million versus second quarter 2010 and is flat sequentially versus the first quarter of 2011.
The quarter-over-quarter increases are primarily attributable to the Post Office and Garage completions and the Three Logan acquisition in the third quarter of 2010 as well as the Overlook acquisition in the first quarter of 2011.
Recovery income of 19 million and our recovery ratio of 34.4% reflected typical expense and expense recovery conditions and are inline our expectations.
Property operating expenses were down $5.4 sequentially due to snow cost in Q1 2011 as George mentioned while real estate taxes were flat sequentially.
Interest expense of 34.7 million increased 2.3 million sequentially due to the closing of our $325 million on secured issuance on April 5th and lower floating rate balances in the current quarter G&amp;A 5.9 million was in line with our expectations for this item.
In the second quarter of 2011 we had net bad debt expense of $322 000 in line with expectations and reflecting a combination of right-offs recoveries and adjustments to reserves.
The net effect in the second quarter was $135 000 decrease in our overall reserve balance.
For the quarter same-store NOI decline 4.7% on a GAAP basis and 6.9% on a cash basis both excluding termination fees and other income items and in line with expectations.
EBITDA coverage ratios are solid and consistent at 2.4 times interest 2.2 times debt service and 2.1 times fixed charge coverages.
And the emphasis on these is an important part of our ratings upgrade strategy.
Our margins are very strong and are above recent levels despite the vacancy levels at 61.1% for NOI to 34.4% for recoveries and 62% on our EBITDA margin.
As a result and as Gerry outlined we are increasing our previously issued 2011 guidance of $1.27 to $1.34 per share by $3.05 at the midpoint to now be in a range of $1.32 to $1.36.
With our $0.65 per share six-month result this translates to a quarterly rate of $0.30 to $0.32 for the balance of the year once you exclude the $0.08 of gross historic tax credit transaction impact we’ll recognized in the third quarter.
Portfolio metrics and assumptions as George and Gerry both noted are equivalent or better than we’ve previously guided to on combination of cash and GAAP rental rents yearend occupancy retention and overall leasing.
And these are factor in our guidance upgrade.
We are continuing to project 20 million to 25 million of gross other income items or about $13 million to $18 million net resulting in again a very high quality FFO for 2011.
These figures at the midpoint are about $0.05 per share or $6.8 million below the figures we reported for these items in 2010.
We are continuing to expect G&amp;A at about $6 million per quarter.
Interest expenses for the year should come in between 133 and $136 million down from the prior figure of 136 to 140million due to accelerate loan repayments during and just after Q2 2011.
Please not that we will accelerate an expense about $800 000 of deferred costs in the third quarter due to the One Logan square mortgage loan repayment and this is of course included in our guidance.
We see about 75 million of additional 2011 sales activity at up to a 10% cap rate but it will be weighted heavily towards year end for an expected gross NOI reduction of only about $1.8 million in the balance of this year.
As I mentioned earlier the historic tax credit impact should appear to be about $0.08 per share on a gross basis in the third quarter of 2011.
For the full year this is offset by about $0.01 of interest expense that’s been running through our interest expense line item and has been facing entirely for the past six month and will continue to do so.
The revenue component is essentially non cash and will be excluded for our head calculation.
It reflects the – for the annual impact of 20% of the proceeds realized in connection with the historic tax credit financing and this will be recognized in the third quarter of each of the next five years 2011 through 2015.
We are not assuming any additional issuance under our continuous equity program and no additional unsecured note buyback activity.
And we are running our modeling at 147 million shares for FFO in 2011 versus 139 million in 2010.
The overall impact of higher capital expenditures both on a current and forward basis is reducing our estimate for CAD for diluted share to be between $0.58 and $0.64 for the year reflecting approximately 20 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures per quarter for the balance of the year.
Our 2011 capital plan for the balance of the year is actually quite simple and easy to achieve.
We have total capital needs of $279 million over the last six months of 2011 including the 60 million we used earlier this month for the Logan Square payoff.
This comprises 71 million of investment activity about to 44 million of revenue maintaining CapEx 21 million for other capital expenditures and $6 million of potential investment in our commerce JV.
We see 160 million of debt repayments 60 million we already disbursed for one Logan 60 million for an expected early redemption of our remaining exchangeable notes and 40 million for assorted mortgage repayments and amortization and we expect to pay at current levels 48 million of aggregate dividends on our common and preferred shares.
To raise this 279 million we are projecting the following.
85 to 90 million of cash flow before financings and investments 2 million of remaining HDC proceeds bringing the ultimate funding to $64 million the 75 million of additional sales and a 113 million of borrowing under our unsecured credit facility with a projected year-end balance of about $155 million.
On accounts receivables our total reserves at June 30th 2011 were 15.1 million 3.5 million on 17.7 million of operating or other receivables or about a 20% coverage ratio and 11.6 million on 114.8 million of straight line rent receivables about a 10% ratio.
Neither of these categories experienced any particular change in this quarter.
Our balance sheet in credit metrics remain extremely strong we have 57.7% debt-to-total market cap and a 44.9% debt to gross real estate cost most importantly the various financings or repayments we undertook in the second and now third quarter continue to improve our balance sheet from an unsecured basis.
Our secured debt is only 10.7% of total growth assets and our floating rate debt is just 14.7% of our debt.
Our leverage levels are in line with recent quarters and our mix of secured unsecured and floating fixed remains reflects our commitment to overall credit quality in an improve rating.
Our $600 million was $42 million drawn on June 30th 2011 following the July 11th prepayment of the One Logan loan and other storage activity our credit facility balance outstands at $113 million with closed to $500 million of availability.
We are 100% compliant in all of our credit facilities and in venture covenants and are extremely pleased with the second quarter performance.
Now back to Gerry for some additional comments.
Great.
Thank you very much Howard and thank you George.
The second quarter was a very good one for us.
We exceeded our leasing targets posted over 1 million square feet of leasing activity for the third quarter in a row.
Lengthened our lease terms reduced the negative spreads in our mark-to-market and same-store forecast and produce good expense management.
Moving our year-end targeted occupancy level of 90 basis points reflects our high level of production that stat combined with our continued strong pipeline as George outlined clearly indicates that we are well on the path to continued occupancy improvement.
With that we’ll open the floor for questions.
We would ask that in the interest of time you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital.
Thanks and good morning.
I wanted to get a little bit of clarification on the leasing guidance update.
The incremental $2 million spec revenue which is up from last quarter’s guidance.
That is now 94% complete so I’m just curious based on sort of your historical hit ratio or close ratio of 39% in the pipeline which is materially better than you are projecting for the back half are you still being pretty conservative here on the spec revenue.
And if you were to hit the 39% close ratio on that pipeline that you’ve got in a negotiation what would the spec revenue number be then? George why don’t you take that? Yeah.
Sure.
I don’t think that we are conservative at this point.
I mean a couple of observations.
One the window of contribution towards 2011 is closing.
So one we will have to get that pipeline converted negotiate the lease build out the space so we’re really kind of looking at for the most part our fourth quarter and potentially a late fourth quarter commencement to drive that spec target up even further.
The $2 million that we increased this most recent reforecast most of that revenue will be recognized over the second half of the year.
Okay.
That’s helpful and then just as a follow up you disclosed 731 000 feet of executed leases that are schedule to commence could you give us a little bit of color on the timing and maybe the average rent on that pipeline? Well I think our most recent press release addressed some of that and that we had 400 000 – I am sorry 97 000 square feet of new deals commencing after 2011 not included in that press release but in our subsequent press release was the 146 000 square feet with Jannie but the lease is in the 731 of forward leasing at the end of this quarter.
We’ve got 197 000 square feet commencing in the third quarter 284 000 square feet of new deals commencing in the fourth quarter.
(Inaudible).
Yeah I don’t have the average rental rates but I think as we kind of outline in some of sub markets even with the trends we saw in the second quarter we are seeing that on our new leases we are starting to a positive mark to market on the gap rent.
My last one is just on the Jannie deal closing where are we relative to original underwriting on (inaudible) and maybe can you just talk about the prospects? We are in very good share relative to your underwriting we have right now after the Janney lease execution roughly 200 000 square feet of current vacancy.
We have about 1 billion plus square feet of active prospects for that.
About 800 000 of that million is large use where the balance stands small users in a range in size from five to 25 000 square feet.
We still are in very good shape from that standpoint.
We also as you know there is a component of that doing has leases in that and leases have expire mid-year 2012 and that’s about another 250 000 square feet or so.
So live at leasing pipeline is also directed towards that forward roll.
The leases that we’ve executed and the leases that we are in discussions with all have economics or very much in line with our original pro forma.
Okay.
I’ll hop back in the queue.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman with Bank of America.
Thank you and good morning.
I was hoping you can talk off – it sounds like you are pretty comfortable with the way the back half of 2011 is going to shapeup can you talk a little bit about your explorations in 2012? And where you think there is risk and then along those lines if you could talk about different regions kind of what’s the different sentiment given everything we’re seeing on the economic side? Sure.
We’ve not provided 2012 guidance and we don’t expect to do so till later this year.
We are at the early stages of our 2012 budget and reforecasting process.
So we are in the middle of trying to answer Ken the renewal probabilities of tenants were up for 2012 renewals.
So that process is still underway we can certainly provide better cloud in that in the year.
In terms of overall sentiment I think we are seeing that sentiment reflected in some of the numbers that you would should outlined earlier.
Generally the sentiment the power and that we absent the dialogue on the federal debts of the last couple of weeks has been generally progressing and be more positive.
But the pipeline of deals has remained very encouraging I mean we are at 3.7 million square feet.
Our expectations to tenants the square feet that comprise that pipeline is real.
Tenants looking for requirements not just price checking for stay puts as it was some time ago.
So that both velocity and the intent have allow that tenant activity is by us towards moving up the quality curve and seeking to go longer in terms of the length of leases.
So a fairly good prescription we think for the next couple of quarters and leading our upward leasing trajectory and continue to improve our occupancies.
We have a number of tenants who are clearly up in 2012 again the focus right now is to – for us to really answer Ken what their probably of renewal is some we know we are going to standing some we know we are going to leave the vast majority are still in the middle not having provided us with any real clear clarity.
And as a consequence really can’t provide a lot of detail on that.
Thanks.
I guess if I guess another way like we think about Northern Virginia versus Philadelphia verses Texas which you feel like are most concerned about what’s happening in the government which are more concerned and which have the best job growth prospects? It sounds like everyone is trading up but I’m trying to get a sense of which have real kind of long-term demand growth prospects here.
I think the sentiment that we are seeing does vary by those regions.
Look Philadelphia suburbs particularly are crash at markets as we call them continue to perform very well.
Sentiment is very positive that’s reflected in the higher levels of absorption as well as the upward pressure on rents.
Philadelphia CBD in the trophy class inventory we are in we believe continues to have a very positive bias.
We’ve been very pleased with the level of activity in generally in the Austin Texas market and the ability of our team to maintain very high levels of occupancy and upward rental pressure.
Richmond has performed well and in line with our plan this year.
Things have slowed there a bit but we continue to be very much on track for 2011 business plan circling in on the metro D.C.
activity levels are down quarter-over-quarter.
There is clearly a pause in that marketplace by both federal agencies but more importantly private sector employers who rely on the government in terms of coming to large blocks of space and we would expect that that situation would stay in place until there’s a lot more clarity on the federal spending programs.
We were very pleased to announce the other day a major lease that moves on a very seamless base with a vacancy coming up in 2012 so our team continue to do a very good job down there.
The pipeline well not as robust as maybe some of other markets certainly have some large users in that queue that are for successful in negotiating transaction with them could change the profile trendy – trajectory of our occupancy ramp up in that market considerably.
Okay and then when you talk to your tenants in D.C.
area do you are they concerned that leases won’t get signed or they are just concerned that it’s going to be on hold for a while are they there is a real concern about downsizing actually making the demand go away? Look it either depends of what the hell line of the paper is that Dave but I think the reality is there is the primary sentiment we haven’t reported back to us is that it’s on hold.
The demand will remain there.
The demand maybe more muted than original expectations based upon how this federal spending program works its way through the system but that is a market that’s historically generated fairly decent job growth in broad base.
So long term we believe the prospects that market are solid but it would be unrealistic for us to be overly aggressive and assuming accelerated absorption there until there is a lot clearer picture on the federal spending programs.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Question on the leasing strategy is the I guess other – kind of buying occupancy what you guys are doing and moving the occupancy up pretty nicely that the CapEx costs are relatively high is that driven more by your portfolio level occupancy or is that something where if your market start to firm up a little bit you will back off kind of being aggressive in terms of getting those tenants in and if it is more portfolio driven specific to Brandywine what kind of level do you think you need to get to you before you maybe a little bit less aggressively on that concession levels? Very good question I think the overall strategy has always been driven by your later point of emphasis which is very much focused on how we are leading the markets.
And the best examples we are having on our portfolio is what we’ve seen frankly with our submarket concentrations and New Town Square Radnor Contrahawk and (inaudible) to some degree where those markets were 18 months ago kind of were New Jersey and Delaware and a couple of other submarkets are today where we were very aggressive in attracting absorption to the portfolio paid for but the market tightened up significantly so now we are in a position of dramatically exceeding our occupancy centers in those markets.
And New Jersey and Delaware may be slower to recover but I think as we’ll read in the team lease there the overall objective tactically is to gather significant amount of market share in a market where we own about 20% of the inventory.
So the market to our leasing team is to generate tremendous activity both directly and through the brokers community fully that every prospect analyze each deals economics both from an absolute and from a relative standpoint and then to the extent we think it’s a fair transaction move forward and absorb that occupancy cover our some cost minimize our capital cost to the extent we can lengthen our lease terms and we’re fully confident that in every market we are in that as the suburban market recovers to where it was in numbers of usual we will return to a 70 to 80% average annual retention.
So certain we have a high degree of expectation some of those tenants were bring in to the portfolio today will be able to retain when their leases come up for renewal.
Thank.
That’s helpful.
And then just in terms of the next investment activity are the dispositions are is it new investment.
If you sell 80 million of non-core assets and then it sounds like proceeds from the JV could be I guess around the 120 million or so and you’re selling 75% of that.
Where do you think you reinvest that at this just day pay down of debt or there are investment opportunities that are available? They will be a combination of both Brandon I mean and it’s going to be determined based upon the velocity of those dollars we get in the door.
As Tom can touch on we continue to look in a variety of good quality acquisitions.
And we certainly want to continue that effort but we also very much have the priority focus on continue to improve the balance sheet as well.
So I think the – with those possible uses of proceeds will make game time decision based upon the timing and the size of the proceeds we actually realize.
One of the interested things of that our investment efforts as we touched on we are very much doing a lot of price discovery across the board to try and find what we adopt to the investment market is right now in some of our submarkets.
And just a follow-up quickly.
Is – has there been any movement on the land parcel that you guys have 20th in market downtown because you did mention that you are seeing pretty good activity in the CBD market in Philly and any potential that you guys could do something there? Certainly a lot of potential on what we can do there.
We are undergoing right now the planning process for mixed use development talking to a variety of other development companies and financing sources to pull together and overall development program that we would anticipate starting the formal approval process on that site sometime in early 2012.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Rodgers with RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning Gerry Howard.
A question on your decision to raise the guidance perhaps relative to taking down leverage a little bit more during the second half of the year.
Can you just give us some thoughts around maybe I guess the hint points to your decision making around that and I guess if timing is the big answer for the second half of this year maybe what we can think about is key points for moving into next year from a deleveraging versus earnings performance perspective? Well Dave good morning.
It’s Howard.
The guidance increase really flows almost directly from a combination of our performance on the plan some slightly higher retention a little bit more lease activity coupled with the net result of all the balance sheet transaction and aggressively paying down debt where we could.
But having said that I will point out that that pay-down of debt is not a leverage reduction so it’s just a substitution of one type of debt for another.
So what we found out as we were able to put the $325 million that we raised early to work ultimately in a better way then we might have initially expected.
We paid off a number of mortgages brought down some forward maturities and in general just put the balance sheet in better shape.
On a go forward basis to the extent some of the disposition activity and the JV activity that Tom is involved in produces called a surplus of proceeds to address the earlier question we would then have the opportunity to look at those dollars and say do we use the proceeds to bring down overall leverage levels that’s the best use to capital or do we have investment opportunities that would ineffective more accretive than eliminating that debt.
No way to know that at this point.
But that would be the decision process we go through.
Yeah its part of a nature if you look at in terms of key driver in our overall leverage firm is absolutely showing more EBITDA and that’s the most powerful driver in terms of improving all of our financial metrics.
We overlay that strategy with the point Howard touched on which is really a point in time the valuation of the best use of proceeds.
The overall objective of this company as we talked about is to put ourselves in a position for that investment ratings upgrade.
So we understand that’s part that’s going to involve operating performance improvements effective capital deployment and recycling as well as overall leverage reduction.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee from Stifel.
Hi guys nice quarter congratulations.
Drill down a little bit Jerry or George basically you got a 25 million square foot portfolio you have 3 million square feet that comes with lease expiry every year at the 60% tenant retention we get 1.8 million you can renew which means you lease about 1.2 million square feet every year knew to breakeven on occupancy and then you take it one step further each occupancy point is about 250 000 square feet for you guys.
So to get from say 86% to 92% occupancy is a gain of about 1.5 million square feet above the annual 1.2 million square feet of new leasing is this a one year process or a three year process or a five year process to get up to stabilization? John it’s a great question.
We are focused on making that timeframe is compressed as possible.
The (inaudible) portfolio always ran in that 92% to 94%.
Clearly it’s been subject to last few years to a much higher level of tenant vacations and downsizings.
As we’ve talked on previous calls we think the vast bulk of that is behind us.
Our pipeline is returning to historically high level for the activity both from – primarily for new leasing activity.
And that our convergence rate on that pipeline hasn’t proved historically has been as George touched on just shy 40%.
It’s a very hard question to answer I’ll say through the year and our we are determining not to make a five years.
So given the three options we got the absence of making a formal forecast it’s hard to be three years but the reality is that we are exercising every effort we can in the company to both absorb space and tell that leasing campaign with our investment program to move from the portfolio assets that we believe we’ll not be effective rent contributors from either NOI or capital consumption standpoint.
Hey John its Howard I just want to have one point on that.
If you look at page 29 of our supplemental package you’ll see that you may have over stated the 3 million square feet per year.
First of all it tends to be lower in some years and may be more importantly we have done a lot of blending and extending the past of years to take down those forward maturities and put away longer term occupancy.
So when you go through the math I’m sure you’ll do you’ll see we don’t need quite that million to stay even and it will be less number one and number two with an expected higher retention rate it will be that much less even more.
So the number they are going to start working more in our favor just on an overall basis as we move forward.
And we also handicapped kind of where we have that vacancy.
So if you take a look in a big blocks of vacancy in our company now Three Logan remain a nice piece of upside for us as we execute some of these additional leases.
We have been occupancy impacted in D.C.
but as you well know there is some marketplace it has the ability to absorb a larger space and a fairly sure period of time I think we have good inventory to present in the marketplace.
And in New Jersey we are going to rely on the higher end quality of our portfolio versus a competitive set to get that portfolio back towards historic 93 to 95% leasing levels.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Hi thanks.
It’s Josh Attie with Michael.
In any of your markets are you seeing positive absorption on a market-wide basis? And can you talk about how rent economics on a market-wide basis were trending? Yeah.
I mean we’re certainly seeing decent levels of activity.
On an absorption basis we’re seeing positive absorption that we’ve seen in the CBD Philadelphia and Richmond in the PA suburbs in Austin where we’ve also seen some positive absorption.
Now all those absorption numbers though Josh are well below the 10-year historical average.
I mean Richmond Q2 there was about 40 000 square feet of absorption versus historic 10-year average about 167 000 square feet.
So the absorption numbers are kind of working their way back and that’s certainly a real benchmark that we look at in terms of our ability to move rents.
In terms of our ability to absorb space we are very keen on the activity levels that we see in the various markets and those numbers continue to be fairly good with very few exceptions.
Certainly the activity levels in the metro D.C.
market in the second quarter were down but we also saw nice numbers of activity in the PA suburbs CBD Philadelphia Richmond and frankly in several of New Jersey markets as well.
And are rent economics starting to improve in those markets that are seeing positive absorption? I don’t think there is any question.
As George touched on and maybe George you can amplify.
We are seeing good rental rate increases on a gap basis and in some cases on a cash basis in some of those key sub markets.
I think George outlined several of them but we probably have 10 or 15 other sub marks we were getting positive gap rents.
Now – probably 15 we’re getting positive gap rents.
But that’s certainly something that we’re seeing that list of positive gap rent sub markets grow quarter over quarter which is a good sign.
Right I mean just for the second quarter we saw gap rent growth on new deals in our Pennsylvania suburbs of 7.5% in Metro D.C.
11.8% and on the deals that new deals that we commenced in New Jersey Delaware for the quarter we saw rent growth of 2.4%.
Thanks.
And just one more question on external growth can you just talk about what you are seeing in terms of acquisition and development opportunities so that as some of this cash comes back to you throughout that sales and the D.C.
joint venture we can think about the prospects are for putting that capital to work through investment as oppose to just debt we pay down? Sure Tom.
Talking about the investment activity we have seeing increases in some of our markets Austin Washington and Philadelphia and in terms of what we are looking at I mean the pricing in D.C.
continues to be tight so deep full of investors looking at assets inside the Broadway the district and even outside the Broadway in some occasions and we still see pricing been tight.
We although seeing maybe because of the GSA maybe taking let’s face from the government point of view you may see slower projects on rent growth when people are taking a look at investments in those markets but other than slower rent projection growth whether some people that we’re projecting spikes that may be tempered a bit and I think the mortgage market relative to some of those investments us about the same as it’s been very strong.
When it comes to looking at Austin for example we think that that market is showing some tick up.
There is been a few transactions occurring in the southwest and then in the northwest some well-located assets.
And we think there is a few more portfolios coming out on the market there.
In terms of we’re looking at we have about 4 million square feet in our pipeline that we’re looking at.
About half of it is of market transactions and then as it relates to the joint venture to the extent we have that done and we have a forward equity commitment will try to deploy that money in our targeted markets primarily inside the both way for Washington.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Anderson with BMO Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Question is on the guidance of FFO going up a bit but what does that say about if you were to issue guidance on AFFO basis would that have been flat or down considering the use of CapEx to kind of buy occupancy? Well Richard.
It’s Howard.
I mean unfortunately we did bring that down a little bit because the capital spend is higher now.
As George eluded some of that is forward based.
We’re at one of the highest forward leasing spreads we’ve been in the long time close to 300 basis points the brokerage commissions and some of the early spend of those end up showing up in our financial reporting before the actual leases commence.
So I think you can expect to see over the next couple of quarters as we continue aggressively lease is a little bit of an allocation in the capital we spend.
But the expectation is certainly with longer leases that we are going to level that off and bring it back down that coupled with higher overall retention which will be a natural by-product of a stronger market should create a lot of acceleration in our category FFO in 6 12 18 months.
But little bit far out to really know for sure but that’s the longer term expectation how to play out.
Fair enough.
And then just the follow-up question is on dispositions I guess that kind of two fold question on that.
And first of all the 80 million – as this time you are able to do more than 80 million do you anticipate that will have any impact on your guidance or do you think it will be kind of late in the year.
So no real impact? And the second is the target for sale in New Jersey PA and Virginia when I think of you guys – my – what I am kind of waiting for is for you to get back to sweets sport and what you are really good at and that’s admitted land I can really focusing on that and I’m curious is to why you don’t have California and Austin included in that list of targeted markets for sale? Let me take each question in order.
Certainly to the extent that we would have a disposition execution level that was greater than the 80 million we do believe that timing of that would be so late near the impact on 2011 numbers would be minimal.
So...
Okay.
I think that’s that’s pretty clear from just a timing stand point.
Okay.
On the broader question you touched on I think would have being overly specific we are undertaking and we use a term price discovery twice now.
We are undertaking price discovery on a whole variety of assets through the portfolio.
And our expectations in the next 30 60 days we’ll be getting some feedback on a variety of single assets and small portfolios we’ll be able to make a determination on the optimal time to sell.
And certainly the California market as you touched on are not due to the long-term for us.
We’ve talked about that on previous calls so we continue to very actively monitor that marketplace from an investment standpoint to identify the right time for us to implement our program.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Thank you.
Gerry I wonder if you can address particularly given the slower rent projects that a mention investors are underwriting in D.C.
I know that you’ve said that you expect pricing to be tight and attractive but are you seeing – has it been impacted by the pause that you’ve described in D.C.
in terms of what you expect to realize on JV? Hi John.
No I think that the pricing that we were expecting are circling is where we expected to be.
I was basically just referring to I think that as we talk to brokers and we see investments I think the people may start to take a – I think there were some – if you look at a lot of the reports and where we thought underwriting was relative to some pricing you heard a lot of talk about rent growth of 6% 7% 8% over the next several years and a lot of that being generate by demand both on the private and government side and what we are hearing a little bit more besides not just this week but in the past month has been with the idea the government maybe not taking as much space not shrinking but taking less and therefore those growth rates that people are using to value some of the assets and get to the returns they are expecting maybe muted but still growing.
Can you kind of put some brackets around what pricing you think you might achieve? Actually at this point we’re going to just give you dollar range and hopefully be in a position to talk about particular cap rates and prices per square foot on the next call.
Okay.
Jerry wondered if your - I guess take first of all in terms of whether there is a market for vacancy I presume that kind of buying occupancy you are really referencing some of the weaker markets where presumably you have non-core assets held for sale and I wonder whether you are better off just taking the pain today and selling vacancy rather than trying to put in the capital and sell leased up asset? Look John I think the sales transaction I referenced earlier in the call is perfect reflection of how we view it.
That was an asset in Southern New Jersey about 70 000 square feet were 14% leased.
We did our sitting around round table talking about the real the absorption pace the effective realize the capital costs we made a determination that was better for us to see that property in its vacant condition because the net present value of that sale from our standpoint we’re in a number of different financial scenarios was better the lease up in whole strategy.
So that is a – that’s an approach we are taking on every single asset we review as part of our portfolio management program.
Last year we did sell a number of significant inter lease properties.
Frankly for prices per square foot were optimal but they represent the best financial decision for the company so I would certainly expect with this wave of assets that we’re currently testing the market on as well as any subsequent ways we continue to follow that same discipline.
What was the total dollar volume be everything that you are kind of testing the market on? We haven’t disclosed that.
I mean I realize that it’s not all likely to hit but in broad brush terms? Yeah broad brush terms are broad brush – really well.
It’s greater than the $80 million target we have on our plan.
Okay.
Lastly for Howard Howard you’d reference the rating agency upgrade strategy and I wondered if you could share with us what specifically the agency set communicated there looking forward from you and when you expect to get there? Well I think number one they never specifically communicate what the goal is so it remains a bit elusive but from conversations we continue to have and more importantly monitoring the peer group what we think we’ll do it for us is mostly on the debt to EBITDA side.
And that gets improved primarily by lease up improving EBITDA but also at the margin if there is some excess sales activity it could ship in to the debt side of it.
So that becomes really a natural evolution of executing the business plan.
In addition I think it follows and suite from that would be somewhat better but not a great deal better coverage ratios than we have.
I think our coverage ratios right now are probably between bottom investment grade BBBs and mid BBBs or BAA3 and BAA2.
So I think as we do that leased up that’s going to improve well through where we need to be.
And that assumes that rate stay plus or minus a 100 basis points around where they are.
We have been pleasingly surprised that where we have been able to execute fixed rate financings as far.
And you timeframe for (inaudible) when you get there? You know it becomes really an answer when we think we are going to hit those higher occupancy levels.
I think we are encouraged by the turn in this current quarter.
We still see some ups and downs over the next couple of quarters.
But the strength to look forward plan and the strength of the regional teams suggest that we could have some pretty good results going in to 2012.
And then began to accelerate those conversations toward the end of next year.
Okay.
Thank you.
At this time there are no further questions.
Do you have closing remarks? Just to thank everyone for their participation and we look forward to updating you on our next quarterly call.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Latangie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust Third Quarter Earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer session.
If you would like to ask a question during this time simply press star then the number one on your telephone keypad.
If you would like to withdraw your question press the pound key.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Please go ahead sir.
Latangie thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in our third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
On today’s call with me are Gabe Mainardi our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; George Johnstone Senior Vice President of Operations; Howard Sipzner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President of Portfolio Management and Investments.
Prior to beginning I’d like to remind everyone that certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
Although we believe the estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurances that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press releases as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
The third quarter represented a solid continuation of our 2011 business plan execution.
Highlights from the quarter:  our business plan continues to run better than earlier projections leasing activity was strong and we saw a continued improvement in our mark-to-market our leasing pipeline stands at 3.7 million square feet generally in line with previous quarters and even with the change in economic climate since our last call we continue to see good leasing activity levels and a customer base still motivated to execute transactions.
Occupancy levels also improved and we increased our revenue targets again.
We continue to see a flight up the quality curve and towards well capitalized landlords that has clearly benefited our portfolio.
Our market-driven leasing strategy will continue to vary by submarket.
In some markets we have pushing rents and in others we continue to buy occupancy.
We had strong tenant retention during the quarter.
We are also increasing our projected 2011 core occupancy percentage to 86.7% an improvement over last quarter’s projection and 100 basis points over year-end 2010 levels.
Our same store numbers have improved from our original forecast and again from last quarter.
We are rebuilding occupancy at a challenging point in the market cycle so we expect capital costs to be higher.
To compensate we have continued to increase lease terms from the 5.3 year average in 2010 to the 6.3 years today a 19% increase and we’re also incorporating annual rental rate steps in most of our leases.
Based on that and as you’ve seen we’ve had an increase in third quarter capital costs.
While the key metric we monitor that is leasing costs on a per square foot per lease year basis actually declined to $2.23 a foot from $2.94 last quarter the absolute amount of dollars we spent increased due to our accelerated level of current leasing activity and early prepayment of future leasing costs.
We are currently 88.5% leased and are maintaining about a 290 basis point spread in our lease versus occupied percentage.
We will hold this 88 to 89% forward leasing level through year-end.
As a result of our leasing success and good expense management during the year we are increasing our 2011 guidance to a range of $1.36 to $1.39 per share FFO versus our previous range of $1.32 to $1.36 in FFO.
A few other comments on our balance sheet and investment program – in looking at our balance sheet an investment rating upgrade coupled with continued leverage reduction and debt maturity management remain key objectives.
During the quarter we continued to build the strength of our unencumbered pool and paid off our $60 million 1 Logan Square mortgage loan and also prepaid without penalty our $34 million Concord Airport Plaza mortgage.
The total of $94 million was funded off our line of credit.
In looking at our line our $600 million line of credit and our $183 million term loan mature on June 29 of 2012.
In addition we have $152 million bond maturity expiring on April 1 in 2012.
We have commenced the process of re-syndicating the $600 million line of credit.
That process is going very well.
We would expect pricing levels and terms consistent with those achieved by other investment-grade REITs.
Additionally we plan to refinance the $183 million term loan and are evaluating a potential upsizing to our term loan capacity with a laddered maturity schedule.
Bank response on this initiative has also been very strong.
We’ll be holding a bank group meeting in the next few weeks expect to finalize commitments before year-end with a closing in the first quarter of 2012.
We anticipate that any increased capacity provided by the expanded bank facility will provide another source to repay our April 2012 bond maturities.
In looking at investments we had a quiet quarter but continue to have a lot of work in progress.
We are in the market undertaking price discovery with a variety of properties.
These assets as we’ve reported in previous quarters are non-core either from a locational future NOI growth or capital consumption standpoint.
We have $30 million under contract with closings scheduled in the next 30 days.
These properties are in New Jersey and the Pennsylvania suburbs and will trade for a blended 7.4% cash cap rate.
We also have a number of additional properties aggregating at about $160 million in the market with good investor interest.
We made good progress during the quarter on our joint venture efforts on several properties in northern Virginia.
We have selected a high-quality institutional partner through the auction process.
We are in advanced document negotiations.
Due diligence is being wrapped up and third party mortgage quotes are being actively sought.
If successful we anticipate this transaction will close by 2011 year-end very much in line with our original target date.
The venture as previously outlined will consist of us contributing several assets receiving a forward equity commitment from our venture partner that would enable us to form a co-investment vehicle targeting asset acquisitions inside The Beltway.
The total value of the additional contribution approximates $160 million with an expected forward equity commitment of $100 million.
We expect to report an attractive cap rate and price per square foot upon transaction closing.
Also during the quarter we completed the foreclosure on a note we acquired for $18.8 million and as a result acquired 3020 Market Street a 56.6% occupied 193 000 square foot office building located a block from our Cira Center building and adjacent to our 30<sup>th</sup> Street post office IRS campus in University City Philadelphia.
The property is located in the Keystone opportunity tax zone and is undergoing some additional renovations.
We are in active discussions with several prospects to absorb large blocks of its current vacancy.
We expect to invest an additional $60 per square foot and obtain a stabilized return of 11%.
In looking at 2012 as we indicate in our press release we introduce 2012 FFO guidance with a range of $1.35 to $1.41 creating a midpoint of $1.38 which is ahead of consensus estimates of $1.35.
That guidance is driven by the following macro assumptions:  first we expect the economic recovery to remain slow.
We also expect tenant demand levels and tenant activity levels to remain static in most of our markets to slightly increasing in several others.
Our plan contemplates 2012 total leasing production of 4.1 million square feet which is about the same level we will achieve in 2011.
We also expect there will be marginal increases in net absorption across our core markets and that the majority of our leasing production will come from market share increases.
We expect our stronger markets to continue to outperform well namely Philadelphia CBD Austin Texas Richmond Virginia and the crescent suburban markets in Philadelphia.
We do expect better year-over-year activity levels in our more challenged markets of the Toll Road Carter which is 13.8% of our NOI and New Jersey which is 8.7% of our NOI.
We do expect year-end 2012 occupancy to be 88.7% a 200 basis point increase over 2011 year-end levels with the majority of that increase over current levels occurring in the second half of the year.
We are forecasting a tenant retention rate in 2012 of 56%.
Our plan results in positive same store growth and continued improvement in our operating metrics which George will review in more detail in a few moments.
The plan does not incorporate any equity issuances at all.
The plan does contemplate $80 million of sales activity with no acquisitions.
As a point of note if the DC venture closes without any additional acquisitions in that vehicle for 2012 it could be a penny or two dilutive; but if we achieve some of the target investment objectives we’ll be able to offset that situation.
We anticipate that our primary driver of deleveraging will be EBITDA growth.
The 2012 plan is constructed as leverage neutral but we expect that sales in excess of the $80 million target would be primarily used to reduce debt and/or be actively recycled into higher growth and higher quality acquisitions.
The plan reflects the execution of our line of credit and term loan transaction and no other capital activity is built into the 2012 plan.
At this point George will now provide color on our 2011 operational performance and more detail on our 2012 outlook.
George will then turn it over to Howard for additional color.
Thank you Gerry and good morning.
Leasing activity for the quarter was strong with 949 000 square feet of lease commencements and continued progress on the business plan.
Lease renewals commenced totaled 590 000 square feet leading to a 67.3% retention rate for the quarter.
New lease activity and tenant move-outs were as expected resulting in third quarter occupancy of 85.6%.
Traffic for the quarter was up 1.2% over last quarter and 5% over last year.
New Jersey Delaware and metro DC posted the best levels of increased traffic for the quarter both up 28%.
The pipeline remains strong and unchanged from last quarter at 3.7 million square feet 3.2 million of new deals and 506 000 of renewal deals.
600 000 square feet of deals are in lease negotiations with the balance all entertaining proposals.
Our continued progress on leasing for 2011 has resulted in spec revenue being increased to $34.8 million with all but $268 000 being achieved.
Our executed forward leasing and known move-outs in the fourth quarter will result in year-end occupancy of 86.7% and a 62% annual retention rate.
Similar to my comment last quarter on capital expenditures we report capital costs for CAD in the quarter in which they are paid which is not necessarily the quarter in which the lease commences.
As we continue to achieve higher levels of forward leasing you can expect this mismatching of capital and lease commencements to continue.
To illustrate this quarter we had $33 million of revenue maintaining capital which was our highest amount to date:  $11 million of capital related to leases that commenced prior to the third quarter $10 million of capital on leases that commenced in the third quarter and $12 million of capital associated with leases that will commence in subsequent quarters.
Now a few comments relative to our 2012 business plan – we have $43.4 million of revenue budgeted from leases commencing in 2012.
14.8 million or 34% is already executed leaving $28.6 million of speculative revenue to be achieved.
This compares to the $25 million spec revenue target announced on last year’s third quarter earnings call.
Occupancy during the first half of 2012 will be relatively flat with a 200 basis point pickup in the second half of the year.
We expect a 56% retention rate based on 600 000 square feet of renewals already executed current lease negotiations and known tenant move-outs.
Rental rate trends are also budgeted to improve during 2012.
GAAP rent growth will range from negative 1% to positive 2% versus a negative 1.5 to negative 3% in 2011.
On a cash basis while still negative the trend line is improving ranging from negative 4 to negative 7% versus a negative 6 to 8% in 2011.
Gerry previously discussed our assumed capital.
We expect the range next year to be $2.25 to $3.25 per square foot per lease year.
These leasing assumptions and trends will translate into same store NOI growth of 0.5 to 2.5% on a GAAP basis and flat to 2% on a cash basis both excluding early termination and other income.
While leasing remains the primary focus of our regional teams we continue to make good strides in operating expense control.
Our energy procurement and conservation efforts along with aggressively rebidding in service contracts and appealing real estate taxes has contributed to lower operating costs.
I’ll now turn it over to Howard for the financial review.
Thank you George and thank you Gerry.
In the third quarter FFO available to common shares and units totaled $60.3 million and includes $12 million attributable to our previously disclosed historic tax credit financing.
Without the 12 million our FFO of 48.3 million compares favorably to 47.5 in the prior quarter and 45.6 million a year ago.
The $0.41 per share of FFO exceeded analyst consensus by $0.03 per share and resulted in a payout ratio for the quarter of 36.6% on the $0.15 dividend we paid in July 2011.
Our FFO continues to be very high quality with other income type items such as termination revenue management fees interest income and JV income contributing just 5.3 million gross or 3.9 million net of expenses to our FFO figure each below our 2011 quarterly run rates.
A few observations on the components of our Q3 2011 performance – cash rent at 114.8 million was up 3.4 million versus Q3 2010 and up half a million dollars sequentially versus Q2 2011.
Straight-line rent of 5.5 million was up 1.7 million and 0.8 million sequentially versus 4.7 million in Q2 2011.
The quarter-over-quarter increases are primarily attributable to full quarters in 2011 for the post office and garage projects and for 3 Logan versus their respective completion and acquisition dates in the third quarter of 2010 as well as the impact of the Overlook transaction the acquisition in Richmond Virginia in the first quarter of 2011 and 3020 Market Street being acquired during the current quarter.
Recovery income at 19.8 million and our recovery ratio of just over 35% reflected typical expense recovery conditions and are in line with our expectations.
Property operating expenses of 42.4 million were up 1.8 million sequentially due to seasonal factors including higher electric while real estate taxes of $13.9 million were down $0.6 million sequentially due to lower assessed values.
Interest expense of 32.3 million decreased $2.4 million sequentially as we benefited from the loan payoffs Gerry identified and a return to typical floating rate balances in the third quarter of 2011.
Lastly G&amp;A at 6.2 million was in line with our expectations.
The EBITDA coverage ratios that we experienced in the third quarter are at their highest recent levels of 2.6 times interest 2.3 times debt service and 2.2 times fixed charge.
Margins are very strong despite being at trough vacancy levels with 60.5% for NOI and 60.6% for EBITDA.
In terms of 2011 guidance as Gerry mentioned we’re increasing the prior range by $0.035 to now be at $1.36 to $1.39 and in line with both Gerry’s and George’s comments reflects substantial and successful completion of virtually all of our 2011 plan.
As we look ahead to the balance of the quarter our capital needs are light having already funded the acquisition—or the redemption rather of our exchangeable notes as well as having paid our October 2011 dividend.
We expect to end the year 2011 with a letter of credit balance of approximately $240 million reflecting recent activity.
In terms of 2012 guidance we’re providing an initial figure of $1.35 to $1.41 per diluted share; and excluding the $0.08 of historic tax credit revenue we’ll recognize once again in the third quarter of 2012 our quarterly run rate will be in a range of $0.31 to $0.33 per diluted share.
George touched on most of the market metrics that underlie the 2012 business plan and the remainder can be found in our supplemental package.
In terms of other income items we’re once again projecting a modest figure of 20 to $25 million gross or 13 to $18 million net for a basket of other items such as termination revenues other income management revenues less associated expenses if net interest income JV income and any bond repurchase activity to the extent there is any.
G&amp;A will remain consistent between 6 and 6.25 million per quarter of 24 to 25 million for the full year.
We project interest expense taking into account the refinancing and recast of our credit facility and other maturing debt to be in the range of 133 to $140 million above 2011 levels and reflecting the variety of refinancing assumptions.
We are including 80 million of as-yet unidentified sales activity in our 2012 plan both to raise capital as well as to de-lever and move out of non-core properties.
This is weighted about 60% for the year for a gross NOI reduction versus year-end 2011 figures of between 4.5 and $5 million of NOI.
Once again we’ll recognize in the third quarter of 2012 about $0.08 of historic tax credit income.
This is offset by about $0.01 of total annual interest expense which like in 2011 is recognized ratably over the course of the year in our interest expense line item and we do back out the $0.08 per share from our CAD calculation as its essentially non-cash.
As Gerry said no additional equity issuance and we’re not programming any additional note buyback activity as well and we’re looking for a roughly stable share count in 2012 at about $147.5 million.
We’re expecting this FFO to produce CAD of $0.60 to $0.70 which as a result will yield around $10 million of free cash flow after dividends and recurring CAPEX.
In terms of our 2012 capital plan we have total capital needs of about $600 million for 2012 consisting of 148 million of aggregate investment activity.
In this we’ve assumed $50 million of revenue maintaining CAPEX dollars spent on space that had been previously contributing revenue $80 million for new project lease-up such as acquired vacant space space in the 3 Logan Square property and 3020 Market Street along with other revenue creating capital expenditures and about $18 million for funding our capital requirements under the Commerce Square JV.
We have a total debt repayment excluding the credit facility of $356 million – 152 million for our 2012 notes 183 million for our maturing bank term loan and $20 million for various mortgage amortization and ultimately debt costs in the refinancing.
We expect to keep our dividend level consistent subject to Board declaration at an aggregate level of 96 million on our common and preferred.
How are we going to raise this $600 million?  We’re programming 175 million of cash flow before financings investments and dividends the $80 million of sales we mentioned and we expect to do 500 million of net new financing most likely in the form of bank term loans which will be done along with the recast of our $600 million credit facility.
As Gerry said initial reaction from our banks has been very positive.
We expect to complete all the work related to these financings before the end of this year and close and fund them in early 2012.
These sources $755 million so we’ll use the 155 million of excess funds over our 600 of requirements to reduce our credit facility balance to what’s expected to be an $84 million level at year-end 2012 in line with our program to keep credit facility usage light and maintain maximum flexibility.
Account receivables were stable at 9/30/11 with reserves of $15.5 million in total 3.6 million on 18 and change of operating and other receivables or about 19% and 11.9 million of reserves on 119.6 million of straight-line rent associated receivables.
At 9.9% these levels remain consistent with prior quarters.
All of our balance sheet and credit metrics continue to be very strong and probably the most noteworthy item is the degree to which we unencumbered our portfolio in the third quarter resulting in a very high level of unencumbered assets.
We’re 100% compliant on all of our credit facilities and indentured covenants.
With that I’ll turn it back to Gerry.
Great.
Thank you very much Howard and thank you George.
To conclude our prepared remarks the third quarter was a very good one for us.
We exceeded our leasing targets posted solid leasing activity and continued a positive trend line on our operating metrics like improvements to mark-to-market and same store performance.
We are in a very good position as you heard from George and Howard heading into the year-end 2011 and accomplished all of our key business plan objectives.
As we look ahead to 2012 we reiterate our commitment to our primary growth strategy which is to simply lease up our existing vacancy.
With our 2012 guidance range our primary attention will be focused on improving occupancy and accelerating leasing activity.
As noted our 2012 plan expects year-end occupancy to be up about 200 basis points retention rate as George outlined positive same store growth and a significant improvement in the mark-to-market from our 2011 forecast.
This guidance also reflects our belief that fundamentals continue to slowly improve our product quality will continue to provide a competitive advantage and that other key elements our business plan namely balance sheet and maturity management and our investment program continue very much on track.
With that we’d be delighted to open up the floor for questions.
We would ask that in the interest of time you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Thank you.
Hi thank you.
It’s Josh Addy with Michael.
Can you talk about what are the drivers of same store cash NOI growth next year of flat to up 2%?  It seems like the occupancy gain is very back half-weighted.
Is there anything else that’s driving the same store higher? Well I think it’s a combination of when the leasing occurs but also some of our operating expense measures primarily in some of our successful appeals on real estate taxes.
Is there a burn-off of free rent that’s helping that number? Yeah.
I mean most of our new leasing that we did in 2011 would not have been producing cash NOI for the full period in ’11 but will be for 2012.
Yeah Josh it’s Howard.
Straight-line rent should trough during the year below its highest levels but then with a back-end leasing push could once again rise; so there will be some variability in the straight-line rent during 2012.
Okay.
I’m just trying to figure out what the main driver of that cash NOI growth is.
Well as George said there is occupancy in there and we’re also seeing rents candidly bottom in most of our markets and beginning to show some upward bias.
You don’t necessarily see that in the mark-to-market because that’s a reflection of whatever prior lease was there but when looked at on an absolute basis many markets are rising and none of them are really falling anymore.
Josh one other significant contributor next year is the fact that 3 Logan will join the same store portfolio in 2012.
Okay thanks.
That’s helpful.
If I can just ask one more question – on the asset sales are you considering any of the CBD Philly assets like Cira Center as a potential source of funds bringing in a JV partner and looking at that as a way to raise equity? Look certainly a joint venture of some of the CBD Philadelphia assets remains on our radar screen and we periodically review that and also respond frankly to episodic reverse inquiries.
So we remain very open to that possibility particularly as our revenue contribution from CBD Philadelphia continues to increase.
Primary focus however on our asset sale program is really identifying those assets Josh that are in non-core non-strategic locations for us that really we believe have very muted growth prospects.
That’s what we really have sold for the last two years and would expect that trend line to continue.
But as we look at the entire portfolio I think we’ve taken a very proactive approach on continuing to assess every single asset and finding out the optimal point of exit so to speak and making sure we stay in close touch with the market and monitor where that pricing is versus our exit pricing.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc.
Thanks good morning.
Along those same lines curious about the size of the portfolio that exists the non-core portfolio in terms of investment dollars.
How would you characterize that? Jordan I’m not sure I understand the question.
What’s the size of the non-core portfolio?  So if you were to sell it all today the value of it would be $500 million?  What remains left to be pruned? Well I think in terms of what we’ve put out in the market so far as I indicated including what we have under contract and what is kind of in the market today it’s in that $200 million range.
Certainly the level of longer term volume that we would expect to exit is higher than that and we do in fact look at aggregating assets into portfolios today to try and identify the potential buying population.
And how much higher – is it a few X or—and are the other assets poised for joint venture?  Are those markets that you’ll joint venture as Josh just suggested and asked or is it markets you’d look to complete exit? Well look in terms of assets what we really consider to be non-core our primary objective there would be to exit.
To the extent that there is a blend of core markets but maybe non-core properties in those submarkets that may become a very viable joint venture opportunity for us very similar to what we did a few years ago with an institutional investor on some of the submarkets here in the Philadelphia suburbs where we contributed several million square feet into a venture in which we retain a 20% stake.
But typically when we go into the marketplace with the expectation of trading an asset we always look for a sale first and then take a look at joint venture pricing to see if that’s a better equation for us versus an outright sale.
Jordan it’s Howard.
I would add Jordan that in general we don’t have a large block of assets that are targeted for sale.
That’s something very different about us.
We’d rather take more of an asset management approach.
We look at anywhere from a bottom 1 2 3% of the portfolio via ranking system.
We integrate that analysis with our capital plan and we come up with a balance we want to sell.
It was $80 million in 2011.
We’ve targeted the same level for 2012 and you’ll typically see us selling a bottom portion of a portfolio as opposed to an absolute portion of the portfolio because we just don’t have that level of assets to dispose of.
Okay.
And just to clarify the 200 million the 30 that’s under contract the 160 that you’ve got good investor interest in that does not include the JV? That does not include the JV correct.
That’s also 160 the initial contribution? That’s correct yes.
Okay.
And lastly on that you said that if you were to go ahead with the JV by year-end it sounds like you may be successful there it would be potentially a penny or two dilutive which I find to be pretty interesting.
Is there debt on those properties and/or what is the expected reinvestment--? Yeah there is no debt on those properties.
Maybe Tom you could walk through the mechanics there.
Sure.
Jordan we’re looking at potentially putting financing relatively conservative 50 to 60% financing.
We’ve been getting relatively good indications of debt quotes below 5% so if we were to close we would be simultaneously putting on that level of financing.
Okay thank you.
Yeah thanks and good morning.
Can you give us an update on leasing at 3 Logan and some of the expirations that are set for next year how that progress is going? Certainly.
Look 3 Logan like the rest of Brandywine is a lease-up story and like the rest of the Brandywine story fortunately the leasing is going well and we’re making good progress.
Right now we’re about currently 82% preleased.
We are in active discussion with many of our renewal tenants.
That process is going very well.
Rents and terms of those extensions are very much in line with our expectations and more importantly on the new leasing front we are in advanced stages of negotiation with tenants that will create absorption in the building of over 200 000 square feet and we would expect that transactions would migrate to execution certainly by the end of 2011.
The total advance pipeline Tony in that building is about 600 000 square feet so view we’re in very very good shape.
Some of the tenants whose leases expire next year who will occupy space that some of these newer tenants will move into we will either vacate them so we can build the space out or depending upon the timing of the newer tenants we may in fact achieve short-term extensions until we need to take that space back for construction.
So all in all going very well.
Good levels of activity rent levels and I mentioned terms capital investment et cetera staying very much in line with our pro forma.
Okay thanks.
And then just another question – you laid out the reasons for the bigger CAPEX in the quarter.
Just wondering if you can give us a sense as to how much has been committed that might be on the sidelines that’s outsized that we could see over the next say few quarters.
George you have that number? Yeah I think really when you look at our leasing statistics page for the third quarter we committed $17.22 a square foot which would translate to about a $16 million CAPEX spend.
So the fact that we had $33 million of revenue maintaining capital in the quarter the majority of that was future quarters related.
I had referenced in my commentary 12 million for subsequent quarters.
Ten of that 12 are on leases that will commence in the fourth quarter.
We had the balance of $2 million are on 2012 commencements.
So again I think a better way to kind of look at capital is really through the capital committed on our leasing statistics page in the supplemental.
It’s really the cash payment timing that is skewing the CAD percentage quarter-to-quarter.
And that’s one of the reasons why we really do focus on that capital cost per lease year.
As we’ve discussed and as you know from just monitoring the office market we’re not going to tell you it’s going to get less expensive to get tenancies in this current climate.
It really isn’t.
We do think capital costs will continue to have an upward bias.
We think we have a pretty well diversified portfolio so we’re able to blend lower CAPEX markets with higher CAPEX markets to get a good result.
But really until net new demand increases and vacancies significantly tighten I think we’re going to be seeing that upward bias.
So our focus really is on control over our leasing cost per square foot per lease year.
We’ve been as I mentioned lengthening lease terms holding face rates to preserve investment value which is one of the reasons why the straight-line rents that Howard touched on is going through the phenomenon that it is.
We are getting 2 to 3% annual cash increases in most of our leases and that’s been a very effective approach.
But as I mentioned we’re aggressively building occupancy off the trough levels and as a result we’re incurring a higher level of absolute total spend.
But as we economically evaluate it each of those leases we’re creating will hopefully create some good value so it still winds up being a very good investment for the company particularly with these longer lease terms and the rent steps.
And look – certainly as the market continues to recover we fully expect that our retention rate will return to pre-2009 levels in the mid-70s and that the investments we’re making today to attract new tenants to our portfolio will provide a very very good return for this company over the next few years.
Got it thanks.
Just one quick clarification – on the $33 million type number are the capital costs associated with things like 3 Logan and Janney Lease is that going to be in that number? No that would not.
The 33 million was on revenue maintaining transactions.
It’s the capital that we would spend on a 3 Logan on previously unoccupied space or 3020 that’s a revenue creating transaction for us.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Can you guys just talk a little bit more about what you’re seeing on the ground in your markets? I mean granted we’re not seeing a lot of job growth out there but you are seeing decent leasing demand so can you just kind of frame that?  And as you’re heading into 2012 CBD versus suburban what you think will have more demand and also along those lines what lease negotiations look like given CAPEX versus free rent versus rent bumps.
Sure we’ll tag-team that Jamie.
Look the economic picture remains clouded as we all know and every day there’s different data points that can swing you one way or the other.
Yesterday the durable goods order came out that was—if you excluded airplane orders it was a sharp increase in all the other investments.
So it would seem that that measure of capital business spending jumped sharply and it’s hard to believe that businesses would continue to invest heavily if they didn’t see demand that they needed to support those expenditures.
So it’s very much of a reactive market to economic data and we recognize that which is why we have varied at all from our program of executing lease transactions as promptly as possible and getting new tenants into our portfolio and being very aggressive in maintaining existing tenants.
In general we are seeing activity levels as I mentioned static from where they were last quarter.
We continue to see in some markets good levels of activity with a slight decline in concession packages.
But more importantly when we look at 2011 versus 2012 and some of our key markets we are actually seeing cash mark-to-market projected to move from negative in 2011 to positive in 2012 which is a very very good sign of some markets recovering.
And that type of trend line we’re seeing evidenced in markets like Radnor Pennsylvania Conshohocken Philadelphia CBD Austin Texas.
We’re continuing to see still a static mark-to-market that might be negative in the Toll Road Carter New Jersey et cetera; but generally activity levels we see even in those challenged markets will remain around the levels we had this year with hopefully a little more throughput.
Have not really seen a change – George please weigh in – in the level of concession packages required by tenants versus what our plan was.
They’re still there and they still are on the table in every transaction but in terms of what we projected for ’11 what we’re anticipating for ’12 we don’t really see much variability to that on a submarket basis.
Yeah I think Jamie on new transactions we’re still seeing the requests for one month of free rent per lease year and we obviously weigh that in the total capital stack of the deal with both the TI improvement and the leasing commission.
Okay thanks.
And then can you talk a little bit more about the properties you think will go into the fund and what pricing is? Well we haven’t disclosed the pricing.
I think at this point we’d prefer to hold off on that until we actually announce the transaction but I think in order of magnitude we expect they will be northern Virginia Maryland assets in that $160 million range and we would certainly disclose that information upon the close of the transaction Jamie.
Okay thank you.
Thanks good morning.
Wanted to just ask a little bit about the 2012 guidance and kind of how the outlook compares to the guidance levels that you gave initially for 2011 because if I look at—I think Gerry you mentioned that your speculative revenue targets today after what you’ve gotten done thus far is about comparable maybe a couple million dollars higher than what your initial estimates were for 2011; but then you guys had a very good few months from late October to early February getting a lot of the spec targets done.
So how do you kind of feel about the conservatism of your leasing targets for ’12 versus what you guys had in ’11? Well as I mentioned we are—bottom line total leasing production for 2011 is pretty much what we’re projecting for 2012.
Now the variable in there is that we have had a very good so far second half of the year in terms of the depth of the pipeline.
So the pipeline numbers are staying around that 3.7 million square foot number but transactions are continuing to progress pretty nicely through the pipeline.
So when we evaluate the 2012 plan as George touched on we’re projecting about $3 million more of net speculative revenue that needs to be done.
That felt like a good number for us.
Our retention number again for 2012 is not too far off our original retention number for 2011 – I think it’s 56 versus 55%.
You know that’s one of the big variables in the plan.
Our leasing agents spend a lot of time with the tenants understanding what their objectives are - we have some schedules in the supplemental package on this – but there is still a fairly wide band of tenants that we’re not sure exactly what their decision will ultimately be.
That tends to be a pretty big driver of the revenue equation so when we post a retention number like we did this quarter versus our original plan of 55 that’s a very powerful driver of revenue.
There’s typically no down time the capital costs are lower and we get much more earlier revenue recognition than our plan if we had assumed they would move out.
So as we look at the 2012 plan I think we’ve maintained the approach of it being conservatively biased.
Certainly a lot of work to do but given the level of traction we’ve seen through our portfolio during 2011 the last four quarters we certainly feel more confident that there will be a recycling of square footage through the pipeline that should put us in a very good position to achieve these 2012 goals.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then I just wanted to follow up on Tony’s question about the CAPEX.
George if I heard you correctly I think you said you were targeting the 225 to 325 per square foot per year.
As you think about the leasing strategy for 2012 it sounds like the strategy is gaining market share or stealing market share which seems like that’s a more expensive leasing proposition.
Do you still think that longer lease terms are appropriate and does that mean that even though you had some excess CAPEX spend in the quarter relative to the leasing volume that was done when we think about FAD going out to next year that we might need to dial back those expectations a little bit because the CAPEX spend is going to be a little bit higher than what we’re typically used to seeing from Brandywine? This is Gerry.
I’ll just make an observation and certainly George and Howard can weigh in.
Remember that leasing cost per square foot metric is one element of the equation.
In other words it doesn’t necessarily relate back to the rentals being generated from that space.
So if you take a look at our portfolio we have a high degree of concentration in northern Virginia particularly along the Toll Road Carter.
That market tends to be one that’s at the higher end of capital cost per square foot per lease year but it’s also one of the higher rent generating markets in our portfolio so the capital contribution as a percentage of rents tends to be a very good equation for us.
Your observation on lease terms is a good one and it’s certainly something that we evaluate on every lease transaction.
Certainly even lengthening our leases from five years to a little bit north of six years it’s still a very manageable length of lease to respond proactively and positively to future market conditions.
But certainly as we assess some of the longer term transactions be that in the Toll Road or be that in the CBD market in Philadelphia or even some of our core suburban markets one of the things we try and do there is through the concession package we present keep our face rates as high as possible and then from that face rate build an annual increase of 2 to 3% which tends to be a pretty good economic prescription for us to be able to realize real rent growth as the years progress.
That’s helpful.
So I guess the way you guys think about it the NPV on those leases is better because you’re holding face rates because I guess initially when I think about it if you’re doing longer terms higher call it static CAPEX per square foot for a year but at a trough part of the market it seems a little bit interesting.
But you’re saying that you feel like you’re getting higher face rates to offset that CAPEX spend? Well that’s the objective; and again certainly as we evaluate and more importantly as tenants and their advisors evaluate the economic equation of doing a lease with us free rent face rate annual rent bumps and upfront capital are key drivers in balancing that economic equation.
So certainly the approach we’ve always taken and have been fairly successful even in our more challenged markets is to the extent that we need to invest more capital than we would otherwise want to there has to be an immediate compensation for that in terms of higher face rates.
Sure.
Okay thank you guys.
Good morning everyone.
Gerry Howard just curious on the progress with the credit rating upgrade.
Well as I think we’ve talked about before on the calls we have a lot of work to do to get the ratings upgrade.
Our target is to get our EBITDA to that mid-6 range continue to reduce our absolute levels of leverage below their current 44% GAV.
So we are working in that direction and that’s a key part of every decision we make relative to sales financings et cetera.
And certainly we stay in very close touch with the agencies themselves and what they look for is a stable platform from a fundamental standpoint.
We are hoping that they continue down the path of taking a more constructive view on the U.S.
economy and the place of office space in that economy because as we know a primary driver of meeting that ratings upgrade target is improving our EBITDA.
EBITDA is coming off of rents so occupancy improvements stable cash rents with positive movement on the mark-to-market are key drivers in how they’ll be evaluating the company going forward.
So certainly our 2012 business plan does not contemplate that upgrade happening.
We work towards that objective with every lease transaction every asset sale every financing.
But Howard do you want to weigh in on anything like that? No I think that’s a perfect summary.
It really is a combination of our activity and macroeconomic activity.
We’ve done nothing to our knowledge to upset the ultimate goal; in fact I think we’ve delivered on just about everything we’ve either laid out to the agencies or the market in general and we take a lot of pride in that.
We’ll continue to lay out a clear plan and hit or exceed those milestones.
Great.
And just a little more clarity on the DC market – it seems like about 50%--or your exposure this year is moving out.
Curious – the profile of the tenants that are leaving and the types of discussions that you’re having with tenants in the market today.
Yeah I think that market has slowed down to some degree I think with the uncertainty in the government sector and kind of the private sector associated with government spending.
We continue to have a lot of traffic through the portfolio.
As I mentioned inspections were up 28% but tenants are taking a little bit of a longer time to make a decision and most of the tenants in that market have a more forward occupancy requirement so they are oftentimes out in the market nine to 18 months in advance of their expected commencement date.
Again I think some of the tenants that we know are not going to renew in the DC portfolio for 2012 are again kind of the result of tenants moving back to a corporate-owned facility and just going through downsizing and right-sizing of their own space.
Thanks.
Thanks good morning.
If I could just kind of cut to the chase on CAPEX and with all the mismatch that happens between what you spend and when leases commence what’s the absolute amount of CAPEX you know non-revenue generating CAPEX that you’re expecting in absolute dollars for 2012? Rich it’s Howard.
As I said we have 148 million of aggregate investment activity programmed.
We expect 50 million of that to show up as revenue maintaining capital expenditures.
We’ll have to fund an additional 80 million for new project lease-up such as 3 Logan and 3020 along with all other revenue creating capital; and then we’re programming about $18 million for Commerce Square JV contributions.
So the non-revenue generating is just 50 million? The non-revenue generating is 50 million as currently programmed.
That’s correct.
How is that possible if non-revenue was 33 million in a single quarter?  I’m sorry if you can reconcile that for me.
It is a space-by-space analysis of what we expect to lease and where a space did not produce revenue for the prior 12 month period it does not fall into that revenue maintaining because there’s no revenue to maintain; so it’s space-by-space.
Okay.
AFFO—or in your terminology CAD should not go up next year then.
I mean I may be master of the obvious but— We’re projecting our CAD to be in the $0.60 to $0.70 range per square foot so some positive cash flow generation out of that.
Okay.
And then big picture question maybe for all of you or Gerry – is the Blackstone transaction with Duke a billion dollar deal you know proposed.
Curious what your thoughts are on that big picture.
Do you feel that there’s some appetite coming back to the market for suburban office?  Do you think that was a flash in the pan type of situation?  What do you think take from the Blackstone interest in suburban office as a general observation? Well what we take from it is the—I guess a couple levels.
One it seemed like it was a very good transaction for Duke to accomplish their strategic plan.
We’re not privy to the detailed price in the asset so only Duke and Blackstone can conclude that it was a good transaction which it apparently was because they got it done.
I think in terms of the broader picture there is no question that capital looks for dislocated pricing for transition points.
There is generally a perception that pricing for suburban office space is lagging that of CBD office space and maybe other asset classes.
There has been a tremendous amount of capital raised by private equity funds.
That private equity is looking for places to go.
Juxtapose that with a very fluid very solid secured debt market that’s providing as Tom alluded to we’re seeing debt quotes in the 5% range.
There is clearly an opportunity for large amounts of money to be moving into the suburban office space buying at a risk-adjusted good rate of return and an all-in pricing level as you saw with the Duke-Blackstone transaction below replacement cost and basically have that trade serve as a proxy for the economic recovery.
So from that macro picture I think what we’re seeing is a lot more interest from a wide range of sources for both small trades and potentially large trades of institutions who are looking to expand their exposure to suburban office space.
And we think as this economic recovery continues we believe that trend line will continue.
Did they approach you? No we were not part of that transaction.
No but I mean maybe there was a conversation about your portfolio at some point.
Oh we have conversations about a lot of people.
It certainly would be imprudent to name any single person or firm but I think that macro overview of capital looking for economic recovery play fueled by inexpensive and available debt certainly I would be surprised if sources like you mentioned are not talking to a lot of people.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
Hey guys.
I know it’s been a long call.
Howard real quick on the debt cost – I know you went through a lot of the financings that you’re working on doing for early next year.
I didn’t hear if you gave additional color on or maybe bracketing the types of debt rates or spreads that you’re expecting to see and maybe why you chose the route of going-or the term loan versus other parts of the market.
Can you give some color on that please? Yeah generally speaking the types of loans credit facility and funded debt that we’re talking about are in the 175 180 to around 200 basis point level.
There’s a fairly large body of closed transactions in the REIT space to look at recently and the reason we went that route is we’re already in that market and we already have about 15 to 20 existing bank relationships.
We’ve had a successful term loan in our capital stack recently.
We’ve had them in the past and that product is very attractive to banks right now who are very flush with deposit money.
We still like the length of the unsecured bond market.
We did a successful unsecured bond in March and that remains a possibility; but for the moment the more likely path will be the bank market.
Okay.
And then George I don’t know if you had commented earlier and I guess two ways to ask it – any large 2012 lease expirations in the first half.
I think you’ve been very clear about the occupancy gains in the second half.
Do you expect any type of occupancy volatility in the first half of next year?  Another way to ask it – sequential occupancy for 2012? Yeah I think we expect based on the forward leasing we’ve signed and the move-outs that we know are going to happen we are expecting to lose 40 to 50 basis points of occupancy in the first half of the year and then rebuild that in the second half of the year.
Is that early in the year—is that first quarter or is that just kind of ratably throughout the first half? It’s pretty much ratably through the first half.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Hey guys.
Just curious to get a little more color behind your thinking in terms of the occupancy next year in terms of flat in the first half and then plus 200 basis points in the second half.
Yeah Mike I think as George just touched on we are looking at a number of known move-outs early in the year that will offset some of our projected new leasing activity and in the latter part of the year we would expect that the amount of projected new leasing activity would far outweigh what we would expect to lose.
And then I think Gerry you may have touched on it in your opening comments but what’s the mindset of tenants today and how they’re thinking about their business and space needs? Well I think what we have seen and it’s certainly benefited us as well as I’m sure some other public companies there really is a strong bias of tenants to move up the quality curve.
I mean tenants are looking at today that they’re able to buy much higher quality product at pricing that they haven’t seen since the mid-2005 2006 range.
So a lot of the tenants that we’re attracting to our portfolio are moving out of lower quality buildings and when I say that they may be older they may have lower ceiling heights not great parking ratios not be in a great submarket and they are seeing an opportunity to move up the quality curve and that tends to benefit very much landlords like us that have good quality product and good submarket positions.
There is also—we’ve spent a lot of time on this call talking about capital.
Capital is a fundamental reality in leasing office space today.
Well capitalized landlords that have the ability to have a very accelerated decision-making process on attracting a new tenant has really created a tremendous wind at our backs where our executive team is able to make decisions on a real-time basis in dealing with tenants about whatever they need to do to move into our space versus going back through a secured lending or a financially distressed partnership protocol.
So with that as a backdrop we are continuing to see tenants who are in a decision-making mode.
Doesn’t mean that this economic overtone and malaise continues that it won’t have an impact which is why as I touched on we’re very aggressive in trying to get—if we have a transaction in our pipeline today the numbers work we can get that tenancy achieved we’re in a go mode as opposed to trying to play chess with every single tenant that comes through our pipeline.
And then you’ve been recording rent roll-downs on a cash basis.
I think you expect that to go positive next year.
What’s your overall portfolio OI mark-to-market today do you think? Well next year we still expect cash to be negative but an improving negative I guess.
As we go through our quarterly review of every asset and compare rents in place versus our master leasing assumptions—look in some markets we view as though we have a positive mark-to-market; others we still think that it’s fairly flat or a downward bias given where existing rents are.
But the key issue for us in this kind of climate we’re not really looking at our mark-to-market because we can’t convert it today.
So the real issue is what’s the current market rate versus the space that’s up for negotiation and the tenant whose lease is expiring and what we need to do on that point.
And from that standpoint the numbers have not supported a real positive mark-to-market on a portfolio-wide basis.
Dave it’s Howard.
I’ll just jump in with one more thought.
On Page 29 of our supplement you’ll scan down that third column from the right and we’ve got an average in-place rent of $23.20.
Two things jump out from that page – one we’ve got a lot of built-in rent because you can see where the end points are for each of those years; and secondly as you compare that aggregate figure of in-place rents both next year and the year after and whatever they’re generally in line or below where we’re executing leases.
So back to some earlier comments that were made – on an absolute level rents have really stopped declining and are starting to show upwards trends.
To Gerry’s point when you compare it to an older five or seven or ten-year lease with whatever was done at that time you just never know how that mark to former lease is going to work from a calculation standpoint.
Was that helpful Michael? Yeah thanks.
And then last question for me is I think the 160 you quoted on the JV is an aggregate asset value.
Did you guys mention whether you were going to be closer to 25 or 50% stake and then also kind of how you thought about which end you wanted to be on? The 160 is the aggregate asset value and we’ll probably be closer to 50% range.
Okay thanks.
Hi guys.
It’s Gabe Hilmo here with Ross.
Not to belabor the point on the CAPEX but in looking at the CAD guidance for ’12 dividend coverage is obviously pretty tight and doesn’t leave a ton of wiggle room.
Can you just talk about how you’re thinking about the coverage and payout going forward into ’12 and maybe even ’13? Well I think real simply we now we’re in a process of rebuilding occupancy so we are in investment mode.
Every lease we do will generate revenue so we feel as though even if there is a frictional tightness of the CAD payout ratio in 2012 we certainly think we’re creating a lot of value for five and eight quarters out.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Just had a quick follow-up.
In Philadelphia CBD you guys re-classed it looked like around 550 000 square feet from industrial mixed use into office.
Can you just give us a little bit of color on the nature of those assets and why it was re-classed? Yeah that asset is the garage portion of the post office project and it should not have been classed as anything but office because it’s income is a portion of the underlying GSA lease.
It’s probably the best office space we actually have! Fully leased with low capital – there you go! And how much income does the garage roughly generate?  Just kind of by goalpost would be helpful.
I don’t have in front of me the exact allocation but we can get that to you.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Only to thank everyone for their participation in the call this quarter and we look forward to providing you with a final close-out on our 2011 business plan update on 2012 in our first quarter call.
Thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust fourth quarter earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Thank you all for joining in our fourth quarter year end 2011 earnings call.
On today’s call with me are George Johnston Senior Vice President of Operations Gabe Mainardi our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Howard Sipzner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President of Portfolio Management and Investments.
Prior to beginning I’d like to remind everyone that certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
Although we believe the estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
2011 wrapped up on several strong notes for us.
The fourth quarter represented a solid continuation in the execution of our 2011 business plan.
George and Howard will discuss fourth quarter results so my opening comments will address 2011 full year activity and a look ahead to 2012 with a focus being on the three key business areas of operations balance sheet and investments.
Looking at operations first during 2011 we leased a record 4.5 million square feet.
This surpassed 2010’s 4.2 million square feet and exceeded our original business plan projection of 3.9 million square feet.
This success clearly evidences continued recovery in the levels of both leasing activity and in many of our markets the pace of absorption.
During the year we saw gradually firming of fundamentals and ongoing flight to quality and wide variation of the recovery pace among our various submarkets.
Our Philadelphia CBD portfolio which comprises 23% of revenues our Pennsylvania crescent markets which comprised 17% of revenues and Austin Texas which is 5% of revenue all are over 95% leased and performed very well during the year.
Several other markets notably Northern Virginia which is 17% of rents and Southern New Jersey which is 5% of rents continue to recover from large move outs and downsizings but Brandywine traffic levels through our portfolios generally improved during the course of the year.
Looking at the entire company our core portfolio occupancy was 86.5% up 110 basis points since 2010 year end.
We also ended the year 89.5% leased up 180 basis points from the beginning of the year and we are maintaining a very healthy 300 basis points of lease to occupied spread.
Our tenant retention rate for the year came in at 65% versus our original plan of 56%.
We also had net absorption during the year of over 277 000 square feet.
A real step in the right direction and compared to negative absorption of over 600 000 square feet during 2010 so our portfolio is definitely on the right track.
In 2011 we experienced rental rate declines on both a GAAP and cash basis far from acceptable but both significant improvements from 2010 levels.
Additionally our leasing capital cost per square foot trended higher during the year and elevated capital spending remains a key focus for the company and George will address this in more detail during his comments.
During 2011 our average lease term increased to six years up from our business plan forecast of four years.
We plan continued negotiation for longer term leases with built in annual escalators ranging from 1.5% to 3% to offset larger upfront capital commitments.
The portfolio is in much better position entering 2012 and this success we had during ’11 reflects the quality and location of our portfolio a steadily recovering market the skills of our leasing and property management teams and our continuing focus on market outperformance.
Now looking at our balance sheet as we entered 2011 we faced significant debt maturities over $500 million with $400 million of our debt exposed to floating rates or about 20% of our total debt.
Our primary objective during 2011 was to stabilize our financial platform by eliminating debt maturity risk and protecting future EBITDA improvement from interest rate volatility.
<br>During 2011 we paid off $219 million of secured mortgages so at year end our unencumbered pool now represents 84% of our total assets compared to 77% of our asset base at year end 2010.
The bank financing the particulars of which are detailed on page six of the supplemental package was announced at the end of December.
It funded last week and the combination of our line of credit renewal and three individual term loans accomplished the following objectives.
First it fully retired the balance on our revolving credit facility.
As such we do not have any outstanding balance on our new four year $600 million revolving line of credit and more importantly our current business plan does not anticipate any draws on this facility during 2012.
It also retired the remaining balance of our previous term loan a portion of which had already been paid off from the proceeds of the Allstate joint venture.
The balance of the funding approximately $257 million has been invested in short term investments and is available to retire the $152 million balance of our 5 ¾ unsecured notes at their maturity in April 2012.
We plan to retain these cash balances as an offset to our debt balances and preserve the flexibility to continue executing a liability management program.
Additionally $500 million of the term loan funding has been swapped into fixed rates as identified again on page six in the supplemental package.
This reduced our floating rate exposure to 4.1% of our debt balance and in addition to that effort we also fixed the rate on the entire $78.6 million of our trust preferreds further reducing the company’s exposure to floating rates.
The upside of our 2011 balance sheet activity is that based on the current plan we have no need to raise debt financing between now and our $242 million bond maturity in November of 2014.
Secondly we have substantially insulated the company from interest rate volatility.
Thirdly and very importantly by utilizing unsecured term loans we have created a well priced and less costly approach than bond financing.
Debt that is readily prepayable as we advance our deleveraging plan.
And fourth our secured mortgages payoffs enhanced the size and diversity of our unencumbered asset pool.
Our stock price during the second half of the year eliminated the ability to accelerate deleveraging at pricing levels that did not erode net asset value.
However you may recall earlier in the year we did issue about 680 000 shares at an average price just north of $12 per share via our ATM program.
That program has remaining authorization for 8.6 million shares but we have no intention of using that program at current stock pricing levels.
We did end the year at 44.3% net debt to gross total assets with an EBITDA coverage of 7.4 times approximately the same levels we had at the year end 2010.
But in looking at our balance sheet for ’11 we made significant progress on strengthening our unencumbered pool managing our debt maturities and removing floating rates as a business concern but certainly closed the year with more work remaining on our leverage reduction strategy whose primary goal remains key to our business plan and that’s to get our debt to EBITDA down to 6.5 times.
On the investment front during the year we set an $80 million sales target.
In pursuit of that objective we marketed over $300 million of properties.
Pricing levels did not reach a point that justified many sales as we believed we could still create additional value through leasing while the investment market for non-gateway office space fully recovers.
We did however finish the year strong.
During the fourth quarter we completed the disposition of three office properties and the sale of a parcel of land in Dallas for aggregate proceeds just shy of $31 million.
The income producing properties were sold at a blended 7.4 cash cap rate and were 93% occupied.
During the fourth quarter we closed on the previously disclosed formation of a joint venture arrangement with Current Creek Investments the wholly owned subsidiary of Allstate Insurance with both Current Creek and Brandywine owning a 50% interest in three metropolitan DC properties contributed to the venture by Brandywine.
We did realize $120 million of net proceeds but given the attributed venture level debt we anomaly reduce leverage via our partner’s equity contributions.
A synopsis of this joint venture is also found on page six of the supplemental package.
Each party has committed $75 million of equity to fund future growth.
This venture will focus on acquiring core plus and value add transactions in the inside the beltway market in the District of Columbia.
The investment period to deploy that equity is three year.
Investment decisions are mutual and there is no defined annual target volume that must be achieved.
Given the overall uncertainty in those markets and recent pricing levels both Allstate and Brandywine plane to move cautiously and remain conservative in our underwriting.
During years we previously disclosed we also acquired several value add transactions aggregating $40.5 million equating to about $115 per square foot.
So in looking at our operation balance sheet and investments 2011 was a very good year for Brandywine.
We exceeded our operating business plan objectives improved portfolio occupancy and achieve rent stability in several of our key markets.
The bank financing and forth quarter investment activity reduced exposure to interest rate volatility eliminated capital market event risk and created an alliance with a well regarded institutional investor.
As we execute our 2012 plan areas requiring further improvements are reducing leasing capital cost continue deleveraging EBTIDA multiple improvement and a more active asset recycling to both reduce levels and create longer term better growth rates.
Now looking at 2012 we’re also very pleased with our progress thus far and some of the key metrics we’re looking at are as follows.
For the year we’re now projecting speculative revenue of $43.9 million.
That is up from our previous guidance and we have already achieved 64% of this revenue target.
Our business plan currently reflects leasing production of about 4.1 million square feet which we believe is readily achievable.
We are maintaining our previously forecast 2012 retention rate of 57% in that we still don’t have enough visibility on a number of key tenants to move that number at this point.
We have raised our expected year end 2012 occupancy level to 89.4% which is a 70 basis point increase over our previous projection and we do expect to end 2012 with a portfolio about 91% leased.
We do expect positive same store growth.
We also expect we will continue to face rental concessions and upward capital pressure until every submarket in our entire portfolio approaches equilibrium.
We will continue pursuing longer lease terms.
Our current projection for 2012 remains at 6.2 years of average lease term.
From a capital standpoint on leasing we are maintaining our overall capital cost assumptions and expect a capital cost as a percentage of GAAP lease revenue for new and renewals will be blended around 14% which compares in the same range as the ranges we have in 2011.
In looking at our balance sheet for 2012 we have put ourselves into a very solid position entering the year.
No additional capital market activity is planned.
We have only $12 million of debt amortization in ’12 only $67 million of maturities in ’13 and $255 million in 2014.
So with capital market event risk clearly eliminated our primary focus remains squarely on improving our EBITDA multiple.
Continued occupancy gains will remain a key and we will work towards our goal of 6.5 times primarily through EBTIDA growth embedded within our portfolio and select assets sales.
We have created a very stable debt platform where we can no accelerate debt free payments as occupancy levels improve and investment values return to higher levels.
Our 2012 business plan further contemplates asset sales of $80 million occurring evenly through the year.
The business plan does not contemplate any acquisitions either directly or through deployment of the newly formed Allstate joint venture.
We expect that any acquisition will be match funded with asset sales with an additional bias towards deleveraging the objective of which will be to recycle dollars in the higher growth assets and core markets.
On a broader front we have approximately $200 million of assets currently in the market for sale.
To the extent these transactions happen they could great some near term dilution until redeployment or debt repayment but also present an opportunity for growth upgrades and an acceleration towards our EBITDA multiple goal.
Which brings us to our 2012 guidance.
We are maintaining our previously announced guidance of $1.35 to $1.41.
The bank financing and fixing our interest rates did create some dilution.
Additionally the joint venture with Allstate which was not in our previously announced guidance also resulted in several cents of dilution as we are not assuming any 2012 JV acquisitions.
On the positive side operational metrics created sufficient updraft for us to maintain our guidance range albeit with an advisory note that our comfortable level is now towards the low end of the target range.
At this point George will provide some color on our 2011 operational performance and a look at 2012 and then Howard will take over and talk about our financial activity.
We continue to see good levels of leasing activity and a willingness by tenants to make decisions.
The flight to quality continues as tenants seek quality landlords buildings and locations which has benefitted our portfolio.
Some markets that continue to demonstrate recovery and improving metrics are Philadelphia CBD the crescent Pennsylvania submarkets of Radnor Conshohocken Plymouth Meeting and New Town Square along with Austin and Richmond where rent growth and tighter capital control are becoming the norm.
Other markets remaining in a buy-in occupancy mode.
In terms of the fourth quarter specifically leasing activity was strong with 905 000 square feet of lease commencements and 1 052 000 square feet of leases executed.
Lease renewals commenced totaled 290 000 square feet leading to a 56.7% retention rate for the quarter and 65.2% for the year.
Continued improvement during the year on retention was attributable to the expansions and more tenants simply staying put a good sign of our quality product and emerging market stability.
New lease activity and tenant move outs were as expected resulting in 278 000 square feet of absorption and year end occupancy of 86.5% which was 20 basis points lower than our previous update due to property sales.
While traffic for the quarter was flat both sequentially and year-over-year the pipeline remains strong at 3.4 million square feet.
2.9 million square feet of new deals and 500 000 square feet of renewal deals 762 000 square feet of deals that are in lease negotiations with the balance all entertaining proposals.
The 300 000 square foot reduction in the pipeline from our last update is attributable to the leasing of Three Logan which removed both the tenants we signed leases with and several alternative tenancies we were entertaining.
Leasing capital for the quarter was $3.05 per square foot per lease year.
The metric was driven by 286 000 square feet of deals with an average lease term of 9.5 years.
These longer term leases will help leasing cost and CAD in future years.
As I’ve mentioned on prior calls we report capital costs for CAD in the quarter which they are paid which is not necessarily the quarter in which the lease commences.
As we continue to achieve higher levels of forward leasing you can expect this mismatching of capital and lease commencements to continue.
This quarter we had $20 million of revenue maintaining capital.
To illustrate $6 million of capital related to leases that commenced prior to the fourth quarter $11 million of capital on leases that commenced in the fourth quarter and $3 million of capital associated with leases that will commence in subsequent quarters.
Now a few comments relative to our 2012 business plan.
We’ve increased our speculative revenue target $1.8 million or 4% from the original plan.
$28 million or 64% is already executed leaving $15.9 million to be achieved.
The remaining achievement at this time last year was $14 million.
We expect year end occupancy to be 89.4% with the increase occurring in the later part of the year.
We expect a 57% retention rate based on 741 000 square feet of renewals already executed current lease negotiations and known tenant move outs.
Rental rate trends are anticipated to improve during 2012.
GAAP rent growth will range from -1% to positive 2% versus the -1.1% in 2011.
On a cash basis while still negative the trend line is improving ranging from -4% to -7% versus the -6.9% in 2011.
Our assumed capital per square foot per lease year range is $2.25 to $3.25.
These leasing assumptions and trends translate into same store NOI growth of 0.5% to 2.5% on a GAAP basis and flat to 2% on a cash basis both excluding early termination and other income.
While leasing remains the primary focus of our regional teams we continue to be diligent on operating expense control.
Our energy procurement and conservation efforts along with aggressively rebidding service contracts and appealing real estate taxes has contributed to lower operating costs and improving margins.
I’ll now turn it over to Howard for the financial review.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 our FFO available to common shares in units totaled $47.4 million.
This compares to $48.3 million in the third quarter of 2011 excluding the $12 million historic tax credit income item and $47.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our FFO per diluted share totaled $0.32 and matched analyst consensus for the quarter.
And our payout ratio at 46.9% reflects the $0.15 dividend we paid in October 2011.
It’s a very high quality FFO figure with fourth quarter termination revenue other income management fees interest income JV income and bond buy back cost totaling just $4.7 million gross or $3.5 million net all below our 2011 quarterly run rate.
Furthermore our FFO per share would have been $0.34 per diluted share without the unplanned $2.2 million debt extinguishment charge.
A few observations on the components of our fourth quarter 2011 performance.
Cash rent of $114 million was essentially flat versus $114.8 million in Q3 2011.
Straight line rent of $5.4 million was similarly flat versus $5.5 million in Q3 2011.
Recovery income at $20.5 million was up $1 million sequentially versus $19.5 million in the third quarter of 2011 while our recovery ratio of 35.1% reflected typical recovery conditions.
Property operating expenses of $44.3 million were up $2.3 million sequentially due to seasonal factors including year end R&amp;M contract snow removal and several other items offset by lower electric utilities.
Real estate taxes of $14 million were essentially flat sequentially.
Our interest expense in the fourth quarter of 2011 of $31.9 million decreased $400 000 versus the third quarter as we benefitted from loan payoffs and somewhat higher floating rate balances in the fourth quarter.
G&amp;A at $6.3 million was in line with expectations and prior quarters.
In the fourth quarter we had net bad debt expense of about $800 000 and an overall $400 000 increase in our reserve balance.
During the fourth quarter our same store NOI increased a half percent on a GAAP basis and 0.2% on a cash basis.
In both cases excluding termination fees and other income items and in line with our expectations for the quarter.
The EBITDA coverage ratios are at their highest levels in recent years at 2.6 times interest 2.3 times debt service and 2.2 times fixed charges.
Our margins are very strong despite current occupancy levels at 59.4% NOI 35.1% for recoveries and 60.8% for EBITDA margin.
Briefly addressing the full year 2011 our FFO available to common shares in units totaled $203.4 million for all of 2011.
It’s up $17.6 million versus the 2010 figure or up $5.6 million if we exclude the third quarter 2011 $12 million historic tax credit income.
A very strong level of performance.
Our $1.39 of FFO per diluted share exceeded analyst consensus for the year by $0.01 per share and came in at the high end of our own range.
Total 2011 termination revenue other income management fees interest income JV income and bond buy back costs totaled just $22.8 million gross or $17.2 million net in line with our 2011 projection of $20 to $25 million gross or $13 to $18 million net.
As Gerry mentioned we are maintaining our 2012 FFO guidance of $1.35 to $1.41 per diluted share.
Once again we’ll recognize about $0.08 per share of historic tax credit income in the third quarter of 2012.
Without that our quarterly run rate should be in a range of $0.31 to $0.33 per diluted share.
Most of our operating assumptions are consistent with what we disclosed on the last call and which are included in the business plan section of the supplement.
A number of other items to touch on for 2012 we are projecting once again $20 to $25 million gross or $14 to $19 million net for a basket of other income items such as termination revenue other income management revenues less expenses if presented net interest income from our cash balances JV income and that would include the returns on the Thomas Properties Group investment as a preferred return.
For G&amp;A in 2012 we had $24 to $25 million overall running about equally per quarter.
Interest expense in 2012 is projected to be in the range of $133 to $140 million.
This is above the 2011 level of $131.4 million and it reflects the recently completed bank financing and associated interest rate fixings.
As Gerry mentioned 2012 sales activity is expected to total $80 million and we weight it at about 40% for the year with a gross NOI reduction of about $2.5 to $3 million.
None of those projects has of yet been identified.
Gross historic tax credit as I mentioned will be $0.08 per share and once again we’ll add that back when it occurs in the third quarter of 2012 for our CAD calculation as it is essentially a non-cash item.
This is the second incurrence of what will be a total of five recognition items between 2011 and 2015 for the benefit of the historic tax credit financing transaction.
We’re assuming no issuance under our continuous equity program and no additional not buy back activity at this time and $147 million weighted average share count for FFO in 2012.
We expect to see CAD per diluted share in the $0.60 to $0.70 range reflecting approximately $67 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures in 2012.
Our FFO payout rations for the year at the midpoint then will be 44% for FFO and 92% for CAD.
Our maintenance of 2012 guidance at the current level is noteworthy as the prior disclosure did not include the metro DC JV affecting us by about $0.04 negatively and the combination of an upsize bank financing and fixing more of the interest rates affecting us by another $0.02.
This $0.06 potential dilution is offset by $0.03 per share via combination of improvements from operations interest rate savings from the December 2011 note buy backs and several other smaller items.
Now turning to our capital plan for 2012.
It’s truly remarkable in that we’ll use our current $270 million cash balance for all of our needs in 2012 and do not expect to do any financings or use our credit facility during the year.
Key uses in 2012 total $483 million and are marked from this point forward.
We have $236 million of aggregate full year investment activity incorporating $67 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures $113 million for revenue creating capital and new project leases such as Three Logan and 3020 Market Street plus $56 million for a combination of other capital projects Commerce Square JV contributions and several potential smaller investments that we hope to make during the year.
We need to payoff $175 million the balance of the year.
The $151 million 2012 notes $12 million for mortgage amortization and we’re allocating $12 million towards the JV debt repayments.
We also will have $96 million of aggregate dividends for the full year.
Since $24 million of those were already dispersed in January we have remaining 2012 dividends of $72 million.
To raise this $483 million we will see net total cash flow from operations before financings investments and dividends from this point forward of about $150 millions against a full year total of $165.
So reflecting year-to-date receipts $80 million of sales and we’ll use $253 million of the cash balance leaving us with a projected year end 2012 balance of about $17 million.
Turning now to a few other matters accounts receivable at year end included reserves of $15.5 million.
$3.4 million on just over $18.3 million of operating and other receivables or about 18.5% and $12.1 million on $120.2 million of straight line rent receivables or about 10.1%.
We’re very comfortable with our reserves and have been experiencing good credit performance.
We’re also 100% compliant on all of our credit facility and indenture covenants with an 84% unencumbered pool as Gerry mentioned.
Our debt profile remains conservative with 9.4% of total gross assets in secure debt and 20.2% of total debt on a floating rate basis.
Pro forma debt calculations have been provided in the supplement on pages seven and eight to reflect the impact of the February 1 2012 bank financing.
As per Gerry’s comments and as noted in the press release and on pages six seven and eight 21 and 23 of our supplement the bank financing had a dramatic impact on our debt maturities credit facility usage floating rate exposure and overall financial flexibility.
I encourage each of you to review those pages to gain an appreciation of these positive implications.
Now I’ll turn it back to Gerry for some additional comments.
To conclude our prepared remarks we’re very pleased we accomplished our key objectives in 2011.
We know we have more work to do but in looking ahead to 2012 our best growth strategy remains simply to build on our 2011 momentum and continue leasing space.
Our 2012 guidance as you heard both George and Howard touch on reflects our belief that fundamentals will continue to improve our product quality will continue to provide a competitive advantage and that the other key elements of our business plan namely our balance sheet and investment management programs continue very much on track.
With that we’d like to open the floor to questions.
We would ask as we always do that in the interest of time you limit yourself to one question and a follow up.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from James Feldman – Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I was hoping you guys could give a little more color on the different potential vacancies or occupancies that you said would kind of be swings to guidance next year.
You said there was some still cooking that you’re trying to figure out before you can decide if you should raise? We continue to work the pipeline aggressively.
We do have some known vacates so obviously we are adding those known move outs to our existing vacancy.
But the tenants we still don’t have a good enough read on we’re still trying to get those tenants to renew.
They’re kind of depicted on our lease expiration chart in the supplemental as well.
We do have 25 tenants that we know are vacating that comprise approximately 730 000 square feet and that’s really kind of why we’re expecting occupancy levels to remain relatively flat until the later part of the year when the pipeline conversion on new deals kicks in.
About 200 000 square feet of that is in our DC marketplace and the rest spread pretty much throughout our portfolio.
What about in terms of upside? How would you handicap potential leases that may come through that you’re still working on? As George touched on in some of the specifics he put forth on the leasing pipeline I mean we continue to remain encouraged with the number of showings we’re having through the portfolio.
The number of those showings in advance to a lease proposal and then the conversion rate we’ve had once we proposal to a tenant.
Our conversion rate last year was approaching 40%.
Certainly with market conditions firming in a number of our key submarkets we would expect that number could potentially move up and put the portfolio in even a better position.
I guess on the ground what our leasing teams are saying is real tenant interest definable time lines for occupancy.
Our portfolio is showing very well.
We’re not happy we have some of these big blocks of vacancy so we rationalize it that the vacancy we have is good vacancy.
It’s a higher quality product in the submarkets and I think levels of activity we’re seeing on that space supports that rational.
We’re always hoping for the upside we plan for pragmatic absorption.
We had a good year in 2011 in terms of getting almost 300 000 square feet of positive absorption.
I think we do think the conversation rates we experience and the stability of the pipeline will certainly put us in a position where we can meet the business plan forecast we put forth as part of this guidance.
Your next question comes from Jordan Sadler – Keybanc Capital Markets.
I wanted to just follow up on the previous question.
I’m just looking back at last year’s business plan this time and at that time you had completed or executed 54% of your speculative revenue target for the year 2011 on this same call a year ago.
Now you’re 64% of the way there so you’re actually year-over-year 10% of where you were last year and if I recall correctly last year you continued to raise the speculative revenue number throughout the year.
I’m just trying to get a sense of how much of this is really conservatism versus real concerns about what you’re seeing in the market? I think we continue to access every suite and every existing tenancy each quarter when we go through the reforecasting process.
That additional visibility gives us the opportunity to increase the spec revenue target and we moved it up $1.8 million from our last call to this call.
We do have some additional new leasing that we’ve projected.
We’ve raised the occupancy target for the end of 2012 as well.
Again it really comes down to just working the pipeline increasing the conversion and quite frankly getting to a point where some of these large tenant contractions and right sizings have all kind of played themselves out.
When you look at the pipeline there’s a number of larger tenants in there that if they would select a Brandywine property could have a positive impact on what we’ve witnessed going through the last reforecast with the leasing teams.
But conversely there’s a lot of other activity there that has yet to be committed.
We have 64% done that means the balance is not done yet so in that there’s an implicit risk that tenants change their mind corporate offices make decisions to relocate or consolidate.
I think every quarter when we go through that detailed reforecast our leasing teams in counsel with the folks here at the corporate office make our best educated guess on what we think we can actually deliver not just by the end of the year but certainly during the interim quarter.
That’s a big revenue impact for us as well.
The forecast was just completed a week and a half ago and it reflects our best estimate of what we are confident we can deliver during 2012.
I may have missed it but can you give me just the leasing pipeline numbers? It was 3.4 million square feet in total 2.9 million square feet of new deals 500 000 square feet of renewal deals and within that pipeline 762 000 square feet in active lease negotiation.
Your next question comes from Josh Attie – Citigroup.
Gerry you mentioned that you wouldn’t issue equity through the ATM at these levels and I think you previously issued around 12 a while ago.
How are you thinking about the ATM and new equity in general as a tool to delever the balance sheet? When we look overall at debt it’s really an assessment of overall risk and in assessing that risk we really need to look at both event risk that is interest rate exposure maturity profile along with absolute debt levels.
As we’ve talked in our calls I mean our paramount objective remains to delever and over the next couple of years certainly in my mind exceed our 6.5 target and ultimately get the leverage even lower.
With that objective in mind it’s wonderful if you could wave a wand and issue equity at any price and we appreciate some folks advocate that approach.
I think when we look at it as our stock is trading well below NAV and that is as we assess it both near term and certainly long term certainly given the uptick we’ve seen in occupancy and leasing metrics.
So until the stock price gets to those levels we want to be very mindful of being additive to NAV long term value and our growth rates as a predicate of issuing equity.
What we did during the course of this past year as Howard and I touched on was essentially execute a more sequenced and pragmatic approach to delivering.
First we keenly focused resources on leasing space to drive EBITDA growth better coverages higher investment values and great progress was made in ’11 and we certainly expect the same result in ’12.
Secondly our primary tackle on debt was to eliminate near term event risk and exposure to floating rates to really solidify the financial platform and both of those were accomplished during the year.
Finally asset sales we view as probably the best tool we can use to delever right now and our approach to that was to test asset sale pricing on as broad a range as possible and look as we all know the investment market for non-gateway office is at the [inaudible] stage of recovery.
Buyers are looking for higher than normal rates of return and rarely assigning reasonable values to vacancy.
As a result there does remain a price disconnect between our view of asset values and the buyer’s.
Now look and very importantly we make that determination based on the premise that we can create additional value through leasing and are better off being patient rather than selling assets at any price but that analysis is very quantitative and focuses on value creation ROI.
The plan really I guess to go to the core of your question Josh is to execute operationally improve portfolio NOI as leasing and investment markets recover put the company in a position to optimize NAV as we accomplish our very important objectives.
Now that does require execution and a bit of patience but we’re on that path it’s on the rails and certainly to answer the core of your question I want to reinforce that achieving our leverage objective is goal number one as we look at the company’s multiyear business platform.
I think we need fundamentals to recover to a point the share price to recover to a point to where we believe expanding our equity base is consistent with the overriding theme of both deleveraging but also preserving that asset value.
I guess if I could follow up to the extent that the asset sale market for what you want to sell doesn’t recover very quickly would that change your view of when to use the ATM? I guess when you look at those two levers is it showing equity through the ATM and also asset sales are you willing to take a very long term view on deleveraging or I guess if the asset sales market doesn’t recover would you have a different view on where to issue? Implicit in that question is the fact that investment values will significantly lag recovery in fundamentals.
We actually anticipate that they’ll be married together as joint results.
But look certainly to the extent that the sale program turns out not to have the throughput that we expect tit will we’ll certainly evaluate other options.
One of the issues we talked about are cash balances that’s certainly an offset to existing debt balances that again provide optionality for us.
We spent a lot of time thinking through our financing plan on accessing the bond market versus the commercial bank market and a key driver in that decision was the fact that we could create a pool of debit the term loans that are easier for us to prepay with much lower breakage cost as we generate additional liquidity.
Your next question comes from John Guinee – Stifel Nicolaus &amp; Company Inc.
Inc.</strong> I have one question it just happens to be one for each of you.
First Tom can you give us an update on Com One and Two and [Viso] arrangement? Howard can you update us on 2011 taxable earnings per share and how that affects your dividend going forward assuming you are able to lease up space.
George could you give us a summary of any red flags on page 37 in terms of when the lease expirations are for 20 largest tenants.
Then most important I’m reading a press release today about Gerry Sweeny wanting to buy the Philadelphia Enquirer.
Is that accurate? That is not accurate.
That was potentially part of the investment group that’s looking at making a bid for the Philadelphia Media Company.
But my role there is very passive and certainly nothing that takes any time on my part.
With your four part question it sounds as though we should be moderating this like the Republican presidential debates in that we’re focused on time here.
Let me turn it over to Tom to talk to you about our Commerce Square properties.
We have still been working on the capital plan there.
The buy sell does not take place for another year or two no our option.
It’s a couple years out.
We have a financing that’s coming due in ’13 another financing in ’15 and there’s quite a bit of capital work we’re in the middle of now so there’s no change in that buy sell arrangement from our standpoint being a couple of years away on our option.
We know of no change on Thomas’ side where they have a buy sell at this point and nothing has changed there.
On taxable income for 2011 we did publish the press release a few weeks back highlighting the taxable income component.
It was well below the dividend that was paid.
I don’t have the exact number in front of me there was still substantial cushion and that means we can absorb quite a bit of leasing activity in incremental earnings and EBITDA as we move forward before we’d be pressured as you put it to raise the dividend.
In terms of the expirations they’re occurring pretty much ratably over the first three quarters of 2012.
Of the 730 000 square feet we’ve already back filled with new tenancies so there’s a negative impact to the retention calculation but from an occupancy perspective we have successfully back filled about 100 000 square feet of that list.
Inc.</strong> On page 37 which is your 20 largest tenants are any of those expiring in the next one or two years? There’s almost no exposure to that list until you get down to Intel.
They’ve got a January 2013 expiration down in our Austin portfolio.
Your next question comes from Richard Anderson – BMO Capital Markets.
My ratio is a little bit better I have two questions for four of you.
The first is on your desire to negotiate longer term leases.
I’m curious the strategy there if rents are kind of still not certainly peaking and maybe nearer a bottom than a top why wouldn’t you want to negotiate shorter term leases and then turn them over to higher rents presumably four years from now? It’s a great question and amply both George and my comments that is a submarket call.
We’re talking generally where we are in terms of lengthening leases.
All of our leases provide 1.5% to 3% annual rental rate growth as part of the lease.
So the contracted rents will increase every year by 1.5% to 3% which is a pretty good benchmark generally speaking as a proxy for general market rental rate growth.
The bias towards longer term leases Rich really comes in when the upfront capital cost to achieve that tenancy is a driving predicate.
For example if we’re in one of our markets where we really do believe that rental rates are still in a trough and I’ll just reference a southern New Jersey for example where rents are at a bottom.
Starting to come back up but certainly haven’t recovered to the level they have in CBD Philadelphia Radnor Plymouth Meeting etc.
So in a Southern New Jersey we’re very carefully evaluating our leasing term there along with George Sowa and George Johnstone carefully every single lease on whether we are better off on that lease doing a shorter term deal with very little capital or terming it out but building in higher back end rental rate growth to compensate us both for the upfront capital cost but then also to make sure we’re in a position to recover full investment value when that market ultimately does recover.
The second question is you mentioned the guidance and that you’re kind of targeting the lower end of the range because of some of the steps you’ve taken to improve the balance sheet and the rest.
I guess my question is further out what I’ve heard in the past from you guys was getting progress from a fundamental perspective where we were seeing some firming but for one reason or another we’re going to have an offsetting negative factor and for reasonable reasons I might add.
But if you’re focus is to delever the company for the next couple of years do you think we’ll always kind of be in this situation where yeah things are getting better but we’re going to kind of be at the lower end of things until we get through this deleveraging process? Or do you think it won’t be that dilutive on a go forward basis? Take a look where we wound up in 2011 we actually wound up at the very high end of our guidance even with a lot of the things we did during the course of the year.
2012 as we sit here in early February we have good but still some limited visibility on where the actual market will be in terms of our portfolio by year end.
We’ve set good targets in there.
We’ve raised our occupancy and our leasing targets and that is a positive factor.
We did do a couple of things to stabilize the financial platform primarily the fixing of the rates and the upfront contribution from Allstate that did have a downward impact.
So if you go back to Howard’s projected $0.31 to $0.33 per quarter run rate ex the historic tax credit there’s a variability in that within the range that we have out there now.
Our only advisory tone to the community right now is that given where we are right now given that we had known issues of dilution related to the financing and the JV counter balanced with the uptick we’ve seen on the operational front we are still comfortable within that range that we gave.
Whether for the next few years as we embark on the deleveraging program that the extent of that dilution is really going to be a function of where fundamentals go where investment values go.
Certainly if cap rates come in at some of the marks we expect them to come in trading out of those assets to create financial capacity to delever and to grow the company certainly is a very measured metric that will still provide some stability to our growth rate.
That puts us kind of in the range we were if you average out 2011 and ’12.
Your next question comes from David B.
Rodgers – RBC Capital Markets.
If you could give us a little more color on the contribution of the assets into the joint venture perhaps what your view of those yields were? Then as you look forward to pulling money out of that venture how do you see yields or discount or replacement cost trading today for that venture’s threshold for investment relative to what you were able to sell into the venture itself? Looking at the assets we put in the venture we gave you a profile of what those assets are.
Two of those assets are in Falls Church occupancy kind of in the mid 80s.
We think that’s sort of a growth aspect of the contribution of the portfolio.
There is some good activity down there.
Tri-Care is moving a large part of operations across the highway.
We expect some contractors to come into that areas so we expect some growth out of the portfolio coming from the Falls Church side.
When we look at the Wisconsin Avenue property one of our older properties in the portfolio but well leased close to the metro station and basically full.
We don’t expect a ton of growth there but we do expect a lot of stability.
So when we put the package together we thought there was a growth component as well as a stability component and obviously we executed on a fairly good debt package to leverage those assets up.
As we look at DC and growing the platform which is the next part we’re looking at DC as you know has been considered – people are thinking about it a little soft in terms of rental rate growth the government being uncertain as to what their demand is going to be over the next couple of years.
I think when you look at the underwritings of what people are projecting rent growth is going to be close to flat in a lot of the areas we’re going to be looking at.
As you know we’re targeting inside the beltway markets.
But we are looking for value add components so we’re going to be looking for some vacancy.
We’re going to be looking for some below market leasing that we hope to harvest or some repositioning capital that is necessary for some buildings.
We would probably be looking at buildings that are not trophy or with A they are probably core plus buildings.
We are seeing some activity where those buildings are being priced below replacement cost not by much and we’ll be looking to take advantage of those to reach our IRR hurdles we’ve established.
Maybe for George I guess to ask the lease question a different way with known move ins and known move outs the 300 basis point spike you have in occupancy in your forecast for the fourth quarter how much of that is known and how much is related to the speculative revenue you have yet to achieve this year? About half of it was known and about half of it is still speculative based on the assessment of today’s pipeline.
Your next question comes from Michael Knott – Green Street Advisors.
George just curious if you can comment on how your tenants are thinking about their space needs today? Are they more aggressive than they were before or are they still kind of attracting and thinking about space efficiency a great deal? Well I think tenants are all kind of going through that right sizing analysis.
Fortunately for us that’s led to a few expansions.
Contractions were relatively small for the quarter only 14 000 square feet of contractions in the fourth quarter.
We do kind of expect that every time a lease comes up for renewal they’re going to go through that analysis converting from typical 12x12 offices to a more open floor plate and trying to gain efficiencies that way.
But I think we’re pleased with the fact that the contractions this quarter kind of have leveled off.
Also I guess what we’re hearing from a number of those fairly larger corporations there clearly remains a very keen focus on efficiencies.
Average occupancy cost per employee what the space utilization is per employee and some of the corporations we’re talking to at one end of the extreme are down to open floor plans designing 6x6 cubes getting down to 100 square feet per employee others are still closer to 200 square feet per employee.
It kind of depends on the industry.
But look certainly open architecture in the new office age is becoming more the norm than the exception so items like column spacing floor to ceiling heights window lines are all an increasing part of how tenants evaluate new locations.
Then on the balance sheet obviously you guys have done a lot of good work there lately extending debt maturities etc.
I think you’re at about a mid sevens debt to EBITDA right now on a GAAP basis and you say you want to get to 6.5 but you want to get lower than that longer term.
If we look out three to four years are you talking about going from maybe a 6.5 to your intermediate target maybe six or under six? How should we think about sort of your longer term leverage objective? Look as we’ve shared in the past our longer term objective is to get that number closer to six and to kind of stabilize it there and to run the company on that basis.
We know there’s a lot of wood to chop to get there but that remains from the board level through to the management team a key objective as we look at our multiple year plan.
We said that 6.5 is the intermediate term target and certainly when we get to that point we’re going to be in a great position of hoping being able to grow EBITDA.
Certainly our investment strategy is going to be driven with that as a paramount objective and will remain an overriding concern as we evaluate all of our investment activities.
If I could just ask real quickly did I hear you guys right that the $80 million of sales for 2012 are not identified yet? Well they’re not specifically identified they are layered in as part of $200 million worth of properties actually a little bit north of that on the market for sale today.
Some of those properties are in advanced discussions and would count towards that $80 million.
I think when we were saying they’re not identified yet we haven’t announced any specific transactions yet that we credit to that $80 but we’re well ahead of the curve by having a number of things in the marketplace today that are being actively marketed and reviewed by potential buyers.
<br>Just a follow up on that quickly if we look at page 25 which I think is a new page in your supplemental and thanks for that if that’s right.
How much beyond that $200 that’s in the market today if you could waive a magic wand to sort of get the portfolio where you wanted it to be how much more than the $200 would you need to sell? And which places in terms of geographically on page 25 would those $100 plus come from? Certainly as we look at the portfolio we’ve announced that our plan is to exit the California marketplace.
There’s about a million square feet there.
We also have made progress over the last two years in particular relative to reducing the overall exposure of the company to the New Jersey and Delaware markets too.
Right now it’s a little bit less than 12% and the game plan is to continue that program over the next couple of years.
Then we look at the Pennsylvania suburbs metro DC and Richmond Virginia there’s clearly properties in those asset pools that we have identified as being non-core that we think as those properties stabilize and as the investment market recovers that we would move those into the marketplace for sale.
So I guess Michele when you look at the portfolio almost everyone of those markets that we’ve identified has some element of assets that we would be targeting for disposition over the next several years.
Just as reflective as Tom outlined on the Allstate joint venture we clearly have an announced plan to increase our revenue contribution from Metro DC but certainly as part of that there’s a number of assets we identified as potential sale or JV properties that are already in the existing portfolio.
So it sounds like it could be maybe one times multiple at least of the current $200 that’s in the market over a long time period that you would want to exit? At least in that range correct.
Your next question comes from Mitchell Germain – JMP Securities.
Can I just get an update on Three Logan? I know you recently announced some leasing and I know you have a lot of moving pieces there but Gerry can you give us an idea where you stand right now? As George touched on the good news bad news when we kind of reviewed our leasing pipeline was that the pipeline went down.
The good news was that it went down because we no longer have large blocks of space available in Three Logan.
With the Reed Smith announcement last quarter that really consumed the remaining large block of space.
So our leasing teams with the [inaudible] transaction locked in and Reed Smith transaction locked in and a couple of other tenants who had renewed and expanded in fairly large blocks of space we wound up in a position where we can now go back and really hone in on those tenants whose leases expire in 2012 and that’s exactly where we are right now.
Our leasing team in Center City is back negotiating lease extensions blends and extends etc.
with a number of tenants in the Three Logan building.
The success rate we’re getting is very good so we’re pleased to report that Three Logan continues very much in pace.
A lot of the rollover that we’re showing in the CBD Philadelphia are still those tenants in Three Logan that have no yet signed so our guess would be certainly by our first quarter call we would be in a position to hone those numbers down to a finer degree and present a very clear picture on exactly what the rollover picture looks like for Three Logan for 2012 and ’13.
Your next question comes from Young Ku – Wells Fargo Securities LLC LLC</strong> Howard I think you kept your interest expense guidance staying at $133 to $140 for the year.
You guys did a lot of capital activity and you said you’re not assuming anything additional so why is there a big variance between the two ranges? That’s a good question and then I’ll make two observations.
First the range stayed the same because while the buy backs we did in December were positive to the interest expense the extra rate fixing we did we kind of used that up so roughly an offset.
The variability in the range reflects the possibility that we’ll still do some liability management as the year rolls on.
We are incurring incremental interest at this point while we’re holding cash balances so we could at some point seek to try to net that down but for the moment we’ve left that assumption open.
LLC</strong> As of today are you trending towards the low end of the range or the high or at the midpoint? Why don’t we leave it as a range for now without trying to be too specific at this point.
LLC</strong> One just other question if we look at your occupancy forecast for 2012 we see a big deep in Philly CBD in Q3.
What is kind of driving that down and what are some of the moving pieces to change that up to this level? We have got a 60 000 square foot tenancy at One Logan that we know they’re going to vacate their space and then as we talked about a few moments ago on Three Logan some of the tenants that we inherited when we bought the building that have that July 31 2012 lease expiration some of those are also forecasted to roll out.
Those are the tenants we are currently negotiating with to try and work out some type of a blend and extend whether on a short term or on a long term basis.
Your next question comes from Anthony Paolone – J.P.
Morgan.
I just have one.
It looks like there were about seven million units that converted to shares from 3Q to 4Q and I was just wondering if you can give us any color on what is going on there? Those were the Blackstone units in connection with the Three Logan transaction where after the one year period they had the right to convert their units to shares and they did so.
Do you have any sense or can you speak to what their intentions might be there? We really don’t.
They were motivated initially to make an investment in the company and we don’t know otherwise at this point.
Their conversion was pursuant to the terms of the original deal where they had the ability to convert from units to shares.
You may recall that they were initially set up as units simply because we wanted to create a structure whereby we didn’t pay dividends on that equity issuance for a year following closing.
Once they started to receive the dividends they were completely indifferent to whether they held shares or units.
Your next question comes from Just going back to your crescent markets as you call them for the Pennsylvania suburbs I was just wondering if you would care to comment on Five Tower Bridge sale that we saw recently that closed.
I think we had maybe talked about that before but it looked like it fetched over $300 a foot but I just wanted to give you guys a chance to comment on that deal as it pertains to some of your better crescent markets Conshohocken and Radnor potentially? That transaction did announce.
It was Five Tower Bridge.
You may recall that was originally a partnership project for Brandywine that sold a number of years ago to an institutional owner.
That institutional owner decided to sell it again.
It did trade for $315 a square foot slightly north of a 7% cap rate.
Very good quality product great location within the Conshohocken submarket.
Certainly quality and locationally something that is very much akin to our properties both that we own directly in Conshohocken to certainly our Plymouth Meeting portfolio and then more to the point to our Radnor portfolio.
We thought it was very good comp frankly for the suburban office markets here in PA in terms of trading ranges.
Now look that is as you mentioned clearly one of the higher end submarkets and a very high end property within that submarket so it would fetch a very good value and in our mind it does have a parallel to our exposure in the crescent market so we were pleased to see that property trade at that pricing level.
Obviously the prices per square foot are much different but why do you think the cap on that deal it sounds like it was pretty tight with the properties that you recently sold at a 7.4 which were towards the lower end of your quality spectrum if I understand it correctly? The properties we did sell were at the lower end of our quality spectrum but also rents were very low.
They were in New Jersey and therefore the price per square foot was very low as well.
This traded – I can’t really speak to the specific rent profile it just escapes me right now but it was fairly stable.
Rents were at or above existing market levels and I think that probably had a little bit of an impact on driving the cap rate lower in that there really wasn’t a lot of immediate upside in terms of rolling rents in the market.
At this time there are no further questions.
Gentlemen do you have any closing remarks? Only to thank everyone for participating and we look forward to providing a further update on our business plan on our first quarter call.
Thank you very much.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name Letangie [ph] and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent anybody background noise.
After the speaker’s remarks there will be a question and answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gerry Sweeny President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Please go ahead sir.
Letangie thank you very much.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in our first quarter 2012 earnings call.
On today’s call with me are George Johnstone our Senior Vice President Operations Gabe Mainardi our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Howard Sipzner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President of Portfolio Management and Investments.
Prior to beginning I would like to remind everyone that certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Law.
Although we believe the estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
The first quarter was a solid continuation of the momentum we built in 2011.
My comments will provide an overview on our three key focal areas of operations balance sheet management and investments.
George and Howard will then discuss our operating and financial results in more detail and certainly Tom and Gabe are available to answer any other questions.
First an overall observation.
General economic uncertainty we see every day is moderating the pace of the office market recovery.
One day the news is good the next day not so much.
However the challenge [inaudible] remains positive and based on what we see at least in our markets the office market recovery is certainly continuing.
Vacancy rates continue to decline in most of our markets.
First quarter leasing activity in most of our markets was lower than in the fourth quarter of 2011 but generally as expected.
Leasing remained our number one priority and market data supports continued confidence in our business plan.
Several of our markets continue to have a tenant driven pricing dynamic but in other markets we see encouraging signs of rental rate growth.
Across the board in all of our markets we are still benefiting from a flight up the quality curve as our product is at the top end of the available inventory.
Our leasing approach remains tactical that is in some markets we are increasing rates lengthening lease terms and creating downward pressure on capital concessions.
This approach is working well in Austin Philadelphia CBD and in Crescent markets in the Pennsylvania suburbs.
In other markets were we’re accelerating absorption through aggressively gaining market share results along these lines remain measurable and positive.
And in these markets particularly in New Jersey and Northern Virginia while we recognize we have marginal current pricing power we are well positioned to achieve above market absorption levels and position those portfolios for long term growth.
Our watchword remains aggressive pursuit of tenants with the goal of meeting all of our business plan targets.
Based on our year-to-date activity and forward pipeline as evidence of our confidents we did increase our 2012 speculative revenue target by 2% and year-to-date we’ve achieved 80% of this new annual target.
Looking at the quarter we had good leasing benchmarks and solid operating metrics.
Most notably our pipeline of transactions which we defined is prospects of an issued proposals remains consistent 3.4 million square feet.
The number and square footage of prospects touring or inquiring about our properties during the quarter averaged 37 companies and 400 000 square feet per week.
For the quarter these numbers were 26% greater than in the fourth quarter of 2011.
So while general market activity leasing levels were generally down we had a very good quarter of tenant inquires and inspections evidencing from our standpoint continued emergence of tenant demand and as previously mentioned flight the quality product and landlords.
Our goal of having positive same-store growth for 2011 remains on track mark-to-market leasing spreads were consistent with our 2012 business plan albeit lower for the quarter particularly on a cash basis than our target of run rate for the year.
For the balance of the year we expect better forward leasing spread based upon the position of our projected leasing activity.
Concession package remained fairly steady where we’re seeing higher capital cost we’re attempting to mitigate that through extended lease terms.
Our TI cost for the quarter were in line with our business plan assumptions but continue to be an area of heightened focus.
George will address capital in more detail but our CAD ratio this quarter was a solid 79% we also had positive absorption for the portfolio this quarter.
George again will touch on these operating metrics and pipeline activity in more detail but from an operating standpoint we’re pleased with the quarter and more importantly with the continued improvement in the overall tone and velocity of our tenant traffic.
Looking at our balance sheet we remain extremely liquid with no near term debt maturities.
Additionally with the extension of A $100 million that remains floating we are completely insulated from any floating rate interest risk.
Continued NOI improvement augmented by our investment strategy we’ll continue our EBITDA improving deleveraging program.
We closed the quarter with $334 million of cash and securities on hand as a result of early asset sales and the funding of our previously announced $600 million term loan facilities.
These cash balances provided funds of $151.2 million balance of our 5¾ unsecured notes that was due April 1st.
Liability management efforts continued during the quarter and we purchased $4 million of our unsecured notes.
While we incurred a slight loss on that extinguishment this does represent our approach in effectively managing our forward liabilities and from a debt maturity standpoint the company is in extraordinarily good shape and our next unsecured note is not due until November of 2014.
For the quarter we improved our net debt to gross assets to 43.7%.
We have no outstanding balance on our $600 million unsecured revolving credit facility and we also made good progress along our EBITDA improvement path aiming at 7.2 times ratio of net debt to annualized EBITDA.
And Howard in his presentation will review all those metrics in more detail.
The cash is certainly fungible and our sources of cash have been slightly larger borrowings under our term loans and the proceeds from asset sales are Allstate joint venture and now they are preferred offering.
We view our cash on a net debt basis and our bank term loan structures provides an opportunity to reduce debt with minimal breakage cost.
But while the economic climate remains uncertain it’s important to maximize flexibility and liquidity.
As such we’ve planned to remain very liquid with ample financial capacity while our portfolio transitions to higher occupancy levels consistent NOI growth and EBITDA improvement.
Our cash balances are available for continued liability management acquisitions and direct debt pay downs.
We have a very stable and flexible debt platform where we have the option to accelerate debt free payments or alternatively use cash form sales to redeploy in the better growth assets.
And in pursuit of this liquidity objective subsequent to the quarter end we took advantage of strong capital markets through a $100 million opportunistic preferred equity issuance of 6.9% coupon preferred shares.
A portion of these proceeds will fund the redemption of all of our outstanding 7.5% Series E cumulative redeemable preferred shares.
The issuance of this preferred stock at a 6.9% coupon is excellent permanent capital for our company.
The coupon is extremely attractive market demand was very strong enable us to upsize our offering after the launch and consequently redeem our 7.5% preferreds.
This issuance and related redemption cost was not an original and has a near-term cost.
That cost as indicated in our guidance needs to be expensed from both the redemption as well as the anticipated dividends on the net preferred issuance and will be about $0.03 per share during 2012.
Looking at investments the low-interest rate environment increased visibility on leasing activity and the relative yield against other real-estate sectors have created a much more active bidding pool for our asset class and there is ample available capital looking for acquisitions.
To take advantage of that opportunity we are increasing our sales target for 2012 from $80 million to $175 million.
Our previous guidance contemplated an $80 million target occurring rabidly during the year at cap rates ranging between 7.5% and 9%.
Given what we’ve seen thus far we anticipate better progress than that.
For example we sold out our fully leased 268 000 sq.
ft satellite building for $91.1 million or $340 per sq.
ft.
We also completed the disposition of a 33 000 sq.
ft office building in Morristown New Jersey.
We currently have over $200 million of assets either on the market for sale or in reverse inquiry discussions.
These assets are located in Pennsylvania New Jersey and California.
Of this amount approximately $80 million is either in buyer due diligence or buyer underwriting and bid review.
To the extent that these pending $80 million of transactions close will be a timing acceleration versus our original business plan and as a result the loot of the 2012 FFO.
To put a finer point on it our $94 million of sales to-date have cost us about $0.03 per share in current year FFO versus our previous guidance and if the properties under contract and underwriting close on their projected timelines that will cost us roughly about another penny per share versus our prior slower assumed pace.
So overall our earlier and higher sales volumes are about $0.04 dilutive to FFO in 2012.
During the quarter we did complete a small acquisition.
We acquired a 150 000 sq.
ft vacant office building located in Plymouth Meeting Pennsylvania next to our Plymouth Meeting executive campus.
Our price was $9.1 million or $59 per square foot.
We immediately comments redevelopment with an overall budget including our acquisition cost approximating $28 million.
We expect to deliver the finished building by the end of the year stabilize by year end 2013 and already 58% preleased.
We expect to achieve an 11% free and clear return on an overall investment base of about $180 per square foot.
This value-add acquisition was a perfect compliment both from an offensive and defensive leasing standpoint to our existing 800 000 square foot inventory in Plymouth Meeting.
In general our investment approach is governed by continual balance sheet improvement and achieving a better forward growth profile.
Our 2012 guidance does not contemplate any additional acquisitions but we continue to actively evaluate a range of opportunities both in our Allstate joint venture and for direct acquisitions.
We would anticipate that any contemplated acquisitions will be financed through asset sales or existing cash balances.
One final point we have a land inventory of approximately $109 million or roughly 2.2% of our asset base.
Most of that land is entitled for office development given the realities in some markets based in future office development last year we commenced a plan to examine all parcels for alternative and higher value uses.
That process is beginning to payoff and we recently received approvals on our Plymouth Meeting land for about 400 multifamily units.
We have several additional parcels proceeding through the same process and once it’s achieved new entitlements our plan would be to either sell that land or identify quality residential companies and/or institutional investors to develop the project were by Brandywine would be an investment partner.
To wrap up with some comments on our guidance as we did note in our press release we issued a revised FFO range for 2012 of a $1.30 to a $1.35 per share.
The reduction in the bottom end of the range of $0.05 is comprise of $0.03 due to the preferred offering the $0.04 I mentioned due to the accelerated and larger sale target offset by $0.02 of operational improvements driven by strong leasing and expense savings.
At this point George will now provide an overview of our first quarter operating activity and then George will turn it over to Howard for a review of our financial activity.
Thank you Gerry.
We continue to see good levels of leasing activity during the first quarter which has allowed us to raise certain elements of the business plan.
And overall flight to quality continues as tenants seek quality landlords buildings and locations which has benefitted our portfolio.
Some markets that continue to demonstrate recovery and improving metrics are Philadelphia CBD the Crescent Pennsylvania submarkets of Radnor Conshohocken Plymouth Meeting and New Town Square along with Austin and Richmond where rent growth and tighter capital control are becoming more of the norm.
Other markets while showing some signs of improvement remain in a binding occupancy mode.
In terms of the first quarter specifically during the quarter we commenced 982 000 square feet of leases including 442 000 square feet of new leases 421 000 square feet of renewal leases and a 119 000 square feet of tenant expansions.
This leasing activity resulted in positive absorption of 77 000 square feet and an occupancy percentage of 86.7%.
Occupancy exceeded our business plan projection by 20 basis points after factoring in the 10 basis points declined from the sale of the South Lake Building in Northern Virginia.
More importantly we are holding our year end occupancy target of 89.4%.
Retention for the quarter was 59.7% early termination rates exercise by handful of tenants accounted for 1000 basis points of lost retention.
For the year tenant retention is still expected to be 57% based on 1.1 million square feet of renewals already executed current lease negotiations and known tenant move outs.
Leasing capital for the quarter was $2.85 per square foot per lease year.
Our average lease term for the quarter was 5.7 years.
Regions operated under the average capital spend for the quarter were the Pennsylvania Suburbs New Jersey Delaware Richmond and California.
Philadelphia CBD and Metro DC continue to outpace the company average on average lease term.
Lengthening lease term and controlling capital continues to be an area of focus.
Rental rate declines for the quarter were 4.3% on a GAAP basis and 14.2% on a cash basis.
Philadelphia CBD the Pennsylvania Suburbs and Metro DC posted positive capital rental rate growth or positive GAAP rental rate growth for the quarter.
Cash declines are driven by five deals rolling off leases done at the height at the market.
Excluding these five deals cash declines were 6%.
We do expect rental rate trends to improve from those posted in the first quarter as our business plan still contemplate the range from negative 1% to positive 2% on a GAAP basis and negative 4% to negative 7% on a cash basis.
Traffic for the quarter was up 26% sequentially and up 5% over last year’s average quarterly traffic.
The pipeline remains strong and unchanged at 3.4 million square feet 2.5 million square feet of new deals 900 000 square feet of renewal deals.
611 000 square feet of deals are on lease negotiations with the balance all entertaining proposals.
We have increased our speculative revenue target by $1 million or 2%.
$35.9 million or 80% has been achieved leaving $9 million still to be done over the balance of the year.
At this time last year we had $11 million remaining on our spec revenue target.
Austin Philadelphia CBD Pennsylvania Suburbs New Jersey Delaware are all north of 80% achieved.
Of the remaining $9 million to be achieved 35% is in active negotiations 25% are entertaining proposals and 40% still needs to be sourced.
These leasing assumptions and trends will translate into same store NOI growth of 0.5% to 2.5% on a GAAP basis and flat to 2% on a cash basis both excluding early termination and other income.
Leasing remains the primary focus of the regional teams we’ll continue examination of our contracted services energy procurement and conservation effort and aggressively appealing real estate taxes for aid in reducing operating costs and improving margin.
I will now turn it over to Howard for the financial review.
Thank you George and thank you Gerry.
The first quarter 2012 income statement featured FFO available to common shares and units of $47.1 million.
This compares favorably to $47.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 and $48.2 million in the first quarter of 2011 given the interim sales and disposition activity.
Our funds from operations or FFO per diluted share came in at $0.32 which matched analyst consensus for the quarter.
Our payout ratio on the $0.15 dividend we paid in January 2012 was a very strong 46.9%.
And our first quarter FFO figure was high quality with termination revenue other income management fees interest income JV activity and bond buyback cost totaling $6.3 million gross or $5 million net each in line with our 2012 expectations.
A few observations on the components of our first quarter performance cash rent of a $108 million was down $6 million sequentially versus the fourth quarter of 2011 due to fourth quarter and first quarter 2012 sales activity.
Straight line rent however of $6.8 million was up $1.4 million sequentially due to increased leasing activity and the associated straight lining components.
Recovery income of $19.3 million was down $1.2 million sequentially versus $20.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 due to the mild winter and again the impact of the sales.
Our recovery ratio of 35.5% on expenses was in line with our expectations.
Property operating expenses of $40.2 million were down $4.1 million sequentially versus $44.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 due to the aforementioned sales activity and again the mild weather this past winter.
Real estate taxes were up $0.3 million or $300 000 sequentially due to a variety of minor factors.
Our interest expense in the first quarter of 2012 came in at $34.1 million and represented an increase of $2.2 million sequentially versus $31.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
As we had double outstanding proportions of our debt on the quarter pending repayment and we also absorbed the cost of locking interest rates for the current and future periods.
Our G&amp;A at $6.1 million was in line with our expectation and with the prior quarter.
In the first quarter of 2012 we had net bad debt expense of just under $800 000 included in our operating expenses and for the most part it is proportional to the increase in our overall straight line rent activity.
Compared to a year ago the first quarter same store NOI increased 2.6% on a GAAP basis and decreased 0.3% on a cash basis both excluding termination fees and other income items and in line with our expectations for the quarter.
Our cash available for distribution or CAD increased sequentially to $27.8 million from $22 million and measured $0.19 per share versus $0.15 in the prior quarter.
Our 78.9% first quarter 2012 CAD payout ratio is our best level of the last five quarters.
EBITDA coverage ratios are off their highest levels and came in at 2.4 times interest 2.2 times debt service and 2.1 times fixed charges due primarily to doubling of debt balances in the quarter and reduced exposure of floating rates.
Margins remain very strong with improving occupancy levels and came in at 60.7% for NOI and 62.9% for EBITDA.
As Gerry noted we are revising our 2012 FFO guidance to now be in a range of a $1.30 to a $1.35 per diluted share for the full year.
Excluding the roughly $0.08 of the store tax credit income we will recognize in the third quarter of 2012 and the $0.015 of cost for the preferred share redemption we’ll recognize in the second quarter our recurring quarterly run rate for the second quarter to the fourth quarter should be in a range of $0.295 to $0.31 per diluted share.
In terms of other income items for the full year we are projecting no change in our $20 million to $25 million gross figure or $14 to $19 million net figure after expenses for a basket of other items such as termination revenues other income management revenues less associated expenses if net interest income JV income including the now financing obligation cost featured on our income statement for the non-consolidated property in our joint venture.
We don’t expect any change in 2012 G&amp;A and it will be in the total range of $24 million to $25 million.
And there is no change in our expectation for interest expense for the full year and we’re maintaining it in the $133 million to $140 million range.
The wideness is reflected of the possibility that we may end up doing some debt pay downs as the year progresses and will be substituting cost of those debt pay downs for the underlying interest expense.
We’re now projecting a $175 million of total 2012 sales activity.
And with the higher pays and earlier activity that has a incremental impact to our FFO along with sales completed at about $0.04 per share.
We’re including the Series E preferred shares at 6.9% dividend cost going forward offset by the repayment on May 3rd of the $50 million Series C shares.
That together with the cost of redeeming the Series C shares will be about $0.03 dilutive in 2012.
As I mentioned earlier we’ll recognize the $0.08 per share gross historic tax credit impact in the third quarter.
This revenue component is essentially non-cash and will be excluded from our CAD calculation.
It reflects the second occurrence of 20% of the net proceeds realized through the historic tax credit financing in 2010 and will be recognized in the third quarter of each year from 2011 through 2015.
We’re not anticipating any further issuance under our continuous equity offering program and no additional note buyback activity is reflected in our guidance.
And as a result we see a 147 million shares as our count for fully diluted shares in units outstanding for FFO calculation in 2012.
Reflecting approximately $53 million of additional revenue maintaining capital expenditures for the last nine months of 2012 we see cash available for distribution per diluted share staying in the range of $0.60 to $0.77 per share as previously outlined.
The 2012 guidance revision is impressive from our perspective as we incurred $0.07 of dilution versus the prior disclosure and only reduced our guidance by $0.05 reflecting $0.02 of better and more certain operating performance.
Our capital plan in 2012 is remarkable and simple.
Our $284 million cash balance not to mention $50 million of securities on hand will cover all our needs and we do not expect to do any financings or use our credit facility this year at all.
Our uses from April 1<sup>st</sup> 2012 forward totaled $446 million and are as follows.
A $160 million for debt repayments a $151 million of debt has already been funded on April 2nd for our 2012 notes and lease just $9 million for mortgage amortization over the course of the year.
We have a variety of investment activity scheduled for the balance of 2012.
It includes the $53 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures a $103 million for revenue creating capital expenditures lease up of vacant space and new project lease up including such properties as 3 Logan square and 3020 Market Street plus another $55 million for a combination of smaller various capital projects including our Commerce Square Joint Venture contributions.
We will pay $75 million of aggregate dividends on the common and preferred.
$22 million on the common and $2 million on the preferred were already paid earlier in April leaving 2012 remaining dividend payments of $51 million inclusive of the new Series E preferred.
To fund this $446 million we are projecting the following from April 1st onward.
A $100 million of cash flow before financings investments and dividends but after interest payments which are lumpy and tend to occur in April and May on the cycle of semiannual payments.
$81 million of additional sales proceeds from the sales of Gerry outlined $47 million from net preferred stock activity reflecting the funds we’ve raised in the Series E offering the cost of that offering less the $50 million we will disperse to redeem the Series E shares.
And we’ll use $280 million of our cash balance leaving us with a projected year end 2012 balance of about a $116 million inclusive of the $50 million of securities that will mature prior to year end.
So our capital plan is very transparent and very clean from our perspective.
Accounts receivables at March 31<sup>st</sup> 2012 had reserves of about $16.1 million $3.4 million on $17.4 million of operating receivables or just under 20% and $12.7 million on a $123.5 million of straight line rent receivables as we call them or 10.3%.
We are 100% compliant on all of our credit facility and indentured covenants with 84% of our growth real estate book value unencumbered at March 31 2012.
With the refinancing of our credit facility we are now working under the new credit facility compliance metrics and those all are captured in our supplemental package.
With that I will turn it back to Gerry for some additional comments.
Great thank you very much Howard and thank you as well George.
To conclude our prepared remarks first quarter results were strong and consistent with our announced 2012 business plan.
As evidenced by our collective commentary we remain confident in our ability to achieve our 2012 objectives including the increase in our spec revenue target.
We remain convinced that our best growth strategy remain simply to continue outperforming our markets by leasing space.
Our high quality product continues to provide a competitive advantage and we expect that advantage will accelerate as fundamentals continue to improve.
Our balance sheet strategy remains very much on track and as discussed we have become more aggressive on our decision target for the year given increased visibility on suburban office evaluations.
So thank you again for participating in the call.
One final note we want to mention that we will be hosting an Analyst and Investor Day on Tuesday June 26.
That tour will include presentations by our senior team as well as a tour of our Philadelphia CBD asset.
We look forward to the opportunity to welcome many of you to Philadelphia to present both the strength of our market position and the quality of our asset base and regional management teams.
Invitations will be mailed out next week and we hope you can join us we look forward to seeing you in June.
With that Letangie we’d be delighted to open up the floor for questions.
We ask that in the interest of time you limit yourself to one question and a follow up.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of James Feldman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Can you talk a little bit more about the current leasing pipeline? I guess in terms of what you left to do for the rest of the year.
And then also with the election coming people concerned about the fiscal cliff kind of what’s your sentiment in terms of kind of business decision making for the rest of the year? Sure George? Yeah Jamie I think as I mentioned earlier we’ve got you know $9 million of spec revenue left to achieve that’s going to require us to do just a little bit north of a million and a half square feet.
You know the pipeline is strong it’s 3.4 million square feet in total.
2.5 million square feet of that are new prospects and 900 000 of renewal prospects and we feel confident that with the pipeline that we have the conversion rates that we’ve demonstrated last year our conversion was 40% it was 31% for the first quarter but we have got several markets that continue to kind of outperform that 40% company average.
I think to add on to that Jamie just in terms of one of the things we really do track is the traffic that comes to through our pipeline.
But that tends to be a harbinger of forward leasing activity.
Then I think even with the overall market levels being down a bit Q1 versus Q4 we are very pleased with the increase in traffic through our portfolio.
And that was pretty much throughout our inventory across all the market.
I think with the pipeline remaining constant the number of deals that we have in negotiations the percentage of deals that we have totally issued for I think we’ll continue to remain very confident on our ability to achieve all these targets.
And then I guess this bigger picture on sentiment among tenants and among decision makers.
I mean do you sense people are getting more cautious here with the election and the economic data getting more mixed or no change.
Well not a big change since the last conference call.
Certainly the market that we are in is the most sensitized to the federal government and it’s a budgetary matter both in Northern Virginia and in Maryland.
I think the decline in leasing activity in Q1 in that market I think is reflective of the fact that a number of tenants are on the sidelines or pausing before they make a lot of poor lease commitments so they get a better flavor for what the political climate will be going forward.
Certainly with some of the appeal processes recently issued by the federal government in terms of awarding contracts that has a bit of a delay in the actual award of those contracts and creates a more protracted timeline.
When we look beyond that I don’t think we are really seeing the impact of the election in our other markets.
I mean the pipeline feedback from our leasing agents the managing directors does not seem to indicate that people are really focusing on that political climate as a key driver in their space decisions.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Attie with Citigroup.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Can you talk a little bit more about what the acquisition pipeline looks like and maybe even development? When you did the preferred offerings you chose to increase the cash balance instead of paying down debt or bond and I guess that kind of implies that you are seeing more growth opportunities.
Can you talk about that a little bit? Certainly a real quick overview and Tom can give you kind of around the horn what we are seeing on the investment side.
But I think the reason when we raised this capital that we didn’t pay down the debt immediately was just to preserve complete optionality and we have – as you know from our bank term loans structure a pretty flexible platform to pay down that debt as we see fit with some acceleration of costs but minimal break to expand this.
So I think when we analyze where we are we retain the option to apply cash to future debt pay downs or as we did in this past question to – I think some pretty good tactical liability management and we are seeing more things on the investment side which Tom can certainly touch on.
Sure.
Josh on the investment side I think if you look at the markets I think Philadelphia tend to be slower not seeing much activity at this point.
Continue to see some activity in Austin that we monitor.
That market continues to be well received when product is out there.
And we continue to look at the CBD in South West for opportunities.
And in Metro DC I think it’s a tale of two story lines.
We have the outside the belt way which other than our trade has been very few.
Outside of belt way trade they have been taking longer to get done.
So we are monitoring that very closely just to see with cap rates are going to go higher out there or whether we see that nothing trades.
Inside the belt way we are still seeing a lot of good activity.
And that activity in the trophy class there is plenty of capital out there finding that product as well as – but some product it isn’t trading as the expectations.
People are expecting especially with – I think as you mentioned on the political side we’ve seen rent sort of come down a little bit.
We have seen it in our portfolio we are seeing it in the district also with some negative absorption that people are pulling product and in some cases refinancing.
So there is some haves and have nots.
We are looking in a district and inside the belt way markets we are targeting now with our Allstate joint venture.
So we are certainly looking for opportunities in our targeted markets which are all inside the beltway.
We are seeing some good opportunities we are taking a look at them most of the things we are looking at are going to be conservative.
We are not looking for a lot of leasing exposure or near-term leasing risk and we continue to be pleased by what kind of lending you are seeing on assets inside the beltway by various institutions.
And how should we think about the redeployment of the asset sale proceeds you increased the asset sale guidance should we think of those proceeds as going towards sitting in cash until you can find acquisition opportunities or would some of those proceeds go to pay down the term loans? I think as I mentioned in the beginning we want to just keep our flexibility.
We have the option of paying down certainly a $100 million floating rate term loan as we choose.
Howard continues to track the liability market for any frictional trades we can make to look at your our forward liabilities and Tom and his team are continuing to beat the bush on investments.
So I think those three avenues I think are good ones for the company and as situations arise that we think justify the deployment of capital we will move down that path.
Okay thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the like of Jordan Sadler with Keybanc Capitals.
Thanks good morning.
I was just looking to get a clarification on the asset sales.
You said previously the expectation was for cap rates in the 7.5% to 9% on the $80 million you had in guidance ratable over the year.
What’s the blended cap rate now? We are looking at a range in the mid 7% to 8%.
Mid 7 to 8 now.
On a blended basis it will be some lower some higher when we look at the pipeline.
Okay.
And then separately just looking at the revenue generating CapEx in the small capital projects which include 3 Logan 3020 and presumably the Plymouth Meeting asset you guys just touched on you are talking of Plymouth Meeting but can you walk through what are the expected overall returns embedded in guidance on the 160 million you expect to deploy from April on? Does that fall in the sort of 10% to 12% unlevered range or what? Jordan it’s Howard.
A lot of it goes to leasing of vacant space.
So putting it in the context of the 3 Logan that’s an asset we originally underwrote at a substantially vacant basis to yield in a 9% to 10% range.
So this is spent or part of it that will take place in 2012 is towards meeting that goal.
3020 could be an asset that yields ultimately in excess of 10%.
The development project in Plymouth Meeting at 11% return.
The money that we spent in the Thomas Properties Group Commerce Square Joint Venture a little bit over 9% with some fees on top of that.
So generally very attractive returns as you look around the landscape of where those are going.
My last question Gerry just looking at sort of – the cash on your balance sheet today looks $230 million $240 million.
I think numbers are higher at quarter end.
I know that you are keeping your options open.
But I guess it basically seems that your option is open outside of debt repayment which are a certainty.
It would mean that you have got investment opportunities that you are looking at.
Can you maybe just characterize that for us? It seems like you have got potential size there and maybe just frame that up in terms of what you are seeing is the most attractive potential opportunities.
Sure I will take a stab at it for you.
First of all that math that Howard walked through in his commentary shows the application of a good portion of that cash during the course of the year.
So you need to be mindful of that as we take a look at some of the things you just inquired about in terms of 3 Logan 3020 Plymouth Meeting and we think they are good high-quality capital investments to make as those projects stabilize to develop a good rate of return.
So as we look at our high net cash position it’s probably not as big as you are looking at for the first quarter.
So you need to be mindful of that overlay.
But look we are beginning to see some more opportunities.
They need to be mined need to be worked a lot of our transactions were focused on off market.
We certainly like the structure of what we are able to achieve with Commerce Square.
We are able to invest in a preferred position and create a good rate of return and accelerate absorption and value in an asset that we invest in.
Some of the… Do you expect that to be recapitalized this year? That first piece of that is due in 2013 in Commerce Square.
So certainly I think the partnership as the year progresses will have a number of discussions about what the best method to do that is.
But that certainly looms on the near-term horizon as a capital discussion that partnership needs to have.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel.
Great thank you.
Hey Gerry you guys did an awfully impressive asset sale at Dallas Station which is a miserable leasing market as we all know.
Can you drill down and talk about in addition to the price per pound the cap rate the lease expiration schedule any early expirations they might have had? And then also sort of how you looked at it on a wholesale basis and what your price point was at which you became a seller versus a holder? Sure would be happy to John and they are good questions.
I wouldn’t necessarily agree with your total characterization but I understand your theme.
As we looked at the time we were in transaction that lease that we did was going out through 2019 but had termination rights that were kicking in kind of starting in the middle part of 2016 and 2017.
We did that transaction not quite to the height of the financial prices but pretty close to it.
So there was a real urgency to get that building occupied and the structure in which we did that at least provided not just for those early termination options to give Time Warner the flexibility they required but also provided for fairly flat rental rate structure.
So from our standpoint we have pretty much optimized the value in that asset to bring the property to stabilization and getting the cash flow coming in once the tenants are paying cash rent.
Given those termination options given the – we thought could be a declining value investment market at least temporarily based upon some of your observations we thought that we reached the optimal value point of that.
The trade occurs at about 6.8% cap rate $340 a sq.
ft which we thought on both metrics were very good value recoveries for us.
It enabled us to recover a profit on that project and our team could then devote all their resources to leasing our currently vacant space in that market.
Great thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with BMO Capital Markets.
Thanks.
On that Herndon [ph] deal I guess I'm curious why wasn’t it in guidance for your disposition target when you reported fourth quarter results? It only happened a month later.
Yeah Rich it’s a great question.
I think the only thing we can tell you on that is that a little late up to the 11<sup>th</sup> hour the certainty of that execution was in question and we also in the intervening months have gotten much more confident of the depth of this sales market for the suburban asset class.
So we actually in lieu of pre-funding our $80 million original sales target within $91 million trade at Time Warner we actually made a decisions based upon the pipeline of sales velocity we saw to actually keep the $80 million and become additive to the target.
So it was an awkward timing situation for us and then with the passage of time we just gained a lot more confidence on what we are seeing on the buyer’s side of the market.
Would you qualify that as a reversed inquiry trade or is that not falling…  No that was not a reverse inquiry trade.
That was part of a marketing program we had underway.
Just didn’t have any visibility on it as those were being executed.
Okay fair enough.
And then a second follow-up is on retention targeting is still 57% for the year.
Is that kind of a disappointment to you? I mean you guys have historically seen retention targets rise over the course of the year.
How do you feel about retention staying for this quarter? Yeah well Rich I think disappointing but I think a little bit of a continuum of recent trends where some of our larger corporate clients are still kind of going through this downsizing right sizing.
You look at a tenant still hasn’t fully vacated yet but a big impact on our retention is [inaudible] they have given us back a 110 000 sq.
ft and we have been successful in re-letting that space but from a retention statistic it has a negative impact.
We have got 22 tenants north of 10 000 sq.
ft still in our will vacate column for the duration of the year.
And our hope would be that we can ultimately convince some of the tenants less than 10 000 sq.
ft also to change their mind and continue to kind of work the tenant expansions which has a positive impact on the retention calculation.
Okay.
And if I could just quickly say the $0.02 operating improvement – I know I'm on my third question.
I apologize I will be real quick.
No change to your same store range for 2012.
You are just saying top end of that range now basically?  Yeah that would be correct.
It’s a function of the addition million dollars we added to the leasing plan.
The somewhat better expense profile in the first quarter and then just a lot of little stuff.
But it’s not big enough yet to move us outside the range we outlined earlier.
Okay great thanks.
Operator:  Your next question comes from the line of Dave Rogers with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi guys just talking about some of the dispositions that you shared about earlier in the call on the Q&amp;A what would cause you to maybe hit the high end of that range or could you increase the range again this year in terms of the total disposition activity if pricing is right and would you need to see alternative investment opportunities or would you be happy holding more cash maybe going into the end of the year? Yeah two things could drive the sort of guidance is we do acquisitions and we did better than we are anticipating right now on lease executions and NOI generation during the year certainly to the extent that the sales target exceeded 175 without having a redeployment of that that would create some downward pressure for sure.
And can you quantify the impact of the mild weather maybe this quarter and then versus – when you think last year first quarter to second quarter the type of impact that you saw this year was it anything meaningful in FFO?  Yeah it wasn’t about the weather right? Yeah I mean clearly our operating expenses were lower than we had originally projected due to the lack of snow.
But also keep in mind that snow expense for us has roughly 60% reimbursement associated with it.
So about 40% of the expense that was not incurred fell at the bottom-line.
Right and then I guess your ability or willingness to take on more value-add I think I heard you talk about it in the context to DC and I don’t know if you addressed it more broadly but just the aggressiveness with what you might be willing to take on more value-added in fact the leasing activity does continue to pick up as you feel it might throughout the course of the year?  Well that’s purely a market-by-market analysis.
The 3020 market acquisition was purely a value-add.
It’s actually in the sub-market with less than 5% vacancy factor and were 100% leased.
Plymouth Meetings that was the unique opportunity to acquire a very well constructed design building right within the heart of our Plymouth Meeting Executive campus.
We felt as though given the leasing velocity and the need for tenant expansions we were saying that that was a glove fit to our portfolio.
When you look beyond that I think it has to be an evaluation point on what our portfolio looks like in that marketplace.
For example in a Southern New Jersey or in Northern Virginia where we still are facing our own internal head wins has been a very different pricing matter we will evaluate to take on any additional risk in that market.
We like opportunities where leasing teams and regional management teams can really create value for us through an effective vibe.
But I think we are very mindful of balancing that capital return with the return we will be getting from our existing assets in those markets that are probably facing the same leasing head wind with potential acquisition.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Hi guys I just like to make an addendum to John Guinee’s question and commentary that – that was a non-traded REIT buyer I believe.
Can you guys comment on free rent trends in the market? It seems like the direct capital leasing costs are fairly steady that just curious how that part of it is trending? Yeah look I think a clear is on every tenant’s wish list.
Basically the cover moving costs keep wiring cabling sometimes furniture things on those lines that they need to come out of pocket for.
It ranges anywhere from one to two months per lease year depending on the market and the overall capital investment that we are making on physical improvements.
We have started to see a little bit of trend even on renewals where the introduction of free rent has now become part of the equation but not necessarily on a every deal basis.
Can you just remind us what are sort of the standard free rent periods for new renewals? One to two months per lease year typically on a new deal.
Okay and then on the redevelopment asset that you bought there in Philly Suburbs sort of the stabilized cap rate a value per pound would be upon sort of stabilization as you are going to be all in a 180 a foot and 11 yield what would sort of the hypothetically if you were going to flip that stabilize that on the future what sort of ballpark figure there.
Just curious how the 180 would compare to a stabilized value in sort of a full replacement cost? Yeah look depending upon the level of finishing a building like that the you are in kind of the 70% to 80% of replacement cost calculation.
So from that standpoint it was also a very good transaction for us.
Although the property’s location in the Plymouth Meeting market which as we calls for that Crescent suburban class is one of the higher investment sub markets in the Philadelphia region that we certainly think that delivering that asset at an 11% free and clear return fully loaded creates a lot of value for the company.
And then last question.
Even though your stock has had a nice run this year it still traded about 15% below our NAV assessment.
So just curious if the –and to increase dispositions and sort of not exclusively target additional acquisitions as sort of part of your plan that to get out of that box so to speak that you have been in for a quite a while I’d say.
We are doing everything we can to move our stock up to at least net asset value.
And we think a lot of the leasing activity over the last couple of years in particular last six quarters has really done a lot to move our NAV up particularly when you take a look at the ability to fill up the empty space.
We are very mindful of both current and intermediate term projected NAV.
As a consequence on our last earnings discussions we talked about it with stock pricing at the levels that we are at we certainly would not be using our ATM program or any other equity issuances as that would be aiding in our deleveraging plan but certainly creating a detrimental effect on our next asset.
So we are hopeful that the continued acceleration of leasing through our portfolio will help our stock price get caught up to our current NAV.
And once we continue to demonstrate that we can outperform markets and the general bias on leasing velocity and suburban office space becomes more positive that that NAV will continue to rise in conjunction with our improved NOI.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa with ISI Group.
Good morning.
Just one quick question.
The $50 million of securities on the balance sheet did you tell us what those are? Steve it’s Howard.
We looked at our cash balances and realized we had more cash than we would reasonably need in 2012 and we have taken the opportunity to purchase a number of securities maturing in that incidence November 2013 other in October some in January just to improve the yield on the cash balances above what's available in the money market accounts.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Young Ku with Wells Fargo Securities LLC.
LLC</strong> Yes thank you.
Just a quick couple of questions.
In terms of your 2013 lease expirations I know it’s still kind of early in 2012 but are there any major move as that you guys are anticipating? We have a few that we are tracking I mean I guess the largest probably with Intel in our Austin operation who were currently talking to about retaining some of the space and have an identified pipeline for taking the remainder and/or potentially all the space.
It is a little bit early.
We have been talking to several of the 13 expirations and but they are probably the most notable on the potential move out list.
LLC</strong> And how big was that Intel space? About 164 000 square feet.
LLC</strong> Okay.
The interesting about the Intel space is we did a three year renewal with them little way at the height of the crisis and the rental rates that they are paying is well below the same markets.
Given the pipeline of leasing activities our local team has in place that the actual one of those opportunities we are looking forward to.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
And just one other question about your investment opportunities.
In terms of the types of products that you guys are looking for on the stabilized side what kind of cap rate are the assets – are they checking out right now? The assets we are looking at are kind of in the –if we are looking in the district in kind of those target markets we are looking out we are seeing them in the 7% to 8% range and inside the district below that.
There would have to be a story to tell on those type of cap rates in terms of our – because we are pretty much IRR driven so the cap rate doesn’t necessarily tell the whole story but that’s kind of where the cap rates we are seeing on now in that market.
If you look at Austin which is another market there is enough trace you can get an idea as pretty much in the high stake 7% cap rate range.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Hey guys one quick question.
I am cutting into your precious call time here.
Are the $110 million of land that you guys have sitting on the book how much of that do you really think you are going to monetize over the next year or two? Well I think we have a number of parcels under planning and approval for us for alternative uses.
So I think our target would be to do about – this is in rough order of magnitude subject to political climate and local zoning ordinances about a third of that in the next couple of last couple of years.
Okay and roughly speaking relative to book value.
If you are going to be rezoning for multifamily do you think at the end of the day that it’s worth more than book? We do.
How much was it? Well we are not going to give you number on that Ross but we actually think the reason we are going down this path is we think at the higher best value for the land.
And I think if we as you move through the process and demonstrate some result I think my observation will be proven out.
Sure.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Anderson with BMO Capital Markets.
Trying to get out of the queue but I will ask now here anyway.
Can you just give us Howard a kind of a rough – I emailed you this so disregard the email – the preferred dividends for the second quarter and what they would be on a more run rate basis.
I assume that there is a lag time so the second question might be a little funky? The second quarter actually has a little bit of a double dividend itself.
Thus we pay about and all that’s captured in the guidance we pay I think about a $0.09 stub in closing out the preferred fee shares are repaid on the liquidation on the redemption date and then again subject to declaration which we obviously fully expect.
The series each shares will get their first dividend in mid July on the regular cycle.
Oh okay so the number should be the second quarter should be the same in terms of preferred dividends and then you start a new in the third quarter is that right? I think the second quarter series the dividend will be slightly elevated because it’s settled on April 11th but I don’t have the exact math in front of me.
There is a little bit of a stub period one way or the other given its settlement date from a issuance standpoint but nothing material.
Do you have a full year preferred dividend number? That will be 6.9% of $25.
Well no I mean okay okay that’s right.
One of us to calculate.
Okay I got I get that’s easy.
And you said the charge I think the charge of that penny and a half is that right? Yes.
The write off of the cost which have been booked to the equity section for the Series C which are now expensed upon redemption are about $2.1 million.
Okay thanks very much.
At this time there are no further questions.
Excellent.
Thank you again very much for participating in the call and we look forward to seeing at our June event.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is (Steve) and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Mr.
Gerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust you may begin your conference.
(Steve) thank you.
Good morning and thank you everyone for participating on our second quarter 2012 earnings call.
On today’s call with me today are George Johnstone our Senior Vice President of Operations; Gabe Mainardi our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Howard Sipzner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President of Portfolio Management and Investments.
Prior to beginning our prepared comments I would like to remind everyone that certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
Although we believe the estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
We made significant progress on all aspects of our 2012 business plan during the second quarter.
Our objectives remain very much on track and we are well positioned to finish the year strong.
I’ll provide an overview of our three business plan components that is operations balance sheet management and investments then George and Howard will discuss our operating and financial results in more detail and Tom is certainly also available to discuss investment market activity.
Overall the macroeconomic picture remains the biggest risk to our business plan and frankly the business plans of every other company.
Data continues to shift like you we track it daily and try to discern the impact of this ever changing climate on our business plan.
Due to the many conflicting data points in which we are all familiar the word uncertainty has begun to creep back into some customer conversations during the last quarter.
So while we continue to be very pleased with the level of tenant activity through our portfolio we fully understand the impact that macroeconomic data can have on tenant psychology.
As such accelerating leasing absorption is our continual priority.
And from an overall standpoint we still believe that the moderate recovery in our office markets remains well underway.
Vacancy rates continued to decline in most of our markets and total leasing activity remained solid through most of our portfolio.
Looking at the operational components of our business plan several of our markets have a positive pricing dynamic and in these markets we continued seeing encouraging signs of rental rate growth.
In all of our markets we continued to benefit from a flight up the quality curve.
Our leasing approach remains tactical and is sub-market driven.
Our stronger markets Austin Philadelphia CBD and the Crescent markets in the Pennsylvania suburbs are experiencing increasing rental rates lengthening of lease terms and downward pressure on capital concessions.
In other markets we continued to pursue absorption through expanding our market share of current tenant activity levels.
Levels of activity in the Philadelphia CBD the Pennsylvania suburbs and Austin Texas is strong and solid.
These three operations will exceed our original business plan revenue forecast.
Conversely we have not seen a continuation of leasing activity that we saw last year in Northern Virginia.
In particular activities and levels in that market are below our expectations and we will not achieving the 2012 spec revenue levels that we originally anticipated.
Additionally our operations in Richmond are beginning to fall a bit behind plan due a lower level of anticipated tenant activity in our Southwest Richmond market in particular.
Our Southern New Jersey operation we continued to experience strong leasing activity significantly above last year’s levels.
We anticipate meeting our business plan projections in our New Jersey Delaware operations.
And given the current high activity levels have a potential to perform to the upside.
Our expectation is that out-performance in our strongly performing markets will overcome any anticipated shortfalls in either Northern Virginia or Richmond.
As such we are maintaining our $44.9 million spec revenue goal and are 87% executed on that target.
From operational and leasing standpoints notable accomplishments during the quarter the transaction pipeline remained steady at 3.1 million square feet.
During the quarter we had a solid 73% customer retention rate which brings us to year-to-date average of 69%.
Even given no move-outs we’re now forecasting an overall improvement to our 2012 retention rate of 60% which is up from 57% in our last forecast.
George will outline the operational improvements in more detail.
But given the strengthening of the portfolio’s overall metrics we’ve increased our same store NOI growth range on both GAAP and cash basis and we’ve also improved the range of our rental rate mark-to-market.
We’re maintaining our year end same store occupancy target of 89% and overall given both the lease up of our portfolio as well as the generally improving state of the office markets portfolio metrics are clearly moving in a more positive direction.
This continued strong performance puts us well on path to achieve our 2013 to 2015 occupancy and leasing targets.
Now looking at our balance sheet we remain in extremely strong shape.
As outlined at our Investor Day with continued NOI improvement augmented by our investments strategy we’re on track to continue our de-leveraging program our interim target is 40% debt to GAV and 6.5 EBITDA multiple with a longer term target of mid-30% debt to GAV and a below six times EBITDA target.
We closed the quarter with great cash balance of $232 million including the securities which have now been reduced to zero.
During the quarter we did pay off $151.2 million balance of our 5.75% unsecured notes.
From a liability management standpoint the company is in extraordinarily good shape and our next unsecured note is not due until November of 2014.
For the quarter we improved our net debt to gross assets to 42.8% so clearly moving in the right direction towards our long-term targets.
There is no balance outstanding on our $600 million line of credit and our improving portfolio metrics kept us well on the path with EBITDA improvement with the second quarter 7 times ratio of net debt to annualized EBITDA.
As mentioned at the onset of my comments we do remain in a period of economic uncertainty.
As such we plan to remain very liquid with ample financial capacity while our portfolio continue to transition to higher occupancy levels consistent NOI growth and stronger same-store operating performance.
And looking at investments we have already achieved our $175 million 2012 sales target.
During the quarter we sold Pacific Ridge Corporate Center and 84% lease to building property in Carlsbad California for $29 million or $239 per square foot.
That sale was part of our program effort to exit the California market as market conditions permit.
Subsequent to the quarter end we also sold the Oakland’s Corporate Center project and eleven-property office and flex portfolio in Exton Pennsylvania for just shy of $53 million or $113 per square foot.
And that sale was consistent with our plan of recycling out of 9 core assets.
On the acquisition front subsequent to the quarter end our Brandywine-AI joint venture acquired Station Square a 92.8% leased three-property office portfolio totaling just shy of 500 000 square feet in Silver Spring Maryland for $120.6 million.
The venture’s equity contributions were augmented by 55% loan-to-value $66.5 million 7-year 3.22% interest-only non-recourse financing.
We are delighted to close this first acquisition with our partners are Allstate and certainly planned to continue looking for additional opportunities.
Our overall investment goals for 2013 to 2015 contemplate annual dispositions between $100 million to $250 million per year with an acquisitions target between $75 million and $150 million per year.
Our pipeline of deals on both the buy and sell side today remains fairly fluid and we remain poised to take advantage of additional opportunities.
As we assess it clearly a lower interest rate environment increased yet not perfect visibility on economic growth and relative yields have kept major sources of capital focused on office space as the viable investment option.
Our investment objective is to continue to increase our urban and town center concentrations and reduce exposure to commodity suburban space.
Our goal of monetizing up to 35% of our existing land bank over the next several years remains very much on track and we continue to pursue a number of near-term deployments particularly in the Pennsylvania/New Jersey suburbs as well as CBD Philadelphia.
Our investment approach has the penultimate goal of balance sheet improvement and achieving better forward NOI and asset value and asset value growth profile.
Our stock price continues to remain below net asset value to limiting the ability for us to de-leverage the equity issuance without eroding that value.
And as such our investment program contemplates us to be net sellers and the contemplated acquisitions will be financed through asset sale or existing cash balances.
To wrap up as a result of the progress on all aspects of our business plan we have increased our 2012 FFO guidance range from its current $1.30 to $1.35 per share to a new FFO range of $1.32 per share to $1.36 per share.
At this point George will now provide an overview of our second quarter operating activity.
George will then turn it over to Howard for a review of our second quarter financial activity.
George? Thank you Gerry.
We continue to see good levels of leasing activity during the second quarter which has again allowed us to raise certain elements of the business plan.
Our best performing sub-markets continue to be Philadelphia CBD the Crescent Pennsylvania submarkets of Radnor Conshohocken Plymouth Meeting and Newtown Square along with Austin.
These four submarkets are combined 96% leased and comprise 47% of the company’s NOI.
The tone and pace of leasing activity has continued as expected.
Deals executed in the second quarter averaged 103 days from initial increase to lease execution as compared to 113 days in the first quarter and 115 days in the fourth quarter of 2011.
In terms of the second quarter specifically we commenced 600 000 square feet of leases including a 175 000 square feet of new leases 345 000 square feet of renewal leases and 80 000 square feet of tenant expansions.
This leasing activity resulted in positive absorption of 20 000 square feet and an occupancy percentage of 86.9%.
We are holding our year end occupancy target of 89.4% as the regional graphs in our supplemental package highlight.
Pennsylvania suburbs and Philadelphia will contribute more occupancy than originally projected to counterbalance slides in both Metro D.C.
and Richmond.
Retention for the quarter was a very strong 73.3% and based on achieved leasing and additional clarity on our remaining lease expirations we’ve raised our annual retention rate projection from 57% to 60%.
Leasing capital for the quarter was $3.68 per square foot per lease year.
A contributing factor to this above normal run-rate was the commencement of an 11-year 116 000 square foot relocation and renewal lease on the total road.
Capital excluding this one deal was $2.59 per square foot per year our third best quarter in the past six and in line with business plan expectations.
Average lease term for the quarter was 6.3 years 5.2 years excluding the aforementioned total lease.
Capital control and lengthen of the lease term remain the core objectives for our regional leasing themes.
Mark-to-market for the quarter saw positive gap rent growth for both new leases and renewals 4.3% combined.
Cash mark-to-market was still negative but improved over first quarter results.
We’ve tightened our range on mark-to-market for the year as our business plan now contemplates a range from flat deposit of 2% on a GAAP basis and negative 4% to negative 6% on a cash basis.
Austin Philadelphia CBD and the Crescent markets continue to demonstrate the best rental rate growth characteristics in our portfolio.
Traffic for the quarter was flat sequentially and down 2% from last year’s second quarter.
The pipeline remains strong at 3.1 million square feet 2.1 million square feet of new deals and 1 million square feet of renewals.
470 000 square feet of deals are in advanced lease negotiations with the balance all entertaining proposals.
Our spec revenue target remains unchanged at $44.9 million $39.3 million or 87% has been achieved leaving a $5.6 million balance for the remainder of the year.
At this time last year we had a $2 million remaining balance on a $34.4 million target.
Similar to our revised year end occupancy composition our performance in Pennsylvania Philadelphia CBD and Austin has offset slides in Metro D.C.
and Richmond.
The regional figures can be found on page 33 of our supplemental package.
Leasing achievement and the remaining assumptions in the plan will translate into same-store NOI growth of 1% to 3% on a GAAP basis and 0.5% to 2.5% on a cash basis both excluding early termination and other income.
These new ranges are 50 basis points better than our prior quarter update.
To conclude we are very encouraged by these operating results and the improved metrics now being projected for retention mark-to-market and same-store NOI growth.
At this point I will turn it over to Howard for the financial review.
Thank you George and thank you Gerry.
For the second quarter of 2012 funds from operations or FFO available to common shares and units totaled $44.6 million.
This translated to $0.30 of FFO per diluted share per for the quarter and it met analyst consensus.
The FFO payout ratio in the second quarter is an even 50% on the $0.15 distribution we paid in April 2012.
I’d like to make a couple of observations regarding our second quarter results.
Our NOI net operating income and EBITDA margins at 61.3% and 65% respectively were the highest levels for these metrics all the way back to early 2009.
Our same-store NOI growth rates were particularly strong at 3.8% GAAP and 2.4% cash both excluding termination fees and other income items.
We met analyst consensus for FFO per share despite incurring a 1.25 or one and a quarter million debt extinguishment cost related to unsecured note repurchase activity in the second quarter.
We also incurred a $2.1 million charge related to the early redemption of our Series E preferred shares.
We consider our FFO to be a very high-quality result with aggregate termination revenue other income management fees interest income JV income and bond buyback costs totaling $5.2 million gross or $3.9 million net on the low end of our targeted 2012 quarterly run rate.
Second quarter interest expense of $33 million declined versus $34.1 million in the first quarter when we incurred certain double charges pending repayment of the unsecured notes on April 2.
Our $1.8 million interest income was higher due to recognition of $1.1 million from the strength in note repayments and interest income on higher cash balances.
And lastly $11.6 million of revenue maintaining or recurring capital expenditures a moderate level gave us $0.20 of cash available for distribution or CAD per diluted share and a 75% CAD payout ratio.
With respect to our balance sheet and financial metrics I would emphasize the following points.
Our debt to GAV of 42.8% our debt to total market capitalization of 53.6% and our 7 times debt to EBITDA ratio are at their best levels in 5 to 7 or more years.
We have virtually no floating rate exposure with a $100 million of floating rate debt more than offset by our combined $232 million cash and securities balance.
Subsequent to quarter end we did reduce our $42 million securities balance to zero and now have $229 million of cash and cash equivalents as of yesterday’s close and we continue to have no outstanding balance on our $600 million unsecured revolving line of credit.
And lastly as Gerry pointed out we have over two years until we face any significant maturities in late 2014.
As Gerry noted we are revising our 2012 FFO guidance to $1.32 to $1.36 per diluted share versus a prior range of $1.32 and $1.35.
Excluding the $0.08 store tax credit income that we will recognize in the third quarter of 2012 our recurring quarterly FFO run rate for Q3 and Q4 2012 should be in the range of $0.295 to $0.315 per diluted share.
Most of the assumptions are included in the business plan section of our supplemental package and I encourage you to review those.
Other points include gross other income unchanged in the business plan at $20 million to $25 million gross or $14 million to $19 million net of expenses representing a basket of other items such as termination revenues other income management revenues less associated expenses of net interest income and various JAV income items.
Our G&amp;A for 2012 remains unchanged at $24 million to $25 million.
We are reducing interest expense to a range of $132 million to $135 million versus $133 million to $140 million previously.
And this is slightly above the 2011 figure.
We have completed our 2012 sales activity and no further sales are assumed for 2012.
We are not anticipating any issuance under our continuous equity program and no additional note buyback activity.
And lastly we continue to assume 147 million shares for the count for FFO in 2012.
Using the midpoint of the range of $1.32 to $1.36 we are projecting a very strong 45% FFO pay-out ratio on an assumed $0.60 cumulative distribution.
And for CAD we are continuing to project $0.60 to $0.70 of CAD per diluted share reflecting an additional $35 million to $40 million of revenue maintaining CapEx in the second half of 2012.
On the capital plan our plan for 2012 was essentially done with $232 million of cash and securities substantially meeting all of our needs.
Our remaining uses from July 1st forward totaled $253 million that include $7 million for mortgage ammonization a $196 million of total investment activity representing an assumed $38 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures the midpoint of the earlier range $70 million for various revenue creating capital expenditures lease up of previously vacant space and new project lease up such as those for Three Logan in Philadelphia plus $88 million or really up to $88 million for other capital projects including our Plymouth Meeting redevelopment possible purchase of ground leases funding of certain JVs and other projects that may get started in the latter part of the year.
It also includes $27 million that is already been funded for our share of the Station Square acquisition.
And lastly from July 1 onward there would be $50 million of aggregate dividends on common and preferred with $22 million of common and $3 million of preferred already paid earlier this month leaving remaining 2012 dividend payments of approximately $25 million.
To fund this $253 million we're projecting the following from July 1 onwards approximately $84 million of cash flow before financings investments and dividends $51 million of additional net sales proceeds already received from the Oaklands closing.
And $118 million of cash usage to round out the plan leaving us with the projected 2012 year end cash balance of about $114 million.
And of course we do not expect any financings or any credit facility usage for the balance of the year.
Lastly a quick word on accounts receivables we concluded June 30 2012 with $16.2 million of total reserves.
This consisted of $3.2 million of reserves on $14.6 million of operating receivables just under 22% and $13 million of reserves on a $127.8 million of straight line rent receivables are just over 10%.
In the second quarter of 2012 we had very typical activity with respect to receivables and reserves and no major credit issues.
And now I'll turn back to Gerry for some additional comments.
Great.
Howard thank you very much and George thank you as well.
To conclude our prepared remarks look the second quarter went very well I mean we – as evidenced by our comments operational throughput remained strong the balance sheet strategy is very much on track.
We accomplished all of our investment goals for the year.
So we are very confident we will achieve our 2012 objectives.
We also remain convinced on our product quality and the skill of our operational teams and our field operations will continue to provide us a competitive advantage.
And we expect that advantage to become even more further evident as fundamentals as many of these markets continued to improve.
With that we’d be delighted to open up the floor for questions.
Steve as always we ask said everyone in the interest of time limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Could you guys just expand a little bit on the tenant softening you may have been experiencing over the sort of – throughout the recent weeks and months? Sure George and I will take.
Maybe from tenant softening standpoint that’s probably too broad of a characterization.
I think we’ve seen in a number of the markets where we expect to see good activity we’ve seen that.
And actually one of the stats that we do track and George articulated was this compression time from post-lease execution.
So that seems to be trending in the right direction.
But it a number of our markets New Jersey Delaware Pennsylvania suburbs most of the sub-markets in Pennsylvania suburbs Philadelphia CBD Houston we are still seeing very good levels of activity.
And the activity we’re seeing out there is real.
They are not just window shopping there was decisions being made.
I think where we have seen softening that we – that our original business plan did not contemplate is really in the Northern Virginia corridor and that certainly topic that’s often discussed in a number of other companies calls as well.
But I think we were anticipating somewhat of the continuation the activity levels that were taken place in 2011.
And I think we call the macro issues at play we simply haven’t seen that take place.
In our Richmond market we continued to do well in all of our sub-markets with the exception of the Southwest which is simply not showing the levels of activity that we anticipated.
So all in all I think the activity levels Jordan are remaining pretty solid.
We are just always very focused on any fraying at the edge is in corporate decision making rooms based upon every headline within the financial periodical so George any additional color there.
Yeah Jordan I think the stat that we continued to be pleased with is the fact that expansions are outpacing contractions.
So while we’re seeing a little bit of a slowdown in both Northern Virginia and in Richmond we’re seeing good levels of activity or willingness to make decision and tenants actually going through expansion modes in the greater Philadelphia markets.
You are not seeing deals fall out of negotiation are out of the pipeline any attrition that’s greater than it was in the prior quarter are you? No I mean I think the activity coming into the pipeline through both inquiry and inspections has remained somewhat consistent.
I think the amount of deals that naturally just do not come to fruition has remained somewhat consistent.
And the velocity of how those deals are moving up the pipeline is somewhat consistent within 10 days of the last two quarters.
So what we’re always going to have a couple of tenants in the marketplace who are out-shopping you for a stapler.
But quite frankly we’ve got some of our tenants doing that who ultimately renew with us so.
All that being said we’re still very mindful as I mentioned on the fact that headline risk in a macroeconomic climate has a much more significant barring on tenant psychology and color of our lease brochure how we do on the tenant showing.
So we are very focused as we have been and continued to be on accelerating absorption through our entire portfolio.
So we do remain very keenly tuned to the tone of our tenant discussions as a great communication channel within the company in terms of leasing pipeline.
So it’s monitored very closely by our Managing Directors as well as George and other members of the executive team.
That’s helpful.
As a follow-up I’m curious if you could expand on what you discussed at your Investor Day in terms of the pipeline in Central and Southern New Jersey? The total amount of that pipeline remains at that 500 000 square foot range.
We’ve got some towards the upper end of that but with really no actual deals to execute since our Investor Day 30 days ago but we continued to address proposals and negotiate back and forth with a number of those prospects.
Some of which have a late fourth quarter ’12 occupancy requirement and others that have early 2013 occupancy requirement.
Is it a broad subset of industries that are represented there or any concentrations? Pretty much the same type concentration we’re seeing with communication companies law firms insurance companies financial service companies pretty much the same range of tenancies that we’ve been executing leases with over the last year and a half.
What’s kind of interesting Jordan is a couple of those larger prospects have been in the market for a while but they are actually looking to expand their current space hold which is actually a very good sign for the market.
So we’re diligently pursuing all of those tenants with a hope that some of them will make a decision to join the Brandywine family of tenants.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hello Jamie Feldman from Bank of America your line is open.
Thank you.
Do you hear me? We can hear you.
I was hoping you guys could discuss any potential changes and maybe the acquisition market as things started to slowdown here any signs that maybe you will find more opportunities as maybe potential bidders dropout what are your latest thoughts? Tom why don’t you take that initially? Yeah.
Hi Jamie taking look at the markets I would agree there has been a bit of a slowdown in the last quarter in terms of the acquisition activity.
We’ve seen little activity in the Philadelphia CBD.
The suburbs have also been relatively quiet.
We did have our opens trade there has been a couple of smaller trades with local buyers.
The DC market outside the Beltway we continued to see very little activity there our trade in the first quarter on South Lake.
Other than that they haven’t been many large trades in the area we are looking to buy.
And then when you look inside the CBD we’re seeing a number of properties come back to market take longer to close or they’ve been pulled for the market or refinance again with the interest rates where they’ve been we’ve seen that.
Also in Richmond slow market haven’t seen many opportunities much less demand.
And then Austin there has been a bit more activity.
We have been involved in looking at a number of properties we’ve been interested in our market but not able to execute that market is – seems to have the deepest pool other than the Washington CBD in terms of our markets.
And but again that slowed up a little bit this past couple of months.
Okay and then do you forecast or get a sense that maybe you’ll be in a pretty good position going forward? We feel that – usually after the summer usually some chooses start coming out.
We are really focused on looking for some opportunities with the All State JV.
We did close on Station Square.
We would hope to find other types of transactions just like that good profile of stability.
And we will continue to look in our core markets and see what comes up with the following we hope to get something closed in the fourth quarter but nothing eminent on the horizon.
We also are looking in a number of market transactions and those are always difficult to predict timing on those.
Okay.
Thank you.
Jim is that on to that in DC I think what the our team is very focused on in conjunction with our partners off is really tracking not just the number of deals in the marketing and what the sub-market is doing but also really been very keenly tuned into any change that we think cap rates might be in that market.
I mean certainly with the growth projections in that market for rental rate being pulled back significantly that where they were at 12 to 18 months ago there is the levels of leasing activity is  certainly down negative absorption in a number of those key markets from the Barack situation.
There is certainly an expectation that cap rates could back up a little bit.
And then certainly one of things we’re very keenly focused as we assess all these opportunities.
And then on the privately marketed transactions look those Tom touched we have a number of those that we’re looking at.
I will tell you that several of those are fairly in (indiscernible).
But and as much as they are not being going to an auction process.
They tend to be a little more protracted and delicate in the pace of getting them accomplished.
But look we are still very much following on opportunities not just on the potential buy side but certainly continuing to monitor we think is a pretty good pool of potential buyers for assets as well.
Okay thank you Your next question comes from Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning hey guys.
So a question just looking at the occupancy ramp that’s expected in the back half of the year is any of that driven by some of these dispositions that appear to be at low occupancy levels and so on a same store basis or how much ramp do you think you are going to get? Look good question in terms – and tackling that but we look at what we are fulfilling and how we don’t call that into our occupancy forecast its really not very much focused on hey let’s sell assets that are less occupied improve the overall occupancy of the portfolio it’s more focused on where we think we get the most optimal pricing for trade.
For example one of the things you did heard our occupancy early in the year was we sold 100% lease building in Southlake that certainly had an impact on our occupancy targets for Washington DC.
The two transacts we had this quarter specific region Oakland were below our average occupancy levels.
They tend to wash themselves that’s not really a data point as we start to assess how we improve overall occupancy because in fact some of our properties now that are below average occupancy levels for the company we think are great value opportunities for us as we start to lease that space up.
I think we look at the selling properties that are below average occupancy levels just because we’ve made the investment – we have drawn the investment conclusion that the price tune is to sell that asset today is marginally better than the net present value of going through the downtime capital cost to re-tenant the existing vacant space.
So I wanted – there is not an algorithm we’ve developed that kind of says move that occupancy target.
It’s more focused on how we do the investment market and where we see actually our build to drive rental rate growth over the next couple of years.
That’s helpful.
So I mean sort of part of the pertains to this year but then part of it pertains to next year and I mean even a multiyear outlook as I think about what you guys put up for the – at the Investor Day where next year’s target is 91 to 92.
And I think the longer target is maybe 92 to 93.
So as we think about the 91 to 92 next year we can assume that that’s on kind of a same pool basis as we would think about it that’s it still a viable target? Actually I think that’s a fair way to look at.
I mean the thing that we never loose side of is the fact that year end ’07 we were about 94% occupied.
So that’s the target we know we want to get those portfolio back to as market conditions present themselves.
So we certainly we laid out very specific targets for ‘13 and ‘15 timeframe.
We’re very confident the overall portfolio will perform at those levels certainly even as we sell properties or as we buy property that’s really focused on overall growth rate not as end point occupancy target.
Okay it’s helpful and then just follow-up.
If I look at these spec revenue target that’s left ago it looks like its $0.04 would be a $0.04 swing kind of to earnings is it fair to assume that the low end it doesn’t assume anything like its in there.
And can you give us a sense of how much actual leasing square footage that spec target equates to? Yeah I mean it’s Howard I’ll jump on the earnings that’s one of the major contributors to the earnings guidance but by no means the only so there can I draw a straight line from all are not in there to all are not on the guidance would miss many other factors.
Then I’ll give it over to George for the square footage side.
Yeah I mean on the square footage side between new and renewal we’ve got just north of about 600 000 square feet left to execute and again that’ both new deals and renewal deals.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Attie with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Can you just talk about the cap rates on the assets that you sold in Pennsylvania recently? Certainly Tom? The cap rates that we sold the Oakland was an 8% cash and an 8.2% GAAP and that’s based on current ‘12 projections.
Okay and I know that you said your asset sale guidance for the year but while there are other asset sales that are being contemplated and are there still large amount of non-core assets in the portfolio that you would like to sell over the next couple of years? I think based on what we mentioned is our range for the next couple of years certainly we have assets that we targeted for sale to the extent we think that there is improvement in markets where those assets are.
We’ll look to put them on the market sooner rather than later.
We think there is an appetite for some of the assets that we’re considering for future sale.
And again you’re seeing not that you may get the same terms.
But the financing market has improved and as we saw with our Station Square acquisition the financing from financial institutions has also started to be more constructive on top of the life company.
So to the extend we feel there is a good opportunity they will sell again as Gerry mentioned we’ll take a look at the future operations as well as portfolios and if we think that there is a better chance of selling than to operate them when we look at our downside or upside scenario we’ll put those on the market.
Are there assets in the market now that you could sell in the back half of the year or you are not marketing anything? Right now we don’t have anything actively being marketed.
And you kind of along the same lines how do you think about the redeployment of sale proceeds the cash balance was almost $200 million at the end of the quarter and you probably have a little more coming in after you sold down the securities portfolio.
I guess anything about the redeployment of that cash would you prefer to pay down some of the term loans and do you ever are those does that cash being held for reinvestment? As we mentioned I think even in the last quarter call I think we want to do at this point is preserve flexibility.
And we have good cash balances through the bank refinance that was done this year.
We created really a debt balance as big – as a good pieces of that are pre-payable based upon how we view the intermediate environment.
So we continue to focus on maintaining those cash balances as Howard touched on the companies really insulated from – from floating rate risk although certainly floating rates have moved down significantly over the last couple of months.
It’s certainly the right decision for the company to stay where we are.
Relative to redeployment Josh you raised a very good question we are always looking for – always going through price discovery on any number of access in the portfolio.
So even though as Tom touched on we don’t have anything actively being marketed right now either to reverse encourage private discussions relationships there is always dialog taking place on what’s – what we can do with the existing portfolio or as we touched on what we can do in terms of deploying that money into new acquisition opportunities.
It is a very fluid investment market.
Actual prints are down over from where they were a few quarters ago but I don’t think that in anyway implies there is not a lot of activity taking place within the various companies including Brandywine on what sales or what acquisitions can happen.
Okay thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Alright.
John Guinee Stifel.
How are you? Nice job guys.
Thank you.
How are you? Hey couple things.
Just I favor daily you have this as your commerce one and two I think you’ve got about $25 million committed not sure how much you funded of that so far and you’ve got a couple of loans maturing and your friends at Thomas on the Westcoast are sort of moving back to California.
Can you give us an update on that deal? Certainly happy to and the relation with Thomas Properties remains very positive and very constructive as we’ll have full $25 million invested by the end of this year.
So that’s on the rails they will be invested sequentially over the next two quarters.
Debt on one of the properties does mature in next year both Thomas and Brandywine are in an active dialog on what approach that they take on refinancing that debt and certainly balancing investment flexibility with very attractive longer term rates.
So our expectation would be that over the next three to six months the partnership will conclude what our best path is in terms of recapitalizing the venture with this pending debt maturity in the second quarter of next year.
And the second building went to that mature on that one? I think that’s ‘15.
Yeah end of ‘15.
End of ‘15.
Okay.
And then the second as we are looking at CapEx is over the last six quarters TIs in leasing commissions have been about $23 a foot.
And it looks like your normal run rate is about 800 000 to 1 million square feet per quarter.
Should we look at that 800 000 to 1 million square feet per quarter and $23 a foot as a good run rate going forward?  Yeah.
I mean John it’s George.
I mean our range is really two and a quarter per foot per lease year to three and a quarter.
We’ve had a couple of deals kind of skew the quarterly numbers but I think somewhere in that $2.75 is probably the average expectation going forward.
And then how about an annual or quarterly run rate for leases executed or commencing sort of 800 000 to 1 million? Yeah.
That’s probably a safe assumption.
Got it.
Alright thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Thanks and good morning.
Just wanted to follow-up on John’s question you cash guidance is $0.60 to $0.70 and that is it’s going to look at 50% of your FFO pretty wide gap understandably trying in some markets to buy occupancy but what do you think the long-term is in terms of the gap between the FFO per share and the CAD per share in a more normalized environment? It’s Howard.
Historically the company ran anywhere in the two-thirds to 66% to 75% area.
Remember that for the last year this year and the next three years $0.08 of FFO will be by definition non-cash from the historic tax credit transaction see if the fact would add into the mix and has been the case not so much in the last quarter or two but certainly some other quarters that the capital spend has been higher to both maintain in some cases create the occupancy in tougher markets.
We certainly believe as the portfolio occupancy inches up the balance between landlords and tenants will tilt more in our favor.
There will be higher retention.
There will be less concessions and little bit more negotiating power and as already seeing in some of the tighter markets.
So we don’t anticipate any difficulty getting back to those higher better levels or ratios.
Okay fair.
And then the follow-up question is on the spec revenue staying constant at $44.9 million for the year? How much of that is just kind of holding the line being little bit conservative because of the observations you are seeing in Northern Virginia because I think New Jersey Delaware is maybe surprising a little bit to the upside.
So and maybe I am wrong about that but I think that that’s correct.
So I mean you are kind of holding the line waiting to see how the year progresses and hopefully we’ll see that spec revenue number go up a little bit as you get closer to the end of the year? Well that I think it’s a great question something we really spend a lot of time evaluating in terms of assessing probability of the leasing pipeline but as George and I outlined we clearly expect that outperformance in a number of the markets which we know we will already achieve is going to offset we expect to be an underperformance in our Met D.C.
and Richmond operations.
We do think that New Jersey particularly driven by the leasing activity Southern New Jersey will create some performance to the upside there but I think given the lack of visibility on what we think the execution rates will be in our Northern Virginia portfolio.
I think we are very confident on the $44.9 million but I think it would not be pragmatic of us to raise that or adjust that number up given the fact that we still have a lot of work to do to get to that number by the end of the year.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Just wondering if you can pinpoint a little bit more why the improvement in the same-store NOI outlook for the year and then also can you talk about just revisit the defense tenant expert say in 2012 and 2013.
I think you touched on that at the Investor Day but maybe just if you could revisit that? Thanks.
Well on the same-store a couple of things one we saw an increase in tenant retention so less downtime on some previously assumed lease rollover and then the properties that we did dispose of those properties were actually running a 2.2% negative same-store characteristic to them.
So a little bit of a pickup in what is now go-forward same-store.
And then 2013 explorations I mean not a lot to update since Investor Day.
Clearly our biggest one that we have got kind of all lines focused on is with Lockheed Martin.
We have issued them both the short-term and a long-term renewal proposal for their space in Maryland and we are awaiting some feedback there but again I think the expectation would be that they are going to lean towards a shorter term deal and if they do go along it’s going to be one that most likely would have some type of early termination characteristic built into it.
Okay.
And then also at the Investor Day I think you suggested there was maybe $75 million of sales that you were working on and it’s obviously a little over $50 million and I think you said today that you’re done for the year so that portfolio of sales shrink from what it was initially contemplated or was that something else? No I think I am trying to remember the exact comp we had the open sale and process.
Origin to that cash I don’t know specific region closed by the Investor Day.
Specific which are closed by – but I think that was part of our remaining balance what we were selling.
But I guess Michael to a point let me just make sure we’re clear.
We have achieved $175 million target for the year.
As Howard laid out our existing guidance does not anticipate any more sales this year.
Within that framework we do continued to look at other sale opportunities.
As Tom laid out nothing is formally in the market what we’re repaying broker and there was sure out there.
But there are a number of other discussions that we continue to expose.
We always have about doing small asset sale small individual asset sale a small portfolio sale.
And look I think frankly as we solved the open transaction there is a continued pool of local investors who had access typically commercial banks financing but certainly life company financing at fairly attractive rates who are in a pretty good position to do transactions in that $25 million to $50 million range.
So while we increased our guidance from $80 million sales to $175 million we have now achieved that and we’re delighted with the results in terms of cap rate net asset value appreciation etcetera.
The reality is that in this type of fluid market it’s incumbent upon us that really continued to explore optimal price points on some of our assets.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Ross Nussbaum from UBS.
Your line is open Yes Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Gerry you mentioned before that you think your stock continues to trade below asset value and you’re selling assets to do whatever you’re telling is absolutely the right decision what exactly do you think your net asset value is?   We don’t publish net assets value Ross.
We rely on certainly the analyst do their own calculations.
When you look at ours in a detailed basis on an asset by asset basis including we currently leased assets properties in leased up and land values.
The consensus for the NAV for the company and the analysts is just shy of $13 a share.
Stock is trading below that so even using published numbers that are based upon work by the various firms this stock is trading below net asset value.
Let me try to tackle it this way there haven’t been many asset trades in Philadelphia CBD or even the Crescent markets for that matter do you have a sense in your mind of what an appropriate cap rate or per square foot pricing would be for CBD and the Crescent markets?  Well look certainly there would be  – there have not been great velocity of trades but I think what we have seen so property for example in (indiscernible) and Pennsylvania is one of our present market is traded for about a 7% cap rate actually I think look higher than that and a price well above $3 per square foot.
Certainly high quality asset in a very key market but that’s certainly have been reflective of the quality and location attributes that a lot of our Crescent markets has as well.
Look the historical cap rate differential between CBD Philadelphia assets has been between a 100 to 200 basis points greater than what we typically see in Met DC and New York City.
So you go back a number of years and see that trend line this has not been a lot of things of great value trading that are stable as we can see Philadelphia  Yeah that’s the reason I asked this question.
I think I’ve answered your question.
I am sorry.
That’s the reason I asked the question ultimately because I think one other reasons perhaps NAV discount persist as people struggle to put a value on those assets because they just don’t there is not a market comfort?  Well the realty is in Philadelphia CBD really we have two companies that own a significant portion of the Class A office space.
They both going to be hands on managers and leasing folks and so it’s challenging a lot of this is building with it but I think if you do take a look at some of the brokerage firms that (indiscernible) that again goes back through peaks and troughs and kind of do that graph of where cap rates have been in the more 24-hour gateway markets in the mid-Atlantic area of New York and Washington and compare that to a Philadelphia you will see that that’s historically been the spread of cap rates.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Your last question comes from Mitch Germain with JMP Securities.
Your line is open.
I’m good guys.
Thanks a lot.
Well we do thank you much.
There are no further questions at this time.
Presenters I turn the call back over to you.
I see.
Thank you very much and everyone thank you very much for participating in the second quarter earnings conference call.
We look forward to our next earnings call and continued execution of our business plan.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is [Latingy] and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Please go ahead sir.
Latingy thank you very much.
Good morning and thank you all for participating in our third-quarter 2012 earnings call.
On today's call with me are George Johnstone our Senior Vice President of Operations Gabe Mainardi our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Howard Sipzner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President of Portfolio Management and Investments.
Prior to beginning I would like to remind everyone that certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
Although we believe the estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
That being said during the third quarter our operations continued to benefit from stable leasing activity strong market positioning and improving fundamentals.
As is our normal practice I will provide an overview on our three key business plan components - that is operations balance sheet and investments as well as provide some color on our 2013 guidance.
George and Howard will then discuss the operating and financial results in more detail.
The macroeconomic climate remains our biggest concern.
Data points remain mix and in this time of Congressional gridlock fiscal cliff global slowdown and a presidential election our hope is we all get clarity on the trajectory of the economy and political climate within the next 90 days.
In the meantime though uncertainty remains the order of the day and tenants are cautious on near-term economic growth prospects.
Overall though we continued to benefit from a moderate recovery in our office markets.
During the third quarter we had over 3 million square feet of inspections which compares favorably to 2.8 million square feet in the third quarter of 2011 but is down from the 3.5 million square feet we experienced in the second quarter of 2012.
Several of our markets have a positive pricing dynamic and we continue to expect rental rate growth in those operations.
This is particularly evident in several of our Pennsylvanian suburban locations CBD Philadelphia and Austin Texas.
In every market we continue to benefit from a flight to quality product that is either pushing rents up or holding rents steady.
As we close out 2012 several top-level observations.
We’ve outperformed our original business plan forecast in Philadelphia CBD the Pennsylvania suburbs Austin Texas and our New Jersey operations.
Northern Virginia remains extremely competitive and as mentioned on our last call we will not be achieving the spec revenue or occupancy levels we were originally anticipating nor will our operations in Richmond meet their business objectives for 2012.
George will discuss the impact of this in our [2013] business plan in a few moments.
Our retention rate though has improved.
We will have a 62% 2012 retention rate which is up 60% from our last forecast.
We've also increased our 2012 same-store guidance on both a cash and GAAP basis and we’ve also further increased our GAAP mark-to-market on new leasing activity.
So overall a steady improvement in many of our key metrics.
Looking at our balance sheet we remain an extremely strong shape.
We closed the quarter with tremendous liquidity $242 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand and we also do not have any balances outstanding on our $600 million unsecured revolving credit facility.
From a board liability and debt management standpoint the company is in an extraordinarily good shape and our next unsecured note is not due until November of 2014.
For the quarter we improved our net debt to gross assets to 42.4% in pursuit of our long-term goal of 35% and we’re clearly moving in the right direction.
This period of economic uncertainty requires that we remain highly liquid and retain ample financial capacity as our portfolio transitions to higher occupancy levels NOI growth and increasingly strong same-store operating performance.
On the investment front we’ve already achieved our 2012 sales target.
Activity in the recent quarter is outlined in our press release but for the year we have sold $176 million of properties at an average cash cap rate of 7.3%.
This sales activity is consistent with our strategy of recycling out of non-core assets and redeploying capital through urban and transit hubs town center markets along with our ongoing deleveraging efforts.
Our goal to monetize and deploy up to 35% of our existing land bank over the next several years remains on track and we continue pursuing number of near-term deployments particularly in the Pennsylvania’s New Jersey suburbs as well as in CBD Philadelphia.
As a result of continued progress on all aspects of our business plan we've increased the 2012 FFO guidance range from its current $1.32 to $1.36 per share to a new FFO range of $1.33 per share to $1.36 per share.
But more importantly looking ahead to 2013 we also introduced 2013 FFO guidance with a range of $1.38 to $1.46 per share creating a midpoint of $1.42 which is ahead of consensus estimates of $1.40.
Achieving the midpoint of this range versus the midpoint of our 2012 range creates an FFO growth rate of 6%.
Our 2013 guidance is obviously influenced by our expectations on the economic recovery as I mentioned earlier.
That framework remains cloudy and the key constructs underlying our 2013 guidance are as follows.
First we expect the economy to continue its slow rate of recovery.
We do not anticipate any further economic slides.
We expect moderate GDP growth a moderately positive job growth and a slow road to recovery in our more challenged markets.
We do expect tenant activity levels to remain generally consistent with current levels in most of our markets.
As a result our 2013 leasing plan contemplates a speculative revenue target of $43.9 million which is slightly below our 2012 expectations and the leasing production of 3.6 million square feet versus our 2012 expected performance of 3.8 million square feet.
We do expect our stronger markets to continue to perform well as they did in 2012.
In outlining our 2013 guidance we refer back to our building on momentum presentation from our June 2012 investor day.
In particular we expect our 2013 year-end occupancy levels to approximate 90% which is a 200 basis point increase over our expected 2012 levels.
This 90% occupancy level is down from our investor day expected range primarily driven by the slower pace of recovery that we've seen in metro DC and our Richmond Virginia operation.
But it’s early in the year and our overriding objective remains leasing space so we will continually work towards our original targets.
We do however continue to expect our portfolio leasing to be 92% at year-end 2013 which is consistent with the lower end of our estimate from our investor day.
We are forecasting a 2013 tenant retention rate of 62% consistent with our 2012 levels and we also expect a strong mark to market on 2013 leasing activity.
Further as indicated in our supplemental package we also expect a very strong same-store number next year with a GAAP range between 3% and 5% and a cash range between 4% and 6% very consistent with our investor day presentation.
Capital costs also run at 12% of revenues well within the range of 10% to 15% target we discussed.
Furthermore our business plan does not contemplate any significant capital activity.
Our business plan will continue our path to achieve our interim target of debt to GAV of 40% with an EBITDA multiple of 6.5 times as we work towards our longer-term objective of mid 30% debt to GAV and a below 6 times EBITDA multiple.
The equity and debt markets also remain very attractive.
As such even with our strong liquidity position and given the favorable rate climate we continue to evaluate issuance of long-term debt financing.
We’ve not however made any decisions and as a consequence our 2013 plan does not contemplate any debt market activity.
Also we do not plan to issue any common equity.
As has been consistently reiterated at our current stock pricing levels our leverage reduction plan will be evolutionary not revolutionary and will be driven by occupancy gains rental rate growth and net selling activity.
Not by issuing sub NAV priced common equity.
During 2013 including amortization payments we only have $66 million of debt coming due with essentially one secured mortgage on several of our suburban properties.
So from a liquidity standpoint we are in an extraordinary solid shape as we move ahead into 2013.
The final component of our 2013 business plan is growth acceleration through an active investment strategy.
Our investment focus remains increasing our urban and town center concentrations and reducing exposure to commodities urban space.
That investment predicates combined with continued low rate environment increased visibility on the economic outlook and relative yields we think will keep major capital sources increasingly focused on office space as a viable investment alternative.
With this in mind our 2013 business plan contemplates net sales activity of $100 million.
And also while not necessarily affecting guidance we do remain very focused on our goal of monetizing and deploying up to 35% of our existing $96 million land bank.
The first step of that took place with this quarter’s announcement of the transaction with Toll Brothers and we do continue to pursue a number of other near-term deployments in CBD Philadelphia as well as Pennsylvania and New Jersey’s suburbs.
Our 2013 business plan is imminently achievable.
Another very key point is that for 2013 our lease expirations are only 10% of our portfolio or about 2.6 million square feet.
And that is the lowest level we’ve had in the last several years.
These significant improvements were operating platform our forward leasing momentum along with consistent levels of leasing activity give us tremendous confidence to execute our business plan and achieve all of our stated objectives.
At this point George will provide an overview of our third-quarter operating activity and more detail on our 2013 outlook.
George will then turn it over to Howard for a review of our third quarter financial activity and some additional color on our 2013 financial plan.
George? Thank you Gerry.
We continue to see good levels of leasing activity during the third quarter.
Our best performing sub-markets continue to be Philadelphia CBD the Crescent Pennsylvania submarkets of Radnor Conshohocken Plymouth Meeting and Newtown Square along with Austin.
These core sub-markets which comprise 48% of the company’s NOI are combined 95% leased.
The tone and pace of leasing activity has continued as expected.
Deals executed in the third quarter averaged 98 days from initial inquiry to lease execution as compared to 103 days in the second quarter and 113 days in the first-quarter.
Traffic in markets where we have leasing opportunities improved over the second-quarter Metro DC up 28% Richmond up 22% and New Jersey Delaware up 15%.
The leasing pipeline stands at 2.5 million square feet 1.7 million square feet of new deals and 850 000 square feet of rentals.
552 000 square feet are in active leasing negotiations with the balance all entertaining proposals.
This pipeline is down from last quarter’s 3 million square-foot level due to the backfill tenancies in Austin being narrowed down to those that we are in advanced stages with and the execution of several large leases during the quarter.
In terms of the third quarter specifically lease commencements totaled 1.2 million square feet our highest total in the past eight quarters.
These commencements included 399 000 square feet of new leases 702 000 square feet of renewal leases and 112 000 square feet of tenant expansion.
During the quarter we also had 115 000 square feet of early terminations.
One in CBD Philadelphia as part of 102 000 square foot relocation and renewal at Three Logan.
We terminated 54 000 square feet at Two Logan.
In the Pennsylvania suburbs a 39 000 square-foot tenant exercised an early termination right as a result of downsizing their operations.
This leasing activity resulted in negative absorption of 129 000 square feet and occupancy percentage of 86.3 both in line with quarterly expectations.
Leasing spreads for the quarter were positive both on the GAAP and cash basis for new leases 8% and 1.4% respectively.
Renewal lease spreads were positive 3.6% on a GAAP basis and negative 0.3% on a cash basis.
Leasing capital for the quarter was $2.04 per foot per lease year our best quarter since 2009.
In terms of the business plan for the balance of 2012 we have adjusted our year-end occupancy target to 88% down 140 basis points or roughly 340 000 square feet from our previous projection.
The primary drivers are a 280 basis point decline in metro DC equating to a 120 000 square feet and a decline in Richmond of approximately 150 000 square feet.
Those two operations account for 75% of our occupancy decline.
It should be noted that we continue to execute leases in metro DC but an associated 2012 occupancy will not occur.
Occupancy will be 80% at year end for metro DC but we will be 86% leased based on 270 basis points of executed forward leasing and 290 basis points of existing pipeline in advanced lease negotiations.
In Richmond a 40 000 square foot tenant that was expected to stay on a short-term basis beyond year-end will be vacating on their natural fourth quarter expiration.
Absorption levels have slowed and as a result our revised occupancy target for Richmond is 88.6% with a year end lease percentage of 90% based on existing pipeline.
So as Gerry referenced in his remarks the company will be 80% occupied and 90% leased at year-end 2012.
In terms of other business plan metrics for 2012 our revised spec revenue target of $43.3 million is 97% achieved.
The $600 000 reduction is the result of our revised occupancy projection.
Same store NOI will range from 2.5% to 3% on a GAAP basis and 1.5% to 2.5% on a cash basis.
Leasing spreads will range from 1% to 2% on a GAAP basis and negative 4% to negative 6% on a cash basis.
Tenant retention will be 62%.
Now turning to our 2013 business plan we had a $43.9 million spec revenue target $13.3 million or 33% is already executed.
This early achievement percentage is similar to last year's.
Leasing spreads will range 3% to 5% on a GAAP basis and negative 1.5 to positive 0.5% on a cash basis.
Leasing capital will range from $2.25 to $2.75 per square foot per lease year.
These leasing assumptions and trends will translate into same-store NOI growth of 3% to 5% on a GAAP basis and 4% to 6% on a cash basis both excluding termination fees and other income.
To conclude we remain encouraged by the level of activity in our various markets and the quality of our inventory.
In New Jersey for instance we’ve seen a number of larger prospects particularly in the mortgage title and insurance industries all looking to take advantage of the flight to quality.
In the Toll Road Corridor we continue to see several technology sector and contract-based companies.
In Austin we've already executed a lease for 55 000 square feet of the Intel given back in January and are in negotiations with several others.
These trends our inventory the depths and quality of our regional team and the resulting operating metrics on our business plans have us excited as we close out the year and head into 2013.
At this point I’ll turn it over to Howard for the financial review.
Thank you George and thank you Gerry as well.
In the third quarter of 2012 our funds from operations or FFO available to common shares and units totaled $57.7 million.
This equated to $0.39 of FFO per diluted share and met analyst consensus for the third quarter.
Our payout ratio in the third quarter is 38.5% on the $0.15 distribution we paid in July 2012.
I’d like to make the following observations regarding our third-quarter results.
Our same-store NOI growth rates were positive at 0.2% GAAP and 0.9% cash both excluding termination fees and other income items.
We've now had four consecutive quarters of positive results for these metrics and are on track for our full year 2012 figure.
We consider our FFO to be high quality with termination revenue other income management fees interest income JV activity and the impact on bond buybacks totaling $6.5 million gross or $5.2 million net in line with our targeted 2012 quarterly run rate.
Third-quarter interest expense of $32.6 million ticked down slightly from $33 million in the second quarter and reflects the stability of our liability platform and its limited exposure to floating rates.
Our interest income declined to $311 000 as we migrated our cash balances away from securities to bank money market accounts and did not have $1.1 million income item that we recognized in the second-quarter from Trenton note repayment.
In the third quarter we recognized $11.8 million representing the second of five annual recognitions of 20% each of the net benefit of the previously disclosed rehabilitation tax credit financing on the 30th Street Post Office.
We include this income in FFO but exclude it from CAD as it is non-cash.
And lastly $10.5 million of revenue maintaining or recurring capital expenditures a moderate level gave us $0.21 of CAD or cash available for distribution per diluted share and an associated 71.4% payout ratio.
With respect to balance sheet and financial metrics I would emphasize the following.
Our debt to GAV of 42.4% our debt to total market cap of 53.7% and our 7.2 times net debt to EBITDA ratio are all at or near their best levels in the last 5 to 7 years.
We continue to have virtually no floating-rate debt exposure with our $100 million of floating-rate debt more than offset by $241.6 million of cash and we continue to have no outstanding balance on our $600 million unsecured revolving line of credit.
We are revising our 2012 FFO guidance to $1.33 to $1.36 per diluted share versus the prior range of $1.32 to $1.36 as Gerry noted.
A few highlights for the remainder of this year we continue to expect gross other income unchanged at $20 million to $25 million coming in just above midpoint of our range or $14 million to $19 million net in that case towards the upper end of the range for a basket of other items such as termination revenues other income management revenues less associated management expenses of net interest income JV income including the impact of the preferred return on the Thomas Properties Group commerce square joint-venture and the 3141 Fairview financing obligation costs.
In terms of G&amp;A we are continuing to be unchanged in our assumptions at $24 million to $25 million.
For interest expense we are now reducing it to a projected range of $132 million to $133 million versus $132 million to $135 million previously.
We have completed all of our 2012 sales activity of $175.8 million and expect no further activity in 2012.
We’re anticipating no additional issuance under our continuous equity program and no additional note buyback activity and lastly we are assuming 146.5 million fully diluted shares for FFO in 2012.
In conjunction with this we are increasing our cash available for distribution or CAD projection to now be in the $0.70 to $0.75 range versus the prior $0.60 to $0.70 range per diluted share reflecting $17 million to $20 million of additional revenue maintaining CapEx in the fourth quarter.
As a result we’re now expecting our CAD payout ratio with the same dividend level and at the midpoint of the CAD range to be at 83% for 2012.
The capital plan for 2012 is essentially done with $242 million of cash substantially meeting our needs.
Our usage from October 1 forward totaled $86 million and reflects $3 million for mortgage amortization $58 million of various capital expenditure and investment activity and $25 million of aggregate dividends on common and preferred all of which were all already paid in October.
To fund this $86 million we are projecting the following from October 1 forward: $22 million of cash flow before financings investments and dividends but after what will be $51.5 million of cash interest payments in the fourth quarter due to semiannual payments on unsecured notes.
And lastly we will use about $64 million of our cash balance leaving us with a projected 2012 year end cash balance of about $178 million up substantially from our prior estimate of $114 million.
The cash balances up at number of our contingent capital expenditures did not occur in 2012 and overall capital expenditure spending remains light.
For 2013 as Gerry noted we are providing initial 2013 guidance of $1.38 to $1.46 per diluted share.
In addition to the revenue and leasing assumptions provided by George and detailed on pages 32 and 34 of the supplemental please note the following.
We’re anticipating that all other income items in our financial statements will remain in a range of $20 million to $25 million unchanged from 2012 levels and $14 million to $19 million net after expenses for a basket of various other items that I outlined earlier.
G&amp;A for 2013 is assumed to be unchanged at $24 million to $25 million level.
We see interest expense in 2013 coming in in the range of $126 million to $130 million.
Sales activity for the year as Gerry noted should represent $100 million net and maybe offset or matched by various investment activity with the expectation that it will be at a $100 million net level.
For this sales modeling we’re assuming a somewhat backloaded cycle and have about 25% to 35% of NOI loss using of an 8% cap rate or approximately $2.2 million removed from the model.
We’re also anticipating the third installment of the historic tax credit income in the third quarter of 2013 at approximately $11.8 million in line with the past two years.
We again assume no issuance under our continuous equity program and no additional note buyback or capital markets activity and we’re modeling 147 million diluted shares for FFO in 2013.
At the midpoint of our guidance range of $1.38 to $1.46 we will run an FFO payout ratio of 42% at the current annual $0.67 distribution level.
In terms of cash available for distribution we’re expecting it to be in the range of $0.75 to $0.85 per diluted share for 2013 reflecting $60 million to $70 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures and at the midpoint of that range will result in a 75% CAD payout ratio for 2013.
Lastly looking at our capital plan for 2013 as Gerry noted again we’re very clean and very transparent with our projected $178 million of year-end 2012 cash substantially meeting or addressing our needs.
Our 2013 uses total production $65 million and they represent $66 million for a combination of mortgage amortization and a maturing note.
We’re programming about $198 million of total investment activity incorporating $65 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures the midpoint of the range I noted earlier $100 million for all other capital projects such as lease-up of previously vacant space new projects and another $33 million of contingent projects that we may or may not begin in 2013.
So we are fully accounted for on that front.
We’re modeling a $100 million of aggregate dividends consisting of 89 million for our common shares and 11 million for our preferred shares all at current payout levels.
To fund this $365 million we are projecting the following: $184 million of cash flow before financings investment dividends and after interest payments; $100 million of net sales proceeds and lastly we anticipate we will use about $81 million of our year-end 2012 cash balance leaving us with a projected 2013 year end cash balance of about $97 million.
Again we do not expect any financings or credit facility usage during 2013 and none been modelled.
Lastly turning to credit matters and accounts receivable we measured or showed $16 million of total reserves at September 30 2012 in line with our June 30 balance.
Our reserves consist of $2.8 million on $16.2 million of operating receivables 17.4% level and $13.2 million on our $130.5 million of straight-line rent receivables or 10.1%.
In the third quarter of 2012 we had typical activity with respect to receivables and reserves and no major credit issues.
And with that I will turn it back to Gerry for some additional comments.
That’s great Howard.
Thank you very much and George thank you as well.
Well to wrap up our prepared remarks we’re pleased with our third-quarter results.
As you all know and certainly we have seen in other sectors reporting earnings the macro picture remains really a significant impediment to incorporating our optimistic assumption in anybody’s forecast.
Lot of cloud is out there.
But 2012 for us will close out being a very successful year.
Most operating metrics have been exceeded and we remain very confident in the forward momentum we've created going into 2013.
And in looking at 2013 we remain committed to our primary growth strategy of outperforming our market by leasing office space.
That remains our core.
Our operational teams quality product extensive relationships continue to provide us with a competitive advantage and we certainly expect that that advantage will become even more accentuated as fundamentals continue to improve.
With that we’d be delighted to open up the floor for questions.
We ask that in the interest of time you limit yourself to one question and a follow up.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel Nicolaus.
A great quarter you guys – and great year you locked in the balance sheet re-sized a lot of assets total leverage clearly worked in terms of asset total growth et cetera.
So a few one question I guess for Howard talk about taxable income vis-à-vis your dividend level in 2013.
For Gerry if you can talk a little bit about the Center City Philadelphia what's going on with Thomas Properties Group comp 1 and comp 2 and economics of new development in the Center City Philadelphia.
For Gabe the accounting for your DC JV assets and for George it looks like the difference between 80% occupancy and 86% leased is about 300 000 square feet of incremental leasing which is very impressive because nobody is leasing any space in DC.
So if you can talk about the economics of those deals in DC.
Okay.
So taxable income John obviously we track that regularly quarterly measuring where we stand in terms of the dividend.
2012 will be in good shape.
2013 on a preliminary basis would be in good shape.
As you know one of the things that impacts taxable income in the whole dividend construct would be sales activity.
So we monitor that as well and that’s reflected already in our 2012 calculations.
Looking far ahead it is conceivable that some time end of ’13 early ‘14 we can begin to think constructively about the dividend if the business plan holds.
But no change is anticipated between now and that point.
Great.
John my question – my answer to your question I think on the economics of development in center city Philadelphia haven’t really changed in the last quarter.
I think to support new ground up development from an office standpoint in the city of Philadelphia will still require triple net range in kind of $35 to $40 range.
Current class base rates are still kind of in the low to mid 20s on a triple net basis.
So there still remains a fairly significant economic gap that needs to be closed in order to substantiate the new development.
Hence that’s one of the reasons why I think we’re so optimistic on our ability to continue to move rents up in our inventory class in the city as there continues to be a dearth of available space and very high quality office product.
And we’ll soon be pretty well positioned within that market.
John to address to your question on the DC JV it’s a nonconsolidated venture.
Of the three properties that we originally contributed two were deconsolidated.
They are not part of our discontinued operations because of our continuing level of involvement.
So on the same-store page those two properties end up in the other columns.
So that’s part of the reason why the prior year other columns looked a little bit different than the current year.
For the new assets they are unconsolidated as well.
We did incur about that $1 million charge this quarter related to the loss on the formation of that venture and that charge related to a contract that we terminated at a discount during this quarter with a broker that had a right to participate in some – or earn some fees on future acquisitions.
But again it was in our best interest to terminate that this quarter.
Again it was at a discount so that’s $1 million charge was for.
And John in terms of DC leasing we continue to be impressed with the activity levels we’re seeing but more importantly with the ability of our team to convert that activity into executed leases.
I think you got flavor for some of that in our third-quarter press release where the Metro DC was the highest volume region for the first time in many quarters.
So of the 600 basis points of pre-releasing that we expected at year-end about half of that’s already done and we’ve got good visibility on the pipeline that we are confident that we will convert the remainder.
Those deals are running anywhere from 20 000 to 40 000 square feet and have a projected GAAP mark to market that’s positive.
But we still expect a little bit of a roll down on the cash leasing spread.
And by the way just congratulations to Michael Cooper.
And thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
So sorry just because it’s early on the West Coast but little grouchy about 140 basis points.
I am just trying to understand how that fell so dramatically and it looks like on page 27 it was sort of widespread across every market for the year in 2012.
I am just trying to understand that and then how also the ‘12 same store guidance came up despite that.
And then also the 4% to 6% for 2013 seems pretty good which is great but just curious how that works in conjunction with occupancy being so far off.
I think as you kind of look at the math Michael and we appreciate you’re really rising on the West Coast.
That 75% of our occupancy revision from the 89 towards 88 was really coming out of the Metro DC and Richmond Virginia operations.
In Metro DC as George touched on and can certainly amplify some more a lot of that was due to the leasing activity that we thought would take occupancy in 2012 but actually occupancy days will slide to 2013.
In Richmond major driver there was the loss of that one tenant that we really had every evidence that they were going to stay but they gave us notice they’ve actually been moved out as George touched on on their natural expiration date.
One of the reasons for the minimal impact on our revenue targets was that we’d assumed that this space was going to be occupied fairly late in the year any way.
So it really had very little impact on our revenue overall particularly when coupled with the fact that our leasing spreads were continuing to improve in a lot of the other operations which George maybe can add – Yeah and I think Michael as you noted every region was down a little bit I think with the exception maybe of one.
But we had a 50 000 square-foot deal that we thought back in in July we were still going to get done in the Pennsylvania suburbs that lease was associated with that tenant procuring some contracts which they have not procured to this date.
We still feel good that if and when they do procures those contracts that we’ll have an opportunity to still gain that tenancy in ’13.
And then we had one deal that we literally had to lease-out for signature on 50 000 square-foot prospect in New Jersey and at the eleven and a half hour they opted to exercise – or basically stay put in the space they were in.
So again we kind of had outlined previously that we bought DC and Richmond would come up a little bit short.
We’ve got some of the other regions we’d have the ability to kind of make up for that and really kind of this -- the 100 000 square feet of the two deals I just referenced was really part of the cause for that.
I think as we look at next year some of the growth that we’re projecting again I think based on our kind of ground up budgeting on a suite by suite basis we feel confident in that plan.
We are seeing on our in-placed leases.
We’re kind of on the downside of the straight line curve.
So cash rents are actually exceeding GAAP rents.
So that’s why you are seeing what we think is a very good same-store number on both the GAAP and cash basis for ’13.
Just trying to I guess synthesize a little more so the 140 basis point delta for the end of this year part of that is timing and part of it is unexpected tenant decisions that you didn’t expect.
And then as far as the year end 2013 I think that delta was 100 basis points.
Is that right? In terms of our projected year end ’13 90 versus the lower end of our range for investing 91 that’s correct.
And that 100 basis points is attributable obviously not to timing so that’s just – you now have more dour view of your markets for this year than you did in June.
Well look I think it’s a fair way to characterize it the dour might be too strong of a word.
But I think certainly some of the recovery that we were anticipating in the southwest markets of Richmond Virginia as well as the additional pickup in the Dulles Toll Road corridor has been slower to materialize.
And we certainly have factored into our thinking the fact that we think we will probably lose one of those pieces from our Maryland portfolio as well in DC.
Michael it’s Howard.
One other thing to think about it is it is true that we dropped 140 basis points on occupancy.
But we only dropped the back end of 2013 by 100 basis points.
So we’re actually seeing very good levels of similar if not greater activity in 2013 and when you waive the occupancy over the course the year it ends up being - we expect a bit more front-loaded and therefore will allow us to maintain the same store guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Attie with Citi.
Mr.
Attie your line is open.
There is no response from that line.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with Keybanc Capital Markets.
But I am curious also on sort of your comments Gerry the open on recent tenant caution.
It’s similar to what we've heard from some of your peers in the space.
And I'm just curious given sort of the tenant in that context and sort of the lowered occupancy for year end what gives you the confidence that we won’t see further slip through ’13? Jordan I apologize the first part of your question got cut off here.
So – No worries.
I was just remarking on the tenant caution piece that you sort of alluded to at the beginning of your commentary and how that plays into sort of your expectations for ’13.
Are you feeling -- how confident are you that things won't slip in ‘13 like they slipped in the last 90 days? Well I think it’s a great question.
Certainly something we spend a lot of time with our regions reflecting on and kind of debating the best course of action.
We always do conclude that the best course of action is to convert our pipeline as quickly as we can and I think that's what I guess from systematic standpoint gives us the most confidence that will be able to execute on the goals that we’ve outlined.
But in terms of tenant caution I mean look there is no question that with -- these macro forces really do affect companies’ investment strategies.
And I know – on some calls there has been discussions about larger tenants that are being much more decisive smaller tenants are being less so.
We haven't really seen that bifurcation in tenant psychology.
I think it's a matter of degrees but we clearly over the last 30 to 60 days have seen tenants continue to push the deals through their pipeline and as George mentioned the compression of deal execution time actually compressed in the third quarter versus the previous quarter.
But in conversation and discussion with tenants I think there is – there remains this sense of let’s wait and see what happens with presidential election let’s wait and see what happens with the fiscal cliff.
Now those discussions tend to be more accentuated in the Maryland and DC markets but they clearly pervade I think everyone's thought process.
So when we look at it in terms of addressing the core of your question we’re very confident that this continued pipeline we see the ever improving number of space inspections we have and our conversion rate puts in a very good position to achieve our ‘13 goals.
One of the important considerations we’re going to take a look at as we’ve all touched on the absolute level of leasing activity we’re projecting for 13 is actually slightly down from what we achieved in ’12.
One of the reasons for that is we’ve been risk assessing what our vacancy is a lot of our vacancy is in those markets that are more challenged than the Crescent markets or CBD or the Austin Texas markets.
So I think we’ve really taken a very granular ground-up approach to our leasing process.
It’s to really assess what we think is really achievable based upon how we are reading the current figures.
And just sort of the investment activity as a follow-up what are you seeing in the pipeline? Are there good opportunities out there? Are they similar to what they've been how are things changing there? I think we’re certainly – we don’t really – if you take a look at our activity year we’ve only booked out one property in Plymouth Meeting Pennsylvania that we’re in the process of rehab and that was purely a value add.
But we made our investment with Allstate and Station Square properties in Silver Spring.
The pipeline right now is pretty robust.
We have nothing under agreement.
We are certainly looking at expanding our footprints in some of our core long term markets but it’s still the core Philadelphia suburbs Austin.
Tom continues to work with our DC team on the Allstate venture and what we are seeing in that market.
We still are very focused on identifying higher quality product urban or more town center transits hub is a key issue diversifying our rent roll and identifying those situations where we can deploy capital into a more value add opportunities we can actually think make a difference in increasing the rates of returns.
But Tom maybe share your thoughts on what you are seeing down the DC of Allstate.
I think on the DC market the transaction volume have slowed compared to some of the other markets where it’s been a little more steady or picked up a little.
I think DC has slowed quite a bit.
Usually right near the end of the third quarter lot of transactions appear as people look for 2012 closings by year-end and that really hasn't occurred down there this year.
The difference in pricing expectations between the buyers and sellers continues to be a pretty big divide.
I think that the buyers have taken a more cautious view of the underwriting.
I think if you look at projections of rent growth with all the uncertainty around sequestration in budgets that you're seeing a ratchet down on what people think is going to be the rent growth.
So that absolutely translates in the lower pricing.
And in most cases the sellers don't have to sell so you’ve seen some of that just put on pause.
Occasion traced that back to the late summer where we saw five transactions in the CBD about 1.8 million square feet that were either pulled or didn’t transact.
So you start to see that slowdown start to occur and we’ve seen it so far this quarter.
But to that point we’re still looking at transactions.
We have been hearing there is some product coming out soon.
Hopefully that logjam changes.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa with ISI Group.
I guess Gerry as you think about transitioning the portfolio and you talked about kind of the transit hubs and kind of the more urban core what percentage of your portfolio would you say kind of doesn’t fit that characteristic? And I guess given the fairly favorable debt markets today could we see you accelerate that and could you possibly be a larger net seller next year? Look the debt markets are very favorable.
Steve there is no question.
I think as evidenced by the success we had with the Allstate venture Silver Spring we did secure the financing at 3.3% and then certainly the work that Howard does on tracking what’s happened in the unsecured market I mean our secured rates are coming quite nicely.
So certainly the ability to look at our debt portfolio is at the top of our list.
In terms of selling assets clearly the favourable debt markets I think are key catalysts there.
When we talk to a lot of institutional investors who are focused on deploying large amounts of capital the office sector we shift to a great degrees of proxy for economic growth.
So you really do have people kind of monitoring how they think the economy will perform looking at office because that’s a clear derivative but in addition to that the relative yields on office I think remain a bit high compared to some other real estate sectors.
So I think from a relative yield proxy for economic growth two key predicates certainly fueling that is very low cost of debt and frankly the ample availability of secured financing.
So as we do every year at this time we kind of focus on what we think market number is.
We would expect to be in a range of being a net seller next year.
We certainly could see an acceleration of our sales programs something Tom and his team do on a constant basis is respond to reverse inquiries talk to money sources talk to brokerage community.
And if that's what we think the appetite might be for some of our non-core properties.
So I think for modeling purposes right now as Howard outlined we played in $100 million of net sales activity little more back ended.
Certainly based upon the pipeline and our activity levels that could change.
But in an any event I think the core predicators on which to provide in the company is being a net seller over the next couple of years is a key component of our deleveraging plan as well.
So we sold more we would look to probably be optimistic and deploy a little bit more capital always remaining a net seller.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
With for George – George if I look at the numbers for next year it looks like you guys need to do about 1.3 million square feet of new and expansion leasing if you're doing 62% retention.
Is that the right number and how much of that do you have embedded in terms of commencements that are going to start next year for new and expansion leases relative to the 1.3 that you need to get done? Brendan yeah we’ve got actually -- our plan calls for about 2 million square feet of new and about 1.6 million square feet of renewals.
And we've got I guess about 20% of that combined square footage done at this point.
Is that -- just going back to historical numbers it looks like that’s a high bar relative to what you guys had done in the past and you’re expressing some cautioning here.
So is there something that’s driving that level of improvement? Well our 2012 plan we had 3.8 million square feet and about that same $2 million target amount of new deals.
So kind of the same number in terms of new and because of the lower rollover in ‘13 the gross amount of renewals are down year over year.
Maybe I will have to follow up offline because I think I was looking at numbers little bit differently.
And then just a follow up question for Howard.
Howard how much of – it looks like your straight-line of rent is a high portion of revenue today relative to where it’s been historically.
How much of the improvement in same store NOI is going to be driven by that straight-line rent number moving down throughout ’13? Well it will move down quite significantly.
Kind of look at what the quarterly run rate has been in the past couple of quarters we ran pretty high in 2012 but we were already off our peak if you kind of followed the quarters through we were at about $7 million in the first quarter $6 million in the second and $5 million in the latest.
So it's coming down already.
To some degree it will be re-raised so to speak by incremental leasing that takes place over the balance of this year into next year.
But somewhere on a steady state basis once the leasing settles in it should be in the $4 million per quarter area.
And the ultimate reduction from where it's been historically in 2012 is what will lead to the higher cash same-store NOI performance.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman with Bank of America.
First I just want to clarify in terms of commencements that are already in the bag for next year what was the number you gave? We said 21% of the 3.6 million square feet.
For 2013? Yes.
And then just -- I mean there is a lot of concern out there about meeting of leasing targets.
Can you just give us a sense of kind of what you are working on? What are the chunkiest leases that can really take down these numbers pretty dramatically? I know you’ve got Pepper Hamilton and Drinker Biddle and the works in Phily.
But both in terms of potential renewals and even new leases you are working on.
What are some of the magnitudes where people were talking about of your largest ones? Sure well I mean in terms of ‘13 and as we’ve talked previously we’re going to be getting back roughly 117 000 square feet from Intel down in Austin.
We've signed 55 000 square feet to backfill that and we’ve got a number of prospects.
Also down in Austin we’re getting 72 000 square feet back from Freescale in August and many of the same prospects are looking at both of those building apartments skyway.
We've got obviously some -- we've got about six full floors of vacancy at One and Two Logan and Philadelphia CBD.
So you’re looking at 20 000 plus  square foot floor place that you get the single floor multiple floor users to take down that space.
We still have 90 000 square feet in a single building over in Mount Laurel New Jersey.
And we’ve seen some larger sized prospects looking at that.
So those are kind of the bigger pieces of our vacancy composition.
Yeah I guess what I am asking is more of the leases you’re contemplating to get to your number.
If you’d just started the largest and kind of give the top tenant and so how big are they that can really move the needle with a couple tenant lease signing yourself? Yeah we’ve got leases ranging from 50 000 square feet plus down to 3000 and 4000 square foot range it really kind of runs the gamut based on the various sub-markets.
And Jamie I mean relative to two law firms you mentioned they are really 2014 plus events.
So they’re not really factored into our 2013 numbers at this point.
And just a follow-up on leasing in general and especially as you grow in the CBD a lot of talk on certainly in your calls there’s been a more efficient floor place more employees per square foot have you seen that hit still yet do you think it will? And kind of where are in that process in terms of just – and instead using less space per employee? It’s a broad-based phenomenon in the office sector where tenants are very much focused on increasing the degree of density of employees the moving almost from a rental rate construct to average cost of occupancy per employee.
So I think as we look at our inventory stock we’re very focused on what are the things that make our space marketable and have competitive advantage even if given with that phenomenon occurring.
So it really comes down to window line column spacing and ceiling heights HVAC delivery systems.
But look I think that's technology and cost considerations that clearly impact that I think the amount of space per employee that a lot of tenants look for.
We've actually benefited from that by having tenants consolidate out of lower quality product into our product.
So our footprints are more efficient lower loss factors a much higher levels of sustainability energy management systems.
So that's one of the reasons why we are very focused on the higher end quality stock throughout our portfolio.
That will position us to both the receiver for companies consolidating out of lower quality space and position us well for expansions of our existing tenants who are very much focused on those efficiency considerations.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with BMO Capital Markets.
So why is FFO growing by 6% next year and CAD by 10% given all of the uncertainty? I guess I would have thought that the opportunity to grow would be put up.
Well we go through Rich it’s Howard and we model on a lease by lease basis what we think the capital spend will be.
And when we layer that into the FFO modeling we’re pretty comfortable with that new range.
Are you saying then that the need to spend money is coming down even though the environment continues to be uncertain? I think it’s two factors.
I think number one we have done a good job at the leasing level and controlling CapEx.
And the other factor is the retention that we do and the degree which that contributes to a lower overall capital expenditure.
On some of these renewals you're still spending some dollars on others you’re spending very little.
And then certainly the new leasing can be all over the map but when we add it all up we look at the most likely outcome for the business plan.
We're expecting manageable capital next year which will result in a pretty strong CAD number.
And a follow-up somewhat unrelated question the Toll Brothers joint-venture getting into residential housing realize it’s kind of smaller relative to the overall size of the company but somewhat symbolic in the sense that you're going down a different path.
Can you talk to us about what are the – why you’re doing that why you’re getting in the residential housing and for what extent would this be the model to monetize your land bank on a go forward basis? Rich good question.
If you step back for a second I mean take one of the intangible assets companies like ours really is our very strong and an extension of local relationships.
And that does create a real franchise that’s giving us the ability to navigate the approval the regulatory the political the labor constructs is only redone.
I think as we outlined a number of months ago in terms of our land program our decided approach is to take some of our land that’s currently zoned for office and test market that or sell to people for other uses.
And we’ve done that we will continue to do that but in some cases as in the case of Plymouth Meeting it was a much more viable program for us to commence that rezoning approval process ourselves try and create value through that approval process using our local contacts.
And as we went through that certainly handled reverse inquiries and the overtures from residential companies on buying the land.
Now in the case of Plymouth Meeting we thought there was significant development that we created for our company.
So in that case we opted for a fair market value land contribution aligning ourselves with a very seasoned very well qualified and financially deep residential company.
We were very confident of the location and the product success.
And frankly our land contribution and all working capital requirements and we would create a significant profit opportunity of the company.
So in those cases the joint-venture seems to be a more attractive route from a profit generation standpoint.
From our standpoint we’re not really entering the residential business.
We’re simply contributing land that we went through the approval process on to create a profit opportunity for the company and hiring a residential company on a venture-basis but they are contributing significant capital as well to make that project a success.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Good morning guys.
It’s David Anderson.
Just a couple quick questions.
Do you guys have any a embedded in the ’13 numbers on Lockheed? I know that 200 000 square feet any sense of how that is going to play out? Yeah as we had expected and contemplated we have done a short term renewal on the larger of the two Lockheed spaces down in Maryland.
So the larger one was 137 000 square feet that has extended.
The other one we’re still discussing with them but the numbers for ‘13 assumed that they move out on their expiration date of May 31.
And the balance of the leases we have with Lockheed through Pennsylvania and New Jersey are still contemplated too in the south.
Just also for the acquisition guidance that’s the $75 million that is inclusive of your pro-rata portion of the JV or – is the JV acquisition not included in that number? No we haven’t identified any acquisition but we contemplated that number would incorporate our pro-rata share with the JV correct.
Just one other quick question just looking over the last quarter supplemental and this quarter the percent of leasing still seemed to tick down a little bit is only CBD specifically? Was there any specific drivers there or is that just more and just more clarity on stuff that you thought would happen but actually tenant already thought as the year went along? Sure.
All the large leads that we had actually commences during the quarter.
So it’s just from pre-lease and occupied and we obviously did not have any comparable amount of forward (inaudible) to kind of offset that.
Your next question comes from the line of Mitch Germain from JMP Securities.
Gerry what’s – or maybe George what’s the success rate of your all the pipeline? I think you previously mentioned about 40-ish percent? Yeah our run rate has gotten in that low to mid 40s.
We actually had about 44% for Q3 but really kind of for the last call it 18 months we've been kind of running in that 40% to 45% range.
Our final question comes from the line of Josh Attie with Citi.
For 2013 it looks like about a third of your speculative revenue target is coming from DC and Richmond and more than half of that has not been locked in yet.
Can you talk a little bit about that portion of the guidance how much visibility do you have on it? Well for DC about half of it has been locked in.
So and obviously we've got what we think is a relatively healthy pipeline and obviously the half that’s not locked in has more of a second half of ‘13 occupancy event tied to it.
Richmond if we've only got 14% of the spec revenue locked in at this point.
But again I think what we continue to see in Richmond is that deals seem to come to the market and get executed a little bit quicker.
I think if you went back and kind of look at the quarterly charts Richmond probably is closer to the bottom of the stack in terms of pre-leasing as compared to some of our other regions where the some tenants are just out in the market that much more in advance.
But certainly some work to do in both of those regions.
And when you talk about the second half of 2013 commencements for DC I mean those leases could obviously be signed before then? Sure.
Yeah I mean I think as we have said we expect to have that portfolio 86% pre-leased by the end of 2012.
At this time there are no further questions.
Gentlemen any closing remarks? Okay.
Great.
Thanks everyone for participating the call.
And we look forward to keeping you updated on our next call after the end of the year.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is [Latingy] and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Please go ahead sir.
Latingy thank you very much.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in our year-end 2012 earnings call.
On today's call with me are George Johnstone our Senior Vice President of Operations Gabe Mainardi our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Howard Sipzner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President of Portfolio Management and Investments.
Prior to beginning I'd like to remind everyone that certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Although we believe the estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
To start our call as is our normal practice I'll provide an overview of our three key business plan components; of operations balance sheet and investments as well as some color on recent transactional activity.
George and Howard will then discuss the operating and financial results in more detail.
The macro-economy remains the focal point in our thinking uncertainty remains a concern tenants do remain cautious on the near term economic picture however generally speaking our portfolio remains a beneficiary of tenants like the quality product as is evidenced by our strong trend-lines in operating metrics as well as our moderating capita cost.
And looking at operations 2012 was a very good year.
The leasing momentum we built the year is improving our operating metrics across the board and we ended the year at over 88% occupied and over 90% leased.
Positive pricing dynamics remain in several key markets with strong performance particularly in several of our Pennsylvania suburban locations CBD Philadelphia and Austin Texas.
In addition our operations in Metro DC and New Jersey have clearly troughed and are on the path to recovery retention rate for the quarter was the highest of the year at 74% and moved our over 2012 retention rate to over 66%.
We also improved our marked to market on both new and renewal leases and our 2012 marked to market was much better than our original business plan forecast.
Capital cost continue to moderate and we are in a much better position closing out 2012 then in 2011.
We averaged capital cost of $2.10 per square foot per lease year for the fourth quarter and our 2012 full number was $2.61 right within our targeted range.
Our same store number for the quarter was particularly strong for the year we had positive same store growth on a GAAP base of 2.9% and 1.8% on a cash basis which has established a very strong platform as we move into our 2013 business plan execution.
During the fourth quarter we also [covered] 2.9 million square feet of inspections which is also of year-over-year.
Another key positive as we look at 2013 and certainly 2014 and beyond is our low level (Inaudible) roll over.
For 2013 we have just 1.0 million square feet remaining to renew which is about 7% of our portfolio our lowest level in over 7 years.
And looking at our balance sheet we had a very active fourth quarter from a forward liability debt management standpoint we are in extraordinarily good shape.
The overall objective of our fourth quarter transactions was to lengthen our maturity profile reduce our average weighted cost of debt and increase the size of our unencumbered pool and on each of these metrics we were successful.
Our average weighted maturity moved from [5.] years to 6.4 years an improvement of 10%.
We reduced our weighted average debt cost 24 basis points and we increased the size of our unencumbered pool to 86% of assets which is the strongest in the company's history.
All of these capital market transactions are outlined on page 8 of our supplemental package.
Reducing our debt levels below 40% and achieving a 6.5 EBITDA ratio if not lower remains a core objective.
The pursuit of this objective is amply evidenced by the recently announced sale of Princeton Pike Corporate Center when this sale close it will eliminate our year end line of credit balance and provide for further debt reduction.
Liquidity for the company remains extraordinarily strong operations are driving continued improvements to our financial metrics and rigorously adhering to our deleveraging path remains a primary objective.
On the investment front we achieved our 2012 sales target having sold a $176 million at an overall disposition cap rate of 7.1%.
Also during the year we acquired $76 million at an average cap rate of 8.5% on a cash basis thereby achieving our objective of being a net seller approaching $100 million.
From a joint venture standpoint during the year we invested $22 million on all-state joint venture to acquire Station Square $120 million 5000 square foot project in Silver Spring Maryland.
Now turning our attention to 2013 we do expect tenant activity levels to remain strong and consistent with our expectations in all of our markets and we've had very good success since our last call as George will touch on Our 2013 leasing plan is already 66% executed.
We are targeting a yearend 2013 occupancy target to be 90% a 200 basis point increase over where we showed at the end of 2012 with most of that occurring in the second half.
We expect our 2013 retention rate to be 62% and we do anticipate very strong same store numbers with the GAAP range between 3% to 5% and the cash range between 4% and 6%.
Capital cost for the year projected to run around 12% of revenues well within our targeted range resulting in another year of strong CAD coverage.
Our 2013 business plan does not contemplate any capital market activity during the year we'll continue our path to achieve our interim debt to GAV target of 40% and EBITDA multiple of 6.5% as we work towards our longer term target of mid-30s debt to GAV and below 6 times EBITDA.
For 2013 we remain optimistic and track the interest climate with the overriding objective continuing to reduce our cost of debt capital reducing floating rate exposure as well as continued lengthening of our debt maturity profile.
Our 2013 plan does not contemplate any common equity issuances as evidenced by our accelerated sales program we continue to believe that our best source of equity is simply selling non-core assets.
The final component of our 2013 plan is accelerated growth through our investment strategy that focus remains on increasing our urban and town center concentrations the sale of our Central New Jersey Asset evidence that shift that sale of Princeton Pike reduces our exposure to New Jersey to 6% of revenues which is down significantly from several years ago and very illustrative of our shifts to urban and town center Metro markets.
Looking ahead more capital sources are a focused on office space this appetite is driven by the lower rate environment emerging visibility on the economic outlook and relative yields.
Our 2013 plan originally contemplated us being a net seller of a $100 million we are increasing that to $221 million giving improving fundamentals and increased investor focus.
The Princeton Pike sale of $121 million is the first step in that execution that sale occurred at approximately 8.5% cap rate and a $150 per square foot.
We anticipate that the remaining $100 million of dispositions will occur in the second half of the year at a targeted 8% cap rate.
The plan right now does not incorporate any acquisitions and to the extent we find any that will be financed by additional sale activity.
And looking at some other activity recall that our land investment is around $102 million.
We did add-in the supplemental package on page 34 a land summary schedule to provide more visibility so you can readily track our activity in this area.
Our goal remains either selling outright or effectively monetizing about 35% of that value.
We did achieve $15 million of that during 2012 with the Toll Brothers joint venture at Plymouth meeting.
Yesterday we did announce another step with our Cira Center South joint venture with Campus Crest and Harrison Street.
Our 30% ownership stake puts Brandywine overall equity requirement at approximately $18 million of which about 50% of that is coming from our land contribution.
This project represents the next phase of Cira South development.
We expect a delivery date in Q3 of 2014 with an initial return on cost of 7% and a first full stabilized return of 8%.
In a broader sense there is no question that markets change and tenant appetites evolve.
Our internal review program is continually focused on ensuring that we have realized optimal value for every single piece of real estate we own.
As part of that process we've determined that of our New Jersey assets have a higher value proposition by being converted to mixed-use developments.
Both properties are older office products that are part of a larger local Brandywine business park with available land providing an opportunity for mixed-use development.
Achieving the necessary result to create this value will take between 12 to 24 months and based on economic and zoning analysis both buildings have been removed from inventory both projects have a very low basis enabling us to move in this direction and create significant upside through the entitlement process.
While these two projects are somewhat unique within our portfolio it does reflect our recognition that obsolescence and market shifts can affect the ongoing value of certain of our assets.
We have identified these projects as re-entitlement properties on page 32 of our supplemental package.
At this point George will provide an overview of 2012 operational performance and then turn it over to Howard for a view our financial activity.
Thank you Jerry.
We continue to see good levels of leasing activity from state inspections to pipeline to lease executions.
In terms of pipeline we saw an increase in the overall pipe of 277 000 square feet during the quarter resulting in a total pipeline of 2.8 million square feet.
646 000 square feet in active lease negotiations with the balance all [entertaining a] proposal.
During the quarter we signed 993 000 square feet of leases including 545 000 square feet of new and expansion leases and 448 000 square feet of renewals.
This results in total lease signings for 2012 of 3.7 million square feet.
Tenant decision making remains relatively unchanged.
Leases executed in the fourth quarter averaged 94 days from initial inquiry to lease execution as compared to 98 days in the third quarter and 103 days in the second quarter.
Lease commencements totaled 723 000 square feet including 422 000 square feet of new leases 248 000 square feet of renewal leases and 53 000 square feet of tenant expansions.
During the quarter we also had 99 000 square feet of tenant moveouts upon expiration and 58 000 square feet of early terminations.
Absorption for the quarter was 318 000 square feet and we ended the year 88% occupied.
We also have 509 000 square feet of executed leases on space that was vacant at year-end above our 90% leased level.
We're encouraged of the leased levels we were able to achieve in Richmond at 89% New Jersey Delaware 88% and Metro DC at 86%.
This level of achievement is a testament to our regional leasing teams.
Leasing spreads for the quarter were positive 2.8% on a GAAP basis and negative 4.1 on a cash basis.
Leasing capital for the quarter was $2.10 per foot per year on a weighted average lease of six years.
All other business plan and operating metrics for 2012 were in line with expectations.
Turning now to 2013; we're maintaining all of our original business plan operating metrics.
We've achieved $28.9 million or 66% of our $43.9 million spec revenue target.
This compares to 33% achieved last quarter and 64% achieved this time last year.
Of note we're 71% achieved in Metro DC versus 51% a year ago and Richmond is 45% achieved versus 30% this time last year.
Occupancy will increase to 90% during 2013 from 1.6 million square feet of renewal leases 2 000 000 square feet of new and expansion leases offset by 275 000 square feet of known and anticipated early terminations.
These early terminations are a combination of lease rights being exercised by tenants and landlord negotiated terminations to accommodate existing tenant growth.
79 square feet of this early termination space has already been re-leased.
We've executed 947 000 square feet of our 2013 renewals of the remaining 653 000 square feet remain in the plan the single largest lease is 45 000 square feet.
Leasing spreads will range between 3% and 5% on a GAAP basis and negative 1.5 positive 0.5% on a cash basis.
Leasing capital will range from $2.25 to $2.75 per square foot per lease year.
Our CAD ratio in 2012 was 75% versus a 105% in 2011.
The continued focus by our regional leasing teams on controlling capital will enable this favorable trend to continue into 2013.
These leasing assumptions and trends will translate into same store NOI growth between 3% and 5% on the GAAP basis and 4% to 6% on a cash basis both excluding termination fees and other income.
Metro DC and New Jersey Delaware will generate cash same store growth in excess of the upper end of this range as a result of improved occupancy levels.
Austin is generating double digit cash same store growth as a result of rent growth.
Our regional leasing teams are also focused on extending lease maturities to date we have executed early renewals on 486 000 square feet of our 2014 expirations including our two largest KPMG and Tysons and Drinker Biddle in Philadelphia.
To conclude we remain encouraged by the level of activity in our various markets the quality of our inventory and the achievements thus far in our 2013 business plan.
At this point I'll turn it over to Howard for the financial review.
George Jerry thank you.
Core FFO totaled $48.2 million for the fourth quarter of 2012 or [$0.33] per diluted share.
Our core FFO payout ratio is 45.5% on the $0.15 distribution we paid in October 2012 to common shareholders.
We derived fourth quarter 2012 core FFO by adding back $27.1 million of capital market and transactional items to our $21.1 million FFO calculation.
Core FFO provides the better sense of our FFO run rate by eliminating transactional activity.
For comparison purposes we have applied this methodology retroactively to each of the eight quarters and the full year periods in our supplemental package on page 16.
I would like to make the following observations regarding our fourth quarter results.
Our FFO is generally of a high quality with termination revenue other income management fees interest income and aggregate JV activity including the direct financing obligation totaling $7.1 million gross or $5.7 million net in line with our targeted 2012 quarterly run rate.
Our NOI and EBITDA margins at 60.5% and 63.2% respectively remain at or near their highest levels with these metrics all the way back to early 2009.
Our same-store NOI growth rates were 4.7% GAAP and 4.5% cash both excluding termination fees and other income items.
We've now had six consecutive quarters of positive results for the GAAP metric and three for the cash.
At 2.9% and 1.8% respectively for the full year we met our upwardly revised 2012 targets of 2.5% to 3% GAAP and 1.5% to 2.5% cash.
Fourth quarter G&amp;A increased to $7.2 million versus our $6 million run rate due to $460 000 of transaction expenses including in the G&amp;A line item and accelerated deferred comp costs and other adjustments from an officer departure.
Our fourth quarter interest expense of $33.2 million ticked up a bit from $32.6 million in the third quarter as we had a few brief periods where double debt was outstanding pending repayments.
The capital market moves we made in the fourth quarter will have a beneficial impact on our 2013 interest costs as we will note later on.
And lastly the $13.8 million of revenue maintaining or recurring capital expenditures at moderate level gave us $0.19 of CAD or cash available for distribution per diluted share and a 78.9% payout ratio.
With respect to balance sheet and financial metrics I would emphasize the following points.
Our debt-to-GAV at year end of 45% and our debt to total market cap of 56.7% and are 7.5 times debt to EBITDA ratio are all somewhat above recent levels for these metrics due to fourth quarter activity and will moderate during 2013 as we pay off additional debt and projects come on line.
We continue to manage interest risk with just $169 million of floating rate debt and we expect to have no outstanding balance on our $600 million unsecured revolving line of credit following the closing of the Princeton Pike sale later in the fourth quarter.
Lastly we have no significant maturities until late 2014.
With respect to 2013 FFO guidance we are increasing our prior range of $1.38 to $1.46 to now be in a range of a $1.41 to a $1.48.
Setting aside the historic tax credit income of $0.08 that we will recognize once again in the third quarter of 2013 our quarterly FFO for 2013 should be in a range of $0.33 to $0.35 per diluted share.
In addition to the assumptions detailed on pages 30 to 31 of the supplemental package and noted by George please observe the following.
Gross other income in 2013 should be similar to 2012 levels at $20 million to $25 million or $14 million to $19 million net for a basket of other items such as; termination revenues other income management revenues less associated management expenses if stated in net fashion interest income which will be much lower in 2013 JV income preferred return on our Thomas Properties Commerce Square joint-venture and the 3141 Fairview financing obligation costs.
2013 G&amp;A will remain unchanged at $24 million to $25 million in line with the projections for 2012.
Interest expense in 2013 will drop due to various capital market activities in the fourth quarter and should now be in a range of $122 million to $226 million versus $126 million to $130 million previously guided.
Our preferred distribution should total $6.9 million on our Series E shares reflecting the December 2012 optional redemption of our Series D shares.
Besides the Princeton Pike sale we are programming additional sales of $100 million or $221 million total with a $100 million at an average 8% cap rate somewhat back ended handed in $2 million to $3 million impact or loss of NOI in 2013 from current NOI in place.
As I mentioned the historic tax credit income of $11.9 million or $0.08 per share will be recognized in the third quarter of 2013.
It is generally offset by about $0.01 of total associated incremental interest expense that occurs throughout 2013 in all of the quarters.
The historic tax credit revenue is essentially non-cash is excluded from our CAD calculations represents the third occurrence of 20% of the net proceeds realized in connection with the 2008 historic tax credit financing and again will be recognized in the third quarter of each year from 2011 through 2015.
We are assuming no issuance at this point under our continuous equity program no additional note buyback or capital market activity and we are programming weighted average shares for 2013 for FFO purposes of 146.7 million shares.
Our FFO payout ratio is projected to be 41.5% using our current quarterly distribution of $0.15 or $0.60 for the full year on the midpoint of the dollar $41 to $48 range.
And lastly we are projecting cash available for distribution or CAD to be in a range of $0.79 to $0.87 per diluted share versus our prior projection of $0.75 to $0.85 reflecting $50 million to $60 million of revenue maintaining CapEx lower than the prior estimate of $60 million to $70 million reflecting moderating capital expenditures.
In terms of our capital plan for 2013 it's very clean with total 2013 uses of $299 million.
That includes $11 million for mortgage amortization $95 million for aggregate dividends on the common and preferred shares and an allocation of $193 million for various capital and investment activities.
These include $55 million of revenue maintaining CapEx at the midpoint of our range $90 million for revenue creating CapEx lower than our prior estimate of $100 million and that includes cost for lease up of previously vacant space.
New project lease up such as Three Logan Square and other revenue creating activities plus $48 million for a variety of other capital projects including finishing our 660 West Germantown Road development a possible ground lease buyout some funds to start one or two other small developments funds for Grove project in University City funds for the Thomas Property Group joint venture that was already funded in early January and various other costs related to joint ventures.
We actually have sources of $405 million or a $106 million more than we need and this reflects a $184 million of cash flow before financing investments and dividends and after interest payments and the aforementioned $221 million of sales proceeds reflecting the pending under $21 million Princeton Pike sale and a $100 million of additional sales.
We will use the $106 million surplus to pay down our $69 million credit facility balance at year end 2012 and we expect to end 2013 with a $37 million cash balance.
Lastly in terms of account receivable and credit activity we had $16.6 million of total reserves at December 31 2012 versus $16 million at the end of the third quarter.
Our reserves consist of $3.2 million on $16.4 million of operating receivables or 19.5% and $13.4 million on a $135.5 million of straight-line rent receivables or 9.9%.
These levels are in line with prior activity and overall percentages.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 we had typical performance on receivables and reserves and no major credit issues.
And with that I will turn it back to Jerry for some additional comments.
Great thank you very much Howard and thank you as well as George.
To wrap up our prepared remarks the fourth quarter and 2012 really were very successful.
Operating metrics improved and we remain confident that our forward momentum will continue in 2013.
We remain committed to outperforming our markets through accelerated leasing efforts.
We remain committed to our deleveraging goals and to our portfolio shift to urban and town center markets our operational teams and we believe that approach will provide us with the continued competitive advantage and that advantage will continue to be reflected in our operating results and investment activities.
With that we'd be delighted to open up the floor for questions.
We ask as we always do that in the interest of time you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your expected returns and some of your recent investment activity whether it's student housing development or the Toll Brothers JV or even some of these redevelopments.
Just kind of what are you guys thinking these days and how should we be thinking about what you can put to work going forward? Jamie the first part of your question got cut off but I think in terms of returns we actually outlined the returns in the supplemental package on both the downtown Philadelphia asset which we view as a development project and that will provide some -- a pretty good rate of return to us as we move forward through that redevelopment process we anticipate will take a couple of years.
I outlined the returns that we expect on the student housing project will be in that 7% to 8% range 7% with the first kind of year we opened for occupancy and moving through the lease-up and then certainly stabilizing at the 8% moving out from there with the annual rental rate bumps.
Then Toll venture is -- which should commence construction by midyear is very clearly in that range as well.
The returns we do expect to get from the redevelopment project that Plymouth Meeting 660 is in a low-double digits.
And as we look at some of these other redevelopment opportunities we would expect that to be more the order of the day.
Okay.
And then the follow-up in terms of your disposition activity and just you made the comment that there is more capital interested in your markets.
Can you talk a little bit more about what you see in the last three months or so kind of pricing and what kind of assets people are looking for? Yes certainly I will pick up on that and then Tom please follow through it.
I mean look the relative yields on office space still remain relatively high given other asset classes.
I think the level reverse inquiries we're getting the discussions we're having with investment brokers throughout our markets still indicate that that quest for yield.
People are beginning to feel arguably a bit more comfort economic outlook and certainly the low interest rate environment is continued to have people think about offs investments is a bit of a proxy for the economic recovery.
So we've you know with the Princeton Pike transaction which we launched kind of right before the year ended we had some very good activity on that.
Pricing levels came in line with what we thought we would realize.
We have a number of other assets were -- as we always do putting out in the marketplace for price discovery.
And early signs on that are again very much in line with the cap rates that Howard talked about and I referred to as well but in the meantime what are we saying in some of these are markets.
Hi Jamie.
Taking a look at like Philadelphia CBD besides our 1900 transaction 2000 market reportedly is being sold at about $169 a foot a low seven cap rate on a 95% pre-stabilized property.
The suburbs hasn't had much activity but there has been more discussions on properties coming on the market and potentially trading this first half of 2013.
Looking at the Metro DC market we have seen obviously a slowdown that's continued since the last time we had our call in terms of product coming to market which has been slow and continues to be slow at the beginning of 2013 but the product that has been coming to market has received a lot of strong investor interest and the pricing that we've seen on some of that product whether it be a Class A trophy asset inside the Beltway trading below 6% and then the revolver replacement costs shows that there is investment appetite for well located in CBD assets.
Looking at Austin that is [a bit also] market where we have seen lot of activity this year and expect to see more in '13.
Cap rates on a lot of the product we are looking at going in.
The ones that have traded have been set in or below in most cases very few above that.
And then little activity in Richmond and Delaware we monitor those markets but they have remained quite.
I think part of that activity that we may see pick up also is on the lending side as Jerry mentioned the lending is strong and I think also CMBS lending has come back and become more competitive with the life companies and that leads to more interest as the buyers were able to pick up better financing.
Okay.
Great thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Josh Attie with Citi.
On the two properties that were reclassified as re-entitlements that increased core occupancy by about 50 to 60 basis points.
And my first question is was that move contemplated in your original occupancy forecasts both for year ended 2012 and also for 2013? Yes it was.
And when we see the core portfolio today do you anticipate any other reclassifications to get to 90% by the end of '13? We're actually done.
I mean these were the properties that went through a long thoughtful process within really are somewhat unique in a sense they are a part of a business parks have adjoining land holdings I touched on so it really does create the opportunity for stepping beyond and adapt of reusing going into new entitlement process.
So we're continually looking at these types of properties and take a look at where we can create the best value but as of right now we certainly don't anticipate any more of those reclassifications occurring in 2013.
Can you talk a little bit more about your long-term plans for those once they get re-entitled do you plan to redevelop them on your own balance sheet do you plan to sell the properties with the new entitlements? Yeah I think probably to be determined what the ultimate outcome will be but the lowest probability is us developing them ourselves.
I mean I think the process we've started with is evidenced by the total JV or the Campus Crest JV is from our perspective there is a lot of talented companies out there that can provide great counsel to us and capital to move these projects through their ultimate value creation cycle.
To the extent as certainly we have talked at our Investor meeting and call since then our preference always remains to on these non-strategically located assets that simply sell out and realize full length fair market value.
So our expectations that we will use our local reputation and political contacts to start this owning process in the re-entitlement path.
During that process we will certainly talk to companies who are experts in retail or multi-family development and our hope would be we would either windup disposing of those assets at fair value.
We are creating a venture structure that recognizes that fair value contribution and provides a different path to creating the value.
Okay thanks.
On acquisitions you reduced the acquisition guidance to zero from 75 you know what were some of the reasons for that is it that you try to use your balance sheet capacity for other things or is it lack of opportunities that you are seeing in the market? No I think it's got -- it's and Howard and I that (Inaudible) was so in the -- I think we've always looked at our plan as being what our next selling position was.
And I think when we were looking at the last quarter we outlined kind of $100 million of net sales.
What really happened was more of the disposition side as Tom alluded to we are starting to seeing more activity so we thought we had a window to increase our disposition targets.
From an acquisition standpoint look there will certainly be a number of things we'll look at during the course of the year but our primary focus remains the portfolio recycling as well as continued balance sheet improvement.
Josh I don't think there is any change in underlying numbers or assumptions.
Previously in October we had $100 million of net dispositions which we structured as a $175 million of sales and $75 million of acquisitions.
There was no impact even away from that combined assumption in the model so it was a truly 100 net and in developing the assumptions for the balance of the year we felt [it was] cleaner to eliminate that grossing up factor.
So we are going to go from this point forward with $121 million that's pending and a pure $100 million net.
I think as Jerry said in his comments if it turns out that there are acquisitions they in all likelihood be match funded with additional sales activity to maintain from this point forward that incremental 100 net on top of the 121 already executed.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel.
Jerry your land summary and strategy is by far the best disclosure in the industry so congratulations.
Couple of things first kind of walkthrough the balance sheet strategy what you are doing Howard is you are paying $20 million in hard dollars to tender for $150 million of bonds that's about $0.14 a share which I am assuming doesn't get accounted for in your CAD number.
And the net net is about $0.03 a share in decreased interest expense and $0.03 a share in increased FFO.
Is sort of a five-year payback appropriate for that sort of transaction? John good question good observations.
When we look at the decision in December to do that early on secured financing payoff some of the debt accelerate cost take some hard cost.
It really was an assessment of what we might be doing in the future and where rates might be because under certain constructs we could have waited until as late as the end of 2014 or early 2015 tax really undertake a financing given our other resources.
But we looked at the amount of financing we need to do from 2014 on we felt that prudent to begin to pull some of that forward lock in these low rates.
And this is a decision that we'll only know in hindsight if it economically made sense by where rates would have been had we waited until those later dates.
With the jump in treasuries right out of the box in January we certainly feel good about what we did and be there as it may it really reflects more risk mitigation that a pure economic decision and the view of the Company is wherever possible to take risk off the table be that maintaining an overly fixed rate posture or in this case lengthening maturities by about half a year on average.
So don't only look to the economics we think they will play out in the end there is certainly a component of risk management at play here as well.
Great and as a follow-up question George if you think about the sort of generic Fairfax County or Montgomery County 1980s product of which there is hundreds of millions of (inaudible) in the markets combined.
What's the going rate right now for that kind of product in terms of gross rents net rent PI package what it takes to fill up that space in this [10-H]? Yeah I think that product you are probably looking kind of low to mid 20s full service with an $8 operating expense and somewhere in that $3 to $4 per lease year on capital.
Thank you very much.
Thank you John.
Your next question comes from the line of Evan Smith of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Hi guys just hoping Howard you could give a little bit more detail on the lease terminations the assumptions that are in the other income that you detailed if there is anything that's lumpy in there big move outs that are expected through the rest of the year? There are some known move outs some of them will generate fees some will not.
We generally have approached that component along with others and creating a bucket.
There are number of items that are somewhat out of our control namely other income items where there are various fees paid and termination revenue.
So we lump that together with JV activity management income and we create a range of $20 million to $25 million gross and that's been a very good approach for us the past couple of years.
We haven't had certainty around any of the single numbers but the group of five or six relatively smaller categories tends to come in that range.
So I would recommend you to treat those as a bucket as we do and that way we don't get tied down to a single number on a single component which ultimately can be pretty small.
Okay and then over to the 1 900 market redevelopment plans if you could just give some details on how far below markets those rents are today.
Then also I believe there is some vacant retail space and is there any kind of near-term lease up plans and kind of near-term value add before the 2015 redevelopment gets wrapped up? Great question.
I think when we bought the property we really under wrote it with no real additional leasing activity until 2015.
And I think the known move out in the market and the major tenant in that building which is a law firm really created an opportunity for us to buy at a very good price purely given the fact we're a cash buyer in a building like that is very difficult to finance.
So we are able to buy it for around $75 a square foot.
The redevelopment plan we are working on.
We anticipate rolling it out in the next quarter to the marketplace.
It will encompass a high level of interior renovations to the lobby H room exterior for side improvements a reconfiguration of the existing lobby areas on both the east side and the west side of the building.
Renovation of the mechanical systems laboratories laboratory upgrades as well as a number of other both structural and static improvements that we think have the chance to move this building from kind of rental rate levels in the low 20s to the very high 20s and create a very good free and clear return to us when it goes to the redevelopment process.
We certainly at this point are not really leasing actively any of the space subject to the finalization of renovation plan and we would expect that to continue for the foreseeable future until we rollout the plan and then we'll react to what market conditions presents.
Great thank you.
Welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott from Green Street Advisors.
Hey good morning guys.
Jerry can you give us an update on your view of the sequestration impact on your holdings in DC and then may be George can you just update us on your defense contractor exposure in DC region? Sure Michael happy to and look I was at (inaudible) we were just down there last week having a number of conversations on the impact to sequestration.
I think the take away points that I have was a much [rent one] really exactly knows.
Some folks projected to be in Armageddon if it happens other folks that it won't really be that meaningful at all.
So our view on it is is we're very defensive on it in terms of making sure that we stay in very close touch with our tenants to make sure that we understand what they are thinking and how they are thinking impacts their space plan requirements.
But overall you know certainly it's hard to anticipate it being anything less than negative the question is how negative it will be.
That was actually one of the reasons why starting Q3 last year our D.C.
teams really ratchet up our efforts to pre-lease as much of our square footage as possible just because there is this big unknown.
That was fairly successful from the stand we really move up our pre-leasing percentage near to 86% and we have a good pipeline of deals right now.
And frankly Michael the name of the game is to get as many of those across the finish line as soon as we can.
Now in full while some of those prospects we're talking to will be in a holding pattern should happens on March 1 which George made in same planning to some of the tenants.
Yeah I think terms of our largest clearly it's Lockheed Martin in our Maryland portfolio.
As we announced previously they did extend the 137 000 square feet from '13 into '14 and they are still kind of going through their thought process on what they ultimately do with that space long term.
They will be given us back 78 000 square feet in Maryland as we had previously discussed on May 31.
We have executed a 5-year renewal of Lockheed Martin on 158 000 square feet in King of Prussia Pennsylvania.
So that takes really what was our second largest open renewal off the table.
We have got a 46 000 square foot lease over in Mount Laurel New Jersey with Lockheed that were currently in the negotiations with.
I think we have signed 330 000 square foot leases in the last 45 days down in Northern Virginia with government contracting companies.
I think we started to see a little bit of the smaller kind of contractors who have what they feel to be a secure contract or executing deals those deals were 7 10 and 12 years respectively.
I think the larger ones the Lockheeds Northrop Grummans of the world are going to continue to analyze existing lease obligations and owned facility and most likely continue to require some flexibility in terms of early termination rights.
Okay.
And then Jerry on the student housing development I certainly can appreciate the intention to deploy your land bank but how do you guys think about how you can build student housing products since you have never done it before do you secure to say you get comfortable with that and then also did you say that yield is going to be 8? We expect the return going in on the -- as the price leasing up to be about 7% and first stabilize here to be approximately 8% correct.
I think to the broader question Mike I think the core of your observation is exactly why we structure the transaction as we did.
And I think that's why it was a benefit to Campus Crest as well.
It was extensive research done by Campus Crest relative to depth of demand for both graduate and undergraduate students housing options in University City section of Philadelphia as well as well as throughout the Philadelphia marketplace.
And there is clearly a very strong demand for that type of product.
I think Brandywine's role in the venture in addition to be a 30% equity partner again which about half of that equity contribution was our land value is handling the vertical development which we know very well.
We know the general contracting market the trademark the approval process in Philadelphia and us building that type of super structure something we have done in the past have a very solid team it will execute that flawlessly.
And then our partner Campus Crest was really very much involved in the design of the product make sure it fit the demand that they know because we anticipated for University City students and then they will pick up on the fixturing of the building and clearly be the driver on the marketing and management side of the business.
So I think as we assess the market demand the NOI characteristics the absorption space I think blending and the skills sets with us on the construction side as for the relationships side was a very nice complement to the talent that Campus Crest can bring to the table in terms of making the project a financial and operational success.
Just real quick are there any promotes to anyone and then do you expect to be in this long term or do you expect to sell your stake once it's monetized or? There is a co-promote structure for both Campus Crest and Brandywine which is powered pursuit based upon delivering certain returns given that we have a 40% partner it is an investors post from operating with Harrison Street.
The expectation we have here Michael is honestly the same as we have with the other venture we have on a residential site.
This is not part of our long-term core business.
This is an opportunity for us to make money on the land we have and move that into a development platform sooner rather later use that as well as what value we bring to the table through the development process to create value and then we will see what happens.
Both of these partnerships have buy-sell provisions and remains to be seen what happens to those once the projects reach stabilization.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of George Auerbach with ISI Group.
Great thanks.
Good morning.
Jerry or George you have a pretty successful quarter in terms of your spec revenue targets.
I guess the question is when you sort of laid out these targets at the start of the year and now that you are 71% complete in D.C.
and I guess 66% complete overall.
How much of those the way done so far was kind of layup as opposed to more competitive deals [were kind of could get] on either way and how much of the remaining 30% or so of those targets is do you think it's sort of pretty competitive and cut up in the year? Yeah look it's a great question.
And I guess the way we look at it to continue the layup [announced] I mean there are probably some layups (Inaudible) three point shots.
So it worked out pretty well to our benefit but look there's no question when you take a look at the cycle how production is in our business that the ones that are the higher probability are the once that you generally execute sooner which is why we are always very focused on kind of that forward leasing pipeline.
And I think when we assess the 66% done this year particularly it's some of the submarket analysis George touched on relative to the year-over-year significant outperformance at this stage of the year in Washington New Jersey and in Richmond.
We feel very good about those targets.
But as we start to think to our financial plan we also very much grilled down and take a look at the traffic through those spaces the number of specific prospects identify for each leasing assumption and George may be you can share what some of those stats look like.
Yeah I think George when you look at 66% achieved on the revenue but much of the how many layups are left on kind of the new leasing we've got 33% of the new leasing square footage done.
So really I mean I think the message to the regional leasing teams is to make every deal and we've got that 2.7 million square foot pipeline 600 000 plus in active lease negotiations like so I guess kind of sticking with our basketball analogy maybe those of layups but we've got some work to continue to do.
But when I look at D.C.
we've got 277 000 square feet of remaining open to new leasing.
We've got 27 000 square feet of that in negotiation 122 000 square foot of that with an active proposal in hand and we've got a 146 000 square feet of prospects who are kind of still in the touring and [Technical Difficulty] type numbers in Richmond where we've got 216 000 of open assumptions 137 000 square feet with proposals on a 115 000 in inspection.
So good levels of pipeline continued good levels of traffics are really I think if we can continue to do our job of converting inspections into proposals converting 40% of those proposals into signed leases that we achieved this business plan and that having gone through the regional meetings just in the past two weeks.
We feel very good about where we are.
We've recognized those works still to be done but we feel confident in our teams ability to get it done.
That's really helpful thanks.
And I guess just as a follow-up you guys have done a nice job on the capital costs in the leasing little bit of $2.50 foot per year the last couple of years.
I guess one have you been surprised with those costs haven't picked up a little bit given the leasing environment? And two do you think that kind of $2.60 a foot per year is a good number going forward? I think certainly as we look to the financial plan due to all of the leasing information coming up from the field I mean a key part of that when our team the regional and corporate team review our leasing pipeline we are focused on rates are concession package and capital costs as a percentage of revenue.
So every single deal will review and issue a proposal and we know where that capital projection would be.
So I think we feel pretty comfortable staying in that 10% to 15% of revenue range for capital costs.
One of the things that we're frankly hoping to see over the next couple years is that as our portfolio come back gets up to that 92% leased and occupied level over the next few years we are going to wind up having a higher preponderance of renewal deal versus new leased transactions and it tends to be the new leased transactions that create the higher level of capital costs.
So I think for right now we are pleased with what we saw in 2012 certainly like having a 70% to 80% payout ratio versus where we were in 2011 and we are surely forecasting as Howard outlined something in that range again for 2013.
So we do expect those capital costs to stay -- moderate to stay in that range and that's certainly what the pipeline he's indicated at this point.
George it's Howard.
One other item to add is I think one of the things that changes the posture going forward is the relatively lower level of leased rollover we're facing for the balance of this year and going into next couple of years.
Whereas historically we've been facing 3 million to 3.5 million square feet a year.
Almost at any point in time we are looking at sub 2 million square foot levels generally for the next couple of years and that's going to mean that as the production continues more of it's going to -- go to creating occupancy than backfilling space we lose.
Double by the fact as Jerry said as it gets more occupied retention naturally goes up anyway.
So the two very strong support features lower rollover increasing occupancy leading to higher retention then hopefully we'll accelerate the recovery to the low to mid 90% level.
Great thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
I wanted to just go over the Cira South development.
They know this is an exciting opportunity for you guys to the joint venture.
Can you may be just discuss sort of the competitive set and how you thought of it given American campuses just not square development of I think 865 beds a couple blocks away at what seems to be a significantly lower basis and how you think those will compete? Sure happy to.
The couple of key distinctions one is the project that we are involved in is a much different type of project it's the ACC project is certainly very well executed and it's geared exclusively to -- direct to undergraduates different type of unit design different type of unit different amenity package.
Our project where we saw the real window of opportunity was particularly on the graduate side I mean you basically have between the two primary universities and that section C about 50 000 students of which about 17 000 are graduate students.
There is a pressing need in University City for graduate student housing.
What we did in the design thought process on this project is really geared the project to both graduate students and in upscale option for undergraduate students.
This project will have bed-bath parity so for every single bedroom there is a bathroom.
We have a pretty high mix of studios ones and two bedroom units that are geared primarily to again students looking for higher level of privacy and quality.
There is a complete amenity packaging here with the full service fitness center of rooftop pool.
It really is probably a mix used component of bottom with the retail and conferencing and studying facilities.
So the price point that we are targeting here and the market we are targeting is different than some of the other options in the University City.
We are certainly very closed to with universities in university with some other schools outside of the University City to assess the overall market demand.
So I think the market is-- I mean basically you don't take that you think sucking up 1 800 units or 1 700 units in August 14 won't be a problem? Well the project at Drexel that ACC is doing is coming online a full year ahead of our project.
The school is requiring new incoming students to live in campus sponsored housing so that will be a pretty good demand driver for the absorption of that space.
But certainly one this can't lose site of the -- it's a depth of student population both full time and part time in that area.
The objective of all the universities in that part of the city is to try and create as much high quality on or near campus student living options and move as many students as they can out of the adjoining neighborhoods.
So I think as we assess the existing student population the location of a lot of the existing graduate students who are living outside of the University City the chance to bring them into University City and the access to transportation and the quality of this product design we think we will be in very good shape.
Okay.
And you said 7 going to an 8 is it expected to be a step in upon completion and sort of the first semester if you will in sort of the last quarter of the year and going into an 8 in the full year '15 or how are you thinking about that typically these things open when they are in construction in our experience or the majority of them open pretty well leased? Yeah look the expectation on this and again the opening is targeted for September '14 that 7% number is going to be kind of operative for '14 and '15 and we expect to fully stabilize rate of return to come in 2016.
With the difference being an increase in rents? The increase in rents but also an increase in offsetting we're fairly concerned how we expect price that to market.
Okay thank you.
You're welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Mitch Germain with JMP.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Jerry maybe just some more details on Princeton was that fully marketed how many bidders and if you can share with us please? Sure happy to.
It was a fully marketed project undertaking.
We received some pretty good interest.
Certainly it wasn't some of the bid list debt that Tom had referred to that you see sometimes in Washington D.C.
but there were a number of bidders I'd say there was a half a dozen or so of really qualified bidders who were looking for some of those characteristics for two early terms of yield then and price per square foot.
We hone those those half a dozen or so real quality bidders down to two to create a pretty tight auction that gave the buyers -- both potential buyers chance to line up their financing sources when you would have bow-tie deal we signed the agreement and that's exactly what happened.
I think the pricing Mitch we achieved there was very much in line with what we had anticipated.
So we are very pleased with the execution.
And then I think George referenced 990 000 of lease signings in the quarter.
I think A Jerry maybe you can just share with us the decision not to send it out in press release ahead a time and then B how much of that is for 2013 versus beyond? Well George I will pick up the detail on the '13 and beyond.
I think on the press release front we did -- we had followed a practice of issuing a quarterly press release and we thought that was very important in terms of signaling what they were making very good progress on each of our quarterly leasing targets.
I think that what we learned through that process as mentioned that it was a big confusing to a number of people who read it well in terms of the characterization of some of the leasing activity.
So this quarter we did not do it and don't anticipate doing it going forward and we really use these earnings calls as a chance to kind of bring folks up to speed on our quarterly leasing activity.
Yeah Mitch as far as the breakdown the total was 993 a 130 000 square feet of that was signed and commenced in the fourth quarter of 2012; 614 000 square feet of that will commence in '13 and 249 000 square feet of that will commence beyond 2013.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
Hey guys.
So first question this one I thought heard about CapEx you're mentioning this a little bit earlier but the numbers move down a little bit which is good.
It looks like you've got about $40 million of I guess on a is revenue enhancing CapEx related to leasing.
And as we think about occupancy moving up roughly 200 basis points in the quarter I mean in a year and that I think you're likely to do is similar amount in the next couple of years to get your stabilize level.
Is that a level of CapEx revenue enhancing CapEx that we should assume over the next three years? Look I think the expectation even as we saw just sequentially in the two quarters that's going down it's going down for a variety of reasons one of which is a lot of our leasing activity the additional retention kind of pulls space forward that plays into a lower rollover theme.
And as that future hill get smaller occupancy climbs there is going to be less what I'll call primary brand new leasing where we might have to do sealing work and more significant work in the space a greater amount of retention.
We are in many cases the existing improvements are used as this or minimally cleaned up that leads to lower capital.
And lastly and probably most importantly as occupancy increases the negotiating dynamics shifts more to the landlord than to the tenant where it's been the last three or five years.
So that's going to -- that probably more than anything else will change the dynamic of how leases are done.
We'll get more term.
We will be able to spread the cost.
The dollars per square foot per year will go down and that's probably ultimately the more important metric in the absolute dollars and we don't mind spending a large amount of dollars if we get the right lease structure credit and duration in the lease.
So there is a definite interplay between all of those which is why and we talk about the overall dollars for a capital plan but it's much more important in terms of performance the percentage metrics that George talked about and the dollars per square foot per year that's where you are going to see the improvement.
Okay.
And is any of that I think is around $14 million of revenue enhancing CapEx.
I guess is that all is any of that related to development or redevelopment or that's all in that separate bucket? Well I think the $40 million number you are talking about I said it was $48 million on the call and that's a verity of project and specific transactions related costs.
And for example the [$5.9 million] we disclosed that we funded into the Thomas joint venture that already is part of that amount finishing up to 660 West Germantown project that's in that bucket.
Dollars will meet to probably advance in the Grove joint venture with Campus crest.
We've already funded some by contributing lands so no real dollars but certainly a contribution that's in there.
So that encompasses more known projects.
The general CapEx allow us revenue creating is related to the overall leasing activity not the completion of project.
So we make that distinction for discussion purposes.
Yeah right.
I think there is sort of $240 million because it was $90 million total budget $48 million was kind of development and redevelopment and then the remainder will be I guess I said $40 million but it's $42 million in that and so.
Okay my second question was for Tom the dealing of then I know it's relatively small but $230 $235 a square foot for storey filled up seems like it's a little high relative to replacement costs.
And I would imagine that rents for that product and in that location which is a few miles further southwest of where further out in Austin where your existing stuff probably garners a lower rent levels than your existing products.
So can you just talk about the play there and what it means for Austin longer term? Sure.
Looking at that property one it's a good quality product very well located near the AMG Campus and some other technology companies.
The cost per foot I mean we've looked at and we've been doing some pricing of developments in that area and in the southwest.
And when you look at the southwest that's higher barrier to entry market.
So we are looking when you look at about 35 per foot for land down there for that type of a site we're a little north of 250 a foot.
So while it's not tremendously below replacement cost it is below what we're seeing and on real pricing that we're seeing down there now.
Separately on the rent we'd agree that rents down there are slightly below but we're going in on this rent at just about 16.50.
So we're below what we even say the discounted rents would be in that part of the southwest.
We have a good steady tenant that has their corporate headquarter.
So in addition their fit out is quite a bit higher and the infrastructure they put into the space is quite a bit better than your standards.
So for all those reasons we thought it was a good opportunity to buy and with a good long-term credit tenant.
And so at 16.50 what do you think market rents are for that product? I think they're probably upper teens it's more like 19 in that market.
Okay.
And I think the AMD Campus is I'm not sure if it's under contract I think it's on market is that something that is or was of interested Brandywine? We took a look at it just to see it but it really was an adventurous it is a great campus but it is a campus where we already think they're going to be putting some of that space subleased difficult to multitenant beautiful campus has a great set of properties.
Okay thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
Gentlemen do you have any closing remarks? The only closing remark is a thank everyone for their participation and we look forward to updating you our business plan activities on our next quarterly call.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect at this time.
Good morning.
My name is Felicia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jerry Sweeney President and CEO.
Mr.
Sweeney please begin.
Felicia thank you very much.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for participating in our first quarter earnings call.
On today’s call with me are George Johnstone our Senior Vice President of Operations; Gabe Mainardi our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Howard Sipzner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President of Portfolio Management and Investments.
Prior to beginning I would like to remind everyone that certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Although we believe the estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
So to start off our prepared comments as is our normal practice I will provide an overview on three key business plan components; of operations balance sheet and investments as well as provide some color on recent transactional activity.
George and Howard will then discuss our operating and financial results and certainly Gabe and Tom are here to answer any questions on their areas.
We have had a very active and productive first quarter.
Operational performance was strong and the 2013 plan is on target.
Our recent equity offering strengthened our balance sheet and created financial capacity and our investment objectives are also very much on track.
Macroeconomic concerns remained at the forefront of tenant decision-making processes but during the quarter we continue to benefit from an ongoing flight-to-quality landlords and product.
In looking at specific operating performance benchmarks we had a strong leasing quarter activity through the portfolio average 268 000 square feet per week.
And our overall pipeline that is traffic that has resulted in us issuing a proposal stands at 2.9 million square feet up slightly from our February call.
Positive pricing dynamics dominates several of our key markets with continued strong performance in Philadelphia’s CBD and University City the Crescent markets of the Pennsylvania suburbs in Austin Texas.
Just as importantly we saw higher levels of activity to our Richmond Virginia New Jersey and Metro DC portfolios and George will provide additional color on that traffic.
Our mark-to-market rental rate spreads were very strong and we had our best performance since 2007.
During the quarter we experienced an 11% increase on our renewal rental rates a 5.7% increase on new lease expansion rental rates both of those on a GAAP basis.
And on a cash basis we had a 3.4% combined growth rate.
Capital costs remained moderate.
We averaged $2.21 per square foot per lease year for the first quarter very much in line with our business plans with a resultant CAD payout ratio of 65.2% our strongest in the past 11 quarters.
We also had positive same-store growth rate on a GAAP basis of 3.4% and 6.3% on a cash basis continuing to build on the leasing progress from prior quarters.
Looking ahead for 2013 we had 1.5 million square feet program to renew.
We are already 80% executed on that renewal square footage and 93% on the spec revenue target associated with renewals.
Looking further ahead to 2014 and ‘15 we have continued to reduce our remaining lease expirations where we now are at 1.9 million square feet or only a 5% role in 2014 and 2.5 million square feet or an 8.5% roll in 2015.
We have lease proposal there for much of this remaining roll over and continue to make significant progress.
The only cloud on our strong operational performance was the anticipated impact of the Intel move out in Austin.
As a result of that move out our retention rate during the quarter was 52.7% with negative absorption of about 120 000 square feet.
As we previously discussed we have already released about 90% of Intel’s vacancy with occupancy scheduled for the next several quarters.
We remain confident we will be 90% occupied and 92% leased by yearend 13.
And as noted in the press release we are currently 87.6% and 90.8% pre-leased and over 300 basis points positive leasing spread reflecting strong leasing momentum.
In looking our balance sheet subsequent to quarter end we took advantage of favorable market conditions and raised approximately $182 million of net proceeds through the offering of 12.65 million shares.
This unplanned equity issuance accelerated our deleveraging program improved our credit metrics and provided greater liquidity and financial flexibility.
As a result of this offering we are currently carrying cash balances of approximately $200 million those cash balances are currently invested in depository accounts with numerous banks and our current financial plan with Howard will elaborate on contemplates maintaining these cash balances and does not reflect the impact of any accelerated debt pay downs or liability management efforts.
We will of course continue to evaluate all of our options.
From a broader standpoint reducing leverage levels below 40% and achieving a 6.5 times EBITDA by year end 2014 is a core objective.
On a pro forma basis this recent equity offering contributed greatly to that goal achievement reducing our net debt to gross assets to approximately 40.7% and our net debt to EBITDA to 6.7 times.
Longer term the goal is to continue to run the company to mid-30s leverage and an EBITDA multiple below six times.
We are also very much on track with that objective.
Continued occupancy gains and a corresponding net operating income growth combined with our investment program will put us in a great position to achieve these targets.
So from a liquidity standpoint the company has significant financial capacity and tremendous flexibility.
Our next maturity is not until November of 2014 so to wrap up the balance sheet discussion our balance sheet progress continued and our objectives remain very much on track.
On the investment side like the balance sheet and the operating components of our business plan the investment program is progressing on schedule.
First quarter activity through the previously announced Princeton Pike sale and the sale of our joint venture interest in two Wilmington properties created an achievement of $139 million of sales or 63% of our $221 million disposition target.
We also had a number of other small investment activities were outlined in our press release including the final installment of our investment into Thomas Property joint venture at Commerce Square and the continued investment in our redevelopment project at the West Germantown Pike.
We have also commenced development of an 18 000 square foot amenity based retail center as part of our Radnor Corporate Center Complex.
That objective is to provide additional services and restaurant options to the existing tenant base.
That development is projected to cost $7.5 million and we will deliver it by year end 2013.
It’s currently two-thirds pre-leased.
We expect stabilization in the third quarter of 2014 at an 11% return on cost.
As we discussed on previous calls we are also proceeding with our Plymouth Meeting multi-family 50-50 joint venture with Toll Brothers.
We expect to commence construction of that 398 unit complex later in the second quarter with the completion target for the fourth quarter of 2015.
The Grove with Cira South our joint venture with Campus Crest Communities and Harrison Street Real Estate Capital is under construction.
That is a 33 storey 850 bed housing project in the University City submarket of Philadelphia completion is targeted for that project in the third quarter of 2014.
And also as identified on page 32 of our supplemental package several other elements of our land management program are progressing on track with the objective of achieving our overall land monetization goals.
Accelerating growth through an active investment strategy also remains a core objective.
Our focus remains on increasing our urban and town center concentrations the sale of Princeton Pike evidenced that shift as it had been widely reported more capital sources are aggressively focused on our office space.
That appetite is clearly being driven by emerging visibility on the economy a favorable rate environment and relative yield comparisons.
Our business plan contemplates an additional $82 million of sales occurring in the second half of this year at a cap rate of 8% to achieve our $221 million target.
As is our practice we have a number of projects on the market on a price discovery basis.
These projects are in Pennsylvania New Jersey California and Texas.
We are currently in the price discovery process on our wholly owned portfolio in Austin as has been reported in recent press publications.
We like Austin.
We have been successful there and have a very strong operating platform.
We also believe the market is right for accelerated ownership consolidation.
So one of the avenues we are pursuing is forming a co-investment growth vehicle that will enable us to both harvest current value and provide additional capital to expand our market platform.
Since initiating this effort several weeks ago we have received very strong institutional interest.
We anticipate completing this marketing process over the next 60 days and obtaining more visibility on both pricing and structure.
While our 2013 financial plan does not incorporate any acquisitions we are continuing to source numerous potential acquisition opportunities.
We currently have several transactions in the near term queue.
For investment activity and Tom can provide additional color in the Q&amp;A.
We have seen an increased number of properties coming on the market in several of our core markets during the last quarter.
So in summary the first quarter was very strong all of our first quarter business goals and objectives have been met and the plan for the balance of the year is absolutely on schedule.
We continue to be encouraged by the high level leasing activity we are seeing through all of our submarkets through our portfolio on balance.
And at this point George will provide an overview of our first quarter operational performance and he will then turn over to Howard for a review of our financial activity.
George? Operations</strong> Thank you Jerry.
From an overall standpoint we continue to see recovery occurring in our markets.
All of our markets experienced higher levels of year-over-year leasing activity and absorption for the quarter was up in all markets with the exception of Northern Virginia.
We are outperforming market vacancy in all of the Northern Virginia where trailed the market by 100 basis points but even there we have closed that gap by 1100 basis points since this time last year.
Turning to our portfolio specifically we continue to see good levels of leasing activity from space inspections to pipeline to lease executions.
In terms of lease executions during the quarter we signed 860 000 square feet of leases including 350 000 square feet of new and expansion leases and 510 000 square feet of renewals.
Tenant decision making remains relatively unchanged as leases executed in the first quarter averaged 96 days from initial inquiry to lease execution as compared to 94 days in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 98 days in the third quarter of 2012.
Lease commencements totaled 692 000 square feet including 262 000 square feet of new leases 373 000 square feet of renewal leases and 570 000 square feet of tenant expansions.
During the quarter we also had 322 000 square feet of tenants move out upon expiration and 122 000 square feet of early terminations.
Most notably our percentage leased has increased 50 basis points from year end to 90.8%.
We have 729 000 square feet of executed leases on space that was vacant at quarter end.
We are encouraged by the lease levels we have achieved in Richmond at 90.3% New Jersey Delaware at 88.3% and Metro DC at 85.5%.
We have maintained all of our original business plan operating metrics and remain confident in our ability to execute.
We have achieved $37.4 million or 85% of our $43.9 million spec revenue target.
This compares to 66% achieved last quarter and 80% achieved this time last year.
Of note we are 85% achieved in Metro DC versus 61% a year ago.
And Richmond is 69% achieved versus 57% this time last year.
Occupancy will increase to 90% by year end 2013 from 1.5 million square feet of renewal leases 1.9 million square feet of new and expansion leases offset by 324 000 square feet of known and anticipated early terminations.
A new occupancy roll forward table has been added to page 29 of our supplemental package.
We have already executed 1.2 million square feet of our 2013 renewals.
Of the remaining 306 000 square feet of renewals in the plan the single largest lease is 24 000 square feet.
Finally a few comments on some of our markets.
We remain pleased with the level of activity in our Met DC region.
Our regional traffic was up quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.
The regional pipeline totaled 615 000 square feet including a 145 000 square feet in active lease negotiations.
This pipeline includes three prospects in excess of 50 000 square feet.
During the first quarter our Met DC operation posted positive absorption of 31 000 square feet.
Leasing spreads were 7.2% on a GAAP basis and negative 4.6% on a cash basis.
Leasing capital was $3.03 per square foot per year or 9.8% of rents in line with our anticipated range for the Met DC region and improved from 2012 levels.
Now shifting to Richmond activity levels have increased significantly during the quarter.
We had 57 tours inspect 420 000 square feet.
The regional pipeline totals 347 000 square feet and includes four prospects over 25 000 square feet.
Successful conversion of this pipeline will also help solve the known 85 000 square foot move out of travelers in January of 2014.
To conclude we are pleased with the level of achievement to-date on the business plan and remain encouraged by the level of activity in our various markets the quality of our inventory and the ability of our regional teams to execute.
At this point I will turn it over to Howard for the financial review.
Thank you George and thank you Jerry.
For the first quarter of 2013 core FFO totaled $51.7 million or $0.35 per diluted share.
And we beat the $0.34 analyst consensus by $0.01.
Our FFO payout ratio is 42.9% on the $0.15 distribution we paid in January 2013.
Core FFO provides a better sense of our FFO run-rate by eliminating transactional and capital market activities as noted in our supplemental package on page 14.
Notably for the first quarter of 2013 core FFO is essentially the same as NAREIT FFO.
I would like to make a couple of additional observations regarding our first quarter results.
Our first quarter FFO is very high quality with termination revenue other income management fees interest income and aggregate JV activity totaling just $6.3 million gross or $4.9 million net after associated expenses in line with our 2013 expectation for these categories.
Our first quarter NOI and EBITDA margins at 60.2% and 64.2% respectively remain at or near their highest levels for these metrics all the way back to early 2009.
Same-store NOI growth rates for the first quarter were 3.4% on a GAAP basis and 6.3% on a cash basis both excluding termination fees and other income items.
We have now had seven consecutive positive quarters for the GAAP metric and four for the cash metric and are maintaining our 2013 targets for same-store NOI growth at 3% to 5% GAAP and 4% to 6% cash.
First quarter interest expense of $30.9 million was down $2.3 million versus the fourth quarter and down $3.2 million versus the first quarter a year ago both reflecting the impact of our late fourth quarter 2012 capital market and liability management activities.
And with $13.3 million of revenue maintaining or recurring capital expenditures in the first quarter we achieved a very strong $0.23 of cash available for distribution or CAD per diluted share and a 65.2% associated payout ratio.
With respect to balance sheet and financial metrics I would like to emphasize the following points our debt to GAV of 44.1%; our debt to total market capitalization of 50.7%; and our 7.2 times debt to EBITDA ratios all improved sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2012.
And as Jerry noted pro forma for the net proceeds from the April equity offering these improve even further to 40.7% for GAV 46.7% for total market capitalization and 6.7 times for debt to EBITDA.
We have just $100 million of floating rate debt no outstanding balance on our $600 million unsecured revolving line of credit over $200 million of cash reflecting the closing and the net proceeds of the April equity offering and no maturities until November 2014.
In fact this maturity is effectively covered by our current and projected cash balances.
Now turning to 2013 FFO guidance we are revising our 2013 FFO per share guidance from $1.41 to $1.48 range now to be at a range of a $1.35 to $1.42.
As the equity offering is effectively $0.08 dilutive for 2013 the revised guidance actually represents a $0.02 increase at the comparable midpoint due to continued execution of our 2013 business plan.
Excluding the historic tax credit income of approximately $0.08 per share that we will recognize in third quarter of this year our quarterly FFO for the remainder of 2013 should now be in the range of $0.31 to $0.33 per diluted share in each of the quarters.
In addition to the assumptions detailed on pages 29 to 30 of our supplemental package please note the following.
Gross other income in our plan remains unchanged at $20 million to $25 million or $14 million to $19 million net for a basket of other items such as termination revenues other income management revenues lets associated management expenses if net interest income JV income the preferred return on our Commerce Square investment and less the 31 41 Fairview financing obligation expense.
Our 2013 G&amp;A assumption also remains unchanged at $24 million to $25 million.
We are now showing interest expense dropping in 2013 due to various capital market activities as outlined.
And it should remain in the range of $122 million to $125 million for the full year.
We expect the preferred distributions on our Series E shares to be $6.9 million as we have now eliminated all the other prior preferred share series.
Besides the completed Princeton Pike sale at a $121 million and our $17.4 million share of the One/Three Christina has completed $87 million sale.
We project additional sales of about $83 million or $221 million total with the remaining sales at an average cap rate of about 8% and to be somewhat back ended resulting in about $1.5 million to $2 million impact or loss of NOI throughout the balance of 2013.
Tom can talk more about the sales and transaction market in his comments.
As I mentioned the historic tax credit income of $11.9 million or approximately $0.08 per share will be recognized in the third quarter of 2013.
And it’s generally offset by about $0.01 per share of incremental interest expense that occurs throughout 2013.
The historic tax credit revenue is essentially non-cash is excluded from our CAD calculations it represents the third occurrence of each 20% slice of the net proceeds realized in connection with the 2008 historic tax credit financing on the post office project and is recognized in the third quarter of each year from 2011 through 2015.
And lastly we expect no issuance under our continuous equity program and we are currently assuming no additional note buyback or capital market activities.
We are now modeling $155.8 million weighted average shares for FFO calculations in 2013 versus our prior assumption of 146.7 million shares.
Our FFO payout ratio is projected at 43.3% representing a $0.60 distribution on the midpoint of our new $1.35 to $1.42 range.
We are projecting CAD to be in the range of $0.71 to $0.79 per diluted share versus the prior assumption of $0.79 to $0.87 reflecting now $45 million to $55 million of additional revenue maintaining CapEx.
Our plan provides between $17 million and $30 million of free cash flow after dividends and recurring capital expenditures and the adjustment in CAD reflects the additional shares from our equity issuance.
Our 2013 capital plan is very clean with total 2013 remaining uses of $243 million.
We see $8 million from mortgage amortization.
We are programming a total of $156 million of investment activity incorporating $50 million of revenue maintaining CapEx at the midpoint of our range $66 million of remaining revenue creating CapEx and this category includes lease up of previously vacant space and new project lease up such as completing the Three Logan Square project plus $40 million for a variety of other capital projects such as completing the West Germantown project and of course the Campus Crest and Harrison Street joint venture investments.
We already spent $2 million earlier in April for a small 2015 note buyback.
And lastly we see $77 million of aggregate dividends consisting of $72 million of common share distributions and $5 million for preferred shares.
The April distributions have of course already funded.
On the source side we actually have $381 million of sources or $138 million more than we need and these are $182 million already realized from the April equity issuance $117 million of cash flow before financings investments and dividends and after interest payments.
$82 million of additional sales proceeds reflecting our $221 million target and the sales completed to-date.
$138 million of cash surplus will augment our $48 million cash balance at March 31 2013 so that we now expect to end 2013 with a project cash balance of $186 million assuming no liability management at this time.
And lastly for accounts receivable activity in the first quarter everything is on a regular and predictable basis with no major changes in any of our assumptions.
And with that I will turn it back to Jerry for some additional comments.
Thank you Howard.
That really wraps up our prepared comments.
Look as we view we are very pleased with first quarter results.
We certainly have more work to do for the balance of the year and certainly are planning ahead for 2014 and ‘15.
But we believe that the success we’ve had in the past will continue as we look at our business plan execution for the balance of 2013 and as George and Howard touched on to may committed to meeting all of our operational goals as well as our balance sheet management and investment as well as this continued shift to urban and town center markets.
With that we would be delighted to open up the floor for questions.
As we always do we ask that in the interest of the time you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Felicia? (Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo Advisors.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So Jerry and Tom the assets on market Pennsylvania New Jersey California Texas can you give us a sense in sort of like broad dollars roughly how much that is.
And then can you break it out between assets that you think are in just sort of broad dollar terms non-strategic non-long-term holds versus assets that I think as you are sort of indicating with Austin that you want to maintain from a longer term presence via JV but maybe just pricing now is compelling if that’s what you are bringing it to market? Brendan it’s Jerry good morning.
The Austin portfolio is the bulk of what we have in the market in terms of dollars.
And there have published reports on that in a range from the high $200 million to low $300 million range.
So we will see how that process plays its way through.
And the rest of the assets are small portfolios two or three building complexes single building complexes in both Pennsylvania Georgia and Delaware.
And the total aggregate value of those is probably about $100 million to $125 million.
But one of the things that we always do we typically put a number of projects in the market either based upon the high level or reverse inquires or a broad based marketing effort to really test and see where optimal pricing comes in based upon what we think the NPV and the IRR of an internal hold is on that asset.
So we are very pleased I think generally with the level of activity we are seeing across the board on our offerings.
As I have mentioned in my comments we are clearly seeing increasing capital flows into the suburban office space from both midsize and large institutions.
I think that’s continuing to increase our level of encouragement on what we are seeing on some of these offerings.
So yeah every quarter we always it’s been more assets into the marketplace.
I would say that of the $100 million and $125 million that we have in Pennsylvania New Jersey and California they are nearly non-core assets and three were looking for straight disposition.
Yeah I mean so do you think that as we have sort of talked in the past about the non-core portion of the portfolio do you think that you accelerate the dispositions of those over the next several quarters because there is more capital interest and if that’s the case you have got a lot of cash you are expecting to end the year with $185 million to $190 million of cash what were the opportunities for reinvestment? Okay Tom and I will talk to it.
Tom I will take the first for me.
Look I think in terms of on the dispositions side we have made the decision of being fairly pragmatic and patient on liquidating what we deem to be non-core holdings.
We have continually touched the market on small to larger size portfolios in terms of testing the market for price acceptance.
I think the great thing we have seen in the last couple of quarters and really accelerated in the first quarter of this year is an increasing number of capital sources coming to the market continued expectation of a benign rate environment with significant reemergence of the CMBS market which is a higher loan to value and effectively priced.
And more importantly we are seeing more visibility on the leasing activity front at an asset level.
So the combination of continued progress on the operating front with those capital flows I think really does present a pretty good opportunity for us to continue to move more of these profits in the market to test where we think things may become – more pricing may come out.
So our goal for this year is pretty well set in the 221 that doesn’t mean that we will not exceed that but we are reluctant to give specific targets beyond that only because to a great degree our ability to achieve a higher sales target is not necessarily a functional of how much we put in the market but what we get back in the terms of acceptable pricing.
But I do think that the convergence of all those factors does create a pretty positive landscape for us to be moving more of these non-core holdings into the market sooner rather than later.
And then Tom maybe you can give some color on where we are seeing some acquisition opportunities.
Sure Brendan as we look at the markets looking at the Philadelphia CVD it’s been a slow but steady market.
There has been several transactions brought to market recently and there has been a couple recently closed at good pricing so we see some opportunities there.
The Philadelphia suburbs have improved.
Office properties have been brought to the market.
We feel the market is still slow but it’s recovering and it’s probably a little better or more buoyant than last year.
As we look at Metro DC that’s one of the areas we do see a little more activity beginning of the year we said it was very slow on our last call and that not much was coming to market.
Since that time there has been an increased number of buildings on the markets and developments have also come to the market.
And inside the beltway is pretty much where we are seeing activity.
And again two recent sales have been announced inside the beltway at some very strong pricing.
So with that we would expect in addition to what we are seeing from the market now we expect to see some more acquisitions come to market as we look out.
We continued to see that pricing well on a sort of a – we look at it on an IRR basis but on the cap rate basis and on an IRR basis pricing is strong.
I think we have seen more conservative outlook on rate growth in the DC area.
So pricing on a relative basis is probably less than where it was last year.
As rent projections have come in we continue to look investments with all states we have targeted some very keen submarkets that we are looking and we are beginning to see some activity pick up there.
Another submarket is Austin we see a lot of activity continue to grow technology oriented companies the demographics are very strong couple of new developments are commencing so there is some potential new office space coming on market but there continues to be very strong rent growth projected out and those continues to be in that absorption in that market.
And as a result we have seen a couple of transactions closed both at the CBD and in the south west totaling over $400 million.
So there is definitely some activity and transactions occurring there.
Richmond with the exception of two downtown properties or opportunities one is the property one is the development.
There is not much on the market there.
We don’t know what will change as the year goes out.
We have looked to be net seller some of our non-core pieces there.
And in Central and South Jersey they remain relatively slow but we have seen some activity picked up in our Delaware joined venture is an example of where we are able to sell to a user and get that transaction done.
And we have sold about $139 million but we do see some opportunities our pipeline of investments has grown both on marketed transactions and off marketed transaction.
Great and thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of George Auerbach with ISI Group.
Great thanks.
Good morning guys.
Jerry how many square footage leasing for the year? Do you think renewals are well ahead of schedule the new leasing sort of spread 50-50 what’s been executed and what’s remaining.
Can you maybe give us some color on which markets should have left in the two be executed newly leasing? Sure George we are leased for about 200 000 square feet of 997 000 square feet anticipated to come out of our Metro DC region.
We got just shy of 100 000 square feet kind of coming out of New Jersey Delaware.
And then really the majority of its still contemplated to come out of both Pennsylvania suburbs and some additional square footage in Philadelphia CBD.
So again I think we feel confident based on the pipeline that even though we are only at kind of 50% mark on square footage but there is still enough pipeline there to convert our conversion rates of consistently kind of been in that 40% range.
And we do think that there is actually maybe some opportunities for some regions to pick up for others if need be.
Great that’s helpful and just a follow-up.
How shall I read this table the targeted revenue for the year is $44 million and the targeted square footage of leasing is 3.5 million that’s about $12 a foot is that sort of increment revenue that you are hoping to pick up per a foot or is that total revenue figure? I mean it’s all based on I mean the square footage is the total square footage though the revenue contribution obviously is dependent on what month it commences so 10 000 square feet commencing in December is only going to generate one month of income through that.
Thanks George it’s a pro rata of revenue stream based upon the timing of actual occupancy not in average rental rate achieved on the tenancy.
Yeah I mean I think the pages in the supplemental that are more indicative of the rents we are currently getting would be more on page 25 of the supplemental and then for the leases that are already in the portfolio you will do get a sense of that on pages 26 and 27.
Okay.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning everyone.
So may be if our like just over under what could happen for the rest of the year? Is this the reasonable outcome where you maybe you beat the disposition number of $82 million for the rest of the year meaning that maybe a little bit more dilutive but you beat also on the same-store basis because you had a good quarter this year and the net of it is no impact of the prevailing guidance do you think that that’s maybe a reasonable way that this year could unfold for you? Well Rich it’s Howard.
I think you laid out two possible scenarios but I think the third ingredient there is that if we exceed the disposition target there is a reasonable expectation that we will put some of that money to work in properties that Tom spoke of earlier.
So we think more about that disposition figure as a net number it maybe reflective of no acquisitions and there maybe a higher level of dispositions and some level of underlying acquisition.
So think about it as a net number and you don’t generally expect it to then jump one way or the other.
Okay that’s very helpful.
Thanks.
And then on the Austin discussion point can you just kind of frame your thought process there a little bit better for me you are looking at a joint venture scenario with what you have and yet you are also in the market potentially looking for assets to buy.
So what is it about is it asset specific issue that you want to monetize and yet you like the market? Can you just kind of frame the strategy a little bit more clearly Austin for me? Sure be happy to.
It’s always a challenge when the fresh reports get out and they are not entirely on point and they dovetail with the market but here are our thoughts on Austin.
It’s clearly a solid market and a very strong performer for us that is great demand drivers and that is one of the top job growth markets in the country.
We have been excellent on the ground team that has worked diligently and produced great results through a real cyclical downturn over the last four years.
We are in a number one ownership position in that marketplace in terms of square footage in the suburban marketplace.
It’s also a very cyclical market as evidenced by its performance over the last 15 years.
Rents have increased dramatically in the last 12 to 18 months clearly been a strong performer.
Lot of that growth is still coming out of the shift east on the technology sector which is always very cyclical but we think Austin has a lot to offer.
And our performance there I think reflects our ability to accomplish results through both our product quality and our management team.
The market ownership standpoint though is extraordinarily fragmented.
I mean after Thomas Properties dominant position downtown our position on the suburban counties the next largest institution is or the next largest onerous institution that controls much less than half of our stake.
So after that the ownership is incredibly fragmented.
As we have been bidding on properties and certainly as evidenced by our acquisition late last year of two buildings at Lantana it’s become very clear that values have accelerated dramatically.
Cap rates have compressed.
The bid list for a lot of assets was amazingly institutional driven.
Lot of large institutions looking to get a foothold in Austin and their inability to be successful in a specific trade was not a result of their lack of desire to be in the market but more driven by their lack of confidence in being able to create a sizable platform in the market.
Brandywine has a great management team.
We had a great market position with a very good performing portfolio as well as a million square foot portfolio on a joint venture based with IBM.
So our approach has been to basically put the portfolio now that we solved all the Intel rollover on the market test the market for pricing see if we can create a co-investment vehicle similar to what we created with Allstate in Washington DC.
It’s a very good risk adjusted way for us to expand our market platform take advantage of the current compression of cap rates hopefully harvest some significant value but more importantly create a very good co-investment platform going forward with promote structure or good management team expansion etcetera.
And see if we get some portfolio of premium pricing.
So there is no assurance that anything will happen over the structural dig but the objectives are really to optimize current value see where that comes in from a pricing standpoint obtain growth capital and ultimately through the combination of those two items to significantly expand our marketing platform.
And we will know in the next 60 days how successful that effort is.
I guess it is done the other side also a buyer in the market I mean how are you finding deals that pencil for you on the other side of the table? Well look I mean certainly we have looked at everything that has come on the marketplace.
And I think one of the drivers of our decision to add the market on our portfolio was influenced by what we are seeing on the buy side that as I indicated cap rate compressions have been fairly dramatic in the last several quarters.
Rental rates continue to rise.
Rental rates in some submarkets are approaching replacement cost rents.
So in looking at where pricing has gone some of the demand drivers in the market the bid list on properties it all kind of created the picture where we thought it was worthwhile to test the market on what the portfolio premium if any we could achieve on our asset base.
Okay.
And then if I could just one quick one was that retention of 52 expected and also was the negative net absorption expected for the quarter? Yes we knew we started rolling out.
Okay.
So those numbers were exactly in line with our plan.
Okay that’s right.
Okay thank you.
And our next question comes from the Josh Attie with Citi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just to follow-up on Brendan’s question on use of capital when you think about your $200 million of cash and also the money that you could get coming in from asset sales do you think there is a greater probability that you used that to tender for some higher coupon bonds early or are you more inclined to put that money to work through acquisition? Well look I mean we are keeping all of our options right now between Tom’s efforts and Howard’s effort they are spending a lot of time accessing their various points in the market whether it’s on the debt side or the acquisition side.
And my guess is we will probably do a combination of both things.
I mean we do have the objective of continued strength in the balance sheet.
Clearly the current rate environment today and our experience in the fourth quarter on tendering for bonds is that it’s a good strategy but as rates have continued to compress asset spreads.
It gets to be an increasingly tough mathematical exercise.
So we have several avenues.
One is to simply retain the cash and use that to deploy into direct acquisitions.
We can pay down some of the bank term loans or pieces thereof.
We could look at make holes on near-term bonds or tender for bonds.
And certainly as the acquisition pipeline continues to build that will be a key element in our thinking as well.
Okay thanks.
And how should we think about the progression of occupancy over the remainder of the year you ended the quarter little under 88% so yes 200 basis points of growth the next three quarter.
It sounds like you have a lot of leases of having commenced but you probably also have some vacates what should we expect in terms of the progression of those commencements in occupancy growth over the next three quarters? Is it going to be relatively even or are there loans we should be aware of? Yeah I think then in the – what we have outlined before is we would expect a lot of that actual occupancy growth to occur in the second half of the year.
I think as we are looking at the run rate now Josh we have the things we are focused on it feels very good the first quarter is this increasing spread between our leasing and our occupancy levels.
And really our leasing targets really are paramount that’s what creates the forward momentum on all the operating metrics.
But we would expect that next quarter occupancy will be very much in the same range where we are now to the accelerating beyond that in the third and fourth quarter.
And certainly we’re very happy where we stand today at 90.8% lease with a big pipeline of deals a lot of those deals were forward commencements.
And then also when you look at the leasing pipeline it sounds like the spread should get better because the spread – cash spread guidance is 4 to 6 you were 3.5 in the first quarter so should we expect that the spreads are also going to improve the next few quarters.
Yeah look – I think they will continue to kind to be within that bandwidth some quarters I think just depending on the timing of the deal the market of the deal but I think overall again another reason why we held both the same store NOI growth and the mark-to-market target is everything is progressing as expected.
Okay thanks.
And then just lastly could you – could you may be tell us the cap rate on the Delaware office sale? Yeah I think the cap rate on the Delaware office sale is about $140 of square foot.
The cap rate is we almost look as almost an irrelevant consideration only from this standpoint.
The tenant had occupied pretty much the entire complex had near-term lease expirations.
So far it’s really a binary outcome.
The rental rate they were paying was well above existing market by a significant factor.
So I think how we are touched on the income that we will lose is part of the sale.
But I think from our standpoint being a 20% owner and we contribute this profit to a venture a number of years ago when harvest to the great amount of value with that point and our venture with Macquarie went through two other success of partners and I think our partners felt that now was a good time to sell as opposed to facing that binary outcome.
We are good partners and we felt that was a sage decision and we went up selling at the tenant that really had an objective of only in the real-estate as opposed to leasing it.
Okay.
And I mean could you tell us just you’re recognizing that the current income would go down.
Can you tell us just what the cap rate was on the current level of income? It was in the low double-digits.
Okay okay thank you very much.
And your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc.
Thanks good morning.
Just wanted to dig in a little bit on the acquisition front to may be heard a little bit about the nature of sort of what would be targeting in terms of acquisitions.
Would it be most of much of the investment we are seeing so far has been opportunistic or development oriented? Should we expect to see more of that or are they also core type opportunities.
Great question.
The – and again (indiscernible) see I think when we look at the existing pipeline today it’s really it’s a combination of those two times and I think the – we do like value add acquisitions where we can bring some leasing and some construction and marketing skills to there.
We do think they create the best value per square foot and that’s growth opportunities particularly where they augment existing strong submarket position.
So we are essentially buying these properties preventing other competitor providing expansion of relocation opportunities for our existing tenant base and both the building that we acquire and our existing stock and creating a better platform for us very similar we do with 660 Germantown Pike and what we’ve done with we are plan to do with the 1900 markets we are building in Philadelphia.
So that’s a key piece of what we are looking at.
The second element really is going to when we look at our expansion into the overall inside the Beltway DC marketplace that’s really a venture with all state the target levels there tend to be more core core plus versus true value add to the extent that we saw real value add opportunities we certainly pursue those to the extent to how they made good lines to our existing portfolio and provide a good forward growth.
But in DC that the primary focus has been on core and core plus those are the New Jersey market the Delaware market we really view those as more net selling positions over the next several years for a variety reasons including what we think the inherent demand drivers are.
And we shift down to Austin we have looked at both land acquisitions there value add acquisitions as well as core and core plus.
So it’s across the board there because the objective there is given our existing market platform and our objective to expand that we are looking at various submarkets to see how we can augment our existing tenant flow.
What do you think cap rates look like for core core plus in the Beltway DC area if there is? Well I mean cap rate again it depends on the building and where it is in its process.
I think we look more of it on an IRR basis.
And as we look at those core core plus we are trying to look it could be IRRs as we look at a projected basis over five year hold or more we are seeing the IRRs in the mid-7s going into the mid-8s for the products we are looking at and inside the beltway those are kind of our targeted return.
So while cap rate is something important we do look for yield and we will be assessing that as we look we really are an IRR driven reviewer on the properties.
And on the other what do you see in Austin similar? Austin is a little higher I would say the cap rates going in have been pretty good they have been pretty aggressive.
But I think same thing you can see IRRs kind of in the maybe a little higher maybe 8 to 9 again it depends on the property in which market is.
I think those are a little dichotomy in some of those markets especially in the Northwest you can see those being a little higher because in Bay Area where if there is going to be growth in building you may see that.
So I think there is a little bit of a higher cap rate or IRR look at the Northwest but just slightly higher.
Last one quickly would just be on liability management Howard just kind of curious we have seen you take down I think seller rates some of the redemption some of the notes in the past opportunistically to maybe take term when it’s good to take term maybe to sort of expand on sort of your thoughts on where we are in the cycle now and how you may look at the capital is in that? Sure Jordan definitely some near term notes that we are focused on ‘14s ’15s ’16s are all in the window so to speak.
On a number of those the remaining holders are hold to maturity accounts so really the only way to get some of that debt back might be may call is that’s quite expensive.
We also have a small portion of swapped bank term loans and some floating rate bank term loans those are much more flexible.
And as we assess the different possibilities we as Jerry said we could nothing because letting interest rates write for the time being has been the right strategy and we are relatively insulated from rising rates.
We could just use some cash to do a variety of activities amongst those different baskets.
And I guess the third scenario is we take our cash and we use that with perhaps new issuance to do it even bigger clean up.
But again that comes back to the question of where you think rates are going and is it advantageous to go into the market early from an issuance standpoint.
And these are all great choices to have.
What’s your bias I mean it seems to me in the past that you have kind of thought that it’s good to take term now a little bit and I am just kind of curious what your thought process is on that now let it write is more of a view you guys are espousing? Look it’s a three headed coin equally balanced so depending which way it lands does really know tremendously compelling outcome there unless you start to get a little creative with your future rate assumptions.
The one other wildcard in all of this is it’s no secret that our all of our financial and operating management has been towards getting a ratings upgrade moving from BAA3 BBB minus to the next level up to have even better cheaper access to capital.
So as we think about the possible timing of that activity given our recent equity raise and the portfolio improvement that factors into our thinking a little bit as well because the issuances we will be doing will be governed by that rating so that’s a qualitative aspect of the strategy that we try to integrate as well.
Okay it’s helpful thanks guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
I’m here with Michael.
Now that you found your share price high enough to issue equity does that cause the capital signal start to change your stand towards being a net seller and may be – make you want to be more aggressive acquisitions was.
It looks great a great question the – but I think the driving predicates for us to remained the same.
I think when we look at our disposition program.
It was really driven by a couple of drivers one was that we are in this process and I think doing fairly well in terms of really a significant upgrade of the portfolio and a big shift to the portfolio to what we think we’ll be much higher growth assets going forward.
The best evidence to that I think we talked about in the last call was the shift of 30% of our revenues a number of years ago New Jersey down to about 5%.
So there is the strategic real-estate fundamental predicate that really continues to drive our disposition plans.
The second driver that was obviously which I still remained convinced there are best source of capital is to internally recycle that capital and our best source of proceeds even with the stock pricing moving in the right direction our best source of proceeds I’m convinced remains selling out of slower growth assets or assets we don’t fit our long-term strategic or tactical plans and using that capital to recycle into higher growth assets.
We’re seeing an emergence of some build to suit opportunities.
We have as some good developments underway.
We’ve acquired some good value-added acquisition that thing much better value add strategy for us to achieve our goals of really being a permitting town center urban focused company in our marketplaces.
Okay thanks.
And sort of a related question here is suburban fairly Pennsylvania portfolio is now about 50% Crescent market from 50% non-Crescent in terms of square footage of the call it $3 million square feet outside the Crescent markets today can you peg how much of that is non-core at this point.
Well the next biggest submarket outside the Crescent market is in the King of Prussia northern 202 corner which is that the bulk of what’s outside the Crescent markets.
Anything not in those markets are clearly non-core we have a number of those projects now in the market down to southern 202 we sold that we still have one building left there to sell.
We have some properties up in Blue Bell which review is non-core but I think overtime you will see us move out of those markets that the market that we are continuing to tract very carefully is that King of Prussia northern 202.
That market is typically been the second market to recover after the Crescent market is getting incredibly tight.
We now have occupancy levels not just of anyone but market wide in (indiscernible) Plymouth Meeting well above 90% you are seeing a demonstrated consistent rank growth in those markets a number of tenants are now focusing on King of Prussia.
So we would expect to see pretty strong performance at King of Prussia over the next 4 to 8 quarters and that will determine what we think the ultimate value proposition for those markets but right now the focus is on the Southern 202 kind of Great Valley Blue Bell markets to liquidate our positions here over the next couple of years.
Okay great and just last one quick housekeeping item that do you have with the quarter retention rate would be – without being some of it.
We’re trying to capitalize that.
But no worries we can do it I can really understand.
Okay great thank you very much.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Mitch Germain with JMP.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Mitch.
Just starts on the dividend as you move to more of a stabilized occupancy in the portfolio.
Well I think we talk about some previous calls the – we like the fact that we are retaining cash today it’s a good part of our business plan.
The cad ratio this quarter was very strong I think as Howard outlined we are expecting a pretty good cad payout ratio for the balance of ’13.
I think is the board contemplates the dividend policy.
We are very very focused on making sure that we have extraordinarily good visibility on our first rollover and retention rates.
So one of the reason we obviously spend a lot of time in our ’14 and ’15 rollover is around 24 months in advance to that.
We have very clear visibility on our capital run rate.
So we can with high degree of certainly project out with our cad cash flow will be.
The – we set the program that we wanted to have our cad payout ratio consistently below 80% but frankly Mitch the lower to better for us so we don’t have any current plans to increase the dividend but I’ll tell you the trend lines are very encouraging certainly the board is very focused on what those trend lines are.
We reviewed every quarter with them and I do think that it is the portfolio continues to perform we need our occupancy in pre-leasing goals if capital cost continue to maintain their current run rate in the 225 to 275 range that certainly something on the radar screen over the next year or so.
And it seems like you guys are in the early innings of this co-investment vehicle that you are out marketing is this going to be regional specific and you guys expect to maintain a minority or maybe a 50% interest any color around that at this point? Well I think we would expect it to be our investment vehicle for Austin Texas.
The ownership stake we maintained will be a – surely a function of pricing and structure.
I think the Allstate venture that we have is a 50-50 venture.
We have defined rights Allstate is a great partner for us in terms of co-underwriting a response time in reacting to market offerings looking for those same elements in our new partner.
But the actual ownership stake we keep is the promote structure all of that is going to be a function of point of entry pricing as well as the amount of capital that the partners willing to comment.
Thanks.
You are welcome.
Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo Advisors.
Thanks.
George sorry if I missed this but the 729 000 square feet of signed not yet commenced leases how much of those are expected to commence in 2013? 556 000.
Okay great.
And then this is probably for Howard but for whoever same-store was benefited this quarter from a significantly lower straight line rent adjustment it was probably about 2250 basis points that you guys were significantly higher on same-store NOI but as I look at the straight line adjustment last year it went down pretty nicely in the second quarter and then continued to get lower in the third and fourth quarters? Is it going to become challenging to sort of keep same-store at the high end of guidance given that you get less benefit of cash rents currently versus last year? Yeah I mean we are currently programming for 2013 so I am assuming the claims quarter-to-quarter in the straight line rents so once you line that up with what we had in ‘12 could continue to be favorable and candidly that’s why the same-store growth rate for the full year for cash is 100 basis points higher than for GAAP.
We are going to benefit from generally speaking declining non-cash revenue.
So that’s in the plan.
So Howard if I sort of read your comments correctly and think about where you guys were in the quarter you are above the high end of your range by a little bit but above the high end of your same-store range.
And if you expect that cash rents continue to get better in ‘13 do you feel like you are likely to trend at the high end of kind of the guidance range even you kept it the same? One can only hope but it’s too early to tell.
Right.
Maybe a lot of timing factors and last minute details on deals and just too early to tell.
That’s why there is a range.
Alright fair enough thanks.
And your next question comes from the line of Bill Crow with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Bill.
Jerry with the invest with Toll Brothers with Campus Crest the retail development the complementary retail development that you announced what is your interest level in continuing to invest outside of your core office properties within those core markets of 1 billion DC in those areas? Okay.
Bill on the – I will take last piece first.
On the retail piece this is a piece of ground that we owned the front door to ride in your financial center.
And the retail size is only – it’s just an 18 000 square foot amenity based one-storey retail building.
So that’s very sight specific and very complementary to our existing tenant base.
And it was not of a sufficient scale that we felt we need to joint venture that with the development in other residential or retail development company.
On the Toll and Campus Crest venture I mean remember the driver there was existing land holdings and us monetizing or contributing whatever term you want to apply to it to create a near-term value driver for us.
So I think one of the things that we are very mindful of is that market shift and where we thought that a piece of ground could be helped for office but there maybe a higher and better use for it today.
We do have a number of other pieces of ground where we have gone through the rezoning process and we are simply marketing those pieces of ground for outright sale because we don’t think they add a lot to our existing land holdings or exiting office tenant base.
But there is clearly a movement towards mixed use communities live work and play environments mass transit served and that’s clearly where this company is going.
So we would anticipate that as some of these larger scale opportunities present themselves that we would be in a position to venture with other high quality organizations to create value for us as we deploy existing land holdings or land holdings in close approximately to a key asset of ours.
Great second question on the total investment strategy for Austin I am not sure how much you will say about this but this is essentially eliminates what has been much speculated upon an asset trade with parkway? Well I am not sure there has been a lot of speculation that’s reached our desk but maybe another world.
Look there we had been approached over the last couple of years by a number of companies that have assets in Philadelphia who may have other operations outside of Philadelphia with the concept of a swap.
We are always open to those discussions.
We have done swaps in the past and they have been very effective for us.
I don’t think anything is precluded under scenario.
There are a number of other public companies and big private firms that own assets in some of our core growth markets that we continue to have dialogue with them on a number of fronts.
But for any type of trade to work it has to work for both parties.
And I think as we look at our asset base in Austin there is some tremendous growth opportunity there and we thought our best interest to create as broad base to marketing campaign as possible to get a clear indication we thought value us.
Okay.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with BMO Capital Markets.
Bill asked good questions so I am going to follow-up on that one.
Is it possible that you are pattern in Austin could be another REIT and if so would you be willing to allow them to be more on the operating side and you on the financial side or do you want to maintain control of those assets through your co-investment strategy? That’s another good question.
The – look I think from our standpoint and I don’t mean to be quiet but please respect that we are in the marketing process.
We have yet to receive bids.
Our objectives are really clear it’s to take advantage of real strong market pricing optimize current value and create a co-investment vehicle to significantly consolidate fragmented ownership in that market.
We like that market.
It’s got great demand drivers.
We do have a very local team.
Our approach in terms of management and partnership arrangements has always been flexible has always been geared towards in the best result.
Certainly that’s evidenced by what we have done with Toll Brothers or Campus Crest and Harrison Street I mean we sit down at the table and try and figure out what works best to create the best value in the most efficient manner and that often involves the division of responsibilities different skill sets being bought to the table.
So we are completely open to what the market presents back to us not just on Austin but in a lot of our other undertakings as well.
I just think that markets are dynamic enough.
No one company has all the answers.
There are tremendous other talented people out there at other companies and we look forward to getting in bids on Austin and some of the other things that are on the table to see what creates the best financial picture and profitability for Brandywine.
Excellent.
Thanks Jerry.
And there are no further questions at this time Mr.
Sweeney are there any closing remarks? The only closing remark is to thank everyone for their participation in the call.
We look forward to continued execution during 2013 and updating you on our next call on the second quarter.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes Brandywine Realty Trust first quarter earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Please go ahead.
Angie thank you.
And thank all of you for participating in our second quarter earnings call and good morning.
On today’s call with me are George Johnstone our Senior Vice President of Operations; Gabe Mainardi our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Howard Sipzner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President of Portfolio Management and Investments.
Certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
Although we believe the estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
Okay moving to our conference call first I’ll provide an overview on three key business plan components; of operations balance sheet and investments.
And then George and Howard will discuss our operating advanced results in more detail.
The second quarter represented a solid continuation of our business plan execution.
The quarter was somewhat quiet on big announcements but extremely solid in daily execution.
Operational performance remained strong and our 2013 plan is on target.
Our leasing NOI growth progress reflects continued recovery of our office markets and our portfolio continues to benefit from an ongoing flight to quality landlords and quality products.
Volatility has certainly increased since our last call driven by the change in monetary policy and its corresponding impact on interest rates.
Despite this news tenant activity levels remain strong and tenant decision making remains timely.
From an overall standpoint our operating performance is playing out as we anticipated and we are reconfirming our previously stated goals.
Overall we are generating strong NOI growth reducing our forward roll-over exposure experiencing good leasing capital cost stability all of which result in solid portfolio value appreciation and continued improvement in our cash payout ratio.
2013 operational goals which George will explore in more detail remain intact with year-end occupancy projected at 90%.
Year-end leasing percentage at 92% cash same-store growth rates between 4% and 6% a targeted 62% retention rate and minimum GAAP mark-to-mark of new leases of 5%.
And looking at specific key metrics and benchmarks we had a 9.1% increase in our renewal rates mark-to-market and a 13.2% positive spread on new leases and expansion on rates both on a GAAP basis and they were well in excess of our targets.
Capital cost remained moderate.
We are very pleased with our ongoing control of capital expenditures as we absorb space.
For the quarter we averaged 229 per square foot per lease year well in line with our business line and posted another strong CAD payout ratio of 79%.
For the first six months our CAD payout ratio was 71.4 below our forecasted 80% and we’ve had six consecutive quarters with a CAD payout ratio below that 80% target.
We also had strong same-store growth of 3.4% on a GAAP basis and 4.4% on a cash basis in line with our plan and reflective of the growth inherent from our leasing performance over the past several years.
Our NOI progression continues.
The markets are clearly in recovery and we expect to see continued strong NOI growth.
In looking at 2014 and 2015 our remaining lease expirations have been reduced to 7.5% in 2014 and 9.7% in 2015.
So forward de-risking continues and we are also pushing for larger annual rental increases and have been successful in moving that average range from 1% to 1.5% to a range of 2% to 2.5%.
Retention for the quarter was 66.2% with positive absorption.
And as George will talk in more detail we currently stand at 88% occupied and 91% pre-leased a 300 basis point spread which reflects the positive forward leasing momentum we have to the portfolio.
Turning to our balance sheet very straight forward.
As previously discussed we raised $182 million in net proceeds through selling 12.6 million shares during the quarter.
That offering had not been contemplated at the beginning of the year with but proceeds from this equity issuance accelerated deleveraging improved credit metrics and certainly provided excellent liquidity and financial flexibility.
We have no outstanding balance on our $600 million unsecured line of credit and over $200 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand at the end of the quarter.
Our cash balances remain invested in depository accounts with numerous banks.
The evaluation of the optimal use of this cash is ongoing.
Our current FFO projections do not reflect the impact of any accelerated debt pay downs reliability management efforts nor do they reflect the impact of any potential targeted acquisition activity.
Reducing leverage levels below 40% and achieving a 6.5 times EBITDA by year end 2014 remains a core element of our business plan.
The equity issuance and continued strong portfolio performance contribute greatly to the achievement of that goal and at the end of the second quarter our net debt to gross assets approximated 40.8% and our net debt to EBITDA was 6.8 times.
The long term goals is also very much on track.
That goal is mid 30% leverage and an EBITDA multiple below six times.
We remain convinced that continued occupancy gains combined with our capital recycling program will insure that we achieve those results.
So on summary balance sheet objective very straight forward.
All of our objectives are much on track.
On the investment front similar to the balance sheet and operating components of our plan the investment program is on target.
With sales closed this quarter we have sold approximately 177 million or met 80% of our full year $221 million 2013 target.
As disclosed in our press release and further amplified on page seven of our supplemental package during the quarter we bought out the ground lease underlying Three Logan Square.
You may recall it's a 1 029 000 square foot class A tower located in Philadelphia CBD.
We paid approximately $20 million per [FAR] foot for this acquisition and also reallocated some deferred cost incurred in 2010 resulting in total balance sheet amount of $25.1 million.
That project is currently 91.2% leased and 83% occupied at the quarter-end and all of our objectives are also in line for that project.
We also exchanged during the quarter our 35% ownership stake in one joint venture property in Conshohocken Two Tower Bridge for our partner’s 37% interest in another Six Tower bridge.
The financial gains attendant to these transactions are also outlined on page seven of the supplemental package but in that sense this was an opportunity for us to simplify our ownership structure in our Conshohocken assets and create a value add wholly-owned opportunity with our acquisition of Six Tower Bridge which is currently only 73% occupied.
On other fronts our redevelopment efforts of 660 West Germantown Pike continue.
We are in advanced discussions with several tenants and expect that property to be fully occupied over the next several quarters.
200 Radnor Chester Road an 18 000 square foot amenity retail center in our Radnor complex is under construction.
We expect delivery in the fourth quarter of this year.
It’s currently 66.5% preleased with strong follow-on leasing activity and we expect our yield on cost to be in 11% range.
Construction of The Grove at Cira South also continues.
You may recall that is a 33-story 850-bed housing tower located in the University City submarket of Philadelphia.
We are developing that in a joint venture with Campus Crest Communities and Harrison Street Real Estate Advisors.
We expect completion in the third quarter of 2014 with a total projected cost of about $158.5 million.
Those costs have been funded and will be funded from an executed $97.8 million construction loan and the partners combined $60.7 pro rata equity contributions.
As we discussed on the last call we had satisfied 8.5 million or 30% of our equity share via our contribution to the venture of our underlying ground lease which underlies the project.
We also expect to break ground shortly on the construction of our 398-unit multifamily project in Plymouth Meeting Pennsylvania which we are developing with Toll Brothers.
Looking at our land program in a more broad basis solid progress is being made on our land monetization program and we are on track to achieve our overall land monetization goals as we have outlined on page 34 of our supplemental package.
On the disposition front we completed four separate property sales aggregating $34.5 million in proceeds.
Those properties that we sold are listed on page seven of the sup and range from vacant 28 000 square foot building in Malvern Pennsylvania to a 99% occupied building in Rancho Bernardo California.
It’s important to note we continue selling our California assets as leasing activity creates value and over the last several years we have sold our properties at an average price per square foot of $237 and a combined cap rate of just about 6%.
We have six properties remaining in California and we would expect that sale process to continue as value is created.
NOI growth through our investment strategy remains an important objective of our recycling efforts and our redeployment focus remains on increasing our urban and Town Center concentrations.
As we normally do we have a number of properties on the market on a price discovery basis and are confident of meeting or exceeding our 221 million annual sale goal.
The properties in price discovery are located in Pennsylvania New Jersey Maryland California and in Austin Texas.
Speaking of Austin as we announced last quarter we embarked on an auction process for our wholly owned Austin portfolio.
We believe then that given the strength of the Austin market the significant leasing progress we made increased investor appetite that the market will be receptive to our offering of a high quality growth platform.
Our presumption was correct.
We received a significant number of institutional quality bids both for an outright sale and to form a co-investment growth vehicle to both harvest current value and provide additional capital to expand our market platform.
Press reports are a bit premature as they sometimes are.
We are not committed to proceed on any particular transaction.
The general framework we’re working on a is a 50-50 ownership structure utilizing the secured debt markets to fund a portion of the recapitalization and attractive fee structure of Brandywine and a significant going forward equity commitment from both partners to ensure execution of our growth objectives in that market.
This structure preserves a significant future profit position for Brandywine and harvest value at a time of rapidly accelerating rents at a cost of capital lower than our public market pricing.
It also provides significant capacity for us to grow our platform in this market while mitigating our risk at a time when this market is also transitioning from the investment to the development phase of the real estate cycle.
This transaction if consummated will generate significant additional cash balances.
If it does close we expect it to be a fourth quarter event between now and then we’ll continue to grow our companywide and Austin acquisition pipeline with the objective of recycling some of this capital to further improve our growth profile of our core market concentrations.
We’ll also look at utilizing a portion of this cash to further strengthen our balance sheet to accelerate debt pay downs or other liability management initiatives.
The impact of this transaction is not reflected in our current FFO guidance but given the timing the impact on 2013 FFO is de minimus and the impact in 2014 will obviously be a function of our use of proceeds.
So in summary the second quarter was very strong.
All of our 2013 business goals and objectives have been met for the first half of the year and our plan for the balance of the year is very much on track.
We continue to be encouraged by the high level of leasing activity throughout our portfolio.
Our NOI growth rates experiencing mark-to-market and effectively controlling our capital costs.
At this point George will provide an overview of our second quarter operational performance and then turn it over to Howard for a review of financial activity.
George?  Thank you Gerry.
From an overall standpoint we continue to see recovery occurring in our markets and more importantly within our portfolio.
All of our markets with the exception of Delaware experienced higher levels of year-over-year leasing activity.
We’re outperforming market vacancy in all of our markets except suburban Maryland where we trail the market due to the recent move out of Lockheed Martin.
We continue to generate good levels of leasing activity from space inspections to pipeline to lease executions.
In terms of lease executions during the quarter we signed 1 010 000 million square feet of leases including 457 000 square feet of new and expansion leases and 553 000 square feet of renewals.
These lease executions include not only the recently announced Pepper Hamilton lease at Two Logan in Philadelphia but 180 000 square feet of new deals in Metro DC and two of our largest 2014 lease expirations in Pennsylvania totaling 132 000 square feet.
Tenant decision making remains relatively unchanged as leases executed in the second quarter averaged 90 days from initial enquiry to lease execution as compared to 96 days in the first quarter and 94 days in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Lease commencements totaled 895 000 square feet including 316 000 square feet of new leases 434 000 square feet of renewal leases and 145 000 square feet of tenant expansion.
During the quarter we had 347 000 square feet of tenant move outs upon exploration and 94 000 square feet of early terminations.
Our percentage leased has increased an additional 10 basis points from last quarter to 90.9%.
We have 692 000 square feet of executed leases on space that was vacant at quarter end.
We’re delighted with the 90% lease level we have achieved in our New Jersey-Delaware region.
This is their highest leased level since 2008.
Our original business plan metrics remain intact and we’re confident in our ability to execute them.
We’ve achieved $42.1 million or 96% of our $43.9 million spec revenue target.
This compares to 85% achieved last quarter and 87% achieved this time last year.
Based on activity executed to-date and conversion of the existing pipeline we have increased the spec revenue contribution from the Pennsylvania Suburbs Philadelphia CBD and New Jersey Delaware.
Conversely we have lowered the level of spec revenue anticipated from our Richmond operation.
I will elaborate more on that region in a moment.
Occupancy will increase to 90% by year-end from 1.6 million square feet of renewal leases 1.9 million square feet of new and expansion leases offset by 360 000 square feet of known and anticipated early terminations.
As detailed on page six of our supplemental package we have 611 000 square feet of new leasing still to be executed.
60% of this activity will come from our Pennsylvania Philadelphia CBD and New Jersey/Delaware operations.
We have already executed 1 398 000 square feet of our 2013 renewals.
The remaining 170 000 square feet of renewals in the plan are all in active lease negotiations.
We continue to press forward on reducing our 2014 and 2015 lease explorations.
In Philadelphia CBD with the renewals of both Drinker Biddle and Pepper Hamilton we have eliminated 474 000 square feet of risk from the portfolio.
These deals were 15 and 13 years respectively resulted in 11% space reduction yielded a 15.7 % mark-up in GAAP rents and required tenant improvements of $3.20 per square foot per lease year.
We continue to demonstrate a strong discipline towards capital cost control as this quarter’s capital of $2.29 per square foot per lease year and for the year is $2.26 down 13% from 2012 and 2011 levels.
Any concession requests remain relatively unchanged from previous quarters.
Our leasing spreads on a GAAP basis have been performing favorably to our original plan and as a result we increased our range of 3% to 5% to a new range of 5% to 7%.
Same-store NOI growth continues to perform in line with plan and with the levels of forward leasing already achieved creates a similar range going forward.
Finally a few comments on some of our markets.
We remain pleased with the level of activity in our Metro DC region.
Our regional traffic was again up quarter-over-quarter.
And we continue to see tenants making a flight to quality move to our [total] properties.
During the second quarter our Met DC operation posted positive absorption of 19 000 square feet.
A 100 000 square feet of absorption in Northern Virginia offset by the known move out of Lockheed Martin in Maryland.
We’ve increased our occupancy in Northern Virginia 400 basis points this year and increased the region’s lease percentage to 86.6%.
Regional leasing spreads were 10.8% on a GAAP basis a negative 3.4% on a cash basis.
Now shifting to Richmond this region which accounts for approximately 6% of the company’s NOI saw an increase in tours quarter-over-quarter but we have non executed leases at the pace originally projected which is the reason for this region’s back revenue target adjustment that I mentioned earlier.
Based on the regional pipeline and timing of our remaining assumptions we do not feel there is any additional risk in the regional business plan for Richmond.
We are still negotiating with 3 tenants to back fill the 85000 square foot move out of [Traverse] in January 2014.
And to conclude we are on track and target and pleased with our business plan execution and strong level of activity in our various markets.
Our regional teams’ ability to execute coupled with the quality of our inventory will enable us to fully accomplish the 2013 plan and pave the way for continued improvement in our operating metrics in 2014.
At this point I will turn it over to Howard for the financial review.
Thank you George and thank you Gerry.
Core FFO totaled $50.2 million for the 2nd quarter of 2013 or $0.32 per diluted share and we met the $0.32 analyst consensus.
Our Core FFO payout ratio is 46.9% on the $0.15 distribution we paid in April 2013.
Core FFO provides a better sense of our FFO run rate by eliminating transactional and capital markets activity as noted in our supplemental package on the bottom of page 18.
We derive 2nd quarter 2013 core FFO by adding back $1.4 million of capital market and transactional items to our $48.8 million NAREIT FFO.
For Q2 2013 core FFO is $0.01 greater than NAREIT FFO.
Couple of observations regarding our second quarter results; our FFO is very high quality with termination revenue other income management fees interest income and aggregate JV activity totaling just $6.7 million gross or $5.3 million net inline with our2013 expectations for these categories.
Our Q2 NOI and EBITDA margins at 60.5% and 62.6% respectively remain at or near the highest levels for these metrics all the way back to early 2009.
Same-store NOI growth rate for the second quarter were 3.4% GAAP and 4.4% cash both excluding termination fees and other income.
We’ve now had eight consecutive positive quarters for the GAAP metrics and five consecutive positive quarters for the cash metric and are on track for our 2013 same-store NOI growth targets.
Second quarter interest expense of 30.4 million was down $500 000 versus the first quarter and down $2.6 million versus the second quarter a year-ago reflecting the beneficial impact of our late fourth quarter 2012 capital market and liability management activities and overall deleveraging.
Our G&amp;A at $7.3 million came in a bit higher than our typical $6.5 million run rate due to about $300 000 of transaction expenses and accelerated recognition in the second quarter of deferred long-term compensation costs due to various individuals achieving certain age and tenure milestones.
As a result third and first quarter levels will adjust downward from the pro-rata figures.
We had two different gain recognitions on account of the Tower Bridge asset exchange.
These are both ignored for FFO and CAD purposes.
And with 14.4 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures in the second quarter we achieved a better than expected $0.19 of CAD per diluted share and a 78.9% payout ratio.
With respect to balance sheet and financial metrics I would emphasize the following.
Our debt-to-GAV of 40.8% our debt to total market CAP of 48.9% and 6.8 times debt-to-EBITDA ratios all show dramatic improvement from first quarter 2013 on account of the April equity offering.
These are our best levels for these metrics going back at least eight years.
We have just $100 million of floating rate debt no outstanding balance on our $600 million unsecured revolving credit facility $216 million of cash and no maturities until 232 million of unsecured debt comes due in November 2014.
This maturity is effectively covered by our current and projected cash balances.
With respect to 2013 FFO guidance we are revising our 2013 figures from $1.35 to $1.42 to a new range of $1.36 to $1.41 per diluted share.
Excluding the $0.01 of transaction and capital market cost our core FFO is projected to be a $1.37 to $1.42 an increase of $0.02 at the bottom of the range and of $0.01 at the midpoint.
With six months core FFO of $0.67 on hand we need $0.70 to $0.75 for the balance of the year to hit our guidance range.
Excluding the historic tax credit income of $0.08 which we will recognize in the third quarter of 2013 we then need a net amount of $0.62 to $0.67 for the balance of the year.
Thus our Q3 and Q4 quarterly FFO excluding the historic tax credit income should be in a range of $0.31 to $0.33 per diluted share.
In addition to the business plan assumptions on pages five to seven of the supplemental package and outlined by Gerry and George please note the following: Gross other income for our business plan remains unchanged at $20 million to $25 million for the full year or $14 million to $19 million net.
This reflects the basket of other items such as termination revenues other income management revenues less management expenses if net interest income JV income and preferred return on the Thomas Properties Group Commerce Square joint venture less the 31-41 Fair View financing obligation expense.
Our 2013 G&amp;A is now modeled at 25 million to 26 million versus 24 million to 25 million previously.
Q3 and specially Q4 will be lower than the pro rata figures as expenses are now front-loaded.
Overall G&amp;A is up due to transaction expenses several minor items and the treatment of long term compensations awards the last of which is non-cash and is added back in our CAD calculation.
We now see interest expense dropping in 2013 to remain in a range of 121 million to 124 million down a million on each end from the prior expectations as continued liability management and low debt levels work in our favor.
We expect another $44 million of sales activity beyond the 176.6 million of completed sales to hit our $221 million target.
These additional sales have been modeled at an 8% cap rate very comfortably and are somewhat back ended resulting in a 750 000 to $1 million loss of NOI from our 2013 operations.
Tom will elaborate further on the sales market in his comments.
The historic tax credit income amount of 11.9 million or a little bit under $0.08 per share in the third quarter of 2013 is offset by about $0.01 per share of total associated incremental interest expense that occurs throughout 2013.
The historic tax credit revenue is essentially non-cash is excluded from our CAD calculations represents the third occurrence of each 20% portion of the net proceeds realized in connection with the 2008 historic tax credit financing on the Cira Post Office project and will be recognized in the third quarter of each year from 2011 through 2015.
We assume no further issuance under our continuous equity program and no additional note buyback or capital markets activity.
We are now modeling a 156.2 million weighted average shares for FFO in 2013 up nominally from 155.8 million previously.
Our FFO payout ratio is projected at 43% based on an expected $0.60 full year distribution on the midpoint of our $1.37 to a $1.42 range.
Our 2013 capital plan for the balance of 2013 is very simple with remaining uses of $150 million.
We see 5 million for remaining mortgage amortization.
We have allocated 94 million for investment activity that incorporates 40 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures and 54 million of remaining revenue creating and other CapEx projects including the expenditures on 600 West Germantown the Radnor Chester project the Grove project and additional funding for the Commerce Square joint venture.
And lastly we have $51 million of aggregate dividends from July on the July distributions of course have already been funded.
The funds for this $150 million will come from $44 million of additional sales proceeds $88 million of cash flow before financings investments and dividends and after interest expenses and $18 million of cash on hand.
The $18 million cash usage will reduce our June 30 $216 million cash balance to 198 million at year-end.
And lastly with respect to account receivables we had normal activity in the second quarter and ended with total reserves at June 30 of $17 million.
With that I will turn it back to Gerry for additional comments.
Great thank you Howard and thank you George.
To wrap up our prepared remarks the second quarter results were strong and as you heard both George and Howard amplify very consistent with our business plan in all three core component of our objectives.
We are confident in the continued execution of this plan and are very much planning ahead for early renewable program for 2014 and ‘15.
That success that we have had this year will be continued in subsequent years and be driven by our continued market outperformance and presenting a high quality portfolio to our customer base.
We remain committed to our growth and deleveraging goals and our portfolio shift to urban and town center markets.
With that we’d be delighted to open the floor up for questions.
We ask as we always do that in interest of time you limit yourself to one question and a follow up.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Josh Attie with Citi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Gerry could you talk about the investment landscape you have $200 million or so of cash today and you could probably pull out 150 million to 200 million from Austin.
What’s being contemplated for reinvestment and should we think about the Austin proceeds as effectively funding your future growth in that market? Great question Josh and Tom I’ll ask you to kind of give you an overview of what we’re seeing across the board.
Sure.
Josh looking at the markets CBD Philadelphia continues to be steady.
We see some investment activity that we’re talking a look at.
And pricing has been somewhat strong.
Looking at the suburbs we have seen little more activity in the suburban markets with same sales occurring and we see some product come in the market.
As you know we were able to get two small sales done to users and we see some other things coming to market in the next several months.
Looking at metro DC as mentioned last quarter there had been an increased number of office buildings and developments throughout the market primarily inside the beltway and pricing remains strong.
We expect that the pricing will remain strong for the well located assets inside the beltway.
Outside the beltway it’s been a little less activity but Austin has been has continued to be strong in terms of sales and investment activity for development.
We continue to be pretty conservative looking at the pricing in terms of rent growth.
It’s been fairly much of a pause in terms of people expecting any kind of significant rent growth over the next couple of years.
And we targeted certain markets primarily inside the beltway that we’re going to be looking do investment.
Looking at the Austin market there is a lot of liquidity there.
We’ve seen quite a few trades take place relative to the size of that market as it continues to show a strong absorption and strong demographics.
We’ll be looking at the properties that are trading in that market.
We continue to look at underwrite properties in that market.
And we would expect that if we do look at our joint venture where it does happen we would be looking for a strong platform to then grow in that market and certainly we’ll be targeting certain returns on certain product types in our core sub market that we want to attack.
Looking at Richmond it’s been fairly slow significantly steady.
We see some activity in the Northwest market not very much in the Southwest market.
We will be looking at the investment opportunities but we over the long term will probably be a net seller in that market.
South Jersey fairly slow not many trades.
We continue to look at that market as something we will reduce our exposure in overtime.
As Gerry mentioned we have sold properties in Pennsylvania in California to bring our sales total up to 177 and we'll look to continue to find opportunities to sell.
And our acquisition pipeline is pretty strong.
We see some off-market and on-market transactions that we continue to pursue.
And again any acquisitions would then be offset to still reach our target of 221 million of sales.
Hey great.
Tom thanks.
And Josh to put a finer point on this I mean look I mean our focus is to build that acquisition pipeline as Tom touched on.
It’s strong it’s pretty diverse.
Our focus remains on value add.
The urban markets we certainly are spending a considerable amount of time targeting some of those inside the beltway market in DC to see where we can have moments of opportunity given the macro overlay in that market in terms of smaller tenant demand.
Certainly CBD Philadelphia University City remain our investment targets.
And I think we’re pleased that our supposition is correct in that and if we are successful in doing a venture in Austin that structure would contemplate a significant equity commitment on behalf on our behalf as well as our partner.
So certainly a significant portion of the cash would realize from that sale.
We would expect to deploy back in that market consistent with our goal of remaining one of that market's top landlords.
In the supplemental there was there was a property smaller property in New Jersey was classified as re-entitlement and there is another one taken out of service and I know you talked probably on at least one of those before but can you just remind us what’s going on with those assets and if those represent areas of future capital spend? Certainly we have two properties one is our main street project over in Voorhees which consists of an older building as well as some surplus land with this part of town center.
We are going through the entitlement process to rezone that full residential at which point in time if we had success in that undertaking we would either sell or joint venture that future development.
The situation in our Gibbsboro New Jersey property is very much the same.
That is part of a current office and mix use development where Brandywine controls a lot of the office space.
This property in particular is located within that development grouping such that it’s really primarily more of a residential or retail side.
So we are going through the entitlement process there to achieve all these final entitlements as well.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Wanting to just circle back to the leverage target.
I think you said by year-end and then you said this will be pretty consistently six and half times that EBITDA six eight this quarter longer-term you want to be below six times.
Is the -- given the leverage target is the continued deleveraging embedded or reflected in guidance.
I mean I am calculating essentially you basically need to reduce debt without any diminishment in EBITDA by about $100 million to hit the sort of year-end target? As you remember the year-end targets for 6.5 times is a 2014 year-end target.
It was not a 2013 target.
And certainly as we look at your broader question now I mean certainly look at our investment program the operational traction we are getting through the portfolio what properties to buy and sell certainly the tracking of the debt capital from the liability management standpoint all of those things are knitted together with the objective of achieving that goal if not surpassing it by the end of 2014.
Okay.
Now just a follow-up on Austin.
You talked about opportunities sort of realized the some of the gains there at a cost of capital that was low what you could realize in the public market I in interest in that but also separately what do you should we assume or anticipate that there will be some downtime related that raising that capital or are there additional opportunities teed up for that joint venture? Just to be clear your question is if we do a joint venture would there be a lag time to reinvest some of those proceeds.
There very well could be.
I think as Tom touched on the pipeline of activity both on a value add and core plus basis and Austin is pretty good.
I mean there is certainly a lot of things on the market.
But I mean look as we’re developing our financial plan looking ahead at 2014 there could be a lag time in reinvesting some of those proceeds.
They would certainly that would be driven by investing those proceeds wisely as a process of simply putting the money back out the door.
But look I think as we look at the prospect of generating that liquidity in that marketplace it met all of our goals.
It was kind of interesting as we went through the marketplace we really did see a great investor demand.
They like the assets.
I was also interested to see how investors juxtaposed future growth expectations in that market.
It seems like everybody wants to grow in Austin.
So the fact that we had a good solid platform that we had a very strong management team and we had the capacity to grow that clearly became part of the attractiveness and the institutional demand because most institutions want to grow in that market as well.
And the idea of being able to do that with a knowledgeable invested and incented partner we think creates some real premium to the pricing as evidenced by the fact that the pricing we are realizing to sell the portfolio was comparable to what we were seeing on the Princeton joint venture.
Okay that’s helpful thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Hey good morning guys curious if you are seeing any impact on cap rates or investors demands broadly on the rising interest rates or whether it has been sort of a non-factor.
It's Tom and I will probably -- look from what we are seeing there has really not been any real impact.
Whether it is too early to call or people are still waiting to see things shaking up remains to be seen but it is worth pinging the secured debt market on some of the different transactions with [inaudible] we are seeing out there.
Yeah Mike.
We have seen that while the tenure has moved up but the rates we are seeing still a lot of people are looking a good leverage in the sort of 60% plus or minus range.
We are still getting close we are going to be below 4% for good quality assets.
We had heard when rates started to move that we may see some changing in the pricing.
But right now in terms of what we have looked at we’re still seeing some strong demands from the banks as well as the life companies.
So nothing yet has really hit the market in terms of expectations on what people are underwriting their debt levels.
And anecdotally interesting a couple of conversations we have begun to hear that some investors are looking into accelerate their investment activities in anticipation of a potential higher movement in rates.
So a number of reverse increase on some trades have increased over the last 30 or 45 days.
But I think Mike I want to say it's simply too early to call I think people are still waiting to see what happens with long term rates what the impact on impression is as you all know what the drivers of that economic data set is.
So we are just focused on meeting our sales goals we are remaining very much focused on capitals deployment and obviously monitoring both the public debt markets as well as the private debt markets.
Okay then on the operating side how long do you think it's going to take for Richmond to sort of catch up to some of your other markets.
And on the DC side any real signs of improvement there or is the potential core maybe more political spats over debt ceiling and all that later this year to impact leasing outlook there in DC.
Well look on Richmond we have the benefit of that market of very strong team and very good quality product.
Despite the fact as George mentioned us revising down our projections for this year what we have seen is an acceleration of leasing activities.
So we have seen more tenants in the market of various sizes.
We have seen a good pipeline of activity on back filling the Traverse space which is expiring early next year.
So look just as we saw New Jersey get back to 90% lease target we certainly have expectations that sometime next year we will get Richmond back to the level as well.
I mean again we kind of really focus on number of people that come through the portfolio of prospect list competing space and we have seen this in Southwest Austin not Austin on Southwest Richmond that market has tended to lag in the recovery base department what happens in the Northwest.
The Northwest has been surprisingly strong the last year.
So and I think that’s been the drivers why we are seeing more activity in the Southwest.
You know in Washington there is always some detachment over some hubris some more dislocation.
We’re not incisive enough to prognosticate back too fairly well.
So we really do is we work very close with our leasing teams our operating heads to make sure we take advantage of every single opportunity seen in at market.
As George touched on we had a very strong first half of the year.
We were able to move up our year end leasing targets.
The economics that we are seeing on the transaction have been very much in line with plan.
So look there is clearly even in that market a big differentiation between how certain submarkets are performing.
But overall we feel pretty pleased with how we have done knowing full well that the message is still to get transaction done today in the event of something unforeseen on the political or economic front further complicates the tenant demand drivers in that marketplace.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
Thanks good morning.
Gerry or George you guys have shown very good occupancy and lease rates in the closer end crescent sub-markets Radnor Conshohocken.
I was a little surprised to see that the occupancy and lease rate dipped in the western suburbs in the King of Prussia Berlin and the 202 and it wasn’t that much in the quarter but do you think that the tightness in those crescent markets is driving increased demand and forward occupancy and lease rate in those western suburbs and this quarter has been an anomaly? Yeah look I mean George is now tracking this but I mean look historically and I think we have talked about this on previous calls there is no question that as these crescent markets tighten and they are very tight you see a real spillover effect into the turnpike markets particularly King of Prussia Northern 202.
So the level of activity we are seeing the diversity of that demand a lot of it is price driven where people can’t afford to be and don't want to pay the rent to be in the crescent markets very solid very strong and we would expect that trend line to continue.
George is maybe going to address the dip this quarter? Yeah Brendon I actually just look at I mean we are 87.9% leased in the non-crescent markets.
I mean we were 86.7% leased at the end of March.
So I mean clearly we are seeing pipeline spill over more now than ever.
I think anybody that kind of wants that Radnor address I mean there just isn’t any square footage available.
And we are seeing a little bit of chair shuffling going on in that King of Prussia market.
And again I think you know our properties kind of from [inaudible] up through King of Prussia proper you know bode well to accommodate that.
Some of the move outs we had this quarter were tenants that we did need to move out of our Maschellmac complex which was the deal we announced last quarter.
They are -- are going to take 90 000 square feet beyond where they currently lease which is about the same.
So we had to start to move some of those tenants around some within the portfolio but a few that left the portfolio.
Yes so George just a follow-up so if you are at sort of 86% or 87% leased in the western sub markets today where do you think you can kind of bring that number as you look out over the next maybe 12 or 18 months? Yeah we still think that you know 12 to 18 months that we can kind of get that portfolio back to 90%.
You know it’s operated at those levels and beyond previously especially given the fact that the crescents have tightened so much.
So again I think for us yeah we will continue to kind of move out some of the slower growth product that we have in those markets we are going to fill some of that with the totally empty building we sold this quarter and the ones that we retained you know we feel good about long term.
And I mean a couple of drivers in that market we think will also accelerate both economic and absorption.
Within King of Prussia itself there has been a business improvement district forum which is staffed and funded where Keith Rogers of one of our executives chairs that and that’s really focused on kind of improving the overall King of Prussia neighborhood more effectively integrate office streetscapes retail residential and mall components.
And as part of that there is also some major transportation initiatives underway both in terms of our light rail access and increased accessibility of Pennsylvania turnpike.
So we think that overtime that will create a real resurgence of demand for the King of Prussia proper market.
And then at Northern 202 I mean frankly one of the overhangs in that market the last couple of years has been the projected relocation out of that market by a major pharmaceutical company.
That pharmaceutical company was planning on doing a large build to the suit in another submarket and vacating a 300 000 plus square feet in 202 corridor.
That company announced last quarter or this quarter that they do not plan on proceeding with that and they will be staying where they are.
They may give back a little bit of space but from the overall standpoint that’s a bit positive for the Northern 202 King of Prussia market because that won’t be that significant amount of space to backfill.
Okay great.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Great.
Thank you.
Another great quarter.
Congratulations.
A few questions not sure to whom these are directed but I’ll just rattle them off.
First who pray tell is actually hitting tenure and age milestones.
Second the JLO guys in DC just sent something out called informing us on the Public Building Saving and Reform Act of 2013 which is changing and tightening of rules for GSA leasing freeze the footprint et cetera.
Are you guys involved in that at all and does George have any comments.
And third probably for you CFO there your payout ratio is a pretty well so sign of a good company is the ability to dependably raise the dividend.
Can you talk about your 2014 dividend thoughts? Okay great.
Let’s try and take those in order.
That's a blatant violation of our one question per interviewer.
Look we have a deferred comp plan that obviously a big part of the executive compensation is stock-based compensation that best over a period time we have a program in place that wants executives to reach a certain age and a certain tenure that the vesting period for those is shortened based upon their ability to effectively retire and move on.
The freeze your footprint initiative is something that we have spent a lot of time on certainly Mike Cooper who heads our DC operation is very much involved with that.
We obviously track that that’s part of our thinking on the DC marketplace and certainly as Tom and his team work with Mike Cooper to assess different opportunities in that marketplace we are very mindful of the impact on overall absorption and activity levels to that initiative.
So be interested to look at that initiative compared to some of the recent press reports on the length of the training program that some federal employees are undertaking to make sure that they know how to work within the freeze your footprint initiative and how they can actually work in more of the mobile or less permanent work station environment.
So we’ll see how that works its way through.
And then John that's certainly a macro event that we track very carefully relative to the impact on overall demand drivers in the DC marketplace.
I think the last question was on dividends let's touch on that real fast was looking at the current point we have had a number of quarters below 80% payout ratio.
This question comes up on almost every call.
I think that’s the decision that the Board will start to think through in 2014 once they get a sense of our forward rollover exposure as a company our ability to generate the continued same store NOI growth rates.
Certainly the level of capital stability we’ve had for the last year or so bodes very well for continue to keep that payout ratio low.
But there has been no decision made John what we will do with our 2014 dividend.
Thank you guys.
You are welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with BMO Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
I will try to keep my -- the components of my question little bit shorter than my friend John over there.
So for Austin you talked about some of this 50-50 JV is kind of what you are kind of visualizing in fees and all that sort of stuff but what about the exit what kind of negotiations are going on as it relates to how the joint venture could unwind I took note of your comment Gerry that you said there is still rent growth that you want to participate in but that won’t last forever I mean can you envision the end game being you actually fully selling out of Austin or how do you envision the end game of the joint venture? Great questions Rich and look let me amplify couple of comments.
I mean anytime it’s always a challenge when you look at selling or recapitalizing an asset base that you really like or is the market that we are optimistic about particularly where you have a very good operating team.
And as we have talked on calls in the past and as we evaluated Austin over the last several years the primary objective was really to stabilize that asset base.
We were fortunate enough to be able to do it and certainly benefited from a significant recovery in the market place particularly in the Southwest.
So as we were kind of assessing what to do trade out or grow we really focused on a couple of key issues.
We saw investment values escalating rapidly over the last 12 months and we really do want to price test what the investor marketplace was telling us relative to intrinsic value.
As we touched on we saw great investor demand.
It was really very well timed I think and well received offering.
The investors like the assets they like the growth potential with Brandywine and with the market itself.
We did as we always do on these offerings go out and say give us a price to sell and give us a price to JV and I think as we started to evaluate the direct comparability to those pricing levels it became clear we should stay in that marketplace given our current position and given where we think that market will go.
It did give us the ability the pricing we were able to achieve to recoup capital well below our public market cost to capital.
So it was a great arbitrage opportunity that we could use to grow other asset basis and redeploy and strengthen the balance sheet and it also provided a great opportunity for us to co-invest and acquire get a good fee structure pursue development value added opportunities and also we can’t forget the continued servicing and being an effective partner on our million square foot Broadmoor complex in Northwest Austin with IBM.
So I think as we look at a potential exit certainly the venture that we would pull together would have an appropriate buy sell mechanisms.
The financial investors that we are involved with in discussions have a targeted time horizon of five to seven years.
So at some point that venture would ultimately unwind.
But we did view as a good long term growth opportunity for us in a market that has solid fundamentals.
It’s also a market though that is very cyclical and one that is typically and at least since 1990 has introduced about 900 000 square feet of development a year.
There has been a hiatus in new development for the last couple of years but in tracking that market I am sure you noticed this about 1.2 million square feet new development also under construction.
We saw that that market was becoming more of a must have for investors we were fortunate to line up a good auction process that we think created some value for us.
So with all that being said I think we will do we always do we preserve our optionality going forward.
I think the structure here will be very effective over the next few years in terms of growing the platform but one thing we have seen about Austin is as it’s become very high and a lot of investors must have list extremely hard to aggregate a platform of any size in that market.
So we certainly think during the whole period while we are generating additional value for the company as we build that platform that will in fact become more of a value add proposition just in terms of its size and breadth in addition to the intrinsic asset value.
So we think preserve that optionality structure that venture the way that we anticipate again if it happens positions us extremely well short-term in terms of generating a very low cost recovery of capital for us as well as positioning as well for future growth.
Excellent thanks for that color.
And so there was a price for that outright sale and just no one hit that price in your mind at this point is that correct?  The spread between the outright sale offers we received and the offers from really high quality institutions the JV and to commit equity capital going forward was literally on top of each other.
Okay.
Interesting.
Then my second follow up question on the ground lease acquisition of the Three Logan what’s the return there what is the size of kind of cleaning up a ground lease situation is there a longer term play there investment opportunity by owning a land now?  There is no question I mean we’re still projecting that property to be in that $200 square foot plus overall investment range and we expect to get kind of the original projected 9% to 10% return on costs from that project stabilized.
I mean the project right now is I think about 80 some percent occupied but even the full year numbers don’t reflect the value of that because we had Jannie who was really coming in I guess George was in September.
So as we look at the buying out the ground lease the yield on the ground lease to buy this is relatively low because there really was no payments due on that ground lease until 2023 you may recall that was kind of structured up front as a [inaudible] ground lease.
But there is no question Rich from an investment standpoint controlling the fee in addition to and eliminating leasehold clearly can create a lower cap rate scenario for us on reversion.
So we felt we looked at eliminating the complication of the ground lease taking away the forward 2022 risk of the ground lease reset controlling that fee certainly simplify the ownership structure but also we think created some significant premium than we had before towards the reversion of the cap rate there would be.
Understood.
Thanks very much.
You are welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of George Auerbach with ISI Group.
Great thanks guys.
Just two quick ones.
First of all about Michael’s question are there any signs of nil absorption in your Northern Virginia sub markets or is most of the activity still in market share from B buildings and C submarkets?  Yeah I would categorize it today George as still kind of just grabbing market share.
Thanks and then Gerry is there any potential to mine the JV portfolio for acquisition opportunities or as you think about external growth you are more focused on North Virginia and Austin? George good question.
Look there as evidenced by what we did this past quarter with our partnership interest at two of the tower bridge projects we are always looking at whether there is a moment in time opportunity to both simplify their structures and create a really wholly owned value add opportunity for us.
I mean for example on the tower bridge project I mean that was an excellent opportunities for us to acquire a wholly owned 100% interest there and then create the value upside of 73% occupied property.
So always look at every one of those ventures to find out where there might be an opportunity to improve our relative position.
But certainly as we look going forward I mean in two markets that we have higher growth aspirations in the DC margin we though again from a cost of capital standpoint size of market competition of both the capital and the financing side in DC that we were best served by partnering up with great quality institution like Allstate and we kind of view Austin being the same way given where the existing asset pricing has gone to the specter of new development and our expectation trying to grow a dominant market position in Austin.
Great.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Hey guys this is Jed Reagan with Michael just couple of follow-ups.
First any thoughts on whether Brandywine remains a net seller as you look out to ’14? It’s something that we are contemplating relative to thinking for our 2014 plan.
I mean as we look at the progress made in the last 24 months and we have had a very strong recovery in our existing portfolio.
We have through the well timed equity issuance we have created some additional capacity to accelerate or deleveraging goals with the potential remaining sales for the year as well the potential Austin JV but more importantly you talk about some other projects out in the market the number of other projects in the market as well.
It’s hard to say if we will be a net seller.
I think we certainly [inaudible] going back to a growth mode to value add acquisitions adding in infill market locations we have some pending developments underway right now.
But I think we will be formulating that over the next couple of months to see which way we go.
I mean we are certainly seeing some good acquisition opportunities and whether something is small as 660 in Plymouth or Three Logan transaction and we'll continue looking for ways to create forward growth profile in the company.
Okay great.
And just any updates on the 1919 market or Cira South development projects in terms of timing and potential partner selection and then any update on how Cira South is doing in terms of preleasing? Certainly.
1919 Market is we have outlined over a year ago the expectations that we would start the development of that project by the end of this year.
We are in advanced discussions with two high quality partners on structuring the transaction that would recover significant land value for us and provide a framework for going forward.
You may recall Jed we are also a partner in that project now with Independence Blue Cross so there is a partner in that transaction already.
So we are on track for that start.
Certainly as we move forward to that point we will provide a lot more color on financial structure land value recovery expected returns and more importantly the partner selection in our economic stake.
Cira South which the remaining [inaudible] power that is programmed at the office and residential.
We do have had an anchor lease signed with the University of Pennsylvania for more than 100 000 square feet.
We have some very good prospects in the near term queue ranging from a single floor tenants to larger and we will fill that place out over the next couple of quarters and we have also seen a very high level of interest from institutions about taking over co-investing in the residential component of that project.
So good progress on that front as well.
That is certainly something we love to see moving to development as soon as we line up the right economics and partnership structure.
Okay great.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
At this time there are no further questions.
Gentlemen do you have any closing remarks? Only closing remark is we thank all of you for participating in this call and we look forward to updating you in our next quarterly call in the fall.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Good morning.
My name is Latangie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust Third Quarter Earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer session.
If you would like to ask a question during this time simply press star then the number one on your telephone keypad.
If you would like to withdraw your question press the pound key.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Please go ahead sir.
Latangie thank you very much and good morning to everyone and thank you all for participating in our third quarter earnings conference call.
On today’s call with me are George Johnstone our Senior Vice President of Operations; Gabe Mainardi our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Howard Sipzner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President of Portfolio Management and Investments.
Certain information we’ll discuss during this call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
Although we believe the estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurances that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
As is our normal practice we will start with an overview on our three key business plan components: operations balance sheet and investments.
We are also introducing 2014 guidance so we’ll also provide some color on key assumptions and then George Howard and Tom will discuss our operating financial and investment activity in more detail.
As I’m sure you’ve noted we’ve made some changes to the content and format of our supplemental package.
Our investment operations and accounting teams all did a great job in designing what is hopefully a more meaningful and crisper synopsis of our business plan performance.
We’ll certainly touch on some of those enhancements during our comments.
The third quarter was an excellent one for the company.
We continued improving occupancy and preleasing levels.
We were very active on the investment front with the DRA joint venture and the pending Commerce Square transaction and our liquidity remains quite strong.
Operationally all good news reflects continued recovery in our markets.
Operating metrics remain strong and our full-year 2013 plan is on target including our year-end occupancy target of 90% occupied and 92% leased subject as we disclosed to a 70 basis point adjustment due to both the contribution of our Austin portfolio to our newly formed DRA joint venture and the assumed acquisition of Commerce Square before the end of the year.
Cash same store growth will be between 4 and 5% and we’ll continue our trend on positive mark-to-market.
During the quarter our retention rate also improved over plan.
We experienced positive absorption positive cash and GAAP metrics on new leases and a very strong GAAP renewal growth rate.
We continue to generate strong NOI growth reduce our forward rollover exposure experience good leasing capital cost ability all of which will continue to drive value appreciation and strengthen our payout ratios.
We are 99% achieved on our leasing goals with a strong flurry of activity expected between now and year-end that will ensure we meet our year-end targets.
Many of these statistics are outlined on Pages 4 5 and 6 in the supplemental package and George will provide more detail.
In looking at our balance sheet we are in excellent shape.
We have no outstanding balance on our $600 million unsecured line of credit.
We had $185.5 million of cash at the end of the quarter.
With the closing of the Austin transaction last week those cash balances were increased by $270 million so as of yesterday we essentially had about $418 million of cash on hand.
Absent further unplanned activity- and Howard will do a roll forward of that – we anticipate our year-end cash balances to be approximately $269 million.
These cash balances remain invested in depository accounts with numerous banks and we are extremely liquid and in excellent shape to address our intermediate term maturities.
We continue to evaluate the optimal deployment of this cash.
It is clearly available for acquisition activity funding our development pipeline and/or for liability management exercises.
Our 2013 plan and our 2014 plan which I’ll touch on in a few moments do not reflect the impact of any accelerated debt pay downs or any potential acquisition with these cash balances.
As we are experiencing this year and we look ahead to 2014 occupancy gains combined with our capital recycling investment program will be major contributors in achieving our previously stated EBITDA-based leverage targets.
So in summary the balance sheet is in excellent shape objectives remain on track and liquidity remains incredibly strong.
Looking at investments on the investment front we had a fairly busy quarter highlighted by the 50/50 joint venture with DRA Advisors on our wholly-owned Austin Texas portfolio.
We also entered into a 50/50 joint venture with Shooshan Companies to develop subject to significant pre-leasing a 20-storey office building in the Ballston submarket of Arlington Virginia; and we have also agreed subject to the successful merger between Thomas Properties and Parkway Properties to acquire the remaining stake in two 41-storey office towers in downtown Philadelphia 1 and 2 Commerce Square.
Our press release and Page 9 in our SIP provide specifics on several development projects including 200 Radnor Chester Road 660 Germantown Pike evo at Cira South which is our joint venture with Harrison Street and Campus Crest and The Parc at Plymouth our joint venture will Toll Brothers.
All projects are progressing on schedule and on budget.
Our equity in evo is 75% funded with only $4.3 million remaining and our equity in Parc is fully funded.
Both projects have construction loans in place to cover the remaining costs.
Solid progress is also being made in our land management program and we are on track to achieve our overall land monetization goals as we outline in our supplemental package.
So to wrap up our look at this quarter it was really a very good one.
Our 2000 business plan is on track.
We remain encouraged by the high level of leasing activity through our portfolio the continued strengthening of our markets the depth of our market positions our positive NOI growth rates positive same store positive mark-to-market and effectively controlling our capital costs.
As we outlined in our press release our full-year 2013 FFO guidance we adjusted up by a penny at the bottom end of both the core and regular FFO so we’ve moved the guidance range to $1.37 to $1.41 versus our previous range of $1.36 to $1.41 and on the core to be in a range of $1.38 to $1.42 versus our prior range of $1.37 to $1.42 per share.
But let’s look at 2014.
We introduce 2014 FFO guidance with a range of $1.40 to $1.49 per share achieving at the midpoint a 41.5% FFO payout ratio.
Also assuming the midpoint of this range versus first call 2013 consensus creates an FFO growth rate of slightly more than 3.5%.
Our 2014 guidance is driven by the following expectations: we expect the economy to continue it’s slow rate of recovery evidenced by moderate GDP growth moderate job growth and on the real estate front a continued road to recovery in our markets.
We expect tenant activity levels to remain at current levels in most of our markets.
In assessing individual market performance we see continued strengthening in Philadelphia CBD our Pennsylvania Crescent markets and Austin Texas; and we believe we remain well positioned in Metro DC.
While we certainly continue to focus on the pace of recovery in that market and any government dislocation we do remain optimistic about that market’s long-term growth prospects.
For 2014 we expect year-end occupancy levels to range between 91% and 92% and expect our leasing to be between 93% and 94% at year-end 2014.
As I touched on earlier the joint venture of our Austin portfolio has a 30 basis point adverse impact on overall occupancy levels and the acquisition of the below par occupied Commerce Square impacts our original targets by 40 basis points though of course it presents an excellent leasing and growth opportunity for our company.
We are forecasting a retention rate of 62%.
We expect strong mark-to-market on 2014 leasing activity range of between 6% and 8%.
Same store numbers next year will remain strong with a GAAP range between 3% and 5% and a cash range between 4% and 6%.
We do expect capital costs to be well within our running rate of 10% to 15% target.
Another key positive when we look at 2014 is our lease expirations are only 8% which is the lowest we’ve had in many years.
The business plan will continue our path to achieve our interim debt to GAV target of 40% and EBITDA multiple of 6.5 times as we work towards our longer debt to GAV target of mid-30% and below 6 times EBITDA.
If you look at our 2014 business plan it’s important to recognize that no additional equity or debt financing is incorporated into our overall forecasts.
That said we continually monitor both markets with the objective of fuelling our growth objectives strengthening our financial platform taking advantage of market opportunities and continuing our deleveraging path.
As I touched on earlier we do anticipate having significant cash balances as we enter 2014.
Our plan does not reflect externally deploying this cash.
There may well be opportunities to do so in an NAV-accretive and balance sheet strengthening manner.
For our 2000 business plan however we’ve taken the most conservative route and assumed that the cash is not deployed in any of these manners during the course of the year but rather using this cash to pay off our $244 million of debt maturities including our $232 million bond maturity in November of 2014.
Looking at investments 2014 will represent another successful year as we accelerate our strategy of transitioning to urban and town center portfolio concentrations.
To refresh your memory for 2013 we originally projected a $100 million target then subsequently increased that up to $221 million of net sales activity.
In our updated plan we expect to close this year including the share of the Austin joint venture $342 million and Tom will touch on some more of the acquisition activity in his comments.
During 2014 we will remain very opportunistic and continually evaluating on both the buy and the sell side growth opportunities.
The investment strategy component of our business plan is always the hardest to forecast and we have again in 2014 taken a fairly conservative view.
As an underlying predicate of our plan we are assuming that we will be $150 million net seller of real estate during 2014 with most of those sales modeled for the second half of the year.
That being said some additional observations – our customers want highly efficient fully amenitized multi-modal access properties.
As such our buy sell and build strategy is based on delivering the highest quality most efficient and best managed inventory in all of our markets.
As Tom will discuss we anticipate continued strength in the investment market for sales of suburban office space so we will remain aggressive in putting properties on the market for price discovery to see if we can further accelerate our portfolio transition.
We will remain focused on growth the quality and locational advantages of our portfolio.
We certainly expect additional investment activity in Washington DC Austin Texas and several of our town center markets.
As you know in Washington DC and now Austin we have formed effective co-investment vehicles to accelerate our growth and asset concentrations in those markets.
We will be a net seller in New Jersey Delaware and Richmond Virginia as well as continuing our liquidation efforts in California.
We do expect to receive additional value from our land monetization program.
In particular during 2014 several of our projects in the planning and rezoning phase should move closer to an exit or recapitalization that positions us for harvesting profits.
We have several projects in the pre-development stage and while our 2014 does not currently project any additional development starts that situation could change as joint venture partnerships are formed and/or additional leasing occurs.
In particular we remain focused on a mixed use project at 20<sup>th</sup> and Market Streets in Philadelphia.
That project will be retail office residential with a 219-car garage component.
We recently obtained final approvals and it’s commencement is subject to the execution of joint venture documents.
The Stock Exchange Building at 1900 Market Street in Philadelphia is expected to commence a redevelopment program sometime in the first half of ’14.
You may recall that we purchased this 456 000 square foot property in December of last year.
It’s currently 77% leased with a major tenant rollout expected in 2015.
We do anticipate over the next couple years embarking on a $25 million renovation program to incorporate façade entrance lobby and mechanical system upgrades for an overall investment base that we anticipate being around $180 per square foot.
Finally with the commencement of evo at Chestnut Street we accelerated the marketing campaign on our Walnut Street Tower.
That tower will be about 800 000 square feet including approximately 575 000 square feet of office with the remaining square footage being a combination of retail and market-rate residential.
As you know we previously executed a 100 000 square foot lease with the University of Pennsylvania.
Our very active marketing campaign continues and if we execute a lease with another major tenant we could be in a position to start that project sometime during the second half of 2014 for delivery in mid-year 2016.
So the bottom line on our investment programs that we’ve taken a fairly conservative view by forecasting only $150 million of sales volume.
As opportunities present themselves during the year as they invariably will we are in a great position to execute with minimal debt maturities significant cash balances full availability on our line of credit and a demonstrated ability to effectively recycle capital into higher quality higher value assets.
To wrap up our 2014 business plan represents a strong continuation of our drive toward value creation.
Significant improving our operating platform forward leasing momentum along with consistently strong leasing activity gives us confidence that we will continue to generate solid NOI growth same store performance and positive mark-to-market.
At this point George will provide an overview of our third quarter operational performance as well as some color on 2014.
He’ll then turn it over to Howard for a review of financial reporting activity and then Howard will turn it over to Tom for a review of the investment markets.
Thank you Gerry.
We continue to see strong operational performance throughout the company.
Robust levels of activity and a continued high level of conversion by our regional teams have ensured that we meet and/or beat all of our business plan targets for 2013 and sets the stage for continued outperformance in 2014.
Even in northern Virginia where macro uncertainty clouds the landscape we remain poised to capture market share with a well positioned toll road portfolio.
During the quarter we continued to see good levels of leasing activity.
Traffic through the portfolio averaged 248 000 square feet per week and was up from our second quarter activity.
During the quarter we executed 738 000 square feet of leases including 421 000 square feet of new and expansion leases along with 317 000 square feet of renewal leases.
Lease commencements totaled 832 000 square feet during the quarter including 448 000 square feet of new and expansion leases along with 385 000 square feet of renewals.
This activity increased occupancy over the second quarter by 40 basis points to 88.3% and we have maintained a 300 basis point spread from forward leasing to end the quarter 91.3% leased.
The required leasing for the balance of 2013 is nearly complete but more notably is that the leasing achieved to date has yielded improved operating metrics.
We have increased our speculative revenue target by $800 000 to $44.7 million and are 99% complete on that increased target.
Additional renewals and expansions have resulted in a 300 basis point increase in retention to 65%.
Our GAAP leasing spreads have improved through a combination of lease term rent bumps and improving asking rents for the second consecutive quarter.
We increased the previous range of 5% to 7% to a new range of 6% to 8%.
Cash leasing spreads also improved.
Capital control remains a priority and we’ve been able to lower our $2.25 to $2.75 per square foot per lease year range to a new range of $2.15 to $2.45.
The 100 basis point tightening the top end of our same store NOI growth range is purely due to the Austin JV which will drop these properties from the same store.
These strong operating metrics have ensured that we maintain our 90% occupied and 92% lease targets for the wholly owned portfolio as of September 30.
As Gerry mentioned in his commentary two major fourth quarter transactions will impact our reported occupancy at year-end.
The contribution of our 95% occupied Austin portfolio to the DRA joint venture is 30 basis points dilutive to occupancy.
In addition the acquisition of Commerce Square is 40 basis points dilutive to occupancy.
As a result the reported occupancy for the company at year-end will be 89.3%.
We are still projecting a 200 basis point spread between occupied and leased and as a result we’ll be 91.3% leased at year-end.
We’ve depicted the occupancy roll forward and the impact of these investment transactions on Page 5 of the supplemental package.
Now turning to the 2014 business plan.
Gerry already addressed the major themes and associated targets but I’ll take a moment to address occupancy.
Similar to 2013 Page 6 of the supplemental package contains a roll forward of our 2014 occupancy.
Based on 3.4 million square feet of lease commencements 928 000 square feet of projected move-outs and 444 000 square feet of early terminations we will generate 200 basis points of absorption on the 89.3 occupied company at 12/31/13 to finish 2014 at 91.3% occupied – again diluted 70 basis points from the previously stated 2014 occupancy target of 92% from the DRA JV and Commerce Square transactions.
To conclude we’re delighted with our performance during the quarter and the ability to raise several of our 2013 business plan targets.
This strong finish provides tremendous momentum as we head into 2014.
At this point I’ll turn it over to Howard.
Thank you George and thank you Gerry as well.
For the third quarter of 2013 our core FFO totaled $63.2 million or $0.40 per diluted share and met the $0.40 analyst consensus.
Core FFO payout ratio for the quarter was 37.5% on the $0.15 distribution we paid in July 2013.
Core FFO provides a better sense of our FFO run rate by eliminating transactional and capital markets activity as noted in our supplemental package on Page 24.
Year-to-date core 2013 FFO exceeds NAREIT FFO by $1.6 million while third quarter core and NAREIT FFO differ by $200 000.
As Gerry noted we redesigned our supplemental package this quarter based on your feedback and our desire to make it more user friendly transparent and complete.
We welcome your additional comments and feedback.
With respect to the third quarter results I’d like to make the following observations.
Third quarter FFO is high quality with termination revenue other income management fees interest income the financing obligation expense and aggregate JV activity totaling just $7 million gross or $5.7 million net in line with our overall 2013 expectation.
Third quarter NOI margin at 60% remains at or near the highest level for this metric all the way back to early 2009.
We’ve now had nine consecutive positive quarters for the GAAP same store NOI metric and six consecutive positive quarters for the cash metric and are on track for our 2013 targets.
Third quarter interest expense of $30.3 million was down $100 000 versus the second quarter of 2013 and down $2.3 million versus the third quarter a year ago reflecting the accumulated beneficial impact of our ongoing capital market and liability management activities.
G&amp;A at $6.4 million was in line with expectations and with $19.3 million of revenue-maintaining capital expenditures in the third quarter some of which represented concentrated lease commissions for future period we achieved $0.17 of cash available for distribution per diluted share and 88.2% payout ratio.
On the balance sheet we ended the quarter at a debt to GAV – to gross asset value – of 40.9% a net debt to total market capitalization of 49.8% and a 6.8 times net debt to EBITDA ratio and all maintain the improvements we realized from the April equity offering.
These are among our best levels for these metrics going back over eight years.
We have just $100 million of floating rate debt no outstanding balance on our $600 million unsecured revolving line of credit $185.5 million of cash and no maturities until $232 million that was due November 2014 and that’s now been reduced by $8 million for an October bond repurchase.
We expect this maturity is fully covered by current and projected cash balances.
With respect to guidance as Gerry noted we’re bumping up both the NAREIT and core definitions by a penny at the bottom end and with nine-month core FFO of $1.07 we need between a range of $0.31 to $0.35 to hit our guidance range.
In addition to the business plan assumptions on Pages 5 and 7 of the supplement please note the following: gross other income for the company remains unchanged at $20 to $25 million gross or $14 to $19 million net and that covers a basket of other items such as termination revenue other income management revenue less the associated expenses if net our interest income JV income and less the 3141 Fairview financing obligation expense.
G&amp;A should be about $26 million for 2013 with Q4 a bit lower than the run rate as certain expenses were front-loaded.
Interest expense can be narrowed to a range of $122 to $123 million for the full year.
We don’t expect any additional issuance under our equity programs and no additional note buyback beyond a total of $9.3 million that was completed in early October.
Year-to-date we have repurchased $21.2 million of unsecured notes in a series of open market transactions and as noted in the press release we’re modeling 156.2 million weighted average shares for FFO calculations in 2013.
For CAD for the full year we are projecting it to be in a range of $0.66 to $0.70 reflecting $24 to $30 million of additional revenue-maintaining capital expenditures in the fourth quarter.
As a result our plan for the full year provides a $10 to $15 million free cash flow cushion after dividends and recurring capital expenditures.
Touching on capital for the balance of the year we have remaining uses of $217 million picking up as of October 1 $3 million for mortgage amortization $10 million for the unsecured note repurchase including its premium cost $113 million to complete acquisitions $25 million for an undisclosed transaction and about $69 million to complete the 1 and 2 Commerce transaction being the most notable $27 million of revenue-maintaining CAPEX using the midpoint of the earlier range $38 million of other CAPEX for leasing up previously vacant space and some of our developments that are ongoing and $26 million of aggregate dividends consisting of about $24 million for common shares and $1.7 million for preferred that were already funded earlier in October.
The sources for the $217 million would be $27 million of cash flow before financings investments and dividends but after interest payments which are elevated in the fourth quarter and $274 million of sales representing $271.5 million of proceeds from the Austin JV transaction that’s closed and $2.6 million from the sale of a small vacant building that is also closed.
The total sources of $301 million produce $84 million of excess cash increasing our $185 million September 30 balance to the year-end balance of $269 million that Gerry mentioned earlier.
Gerry also noted our 2014 FFO per share guidance of $1.40 to $1.49.
A few highlights around those numbers – we’re modeling gross other income for 2014 at a higher level - $30 to $35 million or $25 to $30 million net – for a basket of all these other items and that number is boosted because with the Austin properties now in a JV we’ll realize our income through that line item on the income statement and not through operations.
2014 G&amp;A should come in at $25 to $26 million and will be somewhat front-loaded as certain expenses occur in the first quarter and first half of the year.
Interest expense will now be in a range of $130 to $134 million and that’s elevated from 2013 as well and covers the expected assumption of the 1 and 2 Commerce Square mortgage loans that we’ll be assuming when we close that transaction at the end of the year.
We’re modeling $150 million of sales activity at an 8.5% cap rate and with the back or year-end loading that Gerry mentioned the lost income should be in the $3 to $4 million range for the full year.
We’re expecting no issuance under our equity program and no note buyback or capital markets activity at this point in time.
For 2014 we’re modeling 160.4 million weighted average shares for the full year.
Our FFO payout ratio is projected at 41.5% at the midpoint.
With respect to CAD for 2014 we’re projecting it to be in a range of $0.65 to $0.75 per diluted share reflecting $75 to $85 million of additional revenue-maintaining capital expenditures.
As such the plan will provide $15 to $20 million of free cash flow after dividends and recurring CAPEX.
For 2014 our total capital uses come out at $498 million today and they represent the following: $13 million for mortgage amortization $224 million for the remaining balance on the 2014 note $80 million of revenue-maintaining capital expenditures reflecting the midpoint of the $75 to $80 million range $78 million of other capital expenditures.
We’ve modeled $70 million for all other CAPEX of leasing up either currently vacant or previously vacant or newly created vacant space all goes in that basket and various CAPEX or investment items for some of our smaller projects.
We have $103 million of aggregate dividend activity consisting of about $96 million for common shares and $7 million for our preferred shares.
The sources for the $498 million are as follows: $185 million of cash flow for the full year before financings investments dividends and after interest payments; $6 million from the expected repayment of a note receivable we are currently holding; $150 million of sales activity; and to round it out we’ll use $157 million from available cash reducing our projected $269 million year-end 2013 balance to $112 million at year-end 2014.
That covers the guidance and the capital plan.
I’ll make one last note on our accounts receivables – in that activity credit activity and write-off activity for the third quarter of 2013 was typical and we’re holding $16.9 million of total reserves at September 30.
With that I’ll turn it over to Tom for some investment market comments.
Thank you Howard.
The third quarter was an active one and we already exceeded our 2013 goals.
Including the Austin joint venture we’ve already completed $342 million of dispositions exceeding our $221 million disposition target by $121 million.
That includes $175 million of non-core suburban properties at a blended cash rate of 7.8%.
Including 1 and 2 Commerce we have bought out two joint venture partners effectively acquiring three properties within our core markets valued at approximately $356 million.
Our joint venture investment in a $194 million LEED Gold future office project in Arlington Virginia is an efficient deployment of capital inside the Beltway.
This 2013 investment activity supports our strategy to reduce our exposure to non-core suburban markets and strengthen our position in our core markets.
Looking forward to 2014 we are confident that we will continue to meet and possibly exceed our disposition targets and our investment objectives.
We will remain an active seller executing on our plan to reduce our exposure to non-core suburban office and continue to recycle that capital into urban town center locations.
Our pipeline is deep and we will continue to execute on opportunistic acquisitions like 1900 Market and 1 and 2 Commerce and align ourselves with high quality local operators and developers such as the Shooshan Company who own well located assets and land in our core target markets.
During the third quarter we entered into three transactions to further that strategy.
1 and 2 Commerce are two trophy-quality towers totaling 1.9 million square feet located in Philadelphia CBD.
Our 25% preferred ownership interest gave us the ability to quickly underwrite and acquire these properties.
The transaction which is subject to merger between Parkway and Thomas values the properties at $331.8 million or $175 a foot.
The transaction at 1 and 2 Commerce will increase our NOI contribution from the Philadelphia CBD from 24.6% to 30.4%.
1 and 2 Commerce are being acquired subject to two mortgages totaling $238 million with a weighted average face interest rate of 4.76% which is then subject to fair market value adjustments.
The Austin joint venture with DRA closed this week.
We closed on the Austin joint venture with DRA.
This joint venture accomplished two goals: allowing us to take advantage of the current market conditions in the Austin market to harvest value from the current portfolio and align ourselves with an existing partner DRA Advisors who shares our desire to grow the portfolio in that market.
At closing we sold 50% in our portfolio to DRA.
We were able to secure $230 million of financing through three separate five-year mortgages and Brandywine has received initial cash proceeds of $271.5 million.
We still consider Austin a core market and while the venture initially reduced our exposure we have established a $200 million go-forward equity platform with DRA to acquire additional office properties to further grow our market presence.
In Arlington Virginia we continue to execute on our strategy to increase our investments inside the Beltway by entering into a joint venture.
We acquired a 50% interest in a new development project to construct a 426 900 square foot LEED Gold office building in the Ballston submarket of Arlington Virginia.
The project is ideally located within that submarket and our partner the Shooshan Company is an experienced local operator who has already successfully developed 1.8 million square feet in that submarket.
We have shared control and joint decision-making responsibilities.
We anticipate commencing the project upon achieving a significant level of preleasing and then obtaining a construction loan to help finance the project.
Our equity investment is expected to total approximately $36 million and we believe the project will cost approximately $460 per square foot which is well below the pricing of some recent trades in that submarket.
Looking at the investment market right now we are seeing continued appetite for well-located assets in our core markets.
We see new buyers entering into the Austin market and continue to see a large and diverse investor pool for assets inside the Beltway.
We continue to see interest in many of our suburban markets with sales momentum and pricing remaining steady.
Our underwriting reflects our deep knowledge of the market realities; however we continue to believe in the long-term fundamentals of our targeted markets and our plan remains to take advantage of those investment opportunities.
We have very specific targeted investment areas and we have been disciplined in our search to increase our exposure to these targeted markets.
A continuing driver in the investment market is the access to secured debt.
As a result of our joint ventures we continue to access the secured debt markets and continue to receive attractive financing terms.
We have seen continued competition in pricing mainly from the banks and some life insurance companies.
For the Austin joint venture we have fixed $90 million of our secured mortgages at approximately 3.3%.
For our Chestnut Street and Plymouth Meeting projects we have secured $154 million of construction financing at approximately 2% over LIBOR.
With that I will turn it back over to Gerry.
Great Tom.
Thank you.
And Howard thank you and George to you as well.
We’ve gone a little bit long so to wrap up our prepared remarks the third quarter was on plan.
We remain confident with the full-year execution of our 2013 business objectives but just as importantly looking ahead at 2014 you can expect continued strong portfolio performance solid balance sheet improvement and an active evaluation of a full range of investment choices that we’ll have as our markets continue to recover.
With that we’d be delighted to open up the floor for questions and we ask that in the interests of time you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Thank you.
Thanks good morning.
Gerry if I look at your occupancy it looks like there were a couple of changes to the operating pool which you kind of highlighted the 70 basis point negative impact from Austin and the Commerce.
It looked like maybe you guys are sold or are selling a little bit more vacancy than was the prior plan so that is additive to the occupancy target.
The broader question is you’ve got what appears to be a pretty aggressive and positive view for your 2014 outlook and if I think about the core occupancy target for ’13 it looks like you’re coming in a little bit light of the original expectations.
And then if I think about last year it looked like you came in a little bit light and revised that down again so what gives you the confidence that you can get that 200 basis points next year when it seems like maybe the past couple years it hasn’t worked out where the original expectations were at this time of year? Yes good question.
We’ll take in two parts.
George why don’t you provide some of the background behind some of Brendan’s questions? Yes absolutely.
When we laid out our previous roll forward I think Brendan even as you kind of tabled it in your pre-call commentary included in that 1.948 million of new leasing we had made the assumption that during 2013 we would lease both the 39 000 square foot building that is held for sale at 9/30 and we also had assumed that we would lease the 50 000 square foot building that we’re still projecting to sell in the fourth quarter.
So the drop-off in new leasing activity is the result of the fact that we are in fact selling those two assets.
So I think the roll forward that we now have contained on Page 5 of the supplemental demonstrates that we are going to finish at 90% and those two building sales started out as lease conversations shifted to sale conversations and for all the right reasons we sold those two buildings.
The third one of note was the kind of delay in placing 660 PMEC into service.
That redevelopment project is currently 80%-plus leased but we’ve leased that building to date to a 6-per-1 000 square foot parking ratio and in order to lease the rest of the building we’ll be acquiring an adjacent land parcel next door to the building for an expansion of the parking lot and that’s kind of shifted that asset into an first quarter ’14 placed in service event.
So I think we do feel that the pipeline that we have the negotiations that are underway we do feel confident that we’ll hit that 90% on the 125 000 square feet of new leasing left to be done in ’13 and as we look at ’14 again I think we feel very good about where the vacancy is located the fact that we are 55% done on that spec revenue plan for next year where we were only 33% done on spec revenue this time last year.
The forward leasing that’s been executed we feel good about the ’14 plan as constructed.
That’s helpful color.
Thanks George.
Just to follow up the known move-outs next year I think there is make Lockheed and then Travelers down in Richmond.
Are there any other big ones that are known to come out of the pool? Yes we’ve got the two obviously that you noted.
We’ve got a contractual downsizing by Drinker at One Logan that we previously announced and then we’ve got 50 000 square feet coming back from KMPG and Tyson’s.
So all kind of known even as we sat here a quarter ago but have certainly baked those into the plan going forward.
I can tell you that with Lockheed in Maryland we have continued to see an active pipeline on those two buildings.
We’ve already signed a 27 000 square foot tenant in Building 2 and we’ve got prospects looking at the balance of Building 2 and the fully occupied Lockheed building in Building 1 that range from 15 000 square feet all the way up to 90 000 square feet and we actively continue to pursue that pipeline.
Thanks George.
Brendan just to wrap that up as we look at it it’s not an exact science as we all know in this business.
We can’t always necessary dictate exactly what the timing of lease executions are but we really do go through a very ground-up review with all of our senior leasing agents our managing directors George running the corporate operations group and take a look at our forward roll-over percentage where that is the current pipeline leasing activity traffic through the portfolio on a weekly basis and really do a fairly good risk assessment of what we think the activity will be on both a quarterly and annual basis.
I think we stated in our comments we really do believe that we have a high degree of confidence in the year-end ’13 and ’14 goals and we’re working towards those objectives.
Okay that’s great.
Thanks for the color.
Okay.
Well with this new supplemental and such a thorough conference call I guess you don’t need to have a call until this time next year? Well we try and provide good information John so we know you always have good thoughtful questions though.
All right.
So here is the—it looks to us as if you’re going to be over 30% in Center City Philadelphia.
You’re going to be close to 20% in Radnor a little over 15% in the Virginia portion of your DC portfolio so that’s kind of 65%.
Can you kind of walk through primarily Center City Philadelphia – what’s the bull case? You’re buying at under $200 a foot replacement cost is clearly $400 a foot.
You’ve got a lot of stuff in redevelopment but what’s the bull case on actually getting some upward movement in rental rates in that particular market? Well I think the bull case is what’s been playing out over the last couple of years.
There’s actually been upward movement of rental rates at the higher end of the inventory in the city and in University City.
I mean what you see are asset concentrations is in the high class A trophy class inventories as we say here in the city and a vacancy rate at that level is in the mid-single digits that’s further evidenced by a vacancy rate at the same level in University City.
So certainly we believe that acquiring properties at the investment basis that we have provides us a very significant competitive advantage in bringing tenants both into the city which we’ve done in a number of cases accommodating tenant expansion requirements and having tenants frankly move up from lower quality space as they seek more highly amenitized more efficient floor plates.
I mean we spend a lot of time in what we look at developing or acquiring in the city through the lens of floor plate efficiencies elevator service times restroom upgrades et cetera so we’re presenting a very solid and attractive economic package to our tenants.
But I think the bull case is what you’re seeing playing out over the last couple of years.
We’ve been able to move up our mark-to-market get positive same store growth coming out of that marketplace again at the higher end of the inventory and we certainly think that as Philadelphia continues to be the positive recipient of in-migration of residents starts to continue to reassess it’s tax structure as they did through the AVI initiative last year expands its culture base and makes some infrastructure investments you really are in a case where you can become pretty excited about the prospects of Philadelphia over the next dozen years.
All the right pieces are there.
You’re seeing continued expansion of major institutions in the city continued NIH funding into University City submarket and truly have all the pieces I think that present a fairly positive growth climate for the city for the foreseeable future.
Again we are hedging our bets on that by making sure that what we buy we buy at the right price.
When we buy it we make sure we assess it we underwrite it we understand exactly what we need to invest in it to deliver a very good return and that those properties are all at the very high end of the inventory set or have the capability like the Stock Exchange Building of being refurbished and redeveloped into something that’s fairly unique in the market that should drive the rental rates there significantly as well.
Great thank you.
Thanks good morning.
Looking to just get some color on the future investment opportunities.
I think you’ve touched on some of them.
I’m interested in the joint venture with Shooshan and what you see there but also prospective new investment.
Does it look like incremental dollars will be spent on development from here and maybe you could talk about what’s sort of front burner as it relates to that.
Great question and Tom and I can tag-team it.
The joint venture with the Shooshan Company in DC I think from our standpoint was a very effective way to join forces with one of the preeminent local development companies who has a long track record of developing high quality office mixed use space and creating a very good neighborhood.
This was the last remaining development parcel.
We think it gave us an opportunity to affiliate with a high integrity company an extraordinarily strong local market franchise with great reputation for integrity and execution and actually the buying in in that very strong submarket at construction cost or replacement cost and a projected pro forma yield that we think is significantly above an acquisition yield that we’d be paying for an older office product.
So again if you go back to our comments on the real focus is on efficiency multi-modal access fully amenitized programs that project in and of itself fit all that criteria so we thought it was a very attractive entry point Jordan into that market at a very good investment base and pro forma return going forward.
We will certainly collaborate with John Shooshan and his team on the appropriate timing to start that based upon pre-leasing so it puts us in a very strong position in terms of share control and making the right pragmatic business decisions.
Look as we look at the office market there is clearly a transition underway.
That transition is driven by customer appetites for office space that’s a bit different than the appetites were 20 years ago.
As a result a lot of our sales activity has been ferreting out of the portfolio some assets that we thought were from a functional efficiency or locational standpoint not really core to our growth objectives going forward; and on the other end of that spectrum certainly as we look at some development activities of which we have some underway and I alluded to a few other ones we think that’s also a very viable way for us to improve our competitive position as the market continues to recover.
So we have been seeing we do expect to see more opportunities for build to suits from tenants who are looking for very state-of-the-art high ceiling column-free fully amenitized buildings that have multi-modal access.
So certainly when we look at our investment plan and our buy sell or build scenarios we would expect that development could be a larger part of our program going forward.
Tom do you have any other observations on that? Jordan just on any acquisition that we do look at although we’re going to be a net seller we still see a lot of activity in Austin which is a key market for us where we have a platform to buy.
We see a lot of activity in DC inside the Beltway so we’ll continue to look at there.
There also we have a platform with Allstate to buy so we continue to see activity.
Pricing has been strong so we’ll be looking at a lot of things and hopefully taking advantage of some disconnects on a few items.
What are the targeted incremental returns on development versus the buy? What I think we’ve seen thus far both with the deals we have underway—I mean we’re looking at spreads of close to 200 basis points over acquisition yields which seems to be a pretty attractive entry point certainly as we’ve evaluated things down in the DC marketplace.
Okay.
So does that put Shooshan in the 8 range? In that general range yes.
Okay thank you.
Great thank you and good morning.
I just want to think about—or hopefully you can help us think about potential upside to your guidance.
So when you think about your spec leasing activity can you talk about maybe some of the largest leases that you’re working on and what the potential upside might be and your prospects for them? Yes I think clearly the largest upside would probably be within the Maryland portfolio that I alluded to before.
We’re getting—we’ve already gotten the 78 000 square feet back from Lockheed in Research Office 2 and have backfilled about a third of that and then the other 137 000 square feet we get back at the end of January.
So we’ve kind of got some assumed down time and then obviously an assumed construction time that really make the re-let of those buildings more of a late 2014 event.
I think to the extent we can get something signed sooner than that that would be some upside.
I think we’ve got some other pockets of space kind of within the Dulles Corner portfolio that ideally offer some upside and then probably lastly and probably the one we feel the best about would be some of the full floor opportunities we have in CBD Philadelphia both One and Two Logan Square.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Morning guys it’s Jed Reagan here with Michael.
Can you just talk about how leasing activity has fared since the end of the quarter and specifically are you seeing any impact on the ground yet from the government shutdown and debt ceiling drama particularly in the DC market? I think activity has remained pretty consistent in the last 24 days.
I think the government shutdown didn’t necessarily have an impact on leasing activity but it has an impact—tours were still happening but I think it would have a little bit of a slowdown on decision timelines once someone has maybe narrowed their focus to a particular building or buildings.
Some of the job loss that has resulted from sequestration is now kind of coming to roost and we’re seeing that in some of the defense contracting-type companies but we’re starting to see a little bit of a pickup in some of the private sector jobs.
So our activity continues to be good down in our northern Virginia submarket and again the mission of the team is really to make every deal so have an effective tour generate the appropriate proposal and cut to the chase on the lease negotiation.
Okay that’s helpful.
Can you offer any insight on the timing of the ’14 occupancy guidance? Do you expect improvements to be weighted to any particular part of the year? <br>I think our expectation is that it will be somewhat flat during the first half of the year with a pickup in the third and fourth quarter.
Okay great.
And just one follow-up if I may – you mentioned the Lockheed space in Maryland.
Any updates on leasing progress at the Travelers space in Richmond? Yes we’ve got two 40 000 square foot prospects that we are currently entertaining.
If you recall that’s an 85 000 square foot give-back at the end of January.
And then we’ve got some smaller tenants to kind of fill in the balance so we’re trying to get the bigger ones done first but we’ve got kind of a pipeline of smaller deals that we could multi-tenant some of those 30 000 square foot floor plates.
Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Great thanks guys.
Just wanted to maybe drill down to the 2014 guidance on the DC spec revenue.
I saw that it was down about 50% from ’14 versus ’13.
I was just a bit surprised given how much of lease-up opportunity you have in that market why the spec revenue might be lower next year than this year.
Well I think part of it is the timing of when some of that occupancy is going to occur but remember that we did take that DC portfolio from 80% occupied at the end of ’12 to 86% occupied come the end of ’13 so 600 basis points of pickup.
We do have some known rollover there that we expect tenants to vacate and we’ve got probably close to 150 000 square feet of early terminations in ’14 most of which are coming from that DC region.
So between early terminations and known move-outs and then an associated down time and construction period to re-let the space that’s really the driver.
Okay thanks.
Gerry just more broadly I know in ’12 and ’13 the focus was on filling space and gaining occupancy.
Any change to what you’re telling the guys in the field in terms of pushing rate versus filling space? Again George it’s very much a market driven dynamic.
I mean we have been as George and I go through the operating discussions on a regular basis with the team there are certainly some markets that filled up – the CBD what we experienced in Austin Texas certainly the Plymouth Meeting Radnor (indiscernible) markets to some degree now even King of Prussia Pennsylvania we really are focusing on moving up rents controlling capital costs lengthening lease terms.
One of the things that we always look at is lease terms.
You’ll see in our 2014 business plan we’ve been able to move our lease terms up a little bit more.
So yes there is very much a number of markets in our portfolio where we’ve really gone back on the offensive in terms of pushing rents pushing annual rent bumps.
I mean a few years ago we were lucky to get half a percentage point of 1% rent bumps.
Now we’re getting 2% to 3%-plus annual rent bumps so very much the same.
Certainly in DC as George touched on the direction to our team is to mitigate forward risk and find the best tenants we can cut the best economic deal presentable in the marketplace structure those leases to create a lot of future NOI cash growth and cut those deals.
So there we’re still playing very much of a hand-to-hand combat but that does modulate by submarket.
Great thank you.
Thanks good morning.
Can you clarify what’s factored into the year-end occupancy target for the Travelers and Lockheed spaces? Does it assume a full re-leasing? No.
That would be in the ’14 plan; but yes we’ve got about half of the Travelers space incorporated and I think a little bit less than half of—probably about a third of the combined Lockheed space in the plan.
As being occupied at year-end? Correct.
But isn’t one of the Lockheed buildings a full building? It is.
So do you think it’s—I mean could you lease out part of the space or is it—you’re going to multi-tenant the building? Oh yes they’re multi-tenantable buildings.
In fact we’ve commenced renovation plans for both of those projects.
The two buildings where we have the vacancy occurring are very well located on the 270 corridor very efficient buildings that were designed for multi-tenant occupancy.
We’ve been fortunate that they have not been on the market for a long time because they’ve been leased.
With the Lockheed move-out it actually presented a very good opportunity for us to upgrade some of that physical plant so some of that work is underway now.
A good piece of that will be done by the end of 2013.
We’ll roll over with some additional work in 2014 but our marketing team is showing renderings new floor plans new restrooms new lobby areas as part of their marketing campaign.
So what we like about those buildings is that they have great visibility great parking fundamentally very sound physical plants well done and also present the opportunity for us to refurbish them a bit to bring them up to kind of 2014 standards.
Okay.
Thanks.
For Arlington for the development project Arlington seems to be a pretty weak market.
How serious is the current pipeline of tenants? What type of tenants are you talking to and also what level of gross rents do you need to get the 8.5% yield you were talking about? Well the market certainly has shown some weakness with some known move-outs.
That’s one of the reasons why I think we worked very closely with Shooshan to structure this as a deal that would commence construction upon a significant pre-lease.
We were targeting rents kind of in the 50-plus range that will deliver those returns which are well in line with market and the range of tenants there range from foundations to law firms to other government agencies and they really range in size from 20 to 200 000 square feet.
But that pipeline continues to be evaluated.
We see people moving on to the pipeline.
Certainly when they make decisions and what they are prepared to pay will be key evaluation points in whether we and Shooshan decide we want to go vertical.
Okay thanks.
Just one last one for Howard – you mentioned $25 million of undisclosed transaction costs in the fourth quarter.
Should we think of that as additional note purchases? Should we think of that as acquisition activity? I’m sorry Howard – I’ll take it.
It’s an acquisition we have targeted that we just can’t disclose at this point.
It’s in our core markets.
It’s not financial; it’s asset-based.
We’re not in a position to really disclose what that is at this point.
And the $25 million is the gross price? The purchase price correct.
Okay thank you very much.
Hey good morning.
You spoke about the bull play in the Philly market.
I’d love to get some more color if you could try and quantify what kind of rent bumps you’re looking to achieve over the next five-year period including how you feel about that bull play matures over a longer term period than we spoke about previously.
Yes I think in that market that’s one where we have been able to try to push both asking rents and rent bumps.
We’re targeting right now kind of between 2.5 and 3% bumps on all of our CBD leases.
And in terms of the asset values maturing? I’m sorry – you’re cutting out.
We’re having a hard time hearing you.
Sorry.
You spoke about you’re purchasing assets at a sub-$200 per square foot where the replacement value is clearly above $400.
How do you feel that that matures and what time period do you feel that you could be looking at? Okay I think we get it.
Certainly growing rents is a key driver in driving asset value so I think when we look back over the last few years with where rents were with where they are today I think we feel as though we’re on a very good path.
If the numbers that George touched on continue to play out I think you’ll see a corresponding increase in both cash flow NOI and residual asset pricing so we certainly would expect to see that play out over the next few years.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
Tom I think I heard you say that the Shooshan JV in Arlington cost was $460 a square foot.
I thought it was kind of in the $490 to $500 square foot range so can you comment on what the all-in expected costs of Brandywine are likely to be at the end? Sure.
I think the 460 is our thought on all-in with the land costs for that property which will include our equity as well as theirs.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then Gerry can you comment at all about what may or may not happen with Walnut Street Tower? I know you mentioned it briefly in your prepared remarks but it sounds like there’s been some press chatter about a large tenant that’s out there that you may be speaking with and if that hits would you be in a position to start construction on that? Well look I really for obvious reasons have no comment on where we are.
We’re actively marketing it.
There are a couple of larger tenants in the market.
We continue negotiations.
But as I indicated to the extent that we are able to sign another anchor tenant on economic terms that make sense then that would certainly be a catalyst to starting that tower.
Would that kind of be in that sort of 50 to 60—if you were 50% to 60% pre-let that would be enough to go vertical? We would look at a minimum of 50%.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Hi thanks.
I jumped on a little bit late.
Just on Austin and following the closing of the JV can you talk a little bit about the competition in that market for stabilized assets and where you’re seeing the opportunity within submarkets in terms of development versus acquisitions? Sure and Tom and I will tackle it.
One of the drivers behind our Austin joint venture was that that market was getting a lot of additional investor appetite from both domestic advisors some global investors as well as other real estate companies.
Rents have risen fairly significantly in a couple of the submarkets in that town and that brought with it the prospect of some additional construction.
So we’re certainly seeing construction that was announced in downtown Austin.
There is a number of projects that are rumored or will be starting in both the southwest and northwest quadrants of Austin.
Now look – the demand drivers there seem certainly sufficient to fully occupy those projects on economically reasonable terms but we did see that as a moment in time when we were being priced out of the acquisition market and saw the prospect for new construction that it was a wise opportunity for us to joint venture with another very smart investor who we have a long relationship with DRA to kind of reconstitute our wholly owned portfolio and get a capital commitment from them as well as from us to try and grow the portfolio over the next several years.
Austin resonates very strongly on a lot of real estate metrics – diversified economy quality of life low taxes and I think from that standpoint we would expect to continue to see more companies target Austin as a receiver of investment dollars.
Okay thank you.
Only to thank everyone for their patience during our remarks which incorporated both a ’13 and a ’14 look and to thank you for your time and effort.
We look forward to updating you on our year-end call.
Thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Alicia (Ph) and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gerald Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Please go ahead sir.
Great thank you very much and thank you all for participating in our year-end 2013 conference call and good morning.
On today’s call with me are George Johnstone our Senior Vice President of Operations; Gabe Mainardi our Chief Accounting Officer; Howard Sipzner our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President of Investments and Portfolio Management.
Prior to beginning certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
Although we believe estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
As is our normal practice we will start with an overview on our three key business plan components that is operations balance sheet and investments.
George Howard and Tom will then discuss our operating financial and investment activity in more detail.
The fourth quarter was a very good one.
We continue to improving occupancy and pre-leasing levels.
We were very active on the investment front with the announcement of the FMC Tower at Cira Centre South.
The closing of our Austin Texas JV with DRA Advisors and the purchase of One and Two Commerce Square in Philadelphia and several other transactions.
Our quarterly run rate came in sigh at consensus for a variety of transactional and capital activity items that George and Howard will address.
For 2013 our $1.38 was spot on first call consensus reinforcing that the operating fundamentals of our business continue to improve according to our business plan.
And simply put our markets continue their steady recovery our portfolio is performing extremely well and tenant demand drivers are increasingly evident.
Operationally we exceeded most of our 2013 key targets namely spec revenue retention lease term leasing CapEx and mark-to-market on both a GAAP and cash basis and met all other key business plan targets.
We leased 4.6 million square feet during the year one of our highest totals ever.
All of our regional operations did a great job and aggressively outperforming our markets.
We ended the year at 89.5% occupied and 91.8% leased.
These numbers are 120 and 150 basis points respectively up from year-end 2012 levels so excellent progress across the board.
Positive pricing dynamics continue in many of our markets with strong performance continue in several Pennsylvania town center locations CBD Philadelphia and Austin Texas.
Additionally our Met DC and New Jersey operations continue on their path to recovery.
Total retention for the fourth quarter was the highest of the year at over 90% and increased our overall 2013 retention rate to just north of 68%.
We ended the year with an 8.1% GAAP rental mark-to-market well above our 3% to 5% targeted range thereby evidencing strong leasing activity and positive demand drivers in most of our markets.
On the cash side while we had a negative mark-to-market of 6.9% during the fourth quarter for the full year we still exceeded our business plan target.
Capital costs also continue to moderate and we are in much better position at the end of 2013 than the end of 2012.
We average capital cost of a $1.53 per square foot for lease year for the quarter.
And for 2013 the full number which is just north of $2 much better than our original business plan range of $2.25 to $2.75 per square foot.
We anticipate we will continue to see declining capital cost as our portfolio reaches full occupancy and our markets continue to recover.
Our cash same store number for the quarter was particularly strong.
For the year we had positive same store growth on a GAAP base of 3.5% and 4.8% on a cash basis establishing a very strong platform on which to execute our 2014 business plan.
And looking at our balance sheet we have an excellent shape with strong liquidity.
We have no outstanding balance on our $600 million unsecured line of credit and we ended the year with $263 million of cash on hand.
Optimal deployment of these cash balances continually being evaluated.
It is clearly availed for acquisition activity funding or development pipeline and/or liability management.
Continued occupancy gains and positive operating metrics combined with our capital recycling program will be major contributors in achieving our previously stated EBITDA leverage targets.
As outlined to our Commerce Square announcements the assumption of the secured debt associated with that transaction temporarily increased our leverage pending future recycling activity.
However our objective of getting long term leverage below six times EBITDA and mid 30% debt to GAV remain the driving predicate of our business plan.
On the invest front we sold almost $350 million of properties and an overall disposition in cap rate 7.1% also during the year we acquired just shy of $300 million of operating properties at an average cap rate of 7% on a cash basis.
Our press release and supplemental package provides specifics on several recent transactions including the Austin JV the acquisition of 1 and 2 Commerce the acquisition of Four Point Center in several adjoining land parcels and the acquisition of the ground under our Cira Center project in Philadelphia.
All well executed trades that advanced our business plan objectives.
Our development activity is also detailed in our press release on pages 10 through 12 of our supplemental package.
All of those projects are on schedule and on budget.
Solid progress is also being made on our land management program.
We’re on track to achieve our overall land monetization goal as outlined on page 13 of our supplemental package.
In looking at 14 we are firming our guidance range of a $40 to $49 driven by these key assumptions.
We expect tenant activity levels to remain strong with ever improving lease economics.
We’ve had very good success since our last call and from a revenue standpoint our 2014 leasing plan is already 76% executed.
2014 year end occupancy levels range between 91% and 92% and our leasing percentage will be between 93% and 94%.
We’re also forecasting a 60% 2014 tenant retention rate.
We expect a strong GAAP mark-to-market on 2014 leasing activity ranging between 6% and 8% and continued improvements in our cash releasing spreads.
We will have a continuation of strong same store numbers with a GAAP range between 3% and 5% and a cash range between 4% and 6%.
We anticipate capital cost to run well with the range of 10% to 15% target and other key positive is that the remaining lease expirations are only 6.1% or 1.5 million square feet which is the lowest level we’ve had in many years.
The 2014 business plan will continue our path to achieve interim debt to GAV of 40% and EBITDA multiple of 6.5 times as we work towards that longer term target outlined of mid 30% debt to GAV and below 6 times EBITDA.
Our 2014 plan does not reflect any additional debt or equity financing nor does it reflect deploying our year in cash balances into any growth opportunities.
We have $232.4 million debt maturities in 2014 including $218 million of bonds maturing in November.
The business plan contemplates simply paying these maturities off from existing cash and/or recycling proceeds.
2014 on the investment front will be another year of successful activity of transitioning to urban and town center portfolio concentrations.
We remain optimistic and are continually evaluating on both the buy and sale side growth opportunities.
As an underlying predicate we assume we will be a $150 million net seller during the year with most of those sales being modeled for the second half.
That being said some additional observations.
Our business continues to change highly efficient multimodal fully amenitized (Ph) access properties are the focal point of our customer base.
As such as we think through our capital allocation strategy it is based on delivering the highest quality most efficient and debts manage inventory in all of our markets.
We are seeing more tenants looking at higher quality space and willing to pay premium for more efficient collaborative work spaces.
We remain focused on growing the quality and location advantage of our portfolio.
During ’14 we expect additional investment activity in Washington DC Austin Texas Philadelphia CBD and several of our town center markets.
We remain a net seller in New Jersey Delaware and Richmond Virginia as well as continuing our liquidation efforts in California.
We expect to recover additional value from our land monetization program.
In particular several of our projects in the planning and rezoning phase should move closer to either a cash exit or recapitalization during the course of the year.
We have several projects in the pre-development stage our 2014 plan does not project any additional development starts but that situation could change as financial partners are lined up and/or additional leasing occurs.
And our mixed use project at 20th and Market Streets in downtown Philadelphia is contemplated to be retail office residential with a 219-car garage.
We have obtained final approvals and commencement with that project is subject to execution of joint venture agreements which could occur by the midpoint of the year.
The FMC Tower at Cira Centre South will break around midyear and is on target for delivery in 2016.
We are well into the design development process and have also begun evaluating several financial and joint venture alternatives.
Our stock exchange building at 1900 Market Street in downtown Philadelphia the redevelopment plan on that will commence in the next several months.
We continue to expand the scope of that renovation plan to incorporate additional façade entrance lobby and mechanical system upgrades and we anticipate having an overall investment base including tenant finish between a $180 and $200 per square foot.
So bottom-line we have taken a fairly conservative view on forecasting being only $150 million net-seller as opportunities present themselves during the course of the year invariably well look what happen in 2013.
We are in a great position execute with minimal debt maturities significant cash balances solid existing coinvestment vehicles full availability in our line of credit and a demonstrated ability to effectively recycle capital into higher value assets.
So to wrap up 2014 will be a strong drive towards value creation significant operating platform improvement forward leasing momentum strong leasing activity all positioned us well to generate solid NOI growth same strong same-store performance and a positive mark-to-markets.
At this point George will provide an overview of our ’13 operational performance and a look ahead at ’14.
George will then turn over to Howard for review of financial reporting activity and then Howard will turn it over to Tom for review of investment activities.
George.
All right thank you Gerry.
2013 was a tremendous leasing year for the company.
Our regional teams continue to source activity expeditiously negotiate and aggressively closed deals.
Our leasing successes have move the portfolio closer to target occupancy levels and our future lease renewal campaign has significantly reduced rollover risk.
Fundamentals continue to improve in all of our markets but a few standout.
Our Pennsylvania crescent markets of Radnor Conshohocken and Plymouth Meeting are 97.4% leased with only 5% rollover remaining in 2014.
Our CBD Philadelphia portfolio is currently 93.3% leased with less than 2% rollover remaining in 2014 and only 8% in 2015.
Our Metro DC portfolio posted positive absorption of 318 000 square feet to finish the year 87.6% occupied and 89% leased a 760 and 350 basis point improvement respectively.
Our New Jersey portfolio has seen a recent influx of activities that has us encouraged.
Deals ranging from 10 000 to 60 000 square feet which far exceed the more recent size range of deals in that market.
During the quarter we commenced 924 000 square feet of leases retain 90% of our expiring leases and absorbs 344 000 square feet or a 120 basis points of incremental occupancy.
Forward leasing activity resulted in a 91.8% leased rate and our 2014 and 2015 remaining lease explorations have been reduced to 6% and 9% respectively.
All-in-all a very solid operating year as we met or exceeded all of our original plan metrics.
We are extremely pleased with the disciplined focus on controlling capital costs.
Our $2.06 per square foot per lease year metric was one of our best.
Worth noting in terms of CAD is that during 2013 we spent $14 million on four significant future year lease renewals totaling 509 000 square feet.
While certainly impacting 2013 CAD this pre-spent capital will not impact 2014 CAD.
Now turning to the ’14 business plan based on activity achieved to-date and additional visibility we have on lease transactions since our last earnings call we are raising our speculative revenue target by $1 million from $42 million to $43 million.
This increase is entirely generated from our Metro DC region and is associated with recently executed leases not contemplated at the time of our original business plan.
The overall spec revenue target is 76% achieved in our leasing square footage of 3.5 million square feet is 50% achieved.
This time last year we were 66% achieved on revenue and 45% on square footage.
Deal flow pipeline portfolio quality and market dynamics have us optimistic about the balance of the plan.
Additional visibility and clarity on lease transactions currently in the pipeline over the next quarter will allow us to further evaluate this target on our next earnings call.
All of our other 2014 business plan metrics remain unchanged from their original targets.
And at this point I will turn it over to Howard.
George and Gerry thank you.
Core FFO for Q4 2013 totaled $49.6 million or $0.31 per diluted share.
Our core FFO payout ratio was 48.4% on the $0.15 distribution we paid in October 2013.
Full year 2000 core FFO totaled $214.8 million or $1.38 per diluted share and met analyst consensus for the full year.
Core FFO provides a better sense of our FFO run rate by eliminating transactional and capital markets activity as noted in our supplemental package on page 25 2013 FFO differs from core FFO differs from NAREIT FFO by $4.4 million while Q4 2013 core FFO and NAREIT FFO differ by $2.8 million.
Our supplemental package was further enhanced and expanded this quarter.
The business plan and operating data has been moved up front.
The financial data is grouped together beginning on page 21 and we have expanded the joint venture section beginning on page 35.
We continue to welcome your feedback on these materials.
Like to make a few observations regarding our fourth quarter and full year results fourth quarter FFO is high quality with termination revenue other income management fees interest income financing obligation costs and aggregate JV activity totaling just $6.1 million gross or $4.4 million net after expenses.
For 2013 these items totaled $25.5 million gross and $19.7 million net in line with our expectation for these categories.
Our same store NOI growth rates for the fourth quarter a 3.1% GAAP and 6.2% cash both excluding termination fees and other income items in our 3.5% GAAP and 4.8% cash for full year 2014.
We’ve now had 10 consecutive positive quarters for the GAAP metric and seven for the cash metric and met our 2013 same store NOI growth targets.
Overall fourth quarter NOI was impacted slightly by the ultimate timing of the Commerce Square Four Points and Cira ground lease transactions.
Our fourth quarter interest expense of $30.2 million was down a $100 000 versus a third quarter and down $2.9 million versus the fourth quarter a year ago reflecting the beneficial impact of our ongoing capital market and liability management activities.
2013 interest expense of a $121.9 million was right in line with our most recent expected range of a $122 million to $123 million.
Our G&amp;A at $7.3 million was high but it included $1.3 million of transaction expenses whose exclusion for the core FFO calculation brings regular G&amp;A down to $6 million and in line with our expectations.
For the full year 2013 G&amp;A excluding transactional cost totaled $25.9 million in line with our $26 million expectation.
Our equity income from JVs came in at a $93 000 loss versus $714 000 of income in Q3 and $1.5 million of income in Q2.
The Q4 figure was impacted by the turning off of the Commerce Square 9.25% preferred return which actually took place in August 2013 and by $433 000 of transaction expenses within the Austin JV which we do head back for core FFO.
The normal run rate for the Commerce Square preferred return would have been around $600 000 in a typical quarter.
So it’s turning off which we anticipate in our numbers but could not disclose was material to the fourth quarter results.
With $20 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures in the fourth quarter formally related to 2014 lease transactions we achieved $0.15 of CAD per diluted share and a 100% payout ratio included in fourth quarter CAD is also $4.3 million of building expenses on large items like chillers roofs and parking lots.
The 15 largest of these total $2.6 million or over 60% of the total.
For the full year the $0.73 CAD per diluted share came in above our latest $0.66 to $0.70 estimated range and provided an 82.2 % payout ratio for the year.
With respect to balance sheet and financial metrics I would echo the points Gerry made.
Our 42.6% debt to GAV 49.7% debt to total market cap and 7.5 times debt to EBITDA ratio were all impacted by the assumption of the Commerce Square loans at quarter end.
Excluding this debt for pro forma purposes and 13 days of associated Commerce Square EBITDA provides a debt to EBITDA figure of 6.8 times.
With respect to 2014 FFO guidance we are affirming our previously given range of a $1.40 to a $1.49.
In addition to the business plan assumptions on supplemental pages five and six please note the following.
We have very moderate assumptions for gross other income at $23 million to $29 million this figure is down from the $30-35 million figure given in October due to higher depreciation and amortization on higher intangible assets at the Austin JV than previously assumed.
Note depreciation and amortization it is added back for FFO we will also have $18 million to $24 million net and this will reflect a basket of termination revenues other income management revenues less management expenses if net interest income and JV income and less the 3141 Fairview financing obligation expense.
For 2014 our G&amp;A is projected at $25 million to $26 million unchanged from the prior estimate.
First quarter 2014 will be higher at $7.5 million versus other quarters as certain expenses are front-loaded.
Interest expense is projected to be in a range of a $127 million to $131 million down from a $130 million to $134 million previously due to lower fair market value rates on the 1 and 2 Commerce debt and fourth quarter debt redemptions and liability management.
The $150 million of sales reflects several targeted properties and a bucket of generic sales and as assumed 8.5% cap rate.
The lost income is $5.5 million in the model or about 43% reflecting a back ended assumption.
And we have issuance assumed under our continuous equity program and no note buyback or capital markets activity.
For 2014 we’re assuming 160.5 million weighted average shares for FFO up slightly from 160.4 million previously.
We are projecting CAD per diluted share to be in a range of $0.70 to $0.80 versus our prior $0.65 to $0.75 now reflecting a range of $70 million to $80 million a revenue maintaining capital expenditures down slightly.
Our plan provides $20 million to $25 million of free cash flow after dividends and recurring capital expenditures.
Looking at the 2014 capital plan we have total usage of $560 million as follows.
13 million from mortgage amortization $219 million for the unsecured note repayment $75 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures $150 million of other capital expenditures and projects these include 65 million of revenue creating capital expenditures where the space was not previously leased in the last year 63 million for variety of projects and development starts as Gerry outlined and $22 million for various JV activities where we’ll funding small amounts of capital.
And lastly we’ll have a $103 million of aggregate dividends consisting of $96 million for common shares and about $7 million for preferred shares.
The sources for the $560 million are as follows; $190 million of cash flow before financings investments and dividends and after interest payments.
We expect to receive $7 million on the repayment of an outstanding note receivables.
We’re targeting a $150 million of net sales and to round it out we’ll use $213 million of our available $263 million of cash at year end 2013 reducing its balance to an estimated $50 million at the end of 2014.
There is great symmetry in our capital plan with our cash essentially covering our unsecured note payment and our sales essentially covering our capital expenditures oriented towards growth activities.
Lastly on the account receivable side we had $16.2 million of total reserves at 12/31/2013 down slightly from September 2013 this consist of $3.2 million of reserves on $20.6 million of operating receivables or 15.6% and $13 million on under $39.3 million of straight line rate receivables or 9.4%.
In Q4 2013 our receivables and reserves was somewhat impacted by the removal of the Austin JV properties and the inclusion of the Commerce Square acquisition otherwise activities were normal and as expected.
And with that I’ll turn it over to Tom for some investment comments.
Thank you Howard.
The fourth quarter was an active one and we closed our previously announced third quarter activity.
We far exceeded our 2013 goals and look forward to exceeding our 2014 targets.
With the closing of our Austin joint venture and the fourth quarter sale of two unoccupied buildings we completed $348.6 million of dispositions in 2013 including $185.7 million non-core suburban properties at a blended 7.5% cap rate including Commerce Square Four Points and the acquisition of the Cira Center during the fourth quarter.
Acquisitions totaled $351.6 million in 2013.
The fourth quarter and full year investment activity reflects our strategy to increase our exposure to urban and town center markets.
Looking forward to 2014 as Gerry mentioned we have established a net disposition target of a 150 million and we are confident that we will meet and possibly exceed that target.
Looking at the investment market during 2013 there was a great deal of capital chasing core assets in gateway markets and we expect that that will continue into 2014.
However in early ’14 we are starting to see increased investor interest in well located well leased assets in some of our suburban and secondary markets and we expect that that will translate into increased investment activity.
With increased interest in suburban assets we hope to find opportunities to accelerate our disposition program of non-core assets possibly through -- currently we have over 1 million square feet of non-core assets in the market at various stages of price discovery that could generate between $155 million to $165 million of net proceeds.
As we stated in the past we will be just putting our approach in sales and we will only sell when our targeted returns have been achieved.
Several drivers leading to the increased activity capital looking for steady cash flow above those found in the CBD markets as the CBD markets have seen continued low cap rates for core assets.
Availability of secured debt with competitive bank CMBS and insurance company financing is available.
We have now fixed a 100% of our Austin debt totaling $230.7 million at a blended cap rate of 3.39%.
There is also availability of net debt and improve pricing that has allowed buyers potential buyers to increase leverage and improve equity returns.
There is also an improved outlook in some of the suburban office space as occupancy levels continue to improve without significant new supply on horizon.
Our 2014 investment plan does not include any acquisitions however we continue to believe in the long term fundamentals of our targeted markets and our plan remains to take advantage of any opportunities.
We will continue to increase our exposure in Philadelphia that surrounding Crescent markets inside the Beltway Metro DC and Austin.
We are currently evaluating opportunities within our core markets for both operating and development assets and our acquisition pipeline for both marketed and unmarketed deals are strong.
Our underwriting reflects our deep knowledge of the market realities; however we have very specific targeted investment areas and have been very disciplined in our search for increased exposure in those targeted markets.
We will continue to be disciplined in our capital deployment and when appropriate we will look to use joint venture capital to acquire certain assets.
To the extent we are successful in our acquisition efforts; we will seek to accelerate our 2014 disposition activity to remain a net-seller for the year.
With that I will turn it back over to Gerry.
Gentlemen thank you.
So to wrap up our prepared comments 2013 was extremely successful for Brandywine exceeding the majority of our business plan metrics coupled with ever improving markets gives us tremendous confidence that that strong portfolio performance solid balance sheet improvement and an active ongoing evaluation of full range of investment choices will continue and further accelerate our earnings growth.
With that we will be delighted to open the floor for questions.
We ask in the interest of time you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Thank you.
Great thank you guys.
Gerry you guys are working very hard to reposition the portfolio into a more amenity based orbit centric portfolio.
Can you talk through various sub-markets in terms of where are the tenant demands it is clearly heading in that direction where other markets or maybe the tenant aren’t necessarily as urban and transit amenity based and transit oriented or is this something that you see across the board regardless of markets where you are delivering? John great question and certainly an active debate within our entire industry certainly a key part of our capital allocation thought process.
I think as a general matter or general answer; I am very clearly saying this in almost every single sub-market we are in.
I mean there is clearly a strong bias in a lot of the larger users of space looking at the ability to access their properties or workplace environments a number of different ways we saw just automobile transportation so access to rail public transportation lines seems to be very very key.
Another great driver we see is the surrounding neighborhood called the amenity program where we are sitting here today even though we are having some power difficulties in Radnor.
It’s a premier location because you have high-end residential housing multifamily rental and condominium.
So whole range of economic options on the living side strong retail hotels mix use access to two different train lines as well as easy access to two interstate highways.
They seem to be key drivers much much different than years ago where I think the horizontal development along different state highways was the primary driver.
So I think when we look at how we are looking at deploying capital going forward and clearly as Tom and his team work with the George and the operating team is on where we think that that’s growth drivers are in our portfolio it’s clearly focused much more on larger scale buildings that are part of mix used developments that have different ways of accessing those properties and that really are very attractive locations and packages to both ends of the demographic spectrum for the workplace where they will be older employees or younger up in commerce.
And then as a follow-up as your Center City felled off of your portfolio what percentage of that is what percentage of Center City felled off with your NOI now? And then what’s the bull case and the bare case of getting a meaningful step in rents.
My recollection is that you are -- a product that you own is getting into the low 30s now and but new constructions $400 a foot at the same time there is a lot of new products owned by people like Commonwealth in the market that can always compete on price.
Can you talk about the yin yang for rent spike there? Sure George and I will tag team this.
I think in terms of the rental rates trajectory we do expect to continue to see what we have seen in the last few years which is that tenants here from an net absorption standpoint or relocating from D-level inventory are in fact willing to pay a premium for a better physical plan and a better neighborhood in which they locate their businesses.
We have clearly seen that growth rates occur at our Logan properties.
We think indeed the planned neighborhood improvement say will further accelerate that trajectory.
The convergence of the movement east from University City and the movement west along the Market Street we think really positions our recent Commerce Square acquisition and our Stock Exchange Building very-very well just kind of we keep upgrading the level of renovations we we’re doing to 1900 Market Stock Exchange because we really do anticipate based upon some of the discussion we’re having with tenants that building from the physical plan standpoint if we redevelop it the right way can dramatically reposition that from a kind of B-quality asset into an A or an A- asset.
So we do think that will continue.
We think frankly the announcement of us constructing FMC tower and the investment of the Comcast is making along with Liberty in the city of Philadelphia and their price points; will clearly both projects deliver a higher quality platform to tenants to evaluate and look I certainly fully expect that we’ll see the same trend-line in Philadelphia with a lot of other major metro areas where we see our tenants are willing to pay a premium to the end LEED Silver LEED Gold highly efficient column-free high ceiling based floor plates with a full amenity package.
And Georgia will comment on revenue concept.
The NOI contribution John when Commerce comes in for kind of a full quarter of operation CBD Philadelphia will be over 30% of the company’s revenues.
George it looks like I think you’ve got a little over 1.2 million square feet of new leasing left to go I think you did around 300 000 square feet a little more than that in the quarter just wondering how you think the phase of new leasing is trending relative to your targets to kind of meet year-end lease trade number and can you provide an update on some of the big tenant move outs that are likely over the next couple of quarters I think you got Travellers in Richmond and Lockheed and Northrop down in DC and I think there might be one or two in metro Philly.
Look I think the remaining new square footage of a million or two was kind of a little bit more back-ended in the year.
But I think the pace of deal kind of continues as we’ve programmed.
We were surprised on a full four user down in Northern Virginia who came to the market during the fourth quarter and really had a quick timeline and were able to kind of fully negotiate and commence that deal in the fourth quarter.
And you know the three weeks and then we have to start the year certainly helpful on that occupancy path for 2014.
So we feel confident about the remaining new leasing in the plan.
On the large move outs with travellers down in Richmond I mean they moved out last week.
On our last call we had two 40 000 square foot prospects neither one of those deals has come to provision they both opted for stay put solution.
However in the interim we have identified three additional prospects all ranging north of 25 000 square feet so looking to make ideally most of these deals.
We have got half that square footage contemplated to come back into occupancy during the fourth quarter.
A little bit better news in Northern Virginia with the Northrop space that’s a 100 000 square feet that comes back at the end of June.
We’ve got a capital program already under way to kind of reintroduce the building to the marketplace addressing the common areas the lobbies the restaurants the signage around the park.
We got a couple of very active tours and we are but one proposal out at this point on that.
Chipping up the road into suburban Maryland Lockheed; they moved out last week as well out of 137 000 square feet.
And we’ve got prospects ranging 6000 square feet to a 106 000 square feet and we’re kind of coming down to the final strokes on a number of those deals.
Still some work to do but we feel good about being able to backfill that space.
We’ve already backfilled about 40 000 square feet of the 78 000 square feet; Lockheed gave us back in 2013 in the adjacent building and we’re looking for something good news out of the larger one.
Okay great.
Just follow-up question or question for Tom last one.
The cap rates on One and Two Commerce and the Ground Lease at Cira the cash numbers are significantly higher than the GAAP numbers and I was just wondering if you could provide some color as to why you’d have higher cash cap rates than GAAP on those acquisitions? Brendan that was a mistake and we since corrected it so the GAAP number for Cira is 9.7 versus 3.7 cash and One and Two Commerce are switched to 8.2 and 6.2 it’s same numbers just less.
George I guess kind of sticking with the spec revenue target which you’ve increased little bit weekly this quarter.
Now you’re 76 you planned I guess where you do see potential for upside plan and lie going forward as you move through ’14? Well look I think the upside opportunities for us would be to land more of the backfill that I just alluded to in Richmond Northern Virginia and Maryland on those large move outs.
But we’ve also got some very good space in downtown Philadelphia in One and Two Logan and good space at Commerce Square that not all of that is contemplated in the ’14 plan as well.
So I think just kind of looking at where the pockets of vacancy are those are probably the ones I would point to first.
And then as you guys like mentioned in my opening commentary even over a New Jersey who’s not very well achieved on their target as it stands today I mean that pipeline has kind of shifted dramatically from kind of the 3000 to 5000 square foot range to a much a larger tenant profile which is a combination of tenants in our portfolio now who have expansion needs but also kind of tenants in that market who are continuing to kind of take that like the quality and our portfolio is well poised for that.
Yes I understand on the George’s observation and I think one of things we’re encouraged with if it’s only the challenge when we increase the spec revenue target certainly in the year but I think when we sat down and went through the debt and comp position the overall pipeline through the company and went through those in detail with our managing directors.
And we’re beginning to see I think some good things in terms of tenant activity at all of different size levels that we really had not seen in the last several quarters.
George touched on New Jersey that’s a marketplace.
Our team has been doing a very effective job doing leases 10 000 square feet and below.
And there is a good list of people well above that range who are actively engaged and looking space.
Richmond Virginia which again is a marketplace where we have great team in place the market has been little slower to recover than we would hope.
They’re beginning to see some larger scale deals that are real.
Decisions will be made and we think that our portfolio is pretty well positioned and our teams in the other operations notably DC continue to do very effective job and really drumming up a lot great support.
And you George articulated I mean jumping on these transactions and getting them done at very-very short period of time to take advantage of that widow with that tenants.
So I think it’s just systematically (Ph) across the company.
We’re pretty pleased with the level of activity you’re seeing.
Certainly the 76% least achievement is well ahead of last year’s pace and to have that kind of activity level done certainly in the year and have such good strong underline improvement at least economics we feel really present a good opportunity for us to day well as to 2014 unfolds.
Okay and then just maybe a follow-up for you Jerry on that.
Here are some comments that you’ve made on tenants looking for higher quality space and willing to pay up for that can you talk a bit about how you’re thinking about pushing rate versus occupancy within the markets just given than dynamic? It’s kind of just a little bit but I think we in terms of pushing rate rates I think you’d have seen us do that.
I think you’ve seen - and that’s one of the reasons why the GAAP number this year was as good as it was versus our business plan.
I mean I think we’re being able to as a first point of entry is with the activity we’re being able to push the annual escalators and reduce the free rent component.
So they’re two huge drivers to GAAP number.
Cash number will traditionally lag that but even there after having the downward pressure in the fourth quarter we still exceeded our ’13 target.
And our ’14 target on the cash side is in excess of our ’13 target.
The third piece to that is a key piece of the equation is on the capital side.
And I think across the Board.
In every market we’re being able to take a much firmer stand generally speaking on how we’re using capital in some of these new leases and certainly as far as our renewal tenants go.
So the harbingers of dramatic improvement are there bigger annual rent staffs lower free rent concessions ever improving cash market-to-market and lower capital cost.
So we don’t say anything frankly in any of our markets where we don’t see that trend line continuing.
And remember our market-to-market numbers in 2013 were aided for three quarters of the year by a higher rent growth market over Austin our ‘14 numbers do not include Austin and we were literally at the same 8% upper end of the range on the GAAP side.
So I think that actually demonstrates how the balance of the portfolio was improving.
Thanks I’ve got Craig Millman here with me as well.
I just wanted to touch on development.
I see you guys have had some success securing some projects redevelopment and the pipeline is growing.
So I’m curious about the appetite for incremental development what that would look like where it would be? And then also trying to quantify overall spending for 2014 on development? Howard sounded like sales would cover the spending but it’s a 150 million the number.
And then finally as it relates to Cira South what the plan is there in terms of financing? Will that get joint venture or a ready partner et cetera? All good questions in that one question so we will pack it from the thing on that.
It’s all Gerry; it’s all about development one topic.
Do you say one topic or one question? On the development side you do raised a very good point.
We are seeing in a number of markets an increasing list of tenants who are large-scale tenants who are looking for or evaluating seriously built-to-suit opportunities versus stay-put opportunities; and a line that is being driven by some of the points we touched on earlier relative to floor plate size column spacing window lines and amenity packages et cetera.
So we have not planned any additional development in our 2014 program.
I mentioned two potentials both downtown Philadelphia the stock exchange building in 1919.
But in addition to that when we take a look at markets where there might be some additional development option and certainly in Austin Texas where we now have formed a co-investment vehicle with the DRA Advisors there is clearly some large tenants moving in that marketplace.
There is a public-private partnership opportunity Austin down there that has done an incredibly effective job of marketing Austin to that of city companies to relocate and existing companies to expand.
So we are pursuing a number of opportunities down there that might as the year progresses turn into develop and opportunities.
Generally speaking though the balance of our markets whether it’s Pennsylvania Town Centre Suburban location certainly the Metro DC Marketplace Richmond and South Jersey we don’t really see the prospect for much development there unless a couple of the builders whomsoever we were talking to would come across the finish line.
But in those markets quite frankly in some of those markets the gap between new development cost rents and existing stay-put rents are still pretty wide.
In terms of the projected capital spent Howard layout and the source in use what we project our full capital spend to be for both on balance sheet development and for our contributions to JVs by The Parc at Plymouth Meeting with Toll Brothers although that equities fully funded at this point we have a construction loan in place to fund remaining construction cost.
Our Evo project in downtown Philadelphia with Campus Crest in Harrison Street the equity there again is funded pretty much and there is a construction loan in place it will cover the balance of those costs.
So the equity portion of those larger spent projects is pretty well set.
On Cira South we do plan as I mentioned breaking ground midyear.
We’re finalizing the design components of the project.
In looking at that being a $240+ million project I think we’re certainly beginning to access and talk to other capital sources where we may decide that the most optimal result for Brandywine is to do that project in a joint venture format.
As you know there’s a residential component and an office component.
And we announced the tower upon the signing of the two leases we did indicate as part of that announcement that we have a joint venture partner lined up for the residential component we’re looking for additional institutional partner to augment their capital contribution and in addition to that just accessing the general broader institutional capital market to really assess with -- again the most optimal capital structure for that project is we would certainly expect to have a lot more clarity on that by the time we break ground in June.
Did that cover all your points Jordan? Yes that was pretty good.
I think right have a quick one.
Hey George on the spec revenue increase in DC Hi.
George on the spec revenue increase in DC I know you hit on the couple of the opportunities there.
But is it just those specific spaces or are you seeing a general improvement in the DC market here early in the year.
No.
we’re actually seeing increased activity levels.
We’re pretty tight in Tyson’s but we’re seeing kind of the activity shifting out into Dulles corner itself.
So look I think Mike Copper our Managing Director and his leading teams again continue to source deals.
But yes we are starting to see maybe a quarter or two ago the activity wasn’t as plentiful out in Dulles corner.
We’re not kind of seeing its moved forward out the toll road.
So I don’t know if you have this number but the 0.1% GAAP mark-to-market for 2013.
Do you happen to have a mark-to-market number for the entire portfolio? Like you were to reset trends today what that total mark-to-market would be? Its virtually flat when you kind of go across the entire spectrum of the company it kind of averages flat.
But you know we do see that we have a markup situation in Pennsylvania suburbs and downtown Philadelphia and then we’re kind in the roll down scenario in most of our Metro DC portfolio and status quo in the smaller regions of New Jersey and Richmond.
Would you say that flat number is an improvement -- significant improvement over the past couple of years.
Yes.
I would say so.
I mean we are probably 200 to 300 basis points of roll down and when you would have probably run that math two years ago.
And then my second question is I think it was Tom that mentioned some interest from capital coming into some of these suburban secondary markets and yet you’re disposition cap rate target right now is 8.5% versus I think you’re doing something in the seven range or low sevens in 2013.
So is there a possibility that number could come at 8.5 based on some of the observations you’ve seen lately.
Rich look we as a standard convention for the last several years have model 8.5% in our financial model.
In the last two years we’ve come in on through that.
So the cap rate issue as I think just look around 7% -- 7.5%.
So I think our track record for the last couple years is we should be able to better that by just think for modeling purposes we kind of think that 8.5% target number.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Fourth quarter earnings were below consensus and they seem to be sort of its low end of where your guidance was and I know there were some moving parts and you mentioned the Commerce Square preferred return turning off.
But it’s been a little bit difficult for us to completely bridge the gap.
And I guess it will be helpful when you look at the core portfolio was there any short full on occupancy even if it was just timing versus your internal expectations kind of just to give us a sense of how the portfolio is performing heading into 2014 and the achievability of guidance.
Yes.
Look I think when we led out that 90% occupancy target kind of pre-Austin pre-Commerce.
I mean we came in right at that number we guided from that 90% number down to 89.3% we got a 10 basis point pickup at of Commerce Square came online a little bit better occupied than we had originally thought when we are kind of going through due diligence when lease commenced in December that we had program for early ’14.
Then we got a 10 basis points pickup from the accusation of 4 points and so that’s kind of have 89.3 turned into 89.5.
So I think from an occupancy perspective I think we’re kind of right where we thought we would be.
We’ve identified the early termination events that we know of and we’ve kind of led out the leasing plan to kind of backfill that.
But I guess versus your -- what guidance was it seems like it was at the low end I mean was there any operational item that missed or didn’t come through.
Well I think we had a little bit I guess potential access no removal expense in December about half of that little bit more than half of that kind of gets reimbursed but as a little bit of maybe leakage there but not a huge number we had a tenant evection that lead to some straight line rent write-off that was maybe $200 000 but there was no one kind of catastrophic or that was the culprit from an operational perspective.
So I guess maybe it’s a -- Mike speaking.
If your guidance was 31 to 35 you get 31 something must have changed in that and sort of why won’t those items roll forward in 2014 right because you kept your guidance for ’14.
So why isn’t that possible to sort of breakout why you hit the low end and why it has zero impact to your view of ‘14?  Michael it’s Howard.
I mean we typically don’t give quarterly guidance because things move around either transactions or leases even inter-quarter.
When you get to the fourth quarter you’d implicitly given fourth quarter guidance because it’s all that’s left.
We left the $0.04 range you could argue maybe it should have been three or even two but that’s not terribly different from what other companies do at that time of the year nor what we would normally do at that time of the year.
We do create the possibility of different things happening at different times I mean even the Commerce Square transactions had they somehow moved up earlier they had a pretty significant even daily impact in terms of the NOI adjustment in that transaction.
We remember running in the backdrop of that was the turn off of the preferred return.
So there was a double swing going on there.
And looking ahead to 2014 the business plan is off to a very good start.
The range which we normally give early by the way most companies don’t give a range back in October.
We are pretty pleased with the fact that we do that.
We are happy that it has held up and as the quarters roll forward at least the surprise up or down or transactions occur we have got a lot of cash on the balance sheet that we could deploy.
We will have the opportunity to fine-tune that but at this point leaving a $0.09 range with the full year to go feels good.
We are comfortable with that range and that’s why we affirmed it.
So we could talk offline about your assumptions how they maybe higher or lower but ultimately..
I am not looking at our assumptions I am just saying if the street was at $0.33 for the quarter and you provided a range of 31 to 35 and you hit 31.
Is there anything within a $0.04 delta right that’s on a quarterly basis a $0.04 top on a quarterly basis is $0.16 annually okay from the low end to the high end.
So I were just trying to figure out is there anything that we should be knowledge about in the fourth quarter that happened that would somehow depress heading into ‘14 or not?  Well look I would suggest you look back at your 2013 model you were one of several companies that had a $0.02 higher figure in the fourth quarter than would have been necessary to meet the full year guidance.
Howard hold on a second.
We are the street was at 33 we were at 33 I am looking at an individual quarter basis because you start mixing and matching difference a between core FFO headline FFO reported FFO everyone has different FFO.
What we do know is you provided guidance in the fourth quarter of 31 to 35 and you reported 31 and the street was at 33 full year numbers shouldn’t matter.
I am struggling with the math as well.
We hit the full year consensus of a $1.38.
We had a $1.07 for the first nine months.
The missing piece is $0.31 I don’t know why you would need $0.33 on top of a $1.07 to get to your number of a $1.38 but I don’t know the inner workings of your model.
I know for us the numbers worked and we are very happy with the full year results.
I am sorry to go to the core I think of your question let me try to direct we are not aware of anything from an operational or from a reporting standpoint that will give us any cause for concern over us meeting the guidance for 2014 that we just affirmed.
Okay.
Hi guys.
Maybe drilling in on the land that you have in the planning and zoning phase for the aircrafts multiple sites.
Just provide a little more detail about your plans for those sites and maybe how do you think about outright sales of that land versus JV development?  Certainly we are happy too and let me just flip the page.
I mean look our part preference is always to sale for cash if we can achieve the highest value for that.
We have sold a number of parcels.
We have a number of parcels under agreement or in due diligence now and our expectation is some of those parcels could close as early as midyear of 2014.
We have a number of parcels that we have under agreement that are subject to rezoning in other words relating our potential buyer take the properties for rezoning because they concluded that they are better suit from an infrastructure standpoint to do that.
So those agreements of sale tend to be basically option agreements when they get their approvals in place they will then close on the property.
I mean certainly we take a look at some of our larger land parcels I mean the Walnut Street Tower i.e.
the FMC Tower we sold currently and covering in land.
We have a basis there that will go into develop and when that project starts our Metroplex site and a Plymouth Meeting Pennsylvania.
We are doing some additional site planning work there with the anticipation maybe creating more of a mixed use development if that is successful my guess that we’d sell off a partial of that to another use as opposed to joint venturing it.
Same thing with our suites for growth in Chester County Pennsylvania and two Christina land in Wilmington Delaware.
So it’s little bit of a differ answer based upon each piece of property.
But certainly this year we would expect that 1919 and FMC Tower would go into development and that we would have a number partials of land really in New Jersey Texas and Virginia that we would anticipate selling sometime in the first half of the year.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thanks.
And just curious our conversations are going for the remaining office space available in FMC Tower and then preleasing at Ballston development and then on the Ballston project you just remind us how much preleasing you want to move forward there? Sure we’re - we’ve been formally launched the marketing plan for FMC Tower.
We frankly really anticipate that kicking off full gear in June when design development of marketing material the video all that information is fully pulled together.
In the interim though we’re certainly handing a lot of inquiries from tenants who we think some of those have some really good track.
You may recall that we have about 225 000 square feet of spec base there.
So certainly a fairly small component in terms of where we think the risk profile is so I would say that really the second half of ’14 would be really the full launch of the marketing plan for that project.
I would expect probably between now and then we will be able to get a few of the small release we’re talking to single floor tenants across the table.
So we feel really about how that development has been queued up and frankly how well it’s been received in the marketplace.
So that’s all tracking along very nicely and the Ballston development which is a joint venture with John Shooshan and his company.
They continue I say we and they continue collectively marketing the project for significant prelease.
We haven’t really established a range of preleasing but certainly got to be in that 30% to 50% plus range.
And that would really depend upon length of lease stacking in the building overall economics et cetera.
But that market is very competitive.
There is a number of existing buildings that are in the competitive set.
There is couple of buildings that are near to being announced as construction starts up.
I think the initial predicate that we went into that joint venture with still remains true.
It’s a great piece of property incredibly well located right next to where there is going to be mall redevelopment its part of a mixed use project.
John and his company are extremely well positioned and connected in that marketplace.
And that between John and Brandywine and our outside advisers we’ll aggressively present that project to tenants in the market.
And if wind up getting one will make a decision to go and if not we’ll continue our premarketing efforts.
Good morning.
Jerry I think you’ve mentioned tenants paying a premium for collaborative space and I’m curious has that changed the manner in which your marketing space available for lease? Well I think it’s not so much in a matter how we marketed but certainly we have a very good team of space planers that work on for our company and they’re doing incredibly effective job of pre-thinking how we can lay out space for tenants.
So as part of our prescreening process or leasing agents get a really clear sense of what the qualitative drivers are of the tenant decision making process.
And we clearly get in front of that and really show them how our floor placement buildings are looking at can accommodate what their ultimate collaborative or culture objectives are in that space.
And it really does vary by tenant.
Number of tenants migrating very much to bench technology but in pods with a fairly wide amount of square feet between those pods with either conference centers gaming rooms collaborative space whatever it might so for us it’s a great experience because tenants are still trying to think through what - they want their space to look like I mean there is tremendously diverging points of you on open versus close space office and anywhere along that continuum.
So we’re going through the planning process right now with a number of larger tenants who are going through that very thought process now what the best mix of open versus close what’s the best of bench versus cubical use of glass versus fixed walls.
So I think what we wind up doing actually to answer your question directly is we tend to really get very well educated on how flexible the floor place of each of our buildings can be.
We model out a range of space planning options so we're actually able to kind of educate persuade the tenant prospect on how our building meets their needs the best.
So it's probably kind of broadening out everyone's perspective on what office space should look like and what it should be used for.
Only closing remark is thank you very much for your time and attention.
We appreciate it and we look forward to providing a future update on our progress in the next quarterly call.
Thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Alicia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Please go ahead sir.
Alicia thank you very much.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in our first quarter 2014 earnings call.
On today’s call with me today are George Johnstone our Senior Vice President of Operations; Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Gabe Mainardi Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
Prior to beginning certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
Although we believe the estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
As is our normal practice we will provide an overview of our three key business plan components operations balance sheet and investments George will then discuss the status of our leasing and operating efforts.
He will then turn the call over to Tom to summarize our financial results.
We had an excellent first quarter.
We achieved outstanding results on leasing operations and made additional progress in our development projects.
We continue our growth plans in Austin Texas including the acquisition of a 54 acre development site at Encino Trace and the previously announced or previously anticipated contribution of our Four Points project to our joint venture platform.
Given our strong first quarter results and year-to-date 2014 goal achievement we have adjusted our 2014 FFO guidance range from $1.40 to $1.49 per diluted share up to $1.42 to $1.48 per diluted share.
Broadly speaking our market steady recovery continues demand drivers continue to emerge with a clear bias towards quality products which is benefiting our portfolio.
Operationally the first quarter did present some weather-related challenges like all other Northeast based companies we had increased utility and snow removal costs.
However given our multi-year migration towards triple net leases and segmented expense stops we are able to recover the majority of these increased expenses.
The remaining non-recovery did impact our margins for the quarter but we anticipate for 2014 our operating margins will be a 50 basis point improvement over that achieved in 2013.
During the first quarter we leased over 1 million square feet further evidencing our markets’ ongoing recovery and leasing activity was strong across the board.
As George will discuss we have a number of larger near-term transactions in our pipeline furthermore the level of throughput in most of our markets is improving with increased visibility on declining vacancy rates positive absorption and a continued moderation of all leasing concessions.
So all in all a positive steadily improving picture in our markets.
Our regional teams also did a great job in aggressively outperforming their respective markets particularly strong performance continued in our Pennsylvania Town Center locations CVD Philadelphia and Austin Texas just as notably though our metro DC and New Jersey operations continue to see good activity while remaining on the path to recovery.
Our mark-to-market rental rate spreads were very strong on new leasing a bit below our target on renewals for a tenant-specific region that George will touch on but they both showed solid improvement over the last several quarters.
Tenant retention was lower than our plan due to several known large move outs.
However given more visibility we have increased our year-end retention target to 63%.
Leasing capital cost once again like last quarter remained under our business plan range of $2.25 to $2.75 per square foot.
Despite the very tough winter we continued our positive trend in same-store growth on a GAAP basis of 1.6% and 4% on a cash basis continuing to harvest the benefits of our strong leasing progress and improving rent spreads.
Looking ahead to 2015 and 2016 we continue to de-risk our portfolio by reducing our four rollover exposure to only 7.5% in 2015 and 7.8% in 2016.
We are also targeting a year-end occupancy level to range between 91% and 92% with an overall leasing level to be between 93% and 94%.
Bottom-line the key operating metrics we outlined is drivers of our 2014 business plan remained very much on track.
Also as George will touch on we have increased several of our key targets to our strong first quarter performance and improved visibility in our leasing pipeline.
In looking our balance sheet we remain in excellent shape with strong liquidity.
We have no outstanding balance on our $600 million unsecured line and over $230 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand at the end of the quarter.
Our cash balances remain available for acquisition activity funding our development pipeline liability management and straight debt pay-downs we believe that continued occupancy gains continued positive operating metrics and capital recycling will be major contributors in achieving our long-term leverage of getting us below six times EBITDA and mid 30% debt GAV basis.
Those leverage reduction targets remain driving predicates of our business plan.
Given the favorable interest rate environment we continue to assess a number of liability management and bank term loan extension options our objectives remain lengthening our maturity curve reducing our weighted average cost of debt capital increasing the size of our unencumbered pool all while reducing overall levels of leverage.
In looking at our investment program like the other components of our business plan that program is also on target.
We remain optimistic and are continually evaluating on both the buy and the sell side growth opportunities.
Our plan continues to assume we will be a $150 million net seller during 2014 with most of those sales projected for the second half of the year.
Our press release and supplemental package provide specifics on several recent transactions.
I’ll cover those very quickly.
The acquisition of Encino Trace is a development site in the Southwest Texas that can accommodate 320 000 square feet.
We purchased that for $9.3 million or $29 per FAR foot.
Concurrent with that acquisition we actually leased for a 120 000 square feet which equates to a 76% pre-leasing construction on that building has commenced.
We are also evaluating the start on the second building depending upon the extent of our leasing activity.
The total construction cost for the first building is roughly $43.6 million or $270 per square foot and we anticipate this project generating an 8% cash return on cost and upon completion contributing this asset to our joint venture with DRA.
Furthermore consistent with our expectations we also contribute our Four Point Center in Austin Texas aggregating 192 000 square feet into our joint venture with DRA during the first quarter.
We also sold a 17 acre parcel of land in Austin but that has been rezone residential for $3.5 million as part of our overall land monetization program.
All well executed trade that advances our business plan objectives in Austin.
Also on our development activity as detailed in our press release on pages 10 through 12 of the supplemental package all of those projects are progressing on schedule and on budget.
As we discussed in the last call we have several projects in the pre-development stage.
We remain focused on our project at 1919 markets which is a mixed use project.
We have obtained all final approvals.
Finalized our development plan identified our joint venture partner are completing documentation of financing programs and we are planning to break ground on that in the next 120 days.
The FMC Tower at Cira South will break ground in the next several weeks with a targeted mid-2016 delivery.
Since our announcement due to FMC’s expansion some refinement to our residential component.
We have increased the size of the building by adding several additional floors.
We have also added an expanded amenity program incorporated additional residential units and enhanced street engagement in public space.
The revised building will contain 870 000 square feet consisting of 635 000 square feet of office 4000 square feet of retail and 268 residential units.
The total cost is anticipated to be approximately $385 million.
Given the increased office square footage the increased residential units we do is continued to project the same baseline clear return of 8% on a combined basis with an additional 8% to 8.5% return on the office space.
We have entered the market to assess both debt and equity financing options and anticipating having more feedback on our next quarterly call.
The Stock Exchange building in 1900 Market Street in Philadelphia has commenced the redevelopment process.
We purchased this 456 000 square foot building at the end of 2012.
It remains 77% leased but that’s a major tenant rollout at the end of 2015.
The full range of the site entrance lobby mechanical system upgrades will put our overall investment base between $180 to $200 per square foot and we expect full completion in time for that tenant vacation by year end 2015.
On a broader front we continue to evaluate a wide range of investment opportunities both in Austin Texas Metro DC as well as some of our other core market areas.
We continue to be encouraged by the level of activity we are seeing on the assets we have in the market for sale.
The range of buyers is from smaller private investment and development companies to financial institutions looking to place larger amounts of capital.
Solid progress continues to be made our land management program and e remain on track to achieve our overall land monetization goals as we have outlined on page 13.
In summary the first quarter was very solid and build a great foundation for the balance of the year.
All of our first quarter business plan goals and objective have been met and the plan for the balance of the year is on schedule.
So at this point let me turn it over to George to provide an overview of our operational performance.
Thank you Gerry and good morning everyone.
Fundamentals continue to improve in all of our markets as the momentum of our regional leasing teams continues to move the company back to a historical occupancy levels.
We are outperforming market vacancy in all of our markets with the exception of Richmond and Maryland both due to significant first quarter move outs that I’ll touch on shortly.
In CVD Philadelphia we are 94% leased with only 1% and 4% of the remaining lease expirations in 2014 and 2015 respectively.
Our regional mark-to-market for the quarter was 5.4% on a GAAP basis and 13.4% on a cash basis.
In the Pennsylvania suburbs with our crescent markets at 98% leased the deal flow is being pushed to our western suburbs which are now 91% leased.
Our regional mark-to-market for the quarter was 9.5% on a GAAP basis and negative 3.4% on a cash basis.
The cash number was adversely impacted by one 17 year lease renewal for the 78 000 square foot tenant in Conshohocken.
Activity in the corridor continues at an encouraging pace.
Inspections were up 87% for the quarter.
We continue to aggressively pursue occupancy and have the corridor portion of our Northern Virginia portfolio of 91% leased.
A known move out Northrop Grumman and 100 000 square feet will occur on June 30.
But deal activity and our projected building capital program to re-position the building will increase its marketability.
We also continue to see good levels of activity in New Jersey from tenants ranging from 5000 to 50 000 square feet.
Markets still slower on the path to recovery are Delaware and Maryland.
Now turning to the specifics of the quarter we find over 1 million square feet of leases including 413 000 square feet of new leases and 609 000 square feet of renewals.
We commenced 838 00 square feet of leases during the quarter including 336 000 square feet of new leases 166 000 square feet of expansions and 336 000 square feet of renewal leases.
This leasing activity resulted in occupancy of 89.2% and a 91.2% lease percentage.
Absorption for the quarter was negative 52 000 square feet as a result of Lockheed Martin vacating a 137 000 square feet in Maryland and Travelers vacating 85 000 square feet in Richmond.
Offsetting these move outs was the commencement of Reed Smith 130 000 square foot lease at Three Logan.
This leasing activity has allowed us to raise two of our business plan metrics while maintaining the rest.
Our spec revenue target has increased an additional $1 million to $44 million based on additional renewals and earlier commencements on several new leases.
We are 89% complete on this target and 65% complete on the 3.5 million square feet required to generate that spec revenue.
Based on additional clarity on expiring leases we’ve increased our retention target 300 basis points to 63%.
Some additional color on other metrics that performed outside our annual range during the quarter.
Cash leasing spreads for the quarter of negative 3% were adversely impacted by the previously mentioned lease renewal in Pennsylvania.
GAAP leasing spreads were within our targeted range for the year.
Leasing capital performed very well for the quarter at $2.8 per square foot for this year as our regional teams continue to push for reduced capital and longer lease terms.
Our weighted average lease term for the quarter was 10.3 years.
Retention for the quarter was impacted by the two large move outs I mentioned but we have increased the annual target to 63%.
In terms of the back-fill of Lockheed and Travelers we have a prospect currently in lease negotiations for 100 000 square feet of the Lockheed space in Maryland.
We continue to negotiate with several tenants in Richmond for the backfill of Travelers ranging from 7 000 to 35 000 square feet.
So in conclusion another solid quarter with strong operating metrics which I was confident in completing the balance of the business plan.
And at this point I’ll turn it over to Tom.
Thank you George.
Our FFO totaled $53.6 million or $0.34 per diluted share our FFO payout ratio is 44.1% based on our current $0.15 distribution.
Some additional observations regarding the first quarter.
Our results include $1.2 million gain on the sale of vacant – 16-acre piece of land located in Austin Texas.
The vacant land was rezoned to residential and we sold to a residential developer and this continues our land monetization program.
G&amp;A expense totaled $8.2 million which came in higher than our $7.5 million first quarter guidance.
The increase is primarily due to $800 000 of employee severance costs and $100 000 of additional transaction costs associated with Encino Trace acquisition.
Same-store growth rate for the first quarter were 1% GAAP and 4% cash both excluding termination fees and other income items.
We’ve had an 11 consecutive positive quarters of GAAP metrics and seven of cash metrics improving quarter-over-quarter.
Operating expenses increased $5.8 million from the previous quarter and the increase is due to a full quarter effect of the operating expenses of Commerce Square and Four Points for about $4 million weather related operating cost in the same-store portfolio of about $3.2 million this is partially offset by the Austin transaction being partially included on our wholly-owned portfolio in the fourth quarter and lower R&amp;M costs.
Our same-store and recently acquired properties were negatively impacted by the weather as operating expenses primarily snow and electric increased $3.2 million.
However through our lease reimbursement we were able to pass through $2.4 million in tenant reimbursements representing a 75% recovery rate.
But then the impact was approximately $800 000.
Interest expense totaled $32 million an increase of $1.8 million as compared to the fourth quarter the increase is primarily due to the mortgages we assumed in connection with the Commerce Square acquisition in December 2013.
FFO contribution from our joint ventures totaled $5.5 million with $14.7 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures in the first quarter we achieved the $0.22 per share in CAD per diluted share at a 68.2% payout ratio.
With respect to the quarter end balance sheet and financial metrics our 7.1 debt-to-EBITDA ratio represents a more normalized result with a full quarter impact of the Commerce Square acquisition.
Our debt to GAV was 42.6%.
We have a $100 million floating rate debt no balance on our unsecured revolving line of credit and $236 million of cash and no maturities other than our $290 million bond maturity to the November 2014 which is fully covered by our current liquidity.
As Gerry mentioned we are targeting our FFO guidance to $1.42 to $1.48 which is based on the following.
In addition to business plan assumptions outlined in the supplemental package we note the following: 2014 G&amp;A expense increased full year to $25.5 million to $26.5 million to account for the first quarter items with the remaining G&amp;A expense being evenly recognized over the balance of the year.
Interest expenses in the range of $125 million to $127 million down from $126 million to $128 million with second quarter expense approximating first quarter expense.
We expect to have $150 million of net sales with the expectation of Four Points and the Dallas land sales while we continually have properties on the market in various stages of price discovery.
We continue to project generic sales at an assumed 8.5% cap rate.
For our core properties operating income from our core properties should benefit from the improved weather conditions however it will be offset with the contribution of Four Points to the Austin joint venture with DRA.
As such our first quarter core property NOI represents a good run rate for the second quarter.
For the joint ventures our FFO contribution should remain consistent with our first quarter results.
Second quarter third-party management income leasing and development fees should approximate our first quarter results and our termination other income line items should also approximate the first quarter.
No issuance under a CEO program and no buyback or capital markets activity are anticipated.
There is a $160.2 million of weighted average shares per FFO in 2014 and for the second quarter.
Our annual FFO payout ratio is expected to be 41.5%.
We continue to project CAD to be on a per diluted share between $0.70 and $0.80 per share reflecting a $70 million to $80 million of revenue maintaining CapEx.
Our plan provides for approximately $25 million of free cash flow after dividends and recurring capital expenditures.
Our capital plan for the remaining nine months of 2014 has a total uses of $526 million and currently assumes 100% ownership of FMC Tower with no capital event in 2014.
For leases we have $219 million to pay off the secured notes.
We have $86 million in development costs primarily made up of $53 million per FMC and Cira Green $23 million for Encino Trace and $5 million for 1900 Market.
$77 million of aggregate dividends consisting of a common dividend for $72 million and $5 million for the preferred shares $24 million of projects at the JV investment level primarily 4040 Wilson and 1919 Market Street.
$56 million of revenue maintaining CapEx $51 million of revenue creating CapEx and a $13 million of mortgage amortization.
Sources of capital for that $526 million are as follows: $240 million of cash on hand $128 million of cash flow before financing dividends and interest payments $150 million of sales including $26 million which has occurred from Four Points and the two land sales $14 million in net proceeds from the Four Points mortgage and $6 million for the repayment of a note receivable.
With that I’ll turn this back over to Gerry.
Tom thank you very much.
George thank you as well.
We know it’s a very busy day.
So to wrap up our prepared remarks first quarter results were very strong consistent with our business plan and I think created great platform for us to continue the execution of our 2014 plan and just as importantly this point really lay the foundation for a very strong 2015 and 2016.
So with that we’d be delighted to open up the floor for questions.
As we always do we ask that in the interest of time you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel.
Mr.
Guinee your line is open.
Nicolaus</strong>  Oh.
Hi thank you.
Things appear to be going very well.
Congratulations.
Couple comments Gerry you guys are clearly becoming more and more Philadelphia and CBD-centric.
Can you drill down maybe George on the same-store numbers or what the CapEx commitments are to make deals in the Philadelphia CBD? Also Gerry can you touch on the level of interest you’d have in the Commonwealth portfolio I think Commonwealth owns maybe 4 million square feet in your backyard.
Sure George?  Yes John on the leasing side of things I mean clearly we are able to achieve longer lease terms.
So I mean the deals we have done during the first quarter approximated nine years in duration.
The capital on those deals on average is about $4 per foot per year but again it kind of depends on that length of lease term level of finish and then we also look at free rent as kind of part of the capital stags we try to balance how much free rent were given as part of that concession package.
But I think all in all most tenants are recognizing that the more the TI cost the more the rent needs to go up.
I think people are starting to kind of balance space needs and going to a little bit more of an open floor plan which can sometimes help control those costs as well.
And then John on your second question relative to other assets in Philadelphia.
Look we continue to look at our business plan having growth avenues in both Austin Texas and in Metro DC and augmenting that clearly is a strong position we have in Philadelphia.
We have targeted a number of assets that we would have an interest in if they would come to market.
Certainly Commonwealth owns a number of properties in Philadelphia that could be good additions to our portfolio but let’s see what happens with what they want to do relative to their own business plan.
We certainly think we are in a very good position to continue being extremely competitive and successful in Philadelphia without any ownership change in any of the assets down there.
But certainly to the extent that any owners of good high quality assets in Philadelphia would like to put those on the market I think we would certainly be open to evaluate on those potential additions to our portfolio.
Certainly in the context of what are other commitments how the rest of our business plan is going how our asset recycling plan is going in terms of maintaining our portfolio growth moderate leverage reductions and moving toward the execution of our growth plan.
Nicolaus</strong>  Okay and then as a follow-up and Tom you might have said this in your prepared remarks so I apologize but if I look at $236 million of cash $150 million in net dollar contributions into JVs development in capital spend redevelopment capital spend what’s your cash balance at the end of the year $236 million now is? Can you just give us a range as what you are expecting for the cash balance at the end of the year?  Yes I think we will be somewhere in the $20 million range with the additional capital we’ve outlined for this year John.
Nicolaus</strong>  Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I wanted to just drill down on the development a little bit if I could.
Tom or Gerry how much is embedded in guidance in terms of development starts development spend for the year and was some portion I might have missed this of the tweak to guidance this quarter reflecting the Encino Trace start?  Well hey Tom certainly feel free to pick up.
Tom did walk through Jordan is part of our uses of capital this year all of our projected development spends that we anticipate for all of our development and redevelopment projects for the year.
Encino Trace really won’t be delivered until next year.
So it really had no impact at all on our tweaking our guidance.
So I mean if you spend $14 million I presume was there was a cash component there? I mean is there a capitalization of development? I mean what’s the treatment there from an accounting perspective?  Sure Jordan.
This is Tom.
In my prepared I said we had about $86 million of development starts of that $23 million for example was Encino Trace spend and you are correct it will just become CIP and we will have a element of interest capitalization on those costs for the balance of this year as well as next year with the delivery date expected to be in the second quarter of 2016.
And that would go with all the other projects I mentioned $5 million for 1900 Market and I mentioned $53 million for a combined FMC and Cira Green spend.
Okay I did catch that.
Thank you.
I think Craig Mailman has one as well follow-up.
Yes Gerry a quick question on FMC tower just some more color on the decision there to add more office space into the marker you guys have some redev going on at the Stock Exchange Liberty is bringing on buildings come – has some vacancy why not just have the FMC expansion just take down the space you as it originally planned.
What was the reason for the expansion?  Well a couple factors one is we’ve had certainly a lot of interest in the project on the pre-marketing basis.
So I think we got some visibility into how well this project will be received.
On both the office and the residential standpoint FMC did exercise an additional expansion which they took another floor and we’ll see what they want to do over the next several months.
But certainly as part of their announcement a few months ago about splitting their existing company into two pieces there will actually be two corporate headquarters in that building which we think change the near and the intermediate term demand drivers for space in that building.
And then frankly Craig as we really assess the marketplace we really do see this continued movement to quality in the market.
As George alluded to really across all of our markets but certainly we think that the renovation of the Stock Exchange building provides a different price point for tenants who have been in high-quality space.
That price point will be below the price point we are offering at Commerce Square which is slightly below the price point that we are offering at the Logan which again is a little bit below we are offering at FMC Tower.
So I think as we segment our portfolio and compare it to that competitive set for that segment we think that we are in a very very good position and so the increase of the additional office square foot at FMC Tower we think we will be able to increase our overall level of returns and our expectation.
As we talked about early on is that we hope to be able to in a position with FMC that when that project is delivered in mid-year 2016 we anticipate having the same level of success we have with the original Cira Center where it was almost completely occupied upon lease outs.
So it was really a market assessment call on both the residential and the office front and then really take a look at the competitive set and the pre-leasing pipeline we have for the FMC Tower.
Great thank you.
You are welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Great thank you and good morning.
I guess just first starting out a question for Tom.
With taking over the CFO role can you talk a little bit about what maybe different going forward? Do you have any plans to change anything or kind of business as usual?  I think Jamie it’s going to be business as usual.
I think that the goals of reducing leverage and it’s still paramount still be involved in investments a bit.
But I would say generally it’s going to be business as usual going forward.
Okay and any plan changes in any kind of reporting or supplemental or the way you provide any data?  I think we will continue to look to improve the supplemental package.
We have thoughts to improve it going forward.
Any suggestions would be welcome.
I think other than that it would probably the same.
I made you a little more in terms of guidance on some of the various components on more of a run rate basis for you guys.
But other than that no don’t expect any – too many changes.
Okay.
And then I am sorry if I missed this but did you say the tenant in Austin and can you just talk a little bit more about your opportunities for leasing the second building and what that market looks like for future developments?  Sure we did not actually named the tenant yet there will be a press release forthcoming on that but it’s an existing tenant in one of our other buildings that’s essentially doubling in size and we are layering some backfill strategies for their space which as it mature for a couple of years.
Look the leasing pipeline in Austin remains incredibly robust with continued upward pressure on rents.
The location of this have been seen in the Southwest quadrant it really positions that project to a tap into all the leasing activity in that market.
since we have broken ground on the first building we’ve been approached by a number of tenants that range from 50 000 to 150 000 square feet looking for forward occupancy dates.
The benefit we have in the Encino Trace given the size of the site itself.
The low level of impervious coverage will be around 13% or so.
We have a huge – a good opportunity there to present a campus environment with the full range of amenity package in terms of outdoor recreational areas fitness centers on-site food service opportunities.
So it really does very well play into the open space technology-oriented tenants that seem to be major drivers of space in that market.
So we will be assessing what we think that the visibility on that additional leasing pipeline is over the next couple months and if we feel well so we can get one of those across the finish-line I think we’ll assess starting the second building.
But that will be a function of what we see over the next as I said couple months.
And we’ve already priced out the program there to start both buildings at the same time versus a delayed start.
Several of our construction cost number is pretty well now down.
Okay.
And my understanding on Austin is that southwest is one of the few sub-markets where you can see more new construction given some of the barriers on new supply.
Is that true and how do you think about competitive new supply coming into that market or that sub-market?  Well there has been a couple projects already announced that have a fairly significant levels of pre-leasing.
You are correct.
The southwest market primarily due to infrastructure and – constraints tend to be a much more conservative environmentally focused part of Austin which tend to serve as a barrier to new construction But if we do operate on a premise that those barriers maybe a bit higher but they are not instrumentable and then other competition could come online.
So and we look that the Encino Trace acquisition how that will layer into our overall rollover schedule in Austin we clearly took a look at what we – what the known construction starts are what we anticipate the construction stats could be in 2015 and 2016 and really looked at the deliveries in 2015 2016 and 2017 and felt that we are well positioned in that market through this development and through some of the rollover in our existing portfolio.
Okay.
And then can you talk a little bit more about Northern Virginia and where you guys think that market is now and in the cycle and – either risks going forward or maybe even upside?  Well I think it’s still recovering.
I think clearly tenants are making that flight to quality and that really is what has aided us in kind of getting that toll road corridor kind of up to 91% leased.
We are hoping and only expecting that Northrop is kindly the last of our big large move outs and contractions.
But we are seeing good levels of deal size from full floor users the multi-floor users.
We are seeing expansion within our own tenant base that you know we are able to accommodate.
So I think we are still probably another 12 to 24 months until it’s all kind of turned around in that market.
There is still a lot of inventory beyond what we have.
But we are seeing contracting agencies through the portfolio cyber security is kind of been an increased tenant mix that we’ve been trying to accommodate.
So we are most of the way there but not fully there and I guess this is how I would categorize it.
But it’s also a good window in the market for us to be as aggressive as we have been and we are.
We have identified a couple of major capital renovation plans that we are moving forward with representing new pallets in the marketplace.
Our leasing team down there has done an extremely effective job in broadening our reach.
Working with our existing tenant base and certainly working both directly and with third-party brokers to get a higher level of exposure to our own inventor most of which is on the roll road.
So it has some clear advantages to some of the other properties in the marketplace.
We continue to see a good strong recovery in Tyson’s Corner and look forward to the opening of the Metro sometime later this year.
But look it’s a price takers market.
I think we have good inventory.
I think we see an diminishment of larger blocks of space.
All the feedback that we are getting both from our tenant base from tenant prospects from our government relations people as that there tends to be a much more positive bias to the tone of the market.
But as George touched on it’s still in the stage of recovery.
We think it’s well past the nascent stages.
We think it’s more towards the latter stages of recovery with very good visibility particularly given the fact that a lot of the brack situations behind us and that there tends to be some more positive dynamics relative to forward-looks in government spending.
Okay.
So I guess back to – I guess George’s comment in terms of who is expanding you are saying it’s cyber and is it more you are seeing a fight to quality.
Are you seeing actual expansion or is it more a musical chairs?  I would say it’s more musical chairs fight to quality but we are seeing some expansion within our own tenant base.
Okay.
And then I guess given where you think we are in the recovery I know in the past you said you’d want to expand in that market or do you see the core market for you to grow especially maybe Tyson’s as the train opens up there.
Did this make you want to get more aggressive on acquisitions here?  Well we’ve been aggressive on acquisitions in terms of underwriting them both in auction situations and private negotiations.
We are still very mindful of where we see rental rates going very mindful of replacement costs.
So we will continue to be aggressive Jamie whether we actually get our expectations to meet the seller’s expectations remains to be same.
But we will continue to focus on trying to grow that marketplace and looking for those spot opportunities where we can get engaged on pricing that seems to make sense for us.
Okay great.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi  Hey good morning.
Many questions on with me.
Gerry you decided to relief Howard Sipzner of the CFO duties in March then promote Tom and give him the role.
Can you sort of talk about what drove your decision to do that? And why you did that?  Certainly I mean look I think the – as we assess the company going forward I think that we felt that Tom’s broader base of experience and knowledge in a lot of our markets would help us in executing our growth platform going forward but I think as the results of this quarter have shown there was a very effective job being done by Howard and his assistants in terms of maintaining solid financial reporting forward financial projecting.
And we saw the evidence of that with this quarterly update right now.
So you decided to spend almost $1 million to make the change for future savings or for – I mean because there was obviously a cost of doing that?  Well there was a cost of doing that and certainly it’s always challenging to make those types of decisions but I think as we assess the – where were the company was where we anticipate it to go we felt that was a good move to make at that point in time.
And then Tom just in terms of making sure we understand guidance.
So if you turn to page 24 you have two reported FFOs one that is the reported FFO of $0.34 and then one this FFO excluding a number of items that’s $0.33.
As we think about the guidance of $1.42 to $1.48 I am assuming that relates to the $0.34 just the pure reported FFO.
But within that can you share with us if there is any other sort of landfill gains or any other one-timers that would be propping up that number because I guess if we just look at it you are going from $0.34 in the quarter up to $0.37 in the next three quarters on average to hit the midpoint and I just want to understand; A.
What that growth is? So where is that increase coming from as we move through the year number one and number two is there any other one-timers that are in there?  Yes I’ll start with the page 24 Mike yes the $0.34 was embedded in our guidance for the $1.42 to $1.48.
We left it and we feel like going more to a – I think in the past we had sort of core non-core FFO reporting.
I think it’s better to just go with a FFO as definition and then give you the components of what’s in there.
And you can make a sort of out of whether some of those are one-time and whether they would go forward.
We left this footnote in on page 2 just to highlight some of those one-time and also keep the chart and to see what people to take it out we take out all the previous quarter information.
So I thought just to be consistent we would leave it in.
In terms of in the press release we did talk about what we thought were some of the more – not one-timer or hopefully non-recurring items relative to what was in the $0.34.
Looking at the – so that's kind of why 24 was done that way.
Looking at the guidance going forward there are no – in our plan right now there are no more – there are no one-time items like a land sale that would create a gain that would be included in FFO.
When you think about the run rate going forward that $0.37 average does include the HCC credit income that will hit in the third quarter of about $0.07.
So we will still have that anomaly hit in the third quarter.
But more immediate looking at the second quarter I think as I mentioned looking at the core NOI run rate of the core properties that will be fairly consistent with what you saw this quarter it’s sort of a guiding rent starting point.
Right so you are back to basically flat at $0.34 for the year and we get the $0.07 of third quarter payment recognition?  Yes.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Toti with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just couple of quick ones and I might have missed this.
What drove the spec revenue target change? Was it based on the higher renewal rates or changes in working in the retention rates?  Yes it really was that clarity on additional renewals which led to both the spec revenue increase and the retention increase.
Okay and then also I know you touched on this a little bit as well.
The assets you have in the market for pricing discovery how would you characterize those markets? Are they skewed in particular regions? Are you sort of testing across the board? Does it tend to be more suburban than CBD in terms of what’s out there?  David you are cutting out a little bit but I think we were getting the thrust of it.
The properties we have on the market tend to be certainly more suburban and urban.
They are in almost every market in which we have a current platform.
So we are continuing to follow our program that we have in the past few years really going through a price discovery process by putting a number of projects on the market.
Understanding what we think the inherent value of those projects are and then testing and see what the marketplace will deliver for those.
So we typically tend to have a pre- active dialogue with both buyers and investment bankers brokers et cetera on how to assess the various offers that come in.
When we do take a look at our sales plan there are properties that we have on the market for sale in Pennsylvania New Jersey Delaware and Maryland Virginia California.
As you saw we sold a piece of ground in Austin Texas in the first quarter.
We sold another piece of ground in Dallas Texas which were a last piece there after the quarter closed.
So we tend to take a pretty comprehensive look at our entire portfolio and put a number of things in the marketplace to really test and see what the market will deliver to us.
And then certainly respond to reverse enquiries from either individual buyers or from larger institutions who are looking to deploy capital.
And I assume the primary criteria is for selection is that the forward growth profile or are there other characteristics that are pushing those assets forward?  Okay great question.
I think we really assess what we would actually trade.
We take a look at forward NOI growth.
We take a look frankly at capital ratio.
So the amount of capital that’s required to sustain that growth rate on a relative basis.
And we certainly developed as I mentioned a moment ago our view our quantitative view on what we think that value that piece of property is and we use that to benchmark the offers.
But certainly forward growth and the capital required to grow that are the key primary determinants.
The secondary considerations tend to be market specifics that we want to be in that sub-market long-term.
Do we see a lot of pricing power that we would have as a landlord in that sub-market and if we don’t think that’s achievable then that’s certainly a sub-market we would look to exit and then we always take a look at what there is an element of functional obsolescence in the building.
Whether it’s through ceiling high it’s A/C systems parking ratios ease of access change in neighborhoods et cetera to really develop.
But we hope a full four corners view of what we think the full value in every piece of real estate is.
Okay that's very helpful.
Thank you.
You are welcome  Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Hey morning guys.
Jed Reagan here with Michael.
Wondering if you’ve seen any changes in cap rates and valuations in your core markets so far this year and in particular I’d be curious comment specifically on Philadelphia?  We have not seen anything that really changed the trend line from what we were saying last year.
I think we continue to be positively surprised on the wall of capital and it’s aggressiveness in pricing assets.
So certainly from a buying standpoint that creates a bit of a hurdle for us but as we are looking to continue our movement to – towards – through our portfolio transition that remains encouraging.
Certainly we are seeing continued cap rate compression in almost every market in which we do business which is one of the reasons why we are continuing to really push for us some forward asset sales as an effective cost of capital for us.
But nothing dramatic from the last call Jed I think it’s the continuation of a strong line of our strong pool of potential buyers.
Interest rates have remained incredibly benign.
And in fact the Treasury continues to hover around that 2.6 2.7 range with spreads coming in.
As you all well know the CMBS market is a major fuel for the acquisition market on the private side.
That remains incredibly robust.
Commercial bank financing is readily available.
So we think all of those items I think play very well into those companies like ours are looking to continue to upgrade our portfolio.
And as I mentioned it presents some challenges as we – one of the earlier questions about can we be aggressive in expanding our footprint in DC what we are seeing is with that wall of capital.
With those large pools of equity that want to be placed in a more highly levered model that it‘s very difficult to compete on auction price transactions and how that makes sense for us.
But I think capital to some degree is driving the pricing metric.
But I also think in a number of other markets there is clearly a higher degree of confidence in the continued economic recovery on the part of buyers who are beginning to underwrite more aggressive rents higher levels of stabilized occupancy lower capital run rates.
So I think that does bode very well for the office sector in general that you will continue to see increasing values over the next several quarters.
Okay that's helpful and to that point are you seeing rent growth trends changing in your market is there any pick up in momentum or is it sort of a steady trend that you are seeing?  George and I are attacking this look I think we are seeing a real firming across the board of rental rates as George and I both mentioned a diminishment of concessions.
We are very pleased that we’ve been able to migrate of our annual rent escalations from a range of 1% to 2% to clearly 2% to 3%.
Lengthen our lease terms so whether it was in the CBD Philadelphia or some of our accounts in the markets – even now the residual out in the western suburbs at Philadelphia we are being able to firm rents and push higher.
We are seeing that generally across the board New Jersey we had some good activity in our remaining portfolio there in emergence of some larger tenants who have kept pricing very firm for some of the larger blocks and space that we leased.
Yes Jed I think some of the markets that I touched on in my commentary I think the fact that vacancy is getting sub 10% is really helping us push those asking rents but even in a market like Northern Virginia where we have necessarily been able to push the asking rent we are getting kind of that 2.5% to 3% annual escalator to keep those bumps going and trying to get the highest ending rent as possible.
Okay thank you and just one for me.
Can you talk a little more specifically about your leasing prospects for the 4040 Wilson development in DC and how we should think about the start of the garage build out in the context of you guys potentially moving forward on the rest of the space?  Certainly well look we did make a decision in conjunction with our partner to commence construction of the garage.
We did that for a couple reasons.
One we had negotiated a very good deal on the construction cost side.
So we don’t want to maintain the favorable cost components we had on building that garage.
But also to your point Jed when we looked at the forward-leasing pipeline a lot of the larger tenants we were talking to and remain in discussions with have delivery dates in 2016 and early 2017.
So one of the major reasons why we started the garage was really to compress the delivery period of the project to the extent that those tenants would sign leases with us.
We did not make – and purposely do not make the decision to pursue with the vertical construction of the building until there is much more visibility on the leasing front.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Young Ku with Wells Fargo.
Great thank you.
Maybe this question is for either Tom or George.
So it looks like your Q2 is going to be pretty much similar to Q1 in terms of core cash flow level.
So assuming that then that assumes 230 BPS of kind of occupancy gains in the back half.
I know you guys have 90% of your spec revenue target locked up.
But I know that does necessarily a jive with your occupancy so I was wondering how much of that 230 basis points of occupancy gain it’s kind of in the back versus what is kind of left to go?  Yes sure it’s George.
We’ve got as we kind of lay out on page 5 in the supplemental we’ve got 821 000 square feet of new leasing still to execute.
But look we’ve maintained kind of that total amount of new leasing for the year based on the pipeline of deals we currently have.
So we kind of go through a suite-by-suite assessment who is the prospect where do we stand in the negotiation stage and we still feel confident based on the pipeline of deals the weekly inspections we are seeing the quality of some of that space that we will be able to source negotiate and close and then obviously get the lease commenced.
Some of that’s going to be a third quarter event and then some of it’s obviously going to be a fourth quarter event.
That’s why at a 65% achievement to-date on the square footage we are close to 90% achieved on the revenue because these later occupying deals obviously just don’t have as much calendar time to contribute on the revenue side.
Okay thank you for that George.
And maybe this is somewhat related to just looking ahead to 2015 I know you guys said previously that you are expecting kind of year end occupancy to be about 93%.
So I was wondering how that occupancy projection you should progress? And whether there are any major move outs or contracts that you guys are expecting?  Well I think we are projecting to get between 91 and 92 occupied at the end of 2014 with a 100 basis points on either end of that range from a pre-leased perspective.
We haven’t kind of formalized the 2015 business plan yet but I think the expectation as we kind of do our forward modeling is that we would get occupancy into that 92 to 93 range based on where we are.
Look we have mitigated a lot of our rollover exposure of 2015 already and have and that really kind of started the focus on 2016 as well.
So we don’t have the level of known move outs in 2015 that we’ve had in 2014 kind of Lockheed and Travelers of the world I think hopefully knock on water in the rearview mirror.
Okay thank you for that.
And your next question comes from the line of John Peterson with MLV and Company.
Great thank you.
I wanted to ask specifically about the EVO student housing development at Cira Center.
Campus Crest earlier this week pre-leasing it looks like it was 17% which is pretty far below our typical student housing property will be leased at this point.
I am just kind of curious how – just your thoughts on how that is projecting relative to your underwriting and what kind of lease percentage you guys would need opening to get your cash the other 7.6%.
Certainly I have to answer it I mean from a construction standpoint the project is moving on pace on schedule.
So that very important element is very much on track.
I think your point is on target if EVO was purely an undergraduate student housing project.
By design is I am sure Campus Crest alluded to in their call this is a project both had a mix of graduates undergraduates and young professionals.
So the undergraduate leasing cycle is occurring kind of April and May and I think we’ve been very pleased with the acceleration of leasing activity just over the last 30 days and the increasingly large pipeline that the leasing folks at Campus Crest are pulling together.
So I think the next 30 days or so in the undergraduates that are going to be fairly telling the leasing cycle for graduate students is really later mid-summer in August.
And I think we are very pleased with the pipeline of activity we are seeing out of the graduate schools at both University of Pennsylvania and Drexel University as well as the outreach that Campus Crest is doing very effectively to some other Philadelphia based universities.
So I think from our perspective and certainly I would expect Campus Crest would share it’s a little bit too early to tell in terms of where we are lined up in September because so much of the thrust to the marketing program is geared towards graduate students.
The feedback that we are receiving from tenant prospects is incredibly favorable in terms of the design location and amenity package of the project.
So I think we are all pretty happy of being Campus Crest hovers a suite in Brandywine with that level of market feedback but we are learning to be a little bit more patient in terms of when we are getting leases signed particularly with the graduate students.
We have programmed in the 80% 85% lease range for the opening year.
So there is still some work to do on that.
But again I think as we look at the sequencing of the pipeline the growth rate in that prospect list I think all the partners right now are very much still maintaining a very positive tone on being able to meet or come very close to that objective.
Okay great thank you for that and then can you remind us on just what your long-term intentions are in terms of a property obviously the locations sets with the Brandywine portfolio but student housing doesn’t necessarily.
Is it something over the long-term you would want to sell your interest and maybe one of the partners at a third-party or do you want to hold on it just because of the strategic location of it?  No we obviously love the location we love the project and we are very happy with our partners but I think as we announce when we initially brought this program out student housing is not our business.
We are fortunate to have some – a good financial partner and good operator to kind of augment the leasing process here.
And I think it’s TBD the partnership structure provides for buy sell options as they all do.
So we are very happy with the way things are going and we will assess what our long-term intentions are as the project reaches stabilization we see the value accretion.
And then certainly respond to what the market is telling us in terms of pricing and whole strategy.
Got you.
All right thank you.
Appreciate it.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Sweeny for any closing remarks.
Very well certainly thank you all for participating in our first quarter conference call and we look forward to a continued execution on our business plan as well as updating you on those activities in our second quarter call.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s Brandywine Realty Trust first quarter earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is April and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Gerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Please go ahead sir.
April thank you very much.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in our second quarter 2014 earnings call.
On today's call with me today are George Johnstone our Executive Vice President of Operations; Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Gabe Mainardi our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
Prior to beginning certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
Although we believe estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that the anticipated results will in fact be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
Okay.
As we normally do we'll start off with in overview of our three key business plan components namely operations balance sheet and investments George will then discuss the status of our leasing and operating efforts.
And we'll then turn the call over to Tom to review our financial results.
Since our last call we've continued to make excellent progress on our 2014 business plan.
And our market steady recovery continues we are seeing tenants increasingly focused on the high quality efficient space we provide as their businesses grow and expand.
During the quarter we achieved strong leasing and operating results and our development and redevelopment initiatives remain on track so all in all excellent business plan progression during the first half of the year.
For the quarter we exceeded consensus FFO by a $0.01 primarily driven by anticipated core portfolio performance and a lease termination fee given the steady progression Tom will walk through the details removing up our bottom end of our guidance range by a $0.01 to a range of $1.43 to a $1.48 per share.
And looking at operations operational performance remains strong and our 2014 plan as indicated in our press release remains on target.
Our pipeline of deals at the proposals stage stands at 2.7 million square feet up 8% from the first quarter.
For the quarter we also leased over 1 million square feet of space consistent with the very strong performance in the first quarter and reflect of the continued strength of our four leasing pipeline.
Occupancy stood at 89.3% and preleasing at 91.7% the leasing numbers up 50 basis points quarter-over-quarter and our portfolio remains on track to achieve our year-end occupancy and leasing targets.
From a spec revenue standpoint our business plan is 95% accomplished it's also important to note that we have reduced our specs square footage component by 55% since our first quarter call on May 1st so truly significant progress in de-risking our remaining year business plan.
We continue to lease a lot of space in metro DC and other recovering markets and we've also been successful in lengthening lease terms and achieving 2% to 3% annual rent bumps.
As a result for the year our GAAP mark to market is trending towards the high end of our 6 to 8% range while our cash target is trending towards the lower end of our range.
Leasing activity was strong and as George will touch on we made significant progress on our portfolio vacancies.
In particular in Maryland as you know we had a total roll over exposure of 216 000 square feet with Lockheed Martin given other leasing activity as well as the recently announced CNS idea with a 118 000 square feet we've already absorbed a 174 000 square feet or 80% of that total rollover exposure within months of Lockheed's departure so really a good job by our DC leasing team.
Excellent operating traction continues in our Pennsylvania town center markets CBD Philadelphia University of City and Austin Texas.
We also noted a strong increase in our tenant retention ratio to almost 78% during the quarter and as we move last quarter we increased our 2014 projection up to 67%.
Leasing cost for the quarter were up over the first quarter run rate but still within our range of 2.25 to 2.75 per square foot for this year.
The quarterly increase is primarily driven by several leases in New Jersey than average close to $4 a square foot our run rate excluding those 4 was around $2.30 well within our target range.
We continue our positive trend with very strong same store growth and on a GAAP basis reported 3.5% and 6.7% on a cash basis so we continue to harvest the benefits of our strong leasing progress and improving rent spreads.
Given the demand drivers we're seeing in our market place and our build to both extent lease terms that increase bumps we continue to focus on for derisking our portfolio by reducing rollover exposure in out years so for example in 2015 we have our rollover exposure down to 7.5% and less than 8% in 2016.
So for both years we have less than 2 million square feet rolling and we'll continue to make good progress on that through year end 2014.
Now looking at our balance sheet we remain in a very strong position with excellent liquidity.
We have no outstanding balance in our $600 000 line of credit and we continue that $235 million of cash on hand.
As indicated on previous calls our cash balances remain available to fund our development pipeline acquisition activity and for debt pay downs.
And as we're seeing in the numbers occupancy gains positive operating trend in capital recycling remain major contributors to achieving our intermediate term leverage targets of 6.5 times EBITDA and 40% debt to GAV and our long term leverage target of being below six times EBITDA and mid 30 set to GAV.
And as we reinforce on every call a GAV needs benchmarks over time remain driving predicates of our business plan.
Look certainly given the favorable interest rate environment we have been actively monitoring a variety of refinancing and liability management options.
We continue to evaluate ways to both lengthen our maturity curve reduce our weighted average cost of debt increase the size of our unencumbered pool all consistent with our overall leverage reduction targets.
Looking at investments capitals clearly moving in the right direction and we are pleased with the increased demand at the institutional money being focused on the office sector.
Nationally office sector sales are up significantly year-over-year and while the focus remains on primary markets increased competition for deals is clearly driving institutional money to non-gateway markets looking for incrementally higher yields.
So the low cost of debt capital significant amounts of equity looking to be deployed the recovery in most of our real estate markets we think all portend increased buying appetite for the parts of the portfolio we are looking to sell.
Our business plan goal of being $150 million net seller this year remains on target we currently have over $80 million under contract on advanced contract negotiations at an average cash cap rate just north of 8% and its value is at $180 per square foot.
We also have over $300 million in the product on the market today for sale and so all in all remain confident with what we have under agreement in advanced negotiations or on the market that will be able to achieve our sales target by the end of the year.
The press release and the supplemental package provides specific on a number of our recent transactions and our development work so I'll just touch on a few of those.
As noted last quarter we acquired a 54 acre site in Southwest Austin known as Encino Trace that side is permitted to develop two four-story buildings totaling 320 000 square feet and at 1 375 car parking deck.
The first building is 75% preleased to an anchor tenant and we commence construction on that project at the end of the first quarter of 2014.
Based on the leasing pipeline activity that occurred after our announcement to that start during the second quarter we commenced construction on the second building totaling 161 000 square feet both buildings will be completed during the second quarter of 2015.
Our estimated cost are $87 million we have about $19 million funded as of the end of the second quarter.
The pipeline activity for the balance of the space remains very strong and we are targeting 11% free and clear yield on cost.
Also in Austin we did during the second quarter contribute our four point center which consisted of two buildings aggregating just shy of 200 000 square feet into our joint venture with DRA advisors.
Development activity is also detailed in our press release on pages 11 through 13 with supplemental just some notable highlights.
We did break ground during the second quarter on the FMC tower at Cira Center South that project that remains on schedule for a targeted midyear 2016 delivery.
The building incorporates an expanded amenity program additional residential units enhanced street engagement in public spaces and the revised building will contain 635 000 square feet of office space that 6 000 square feet of retail and 268 residential units.
We continue to believe the total cost will anticipate up to $385 million.
We have about 255 000 square feet of office space to lease we recently launched our marketing campaign for the balance of this space and we'll really gear up our full efforts in the fall.
Pipeline activity looks very encouraging and remain very enthusiastic about meeting our pro forma targets.
Of the 268 residential units we anticipate about 100 will be extended stay fully furnished corporate suites with the balance stay in market like rental.
We continue to explore as we talked in the last call variety of financing avenues for this project include potential joint venture financing for the entire project with a residential component as well as sourcing construction financing and we are still projecting the same baseline frame for a return just north of 8%.
Our EVO project at Cira Centre South is on track for opening this academic year and the project remains on schedule and on budget.
We anticipate the certificate of occupancy will we obtain very shortly with about -- that with over 50 tenant moving schedules started for August 1st.
The project is currently 37.8% leased with significant activity growing quickly and as originally anticipated we do expect the project to stabilize in the third quarter of 2015 at a projective free and clear return of 7.6%.
All of our other development projects are on track and on schedule the land monetization plan which is outlined on page 14 of our supplement remains very much on track.
And as a final point the redevelopment program for 1900 market street is well underway the range of innovations are entrance lobby mechanical system upgrades as well as significant side enhancements and put our overall investment bases we projected along between $180 to $200 per square foot and we expect that renovation to be completed by the end of year 2015.
I guess in summary the second quarter was a real solid continuation of our 2014 business plan and really builds a great foundation for the company looking ahead for the next several years.
At this point George will take a look at our second quarter operational performance and then Tom will touch on our financial results.
George.
Thank you Gerry.
Our markets continue to demonstrate sign of recovery and our regional leasing teams continue to generate activity expeditiously negotiate terms and execute lease transactions.
During the quarter we signed over 1 million square feet of leases which mitigates non-move outs positions us to achieve business plan targets and reduces forward lease expiration exposure.
Inspections during the second quarter were up 14.7% over last quarter and up 9.8% year-over-year.
We're outperforming market vacancy in all but one of our markets.
In CVD Philadelphia we're 94.5% leased and well ahead of our future lease expirations with less than 1% remaining in 2014 and sub 5% rollover for each year through 2017.
Leasing activity at commerce square remains strong as those properties are now 90% leased up 330 basis points from our acquisition in late December.
Our Pennsylvania suburban properties are 93.3% leased with the crescent markets at 97% and the western suburbs at 89%.
Deal flow continues to gravitate towards King of Prussia due to the lack of available space in the crescent markets.
Inspections in metro DC region were up 10% on both a quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year basis.
Our repositioning plans are underway in Dulles Corner and Northrop Grumman vacated their 1000 square feet as anticipated on June 30.
The buildings is already generating interest as two prospects each in excess of 50 000 square feet are entertaining proposals.
Now turning to the specifics of the quarter we commenced 587 000 square feet of leases of this amount a 167 000 were expansions our fifth consecutive quarter of expansion activity in excess of 1000 square feet.
This leasing activity resulted in occupancy of 89.3% but more importantly a 91.7 leased percentage.
All but 48 000 square feet of our 564 000 square feet of forward leasing will commence in the third and fourth quarters.
So commencement of our executed forward leasing leasing the remainder of the new square footage in the business plan offset by known tenant move outs in early terminations gets us to 91%.
Additional conversion of pipeline beyond our remaining 364 000 square feet of planned activity places us within the 91% to 92% range.
Some additional color on other metrics that performed outside our annual range during the quarter leasing spreads were 2.6% on a GAAP basis and negative 7.4% on a cash basis.
Both of these metric were adversely impacted by the majority of our marked leasing coming from metro DC New Jersey and Richmond where leasing spreads remain negative while the markets fully recover.
Our anticipated third quarter mark-to-market is in a range of 16% to 18% on a GAAP basis and 6% to 8% on a cash basis driven by leases already executed primarily Drinker Biddle in Philadelphia and KPMG in Tysons.
We continue to see favorable rent growth opportunities in CVD Philadelphia the crescent markets of Pennsylvania and while not included in this reported metric Austin Texas.
Additional tenant expansions that resulted in us raising our retention rate from 63% to now annual plan of 67%.
Gerry provided an update on the backfill of Lockheed and Maryland in terms of the traveler space in Richmond we're close to finalizing an LOI with a prospect to take all of the space.
Their occupancy requirement is approximately 50% in 2014 and the balance in early 2015.
So in conclusion another solid quarter with significant achievement on the business plan.
And with that I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thank you George.
As Gerry highlighted earlier our second quarter FFO totaled 57.3 million or $0.36 per diluted share our FFO payout ratio is 41.7% based on our current $0.15 distribution some observations regarding the second quarter FFO results same store NOI growth for the second quarter was 3.5% GAAP and 6.7% cash both excluding net-termination fees and other income.
We had 12 consecutive positive quarters of GAAP metrics and eight for cash metrics.
Our same store portfolio will also experience improved margins as our second quarter profit margin excluding termination fees raised -- increased to 60.6 as compared to 58.3 in the first quarter and 60.4 in the second quarter of 2013.
Improvement in our margins came from operating expense decrease of approximately 5.8 million from the first quarter due to the weather related operating cost of the same store portfolio and Four Points Austin moving to the JV with Austin.
Termination income totaled 3.3 million 1.1 million increase from our first quarter guidance.
G&amp;A expense totaled 6 million which came in line with our previous guidance $2.2 million decrease from the first quarter is primarily due to the employee severance cost and transaction cost incurred in the first quarter of 2014.
Interest expense totaled 31.5 million a decrease of 300 000 as compared to the first quarter the decrease is primarily due to an increase in capitalized interest due to development activities.
FFO contribution from our unconsolidated joint ventures totaled 5.0 million and was slightly below our $5.5 million guidance.
Our second quarter CAD totaled 28.4 million or $0.18 per diluted share and an 83.3% payout ratio.
During the quarter we incurred 22.9 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures.
22% of the second quarter revenue maintaining capital spend related to future year leasing activity with 5.1 related to early renewals from 2015 and later.
With respect to the quarter end balance sheet and financial metrics our EBITDA ratio improved to 6.9 as a result of improved operating results and our debt to GAV was 42.8%.
We have a 100 million of floating rate debt no balance on the 600 million unsecured line of credit and 235 million of cash with no maturities other than our 218.5 bond maturity in November later this year which is fully covered by our liquidity plan.
As Gerry mentioned based on the second quarter results we have increased the lower end of our FFO range to 143 to 148 in addition to the business plan assumptions outlined in the supplemental package we note the following.
Core property income for the third quarter will be slightly below the second quarter results due to slightly higher seasonal operating adjustments and the no move out of Northrop Grumman.
2014 G&amp;A for the balance of the year the range is still 25 to 26.5 million and will be evenly spread through the rest of the year.
Interest expense should continue to range in 125 to 127 with 3Q expense approximating the second quarter.
Termination fees we expect to decrease to about $1 million.
Third quarter management and leasing income should be slightly below the second quarter results due to lower leasing and development fees while other income line should also approximate second quarter results.
Joint ventures the FFO contribution from the unconsolidated joint venture should increase from our second quarter number to roughly 5.5 million for the third quarter.
We have 150 million of net sales with the exception of Four Points in Dallas land today there have been no additional sales while we continually have properties in the market in various stages of price discovery we continue to project generic sales with an assumed 8.5% cap rate.
As for our previously existing plan we anticipate a majority of those sales to occur in the fourth quarter.
Third quarter results will benefit from the continuing annual amortization of the historical tax credit related to the post office which will be approximately $11.9 million.
We have no planned issuance under our CEO program no note buyback or capital markets activity and 160.4 million weighted average shares for FFO in 2014 for the third quarter.
Annual FFO payout ratio is 41.2 even with the additional capital spend this year related to 2015 and beyond leasing activity we continue to project CAD per diluted share to be in the range of $0.70 to $0.80 reflecting 40 to 50 million of revenue maintaining capital.
2014 capital as we look at our liquidity for the balance of the year for the for the balance of the six months total usage for the remaining six months will total $470 million comprise of 219 million for the unsecured note repayment 75 million for the development projects primarily FMC Encino Trace 1900 market and the Cira Green 51 million of aggregate dividends consisting a 48 million for the common shares 3.5 million for the preferred shares 25 million of projected JV investment activity primarily 4040 market 45 million of revenue maintaining CapEx 45 million of revenue creating CapEx and 7 million of mortgage amortization.
Primary sources for 470 million or 220 million of cash on hand 95 million of cash flow before financing investment and dividends and after interest 150 million of asset sales and 4 million from the repayment of a note receivable.
At this point I will turn it back over to Gerry.
Great Tom.
Thank you very much.
Just one point to amend my earlier comments I misspoke on the Encino Trace yield.
As we have disclosed in our supplemental package the free and clear yield on both of those projects is expected to be 8%.
So to wrap-up our prepared comments and thank you George and Tom second quarter results were very strong consistent with our business plan.
It was a fairly quiet quarter on the investment front.
We have a lot of work underway as I mentioned on the sales front and as Tom alluded to but we remain confident in the continued execution of our 2014 business and are continuing to plan ahead for 2015 and '16.
So with that we wraps up our prepared comments and we would be delighted to open up the floor for questions.
We do ask as we always do that in the interest of time you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
The first question comes from the line of Jed Reagan of Green Street.
Good morning guys.
You've talked about being net seller this year and achieving significant deleveraging over time it's actually been pretty quiet so far as far as dispositions and your development pipeline is growing and leverage metrics still remain elevated relative to the peer group.
So just wondering if you can talk a little bit about the timeline for making bigger strides on reaching some of those leverage and debt to EBITDA goals and may be just how you hope to achieve that? Sure thanks Jed.
Look I think in terms of the broader issue of capital raising as you have alluded to and certainly as we stressed and repeated achieving our balance sheet goals is a real driving predicate of our business plan.
I mean we do believe that creating capital capacity is one of the best ways really one of the best strategies we can execute to both de-risk our company and provide capital to accelerate growth.
So we have been successful thus far in selling slower growth assets and those asset sales over the last several years have really been our most effective source of raising capital.
I think we are very encouraged by is with our markets continue to improve even in some of our more challenged markets are us reaching a point where we are almost at the stabilized occupancy levels for a number of those projects.
And with investment capital now finally really focusing on the office sector and particularly some of the non-gateway markets we do feel we have an accelerated opportunity to continue our portfolio position repositioning and improve our forward cash flow profile and raise capital.
And we're clearly keeping all of our options open.
We do expect that we'll meet that intermediate term goal of 6.5 times EBITDA on 40% hopefully sometime in the 2015 range but clearly the track that we're on to de-lever is key for us and as we seek to take advantage of value-add or development opportunities we clearly are evaluating all those in the construct of what we think our capital raising activities can be.
And then sort of the long-term goals '16 type of expectation or further than that? '16 '17 timeline I mean one of the benefits we have is with some of these development projects coming on-board frankly Encino Trace as early as '15 EVO generating some returns for us in '15 and certainly FMC coming on it '16 we think there will be some extremely good value-added drivers to help us accelerate and achieve our leverage goals.
Okay thanks.
And on the student housing project that you have alluded to seems like there is quite a bit of wood to chop there still on preleasing and just wondering if the partnership still feel comfortable with the original leasing goals or if those need to be scaled back again? And I guess specifically is there any read-through yet on graduate student demand I know that was a key aspect of it.
Yes look I think as we look at the project and we in this case being Harrison Street and Campus Crest and the Brandywine partnership mission critical was the delivery of the project.
The delivery is on time it's on budget which is quite a feat since we lost over 20 days due to weather during the winter but the budget remained in place in a $160 million level.
There is still some contingency dollars remaining and we were fortunate to have some nice buys on hard cost and some interest savings during the development timeline to be able to more than offset the acceleration cost due to the weather delays.
So I think from that standpoint we're feeling very good and again the project will be opened and tenants will start moving in really in the next couple of weeks.
In terms of the leasing we are at 37% a nice uptick from the last quarter and all of this leasing we need to be mindful of is really being achieved without the prospects being able to walk through the building.
So the Campus Crest team is doing a wonderful job of generating demand in the marketing offset without really even having to model units or the study halls or the concierge level completed until very very recently.
But in terms of your question on mix I think we're really pleased with the mix of students I mean it was designed primarily as graduate I mean right now we have about 57 or so percent of the student population of executed leases are coming from Drexel University which is a good mix of graduates and undergraduates.
We have 33% are coming from Penn and they're graduate students.
And 95% of those are first year grad students.
So we think there is a good opportunity kind of to build that brand we also have just shy of 10% of the population that's executed leases so far being young professionals.
Recent graduates and Brandywine and Campus Crest are collaborating very nicely and doing cross marketing to the Brandywine tenant base downtown.
So we are picking up a number of young employees of our tenant base.
The other thing that's actually very good for us is the existing leasing pipeline they are represent us from five other schools in the Philadelphia area which really I think speaks well to the long term value of this location and its close proximity to both university academic centers center city cultural centers and the transportation hub.
The prospect list remains very strong and we have about 600 prospects coming online and with the CO being achieved in the next week or so the building being open for occupancy people being able to come in and see the model units we really do think that things will accelerate quite nicely.
And the other point with this thing at graduate project with the exception of Wharton at Penn which has an August 1st start date most of the other graduate schools start in late August and Drexel for that matter which runs on a trimester basis there is school here for both undergraduates and graduates doesn't really start until September 22nd.
So there is plenty of time we think to accelerate the leasing progression that's been made over the last couple of months.
So I think we're feeling very good about where the project is certainly coming in on time on budget is very key and we still when we analyze the pro forma are still very much focused on the fact that by the third quarter of '15 we'll be in a great shape to have the project stabilized.
And as far as the near term goals of maybe getting to mitigating I think that was sort of an expectation put out there at one point that still feel achievable or having to see how the next month goes or… Jed honestly I think the pipeline of the 600 plus students and the diverse to that pipeline I think gives us great comfort that we're going to make significant progress over the next call it 60 days.
Whether the mid 80% was optimistic or not we'll be able to look back at that point.
I think the team feels very strong that given the existing prospect list the diversity of that list now that the model unit will be opened the study halls will be opened the building is stacked with furniture through the 27th floor with a punch-list item on the lower floors.
So the amenity package is pretty much in place we do think that the conversion ratio will pick up quite nicely and we are very pleased frankly with the level of exposure we're getting through Drexel University and through some other universities in close proximity to downtown.
Okay great and just last one from me if I may.
On the Austin development it sounds like you feel comfortable moving forward on the second phase on a spec basis so just curious what kind of gave you that comfort level and on sort of what kind of preleasing you are seeing there and then do you think any of that activity could represent further poaching from your existing portfolio there? Good question.
I think what we did is once it became known in market with that we assigned the lead tenant and that tenant was taking 75% of first building.
We started to receive a lot of inquiries in the pipeline built very quickly of tenants ranging in size from 50 to 100 000 square feet but really like that location southwest Austin.
So that type of upsurge in activity which there are a number of discussions still ongoing and these would be new tenants so not coming out of our existing portfolio.
We felt comfortable that with construction cost a bit on the rise in Austin with the sighting of these two buildings we're going to achieve some construction cost savings by proceeding on both at the same time and our expectation that some of these prospects would turn into future tenants as well as the potential expansion of the anchor tenant in building one that all went into mix that had us form a conclusion that we're better of delivering both buildings around the same time.
Thank you.
Good morning.
So can you guys talk a little bit about your known move outs between now and the end of '15? Has anything changed since last quarter or just what should we be looking for here? I mean no real changes Jamie from last quarter.
I mean clearly the largest which occurred June 30th is Northrop Grumman.
I think when you kind of look at the disclosure we've got in the supplemental and kind of my commentary of moving in that forward leasing that's already executed that is kind of evidenced on page four of the supplemental.
The speculative leasing left in the plan that's kind of in the chart on page five.
We've got about 470 000 square feet of known move-outs that really get us to that 91% occupancy at the end of the year.
And then we have got a number of prospects in that 2.7 million square foot pipeline that we continue to work every day that then kind of puts us further up into our stated range of 91 to 92.
What about if we look ahead to 2015? '15 expirations? Yes I mean I think some of our larger ones in '15 we have got a 130 000 square feet with Computer Science Corporation in Delaware we do know that that's going to be a move-out that's a full building user.
We already have that building in the market for a potential disposition could go potentially to a user.
eBay 93 000 square feet in King of Prussia.
We feel good about them.
We've got 56 000 square foot law firm renewing down in Delaware.
Those are probably the three biggest ones kind of over that 50 000 square foot mark for next year.
Okay and you think eBay is the renewal? Yes.
Okay.
And then can you guys talk about net effective rents if you look across your markets what are you guys seeing in terms of I guess year-over-year growth? Well I mean I think as I mentioned in my comments I mean we are clearly seeing an improvement in net effective rents in Downtown Philadelphia and in the Crescent markets we are pushing the base rates.
We are not maintaining if not improving operating expenses and because those markets are so tightly occupied we are controlling capital cost.
We are getting good kind of annual escalations between 2.5% and 3% in those stronger markets.
I think when we kind of go around the horn I think DC net effective rents haven't really changed all that much.
I think the concession packages remain relatively unchanged.
New Jersey Richmond some of our smaller markets where we still have a few percentage points of occupancy to gain.
We continue to have to roll down that cash rent but again I think Richmond traditionally has been a low capital market but we have had situations like we had this quarter in New Jersey where a few deals that met the occupancy need just required closer to a $4 capital investment.
Okay and then finally from me.
What are you guys seeing as the impact from this grow New Jersey plan? We have heard a lot about it in the press and the brokers? Are you seeing the pendulum shift out from Pennsylvania to New Jersey? Well I think it's a powerful program the state has implemented.
We will see how it actually plays out.
There is a fairly short duration through 2019 I think it is and look it certainly does provide an incentive for some companies to locate to these targeted zones.
And I think whether it's good public policy or not the New Jersey will need to debate and we think it's a good economic development tool that they have implemented.
What we have typically seen is when one state announces programs like that other states follow with similar types of program.
So to the extent that New Jersey starts to garner a lot of economic support through this plan which I think is pretty well crafted my expectation would be that the large companies looking to make locational decisions will certainly use that as a lever point over whether it's in New York or Pennsylvania or Delaware or Maryland for that matter.
And then what we found is that ultimately companies tend to make the locational decision that works best for their employee base works best for their physical and marketing platform and the public investment to achieve that tends to be not a secondary consideration but not as prime as making the culture of the company work well and the employee base happy.
So I think it's an effective tool.
I think it's still at the embryonic stage of implementation.
We have seen a few things down here in the Philadelphia area where companies have moved into Camden which is one of the targeted zones.
The 76ers moved their training facility over there for certainly because of the significant tax incentives and other company that's domiciled in Burlington County has relocated their headquarters down there.
So Jamie it's a great question I think again it's a well-crafted program.
The breadth of its adoption by company is looking to make locational decisions I think still remains to be seen.
New York has some strong incentive programs to keep and attract companies Pennsylvania through its RCAP program and tax-free zone has a fairly compelling economic model as well.
Delaware is historically been very aggressive in response and attracting company.
So I think this program at least in the tri-state area here I think really put New Jersey back on the map relative to having effective economic development tools to get to the table and talk to companies who are looking at making locational choices.
It's actually Manny Korchman here with Michael.
If we can go back to EVO for a second what do you guys sort of foresee as the going in 12 month yield from here compared to the 7.6% that you spoke about once stabilized? Yes it's again we have leasing to do but I think the current plan right now shows us holding that yield I mean for example the some leases that has been done thus far I mean there have been some very select concession packages put together in terms of either waving application fees or incorporating a percentage of monthly rental abatement.
The community fees are still being paid.
So our average effective monthly rent for what we have done thus far is still above our effective budget at right.
So right now even with the concessions that have been given albeit as minor as they have been we are still running ahead of our average monthly rate.
More importantly though the competitive set that EVO is competing against for the graduate population still have rental rates in excess of ours.
And they are wrapping in particularly the real high quality competition in around 34th street is running close to pull occupancy.
So I think as we look at the pipeline of prospects as I touched on when Jed raises his question the diversity of that prospect list in terms of the graduate undergraduate mix the young professionals the incorporation of five additional schools who are having students look at it.
We are still feeling that the next 60-90 days are really critical for us to see how those numbers shake out but right now based upon the pipeline what we have done today without the building being open I think we are still looking at that mid 7% yield rate.
Do you foresee having 90 days of sort of runway given the fact that even if in the case of Drexel you are starting school year September 22nd I'm saying 60 days but what is that actual 30 days when schools open give you? Well I think one of the positive dynamics that we have been seeing is that we're seeing an increasing number of young professionals look at this as a market rate rental unit project.
So we think that's created some additional amendment to pipeline and with the graduate schools a lot of those students make decisions around this time of year as opposed to the undergraduates typically do standard housing.
So I think there is some runaway there certainly I don't think we have this pipeline of total prospects again predominate by Drexel and Penn unless there was a real pressing need for these students both graduate and undergraduate to find a place to live.
Great and then you spoke about a good pipeline at FMC was just wondering what kind of tenants you are seeing there? Great question I mean we are now with 250 000 square feet to lease and essentially two year delivery time I think what we are still focused on right now is some of the larger size tenants who are domiciled in the surrounding counties both of New Jersey Pennsylvania and Delaware who are beginning to send signals they wanted to have a piece of their operation in downtown university city Philadelphia.
So we are making a number of pitches to larger users who may in fact want to relocate to FMC tower but more to the point we look at consolidating or breaking off these are these are our operations for downtown.
So we are still talking to some tenants ranging in the 100 000 to 200 000 square foot range.
We are beginning to infill that with single floor users who are kind of in the 25 000 square foot range and at this point really finalizing all the marketing materials having broker open houses broker networking and making a lot of presentations to business organizations to companies.
So really using the balance of the summer to raise the profile of the project so people understand that it's a mid '16 delivery construction has started here is the amenity package here is the economic structure here is how the tax-free zone works in and actually getting a very good response I mean it's building again as we've talked about would be a real driver of the skyline of real brand identities proximity depend the science center Drexel University the transportation hub it all really does resonate with a lot of these prospects and a much different dynamic then we have when we started the original Cira Center building where it was still a bit of a pioneering location.
So people were a little bit locational resistant.
Now the buyers tend to be very embracing of the location and excited about evaluating FMC tower becoming home to at least part of their operations.
George page 5 your 2014 leasing plan square feet is that a lease plan or an occupancy plan? That is an occupancy plan.
Okay.
So can you help us just frame up getting -- occupancy it seems like you're pretty well positioned to get to the midpoint of guidance given that your leased rate is well above where your occupancy rate is.
It feels like you're pretty well positioned there.
To get to the 93% to 94% in terms of the leased rate by the end of the year can you kind of help us understand sort of new leasing that you expect to do maybe move-outs early move-outs that are expected? And I gather from the amount of expirations 500 000 square feet it sounds like you probably think you're going to retain about 70% of those for the balance of the year.
Yes.
I think how we kind of can generate that our plan kind of commencements for call it the first three to four months of '15 based on the pipeline we have today is really where that forward leasing will continue to come from.
I think every new lease we start to sign over the late third and during the fourth quarter that's all going to have a 2015 commencement to it.
So I think much the way we're sitting on 500 000 square feet of prelease today we kind of expected this replenish that as we continue leasing during the course of the year.
So guessable we got 50 000 square feet kind of in that bucket as we sit here today couple of leases but we have some spaces that where we've got unknown move out in the third and fourth quarter we've already leased the space for a '15 commencement but it doesn't show as preleased because the spaces aren't currently vacant today we've got about a 100 000 square feet that kind of sits in that category.
So again I think it's conversion of the pipeline is really kind of first and foremost as to how we get there.
Yes that makes sense.
I guess what I was trying to understand is just may be the mechanics of getting to 93% to 94% leased by the end of the year from 91.7% today.
And it seems like if I'm just kind of looking at what you did in the first half of the year in terms of new leasing and then assuming early terminations remain comparable with where they were in the first half of the year and the back half of the year maybe that's not a correct assumption.
It seems like there's an acceleration of new leasing that needs to happen in the back half of the year to get to the midpoint of that range which is 180 basis points of net absorption.
Is that a fair characterization of kind of how we should we think about back-half of the year leasing? Yes.
I guess in some ways but I also think that our run rate of early terminations and move outs we don't have the 137 000 square foot Lockheed and the 100 000 Northrop.
We don't have kind of the same level of those large non-move outs I mean we've got the one in Delaware that I talked about earlier but yes I think it's really kind of a combination the non-move out early termination number kind of not necessarily being as much as the run rate has been.
And the fact that we know we do assume that these markets continue to recover and we're able to -- continue to capture the market share of the deals.
Okay fair enough.
And just for that year-end target I think my understanding is that the 93% to 94% doesn't contemplate any kind of changes to the existing operating pool right so to the extent that you may be acquired a highly vacant asset that would depress that number or if you sold a high vacant asset that would increase that number that there is none of that included in that 93% to 94% target right? No those targets are based on the portfolio as it is constructed today it doesn't factor in any dispositions despite the fact that we have a lot of things in the market to sell and it doesn't assume any acquisitions coming in.
Okay great.
And just last one for clarification you mentioned two 50 000 square foot prospects for the Northrop space which would backfill all of that.
Can you give us a sense of if those are two prospects maybe how many options those tenants have at your building and others in the market? Yes.
I mean they kind of came down I think toward short list probably 6 to 7 but they probably started with an opportunity list that was probably three times that so look we think that the capital plans we have projected for that building really kind of make it a differentiator in the market going forward reamenitizing it putting in new way finding systems lighting landscaping lavatories.
We really think that we're going to be able to offer something that is even more of a flight to quality than kind of exists today.
So look we keep our fingers crossed with the prospects we have but we have them early and we are kind of hoping to kind of take the same success we had with the Lockheed space in Rockville and kind of generate the same positive result here in Dallas.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman KeyBanc.
It's Jordan Sadler here with Craig.
I have a quick one coming back to the leverage question Gerry.
Is the expectation obviously we got quite a bit out for sale but is the expectation for leverage overall to continue to decline? I know that's been sort of the message I am just trying to think of it in the context of what's going on on the spend side versus how much is closed year-to-date and what's on the contract year-to-date? Yes Jordan great question just to reinforce I mean the answer is clearly yes I mean we do expect to continue to deleveraging to move forward I mean clearly as we have taken advantage of what we thought were very good opportunities for us like an FMC Tower or an Encino Trace or as George touched on the reinvestment of money back in to Dulles Corner or up in Rockville.
We look at that forward capital spend as an obligation we've created for ourselves to continue our deleveraging path by accelerating our asset sales.
And when we looked at even the timing of when the spend for an FMC or the other projects comes on-board a lot of that spend is occurring in '15 and '16.
So as we certainly look at our forward sales disposition plan or joint venture undertakings that's all part of that algorithm of how we fully fund these commitment we have made continue to invest money into our existing portfolio while we're moving along that deleveraging path.
That's why I say every quarter that meeting those deleveraging goals those leverage targets they are a driving predicate of our business plan so every time we evaluate something we look at what we need to do in order to maintain that path towards lower levels of leverage and stronger coverages.
And any thoughts I mean obviously the big piece of the spend is FMC any incremental thoughts you can provide surrounding how to finance that going forward the joint venture potential? We have engaged a broker to help us vet through that equity marketplace on a joint venture side.
We've had a very good response.
We've had well over 20 investors who have spent a fair amount of time on the project looking at both the overall project and the residential component and we really would expect the game plan over the next 90 days on that Jordan is to we touched on launch the marketing efforts for the remaining leasing but also work with a number of these institutional equity sources on whether we can achieve the right level of structure that we're looking for.
There has been no shortage at all of commercial banks have put forth construction proposals but I think before we move forward on construction financing which we know is plentiful we know we get a very good deal from a number of our good banking relationships.
We want to see how the joint venture discussions go and whether they wind up being successful and if they are successful they are successful on the overall project front or just on the residential front.
Hey guys its Craig here with Jordan.
Just a follow-up to that any thoughts on using the ATM here to help match fund some of the construction cost for some of these projects? Well look certainly as I alluded to earlier I mean when we look at the broader question of capital raising I mean certainly joint venture sales other methods of raising effectively price capital for the company are always part of our consideration.
Okay then just one last quick one on same-store.
You guys are trending ahead on cash relative to the high end of guidance.
Can you just kind of give us sense of where you think the back half trends should we be thinking that you guys are going to be more mid to high end of that range for balance '14? Yes I think we feel confident that kind of the 4 to 6 range is ultimately where we end up I think we probably see a little bit of dilution in the second half of the year just knowing that when you look at a tenancy like Northrop Grumman I mean that's a 100 000 square feet that six months of rental income kind of goes away from that same-store pool.
So again I think we feel confident about the range but I don't think we'll be performing at that same kind of 6 2 run rate that we had year-to-date.
Your next question comes from the line of Gabriel Hilmoe with ISI Group.
Thanks.
Gerry just on the future development pipeline and kind of what's currently in planning in your opinion what likely gets started in the near term beyond kind of what's in process right now? Well the next project really up on the queue is the development at 20s and Market Street in Philadelphia which is in the process of having the approvals protected the partnership documents with an institutional investor finalized and third party financing put in place.
So that could start as I talk about in the last call is sometime in the fall.
The other project really is its underway is the 4040 Wilson project which is a joint venture with the Shooshan Companies.
We did commit to finish that garage that work will be done and funded by the end of this year.
We also have committed that we're not going to start that project without a significant prelease.
So marketing up till that continue apace there are some very good activity nothing's been inked or advanced the point of any certainty.
So we'll continue to evaluate that and certainly in consultation with our partner if the level of preleasing is not achieved then as we've indicated before that project will just finish the garage and wait for the market to recover for a leasing prospect.
So I guess really those two items one point that George did touch on which is worth amplifying is there are a number of other opportunities we have within our own portfolio where we plan on launching redevelopment efforts again certainly not in the scale of the 20s in Market Street but $10 to $15 million capital plans like we're doing at Dulles Corner done at Rockville there's a few office parks in the South East part of Pennsylvania that we think we have an opportunity to reposition.
So other than those I think that's pretty much where we are.
Okay.
And then just maybe one for George just on your comments on some of the recent tenant expansions has that been specific to certain markets? Or are you seeing that in different areas of the portfolio? We're seeing kind of throughout the portfolio I would say that we've seen certainly more of it in Pennsylvania and in downtown Philadelphia now part of that is obviously because that's such a large part of the company but we have seen even some Northern Virginia and Maryland tenants going through the same things.
And even in -- over in New Jersey I mean we had one tenant who exercised 18 000 square foot [indiscernible] and then also grew by an additional 15 000 square feet as part of the process.
So kind of allover I think as markets recover companies feel better about their own internal business plans we're starting to see some of that expansion activity that had kind of gone away for a while during the 2012 and 2013.
So Gerry could you describe for me what your reaction would be if there was sort of a meaningful increase in interest rates in 2015 beyond what maybe would be expected by the market? How do you think you would react in terms of your strategy from a deleveraging standpoint? If there was a measureable increase in interest rates? Yes.
Do you think you would be fast-tracking things or do you think you would just toe the line and stick with what the original plan is in terms of timing? Well look I think as I mentioned in my comments and Tom touched on it I think we continue to look currently at what to do with some of the debt we currently have on our balance sheet.
I mean we look at the ability today with treasuries being below 2.5 with the credit spreads being fairly stable on the demand drivers and I think the debt capital markets will certainly actively evaluate if there's an opportunity for us with our cash balances to certainly reduce our level of leverage and then term out some of our more intermediate term maturities so that we can reduce our weighted average cost of debt.
So look I mean I think certainly anybody who runs any business is very mindful of what the adverse impact of rising interest rates are which is one of the reasons why even with rates being as low as they are and have been we carry a very low level of floating rate debt.
So we like the kind of focus on trying to grow rents not control interest rate cost.
So our path to delever as we've talked is immutable and as part of that we look at what's the best debt structures for us to have relative to achieving that goal.
I was thinking of rates and their impact on disposition cap rates I suppose.
I looked at 2016 2017 target for the long term.
Leverage level seemed extended to me.
Yes.
Look I mean it's a fair point on impact on cap rates I mean certainly cap rates even today is low zero still trading at pretty big spread from historical standards over the baseline treasury so I think there is lot of speculation even if rates move up a bit there will be enough cushion to absorb short term rate moves without impacting cap rates and certainly layering into that of course is what is our rates rising as part of an economic expansion.
So we are able to see rents growing as part of that economic expansion to more offset that.
So it is a complicated metric but I think from our perspective the best way to ensure that we're optimizing or de-risking is lower leverage lock in as long term as we can to this historically low interest rate environment and keep leasing office space.
Great.
And then my follow up to George I guess you guys are talking a lot about early leasing and tackling 2015 and 2016.
But do you think there are any markets where you want to I assume there are you want to let it ride a little bit and not leave some money on the table.
If you're having market rent increases you don't necessarily want to lease too soon and leave some money on the table.
Can you comment and where if you're doing that anyplace in the portfolio? I think the overall strategy has been to try to get those lease expirations extended.
I think any perceived money left on the table I'm not sure outweighs the potential risk of losing that tenant and I also think that kind of talking to the tenant now can sometimes result in a lower capital equation on extending that where we let it ride for two more years then potentially the space looks more old more tired and then they want a little bit more money on the natural expiration.
Yes [indiscernible] it's a big part of our operating discussions.
One of the key issue that we are very happy with is we've really been able to move these annual rent bumps into the 2 to 3% range and in many of our markets 2.5% to 3%.
So I guess as we assess the opportunity cost if we are able to achieve those kind of annual rent bumps lengthen the lease terms I mean really derisk our portfolio it's a much better economic trade-off for us particularly given the lower capital cost than waiting for the market to bump 4% if the market may or may not bump 4% and certainly will always have 8 to 15% annual rollover.
We can capture kind of that upside on a more risk adjusted basis but at least from my stand point I'm a very firm believer as I know the rest of our operating team is [indiscernible].
In the markets psychology is such that tenants expect rents to rise.
It's a very good time to accelerate forward rollover risk bring it today they have an incentive to do with they are more focused on controlling there are longer term cost versus extricating a lot of capital and it makes for a very good equation for us to both stabilize the existing portfolio and enable us to be opportunistic in other areas that can create great value for us.
The Three Logan example is a great one for us in this company where the reason we are able to buy a 50% value add building was because we were 94% leased with very little near term rollover in CBD Philadelphia.
So that enables us to make a bet that turn out to be very successful over the 660 Plymouth rehab where we bought a completely empty building in our Plymouth meeting market and have turned that into a low double digit return by rehabbing that and leasing up because our existing portfolio was very stable.
So I don't think we leave that much on the table and my guess is what we would leave on the table is more than offset by lower capital or concession cost to get the lease extension done.
Great.
And just a quick one on the Austin JV what is the end game there? Are there any buy-sell rates (I think) [ph] for either parties? There are I mean our partner there on a 50-50 basis DRA advisors a very good quality group that we have a great relationship with some other dealings over the years.
We put five year debt financing on the portfolio at both DRA and Brandywine are aligned with the opportunity to optimize value.
So there are buy-sells in place to accented one party doesn't necessarily see the right moment of optimization and its pretty standard fair.
I mean if they want to sell we don't want to sell we have right to buy them out if they want it [indiscernible] versus also very true.
So pretty simple straight forward clean structures.
Gerry where is the availability in the FMC Tower? The availability is kind of mid bank Mitch we have University of Pennsylvania taking the bottom four floors and FMC stacking down from the top 10 floors so we have kind of floors five through 15 or 14 available.
Got you got you.
And your asset sales you mentioned 80 under contract 300 in place.
I mean geographically maybe if you could just provide some context kind of what markets you guys are more focused on pairing? Yes sure I mean on what's under contract or close to we have one complex in South East Pennsylvania and the other project is in North Virginia.
Hey guys.
It looks like there was an asset in the Radnor market that traded recently at a pretty big number.
I'm just wondering if you looked at that opportunity and what kind of look through you think that might suggest for your portfolio and maybe just more broadly if you're seeing cap rates move materially in your markets these days or if that's sort of holding steady? The asset you're referring to is in Radnor.
It is not sold; it's only out for bid right now.
We are looking at it whether we make it better or not depends on how we work through our due diligence it's an older building but in a great location Radnor I think the pricing expectations there would be somewhere in the $150 per square foot which we think really dovetails very nicely in terms of the value we've created here in our Radnor marketplace.
And the cap rate my guess will be somewhere in the mid 6% to 7% range but again I don't have any particular visibility and I just kind of market here say.
And it's a single building not a complex; it has its own rental characteristics versus what we have here.
So I have to kind of see where pricing worked out to see how much look through there could be.
I think certainly from market vacancy standpoint from a reinforcement of the expected sale price per square foot I think it really does point to the fact that Radnor has really become the preeminent market in South East Pennsylvania.
Okay great.
And then just kind of broader cap rate trends in your market? Look I think we're still seeing a either stabilized cap rate or a push down for a lower cap rates I mean it's -- I think we do look at some of these transactions and are very pleased with some of the trading ranges on some of these assets that we're trying to sell which is why we put more things back in the marketplace.
So there clearly is a search for yield the office sector for better for worse worse if you're in it better if you're not is there still an ability for investor to get a higher yield in office than they can in some of the other sectors so that is I think accelerating the push of capital towards our sector.
The benign interest rate environment and even the anecdotal metrics on economy recovery all playing very well into we think continued upward picks in value for a lot of our product.
Okay great.
And just last one for me I think I heard George say that the cash releasing spreads for the year may be trending towards the lower end of guidance.
Just thinking if that's sort of an indicator of broader rent growth trends coming in lower than expectations in your core markets or if that's more just kind of one-off softness in select markets or buildings? Yes.
Look I think the point that sometimes gets lost when you look at a macro number for Brandywine is if you take a look at the markets where we're working very hard to absorb space they are the marketplaces that have been a bit lagging in their recovery pace.
So we're still rolling off in those markets peak rental rates from 2007 2008 et cetera.
So we do expect a negative cash mark-to-market in those markets and I think as we continue to absorb space we see that trend continuing but we're also very encouraged by the very positive mark-to-market that we're seeing in a couple of our existing stronger markets and frankly the pace at which that we think that negative spread will disappear even in some of our challenge markets.
George probably for you so one of the other REITs mentioned that they weren't seeing as much pickup in occupancy as they had expected in what I guess would be your other suburban markets non-crescent markets in the PA suburbs.
It looked like your leased rate went down in that area this quarter.
Are you guys seeing any softness in the non-crescent markets? I think you mentioned that you actually thought things in King of Prussia were getting a little bit better.
Yes.
I mean look our pipeline anybody who comes into the pipeline interested in Radnor Conshohocken even parts of Plymouth Meeting opportunities don't necessarily exist and we get them on the King of Prussia tour.
So look we've been able to do a number of transactions out there we've got that portfolio kind of at 89% right now but we've actually even seen some Radnor tenants who upon lease expiration are starting to entertain that as a lower cost alternative.
So we've got a couple of pipeline deals where some people are actually kind of looking to maybe go a little bit further out in the King of Prussia.
So look we've got a couple of troubled vacancies out there but we have got a couple of business parts that have done very well.
We went through a deal earlier this year where the company at our Maschellmac Complex who not only extended their lease for 10 years but kind of doubled their size out in King of Prussia.
[Indiscernible] You have to take a look at our portfolio and compare that to some other companies with their submarket position.
I mean we are by-design not in a number of submarkets I mean as you move further out in the Chester County we literally have very little like we have sold our assets in Exton.
We've continued to lighten our load in the southern Route 202 corridor.
We exited Horsham a number of years ago where we've exited Fort Washington.
We have very little exposure in Blue Bell where most of our focus is on Plymouth Meeting.
So we've really embarked on a path a few years ago to make sure that our Southeast Pennsylvania exposure was really limited to four core markets in Newtown Square Radnor Conshohocken Plymouth Meeting with the add-on of King of Prussia which we knew would be a beneficiary of the timing in those marketplaces.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just last one I am not sure if this is Tom or Gerry or George but consistently over the past couple of years you guys have sort of been in the revenue maintaining CapEx in that sort of $70 million to $80 million range and then the revenue enhancing CapEx has been kind of roughly comparable sort of 70 to 80 and back half of the year kind of same relationship 45 million in each bucket.
As you move the portfolio to 91% to 92% occupied by the end of this year 93% to 94% leased.
Should we start to see that the revenue enhancing kind of driving the occupancy up that bucket of CapEx go down? Yes.
Do you think that's something that happens in '15 or is '15 still kind of a lease up year and maybe it's a 1'6 phenomenon? Well look we haven't given any visibility on '15 at this point but I think if you take a look at what we're doing from an operating standpoint and George and Tom will agree me.
I mean we are really reaching out into our '15 and '16 maturity curves to try and get those rollovers addressed today.
In fact I think Tom you have mentioned I mean over 20% of our capital cost this quarter related to tenants whose leases aren't kick-in until 2015.
So thematically we're at the company it's all about for us getting the portfolio back to historical occupancy levels and we still have work to do there and that's what we all spend most of our time on.
As we get there we want to focus on really derisking our forward rollover exposure because that is a major point of success in the office business.
We can move our overall retention levels back to that 75% to 85% 80% range we were at for years that really portends a much lower level of capital investment particularly with the portfolio like we have today Brendon that's much better positioned than what we had five or six years ago.
So we do expect that we'll be able to be in a position to have a very good growth in our cash flow because of all of this investment we're making into our properties today.
Great thank you all for joining in for the call.
We look forward to updating you on our business plan activities in the fall.
So enjoy the rest of the summer.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Brandywine Realty Trust second quarter earnings call.
You may now disconnect.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is [Dishanta] (ph) and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust Third Quarter Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I'll now turn the conference over to Mr.
Gerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Please go ahead sir.
[Dishanta] thank you very much.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in our third quarter 2014 earnings call.
On today's call with me are George Johnstone our Executive Vice President of Operations; Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Gabe Mainardi our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
Prior to beginning certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
Although we believe estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
As we normally do we'll start with an overview of our three key business plan components operations balance sheet and investments.
We have also introduced 2015 guidance and we’ll provide color on some key assumptions.
George will discuss our leasing and operating efforts.
And we'll then turn the call over to Tom to review our financial results.
During the last 90 days we raised $835 million of combined debt and equity proceeds.
We did that position the company for growth strengthen our balance sheet meet our near term balance sheet goals and to increase liquidity in a period of increasing opportunities and ongoing macro volatility.
We believe creating capital capacity is one of the best strategies we can execute to both derisk the company and provide capital to accelerate our growth.
Raising this capital combined with continued improvement in our markets provides a strong foundation for us to accelerate external growth opportunities.
These capital raise is accomplished several key objectives reduced our debt to GAV to 37% reduced our EBITDA multiple below our near term 6.5 times target lengthened our debt maturity curve 46% or by 2.3 years reduced our overall cost of debt to below 5% significantly reduce the company’s exposure to any floating rate risk and create a financial platform where by any future equity raises will be driven solely by growth opportunities.
These balance sheet improvements while meeting near term FFO enable us to focus on growth while maintaining a strong balance sheet with ample liquidity.
The leverage metrics of Brandywine are very much in line with our peers our FFO and CAD numbers per share are now leveraged neutral or positive to our peer set and our liquidity position now enables Brandywine supported by ongoing solid improvement in fundamentals and portfolio recycling to take advantage of future opportunities.
So and looking at the third quarter we made excellent progress in our 2014 plan we have a yearend occupancy level over 91% based upon leases already executed and scheduled for commencement that was a key goal and our leasing and operating teams worked incredibly hard to make sure we’re able to achieve this objective.
Our leasing percentage at the end of the year will also be within our target range of 93% to 94% forget the typo in my quote in the press release.
We have also in our supplemental package reinforced our operating performance ranges for the year.
Most notably GAAP mark-to-market will be at the top end of our targeted range our tenant retention rate is above our business plan projections and our average lease firm will be 14 months or 17% longer than our original expectations our cash and GAAP same store numbers will be at the low end of their respective ranges primarily reflecting some inter-quarter occupancy slides on several tenants.
Also due to our early renewal program and several long term leases TI capital for the quarter range above our projected averages but total leasing capital for the year will be in our range of 225 to 275 per square feet per lease year.
Given the strong results and steady progression of our 2014 business plan we increased the bottom end and tightened our 2014 guidance to a range of $1.32 to $1.34 per share.
And just looking at our balance sheet it is now in the best shape in many years and we’re in a strong position with excellent liquidity and we also have no outstanding balance on our $600 million unsecured line of credit.
After paying off $250 million of our 2015 and 2016 bank term debt we ended the quarter with $672 million of cash on hand.
We have already deployed 258 million of this balance to redeem our remaining 2015 and 2016 bonds and $108 million related to our acquisition announcements in Austin Texas.
Factoring in sale proceeds we anticipate having approximately $360 million of cash on our balance sheet year end 2014.
During 2015 over $300 million will be deployed to fund our development pipeline and fund our net acquisition target and potentially fund other debt pay downs during the course of the year.
So the cash generated from our capital market activities have been used to reduce debt extend maturities eliminate our on balance sheet floating rate risk reduce our cost of debt capital fund our development pipeline and then creatively grow the quality in revenue base of our company.
So all good objectives that we’re pleased to have accomplished.
And looking at investments for the balance of the year our 2014 business plan of being a $150 million seller remains on target.
We’ve closed $42.5 million to have another 38 million scheduled to close tomorrow both at an average cap rate of 8.4% about $178 per square foot.
We also have over $300 million of assets in the market for sale or price discovery today.
A number of those properties are in active negotiations or under agreement of sale and we remain optimistic we will achieve our sales target by the end of 2014.
Our press release and supplemental package provides specifics on a number of transactions I'll just really highlight too.
We have formed fifty-fifty partnership with LCOR and CalSTRS for a mixed used development located at [indiscernible] Market Streets in Philadelphia.
This 29-story 455 000 square foot tower will consist of residential office retail and parking components.
The project will be comprised of 321 luxury apartments with full concierge service and rooftop amenities.
The office and commercial space of 24 000 square feet is 90% pre-leased Independence Blue Cross and CVS and 315-car structured parking facility will support the development but also offer parking to the public.
As part of our land monetization program we have contributed that land parcel to the venture Brandywine will manage the retail and parking components of the project.
The project is already closed on $89 million secured financing at LIBOR plus [2.25].
Our total equity is $30 million which our land with ‘13 represents 43% of the overall cash requirement.
We also announced two acquisitions in our joint venture in Austin as you all know Austin remains a primary targeted growth markets and these investments establish our joint venture as one of the largest landlords in Austin Texas.
These properties are excellent additions to our suburban Austin portfolio and river plays the larger of the two at 81% occupied providing some additional upside for us as we stabilize that property at current market rental rates.
The other development projects are outlined in the supplemental package as is our land monetization progress on page 16 of the sup.
So in summary the third quarter was a solid continuation of our business plan and builds a great foundation as we look forward to our 2015 plan.
And we did introduce 2015 FFO guidance in a range of $1.38 to $1.48 per share achieving a mid-point FFO 42% payout ratio.
Highlights of the 2015 plan are continued improving occupancy and leasing levels strong operating metrics continued asset recycling and continued investment in development and growth opportunities.
George will provide additional operating color but the overall fundamental recovery in our markets remains very much on track.
Our core markets of Philadelphia CBD University City the Crescent Markets all remain on average 94% occupied and leased during the year with strong same store performance.
So the 2015 story for Brandywine from a leasing standpoint is really our ability to observe space in Washington DC and Southern New Jersey we believe the assumptions we built into our plan are conservative and readily achievable.
Our guidance for 2015 also incorporates $250 million of acquisitions with sales of $150 million.
Portfolio recycling remains a key component of our business plan as we look to reinvest in higher growth markets and properties.
Our acquisition efforts will be focused on our core markets of Washington DC Austin Texas Philadelphia CBD University City and Crescent Markets we believe there are further opportunities for us to add value and deploy capital and improve the overall growth profile of our portfolio but are also very mindful of our cost of capital and we have programmed these acquisitions to occur later in the year.
We will remain a net seller in New Jersey Delaware Richmond and California.
And looking at the 2015 plan in more detail our 2015 year and occupancy levels range between 92% and 93% and our leasing will be between 93% and 94.5% maintaining that 150 basis point positive spread.
We are forecasting a tenant retention rate of 64%.
We expect gap mark-to-market on 2015 activity to range between 6% and 8%.
We also expect a cash mark-to-market to be similar to our range in 2014 of down up to 1%.
Same store numbers for next year will in a gap range between 3% and 5% and a cash range between 2% and 4%.
These same store numbers and George will touch on this are partially muted due to 260 000 square feet of very early 2015 exploration rollout which have the effect of reducing our first half occupancy levels to an average of 90%.
As has been the case this year we expect the full recovery to our target levels in the third and the fourth quarter.
Capital cost will run well within our range of 10% to 15% target or about 12% in 2014 and another key deposit in 2015 is leased explorations only 7.5% or 1.8 million square feet which is the lowest level we’ve had in many years.
So the portfolio was clearly approaching stabilization.
While FFO growth is always an important consideration another key beneficiary of our preleasing and operating performance during 2015 will be the notable increase in our CAD.
By example we anticipate closing 2014 the range of CAD in the $0.69 to $0.71 per share range.
Our targeted range for 2015 is $0.85 to $0.90 a share in CAD or about 70% payout ratio.
This 29% increase in cash available for distribution provides obviously more internally generated cash flow to fund our operations and opportunities and is really reflective of the portfolio reaching stabilization our accelerated early renewal program better control on capital and increases in our average lease term.
So 2015 will represent another successful year of investment activity as we continue to accelerate the transition to urban and town center portfolio concentrations.
As noted in our release we anticipate $150 million of sales at an assumed 8.5 cap rate and 250 million of acquisition activity at an assumed 7% cap rate.
As mentioned earlier we assumed that the acquisition activities occur later in the year.
We also expect to recover additional value from our land monetization program as numerous partials are in the zoning and the sales process.
So to wrap up our 2015 business plan represents a strong continuation of our drive towards growing net asset value.
Significant improvement in our operating platform forward leasing moment consistently strong leasing activity gives us tremendous confidence that we will continue to generate solid NOI growth strong same store performance and positive mark-to-market.
At this point George will provide an overview of our third quarter operation performance some color on ’15 and then turn it over to Tom for review of the numbers.
Thank you Jerry.
It was an extremely busy quarter for our regional leasing teams with approximately 1.3 million square feet of lease signings.
These leases ensure we achieve our year end occupancy target of 91.3%.
As detailed on page 4 of the supplemental package we are 92.5% leased having over 862 000 square feet of executed forward leases.
Of this 722 000 square feet will take occupancy in the fourth quarter.
The pipeline remains strong and weekly inspections throughout the portfolio continue to average around 220 000 square feet.
This activity leaves us confident of being 93% to 94% leased by yearend.
CBD Philadelphia the Pennsylvania crescent market in Austin Texas continue to our be our best performers and CBD Philadelphia were 96% leased with less than 5% rolling in each of the next 3 years.
GAAP leasing spreads in Philadelphia have increased 30%.
The crescent markets are 97% leased while posting 9% GAAP rent growth.
In Austin we’re 96% leased and have raised rents 20%.
Even Richmond where just a few quarters ago there was concern about the pace of absorption were now 93% leased.
The required leasing for the balance of the 2014 plan is nearly complete but more notably is that the leasing achieved to date has yielded improved operating metrics.
We have increased our spec revenue target by $200 000 to 44.2 million and are 99% complete on that increased target.
Additional renewals and expansions have resulted in a 300 basis point increase in retention to 70%.
Our GAAP leasing spreads for the year aided in the third quarter by two long term renewals will come in at the top end of our range but will be lower in the fourth quarter than our year-to-date run rate of 12%.
Cash leasing spreads have remained inside our negative 1% to positive 1% range and we continue to seek longer lease terms controlled capital and achieve annual lease escalators between 2% and 3%.
We've depicted the occupancy roll forward for the year and the impact of our year-to-date investment activity on page 6 of the supplemental package.
Now turning to 2015 business plan similar to 2014 page 7 of the supplemental package contains a roll forward of our 2015 occupancy.
Based on 3.3 million square feet of lease commencements 918 000 square feet of projected move outs and 280 000 square feet of early terminations we will generate 120 basis points of absorption on our 91.3% yearend 2014 occupancy to finish 2015 at the midpoint of our 92% to 93% occupancy range.
This plan will generate $31.9 million of spec revenue which is 55% complete exactly where we were this time a year ago.
The drop in spec revenue from the past two years is due to the continued lease up of vacant space in CBD Philadelphia to Pennsylvania suburbs and Richmond.
These three regions account for $11 million of the $12 million reduction.
Capital will again range between $2.25 and $2.75 per square foot per lease year on a 7.5 year weighted average lease term.
Retentions projected to be 54% which as Gerry mentioned is adversely impacted by three large move outs earlier in the year.
As a result we do expect occupancy to decline 150 basis points in the first quarter.
These three large move outs totaled 260 000 square feet and account for a 122 basis points of occupancy decline and 117 basis points of same store NOI decline.
400 commerce and suburban Wilmington will be a 100% vacant on January 1 2015.
This 154 000 square foot building is soon to be vacant all of next year causing a 66 basis point drop in occupancy and 60 basis point decline on same-store NOI.
Research office center three in Rockville Maryland will lose a 42 000 square foot tenant on January 31 2015.
The space accounts for 18 basis points of occupancy and 16 basis points of same store NOI decline.
Radnor Corporate Center 4 is the third of three it will lose a 90 000 square foot tenant in March 38 basis points on occupancy and 51 basis points on same store.
We have already executed a 70 000 square foot leased [indiscernible] the majority of this space commencing in December 2015 at very favorable terms.
So to conclude we’re delighted with our performance during the quarter and our ability to achieve our 2014 business plan targets.
This strong finish provides tremendous momentum as we head in to 2015.
And at this point I’ll turn it over to Tom.
Thank you George.
As Gerry mentioned the capital markets activities we executed during the quarter represents a significant step in improving our balance sheet and positioning us for future growth.
Our common equity offering raise 335 million net proceeds and we then executed on a series of liability management transactions which included the bond offering which had a blended rate of 4.33% and 12.5 years of term repaying our unsecured bonds maturing in 2014 and 2015 and then $250 million of bank term loans were also paid-off maturing in ‘15 and ‘16 for the blended rate of 2.4%.
The results whether a debt-to-EBITDA decline 7.2% to 6.4 times debt gross assets decline 13% to 37% debt maturities increased to 7.3 years an increase of 46% and our weighted average interest rate on our debt declined.
These improved metrics give us improved liquidity to fund our current development pipeline of potential net external growth.
Our third quarter FFO totaled 62.7 million or $0.36 per diluted share and that represented a 41.7% payout ratio based on our $0.15 distribution.
Some observations for the third quarter same store growth for the third quarter was 2.2% GAAP 4.2% cash both excluding termination fees and other income.
We’ve had 13 consecutive positive quarters of GAAP metrics and nine of cash metrics.
Our same store portfolio margins remain relatively unchanged as compared to the second quarter.
Termination income totaled 1.4 million slight increase over guidance G&amp;A totaled 5.9 million which is basically in line as well as interest expense.
FFO contribution from our unconsolidated joint ventures totaled 5.7 and was above our guidance from the second quarter primarily due to the acquisition of the crossings during the third quarter.
Third quarter results benefited from the annual amortization of historical tax credit related as a post office totaling $11.9 million which will burn-off completely during 2015.
The third quarter was negatively impacted by 3.8 million of cost associated with the retirement of our term loans swap termination and the unsecured bonds that were tendered.
Our third quarter CAD totaled 34.3 million or $0.20 per diluted share and a 75% payout ratio during the quarter.
We incurred 13.8 million of revenue creating capital expenditures.
As Gerry mentioned based on the third quarter results we have increased the lower end of our FFO guidance to 1.32 to 1.34 in addition to the business plan assumptions outlined in the supplemental package because the following I think the operating income for the fourth quarter will be slightly higher than third quarter it will be benefited by the leasing that's taking place.
But there will be a reduction from the offset of sale of Campus Pointe which happens to the very end of the third quarter as well as Valleybrooke which is being sold mid-point of October.
G&amp;A and interest expense approximate third quarter term fees are expected to decrease to $11 million.
Additional liability management cost from the May call that we did on October 16th totaled 4.8 million.
In addition there will be accelerated amortization of additional cost.
We will have 150 of sales we achieved 106 to-date and we include the properties we will hit our sales target.
Our weighted average shares has gone up to 182.3 and 169.5 for the fourth and full year and that’s taking into account the equity offering on August 1st.
Our annual FFO payout ratio will be 45.1.
We currently project CAD to be between $0.69 and $0.71 reflecting fourth quarter revenue maintaining of about $31 million which will give us a full year CAD payout ratio of 83.9%.
Based on most of that CAD adjustment is due to the significant leasing activity that is taking place in the fourth quarter and will affect CAD in the fourth quarter.
Our capital plan for the balance of the year totals $435 million the biggest component of that being the redemption of our remaining unsecured bonds that were tendered on October 16th and a majority of that CAD.
So as a result for the quarter we will be using about $308 million of cash on hand to fund both capital as well as fund that bond redemption.
It should take our cash balance from 672 million down to about 364 million by the end of the year.
Switching to 2015 guidance interest will range from 1.10 to 1.15 with anticipated refinancing of a mortgage in August of 2015 for approximately $88 million that mortgage is secured by our properties and Tysons Corner.
G&amp;A will range between 26 million and 28 million.
Non-cash income related to the historical tax credit and a new one time non-cash item the new market tax credit both associated with the Post Office project and the building of the garage will total approximately 19 million or $0.11 per share.
Those will be recorded in the third and fourth quarter of 2015.
Termination fee and other income will total 3 million and 3.5 million respectively.
Management leasing development fees total [50] million and deferred financing and financing obligation cost will be about $5.5 million.
Looking at our capital plan for next year we projected 2015 CAD between $0.85 and $0.95 as Gerry mentioned reflecting roughly 53 million of revenue maintaining capital at the midpoint of our guidance.
Uses of the cash we have $780 million capital plan specula acquisitions will total 250 million.
We plan on having about 270 million to 280 million of capital development primarily related to FMC completion of Encino Trace one and two commerce completing the lease up of that properties will be about 26 million Dulles Corner of 7 million and 12 million for 1900 Market.
Aggregate dividends will total about 160 million.
We expect to have capital contributions to our JVs of about 23 million that’s primarily going to be 4040 Wilson as we continue to finish the garage and 1919 Market which will commence and will be funding the balance of the capital before the loan which we’ve already closed begins to fund.
As I mentioned 53 million of revenue maintaining CapEx 35 million of revenue creating and mortgage amortization of about 13 million sources will be cash on hand as well as cash flow before financing investing and dividends of 210 million and we will have specula sales of 150 million and we will also have 36 million coming in as Encino Trace our development down in Austin will be contributed to our Austin joint venture in the middle of the year and that’s expected to generated about 36 million of revenue cash flow.
With that I will turn it back to Gerry.
Okay thank you Tom and thank you George.
So to wrap up our prepared remarks third quarter results were very strong consistent with our 2004 business plan.
And as both George and Tom outlined we feel as though 2014 while there is still some work to do is very much locked away.
The 2015 plan we’re excited about.
We certainly think as though we have more work to do.
But the core themes running through the program are continued financial strength focus on NAV growth taking advantage of solid fundamentals that we’re seeing in many of our markets by being able to extend lease terms increased annual ramp bumps and reduced capital and pursuing some very good value add opportunities including the completion of our development pipeline.
With that we’d be delighted to open the floor up for questions.
As we always do we ask that in the interest of time you limit yourself to one question and one follow up.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Brendan Maiorana Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
Good morning.
George wanted to ask a little bit about the leasing plan for next year.
I think Gerry mentioned that kind of where you guys are focused and where you probably need to get the most execution done as Metro DC and New Jersey and Delaware.
So based on your plan for ’15 where are you expecting occupancy to end in each of those regions at the end of next year?  Well our plan contemplates that Metro DC kind of gets somewhere between range of 84% to 86% we contemplate that will be 83% occupied at the end of ’14 so we are looking for roughly 200 basis points of improvements down there.
New Jersey Delaware will finish ’14 at 88 and again we’ve got about 200 basis point assumption built into this 3.3 million square foot leasing plan and occupancy plan.
Okay and I think the 400 commerce building I think that’s the one where CSE is in which you guys have I think on the last call and that one as you mentioned is going vacant on January 1 my recollection was that you guys were thinking about marketing that building but I presume that the sale of that building whether it be empty or not is not included in the leasing plan as we look for 2015 or the yearend target number overall for the company of 92.5%?  We have that property is part of the small complex we’ve that complex and that building on the market for sale.
We have the building itself on the market for sale or lease or going through the price discovery process on that.
What we did for the leasing plan is that we basically assumed that that property remained down all year.
So our operating metrics figure same store numbers reflect that building remain vacant all year.
We do have a pipeline of potential transactions out there but certainly nothing that’s advanced the point where we felt comfortable identifying that as an uptick of its January fully vacant level.
Okay that’s helpful and then just last one quick for Tom I appreciate all the details on the capital plan I didn’t do all the math right away but could you just give us an expected level of cash yearend 2015? We should be right around breakeven on cash Brendan.
So zero cash balance 2015? Yes zero cash.
Your next question comes from Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital.
Thanks good morning.
I guess following up on sort of the last question and just guidance for 2015 so the assumption is that all of the cash will be utilized to fund anyone to a Tom so that was helpful a lot of it is development spend so I guess there is some pickup from capitalization of interest I don’t know if you have that number handy that’s embedded in the guidance but that number I’m looking for and then maybe just a little bit more color that you could offer on the non-cash item ticking up to 19 million I guess in our number we had the 11 or so from the post office the legacy historic tax credit but this is a new market tax credit if you just show little bit late for some reason I didn’t have that in there.
Sure the first answer is there is about 11.5 million of capitalized interest in the plan for next year based on the activity that’s going to be rolling into there for CIT as well as what’s going to occur next year in spending.
The second part of your question is this new market tax credit is really related to the unwind of the structure we put in place which was to earn certain credits for the building and the rehab of the garage as well as the building and rehab of the IRS building and in that process we received certain benefits the one that we’ve been amortizing has been over the course of the period the last one which is as new market tax credit was deemed to be earned when there is 5 year anniversary from the start of construction.
So that date is going to be late in 2015 the anniversary of that so that’s why the credit is going to be hitting in the fourth quarter.
It has something that we’ve had in the 10-K in terms of this was coming due but I would grant no one -- I haven’t seen anyone had into their numbers.
Is that a $0.05 number?  It’s about $8 million so no it’s not $0.05.
It’s ok.
That’s why we end up to $80 million of onetime items coming up in this year.
Okay.
That one will occur in the fourth quarter.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just any insight that could offered on the development leasing Gerry from your expectations and progress that you’re seeing sort of across the spectrum and specifically I guess I’m looking more at FMC and EVO?  Sure Jordan let me touch on both.
The project that we have underway down in Austin Encino Trace is a major anchor tenant he's taken 75% of 1 building.
We do anticipate I’m taking more space very good pipeline of activity for the remaining vacant space in that two building complex that will really be delivered kind of mid to late summer of next year.
So I think we have a good anchor as well as expectations for expansion in anchor and some good new tenant prospects are evaluating that building which is -- those buildings which are still under construction.
On FMC it's frankly off to a great start I mean the projects moving forward on pace and on schedule.
You may remember from the last conference call from an office leasing standpoint we ramped up our leasing efforts right after Labor Day and we’re very pleased with the level of activity we’re talking to a number of mid-size and larger-size tenants.
We’re looking at moving into University City from some suburban areas as well as some in market expansions.
So we are very pleased with this early level of activity it’s clearly a differentiated product it's the city’s first vertical neighborhood as we coined it.
We pick up a largest draft off the close proximity to University of Pennsylvania and Drexel and that area just continues to improve and we’re really very optimistic that over the next couple quarters we’ll be able to post some solid leasing activity.
The residential front in that project is again just kicking off.
We do anticipate as we've outlined before I guess about 100 of those units will be fully furnished extend its stay concierge serviced units.
We are partnering with the common organization on that and the targeted users really corporations universities the healthcare systems and feedback there again is incredibly positive.
Just to kind bow-tie up and see on the financing front as we've indicated earlier in last call we remain in the marketed value winning financing partners.
Our capital plan for 2015 assumes a full Brandywine development spend of a couple $100 million.
We do have discussions continuing with several parties; those discussions have quite frankly progressed at a more moderate pace at our choosing primarily driven by our desire to lock down our GNP which we did late last week look for additional traction off the leasing fronts we think we’ll be able to get some very good activity and then really having some detailed discussions with some of these partners on joint venturing the residential or the full project.
We cannot expect those discussions on the financing front will take place over the next couple of quarters until we determine what the ultimate capital plan for the project is.
It also asked about our other development which is a joint venture at Cira South with EVO and that project has picked up some additional leasing since the last call so it's just below 50% leased.
And look from my perspective it really comes down for the quality of real estate presentation its location and I think on all of those fronts we’re very pleased.
The lease up thus far given the delivery date which was scheduled for kind of late in the leasing cycle we always anticipated would take a couple of years to fully stabilize I guess in that retrospect with the nice of the building in sort of a few months earlier and delivered in time for the spring cycle.
But based upon feedback I mean we are confident the project staying well received and the current leasing which I mention is right around right below 50% well really not in line with some of our initial expectations that the partnership had.
It does represent a pretty good out of the gate performance for a property that wasn’t really able to show renters any units until very late August.
We like the fact that it continues to appeal to both tenant and Drexel students which is a new dynamic in the University City marketplace but also its attracted students from other area universities giving us a location at the regional transportation hub.
So we’re monitoring that the property management leasing teams are focused they’re engaged they’re doing a great job they’re enthusiastic so we have expectations that the two year lease up cycle for this project will remain valid it’s just we have more work to do in the second year.
What do you think -- last one to follow up on and then hop up.
What do you think happened between sort of the second quarter call where you’ve seemed a bit more optimistic about sort of September leasing potentially August September leasing and where we are today?  Yes lot of the prospects that came through during that time period had already made commitments or had leases rolling at of cycles so it still remained in our prospect list.
But I think it really was a function of people not being able to get into the building to actually walk through the units look at the amenity floor and touch and feel the project as much as we hoped it will.
We did have a nice pick in September but again it fell short of what the originally expectations were but I think as we view it we built a very solid base.
There is a very broad base marketing campaign underway to appeal to the young professionals and we have a pretty growing pipeline of that will be kind off cycle leasing activity.
But I think that’s probably the honest answer Jordan.
Next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with Mizuho Security So just turning to Austin.
I am wondering what do you think the long term size feeling is in your investment in that market.
You're considering the legacy IBM joint venture and what you’ve done today from an acquisition standpoint.
How big do you think you can get in Austin? Hey Rich.
We really haven’t set an upper target.
And I don’t think that’s wise to do.
I think we want to evaluate opportunities as they present themselves.
Certainly the million square foot joint venture that we have with IBM remains I think a fairly fertile ground for additional upside for the company.
That part does include some additional acreage where some additional building can take place.
IBM is in the process of really assessing their long term needs.
It's that location for IBM remains a very valuable employment center they tend to a generate a high level of patents actually second only to what they generated of their headquarters in Armonk.
I think we see that marketplace being sought after by a lot more investors so it’s becoming more into the comment [indiscernible] people who want enter Austin.
So we are clearly being as cautious as we can and pragmatic as we can on assessing opportunities and really very much focusing on asset trading levels that remain well below replacement cost for well-located assets with upside in the rent rolls as evidenced by these two recent acquisitions that were [$220 000] per square foot and below so well below replacement cost.
A number of other assets in that market traded well above those levels.
And they really don’t fit for us.
We do see that market transitioning a little bit more to development given where the demand drivers are both in the Southwest and Northwest and Downtown.
And I think the developments have been announced there including ours that had a very high level of leasing activity and preleasing success.
So we still have capital to deploy under our existing venture with DRA as we talked early on when that we announced this transaction that’s a typical buy-sell provision.
So we look at that as an intermediate transitional financial structure for us in that marketplace.
And then we certainly always have the opportunity to do things for our own account in that market as well.
Okay.
And the follow-up unrelated.
There is the story that I read at some point between last quarter and today about the elevated level of office sale activity in Philadelphia number getting to 1.4 billion in the first half of this year.
I am curious if you are seeing any ramifications of that in terms of pricing in Philly.
And how that might be influencing your buy/sell decision in your home market?  Great question.
And actually there has been a notable increase in assets going on the market.
And frankly some buyers have historically haven’t bought in Philadelphia buying into the marketplace.
I think stepping back I think that’s really a function I think of how well Philadelphia has been doing.
I see that in the broader sense not just in terms of office but with the in migration of residential population.
Some modification to existing tax laws has made it more attractive for companies to locate in to Philadelphia.
And expansion of the retail base continued strengthening and viability to the high-end residential market as well as the young professional residential market.
So I think all of those issues are really creating a dynamic where a number of companies tenants who traditionally would have looked a bit of skew at relocating to Philadelphia are now looking at that as a very viable place in which to do business in terms of attracting and retaining a high quality labor base.
Now just during this past quarter we were able to relocate a company from the New Jersey marketplace into Center City Club into one of our buildings they moved their headquarters in.
We have a number of other tenants prospects in the queue who are looking at either moving the bulk or portions of their otherwise suburban tri-state marketplace operations into Center City or University City.
So I think people are beginning to see some predictability some visibility to the demand drivers.
And I think frankly I have a number of folks who have owned real-estate in the City that view this as a very good time to put profits on the market given the compression of yields in New York and Washington Philadelphia has traditionally traded between a 150 basis points to 200 basis points spread over some of those real gateway markets.
So buyers who are looking for a bit better yield with some existing stability have been moving into the marketplace.
So some of the comps have been building in University City traded for about $324 a square foot at a sub-setting cap rate that was a building that was built in the early 1970s a couple of other older buildings in the city that were built in the 70s as well are expected to trade in the $180 square foot plus range in cap rates in the high 6’s to high 7’s cap rate range and we think those comps quite frankly which compare very favorably to our investment base in our much higher quality asset base.
So we are monitoring all that activity very closely as you know from our investment strategy in the past we don’t really look to buying to some of the B inventory class in the city but view that as a good theater system for our asset base.
So we monitor it we certainly underwrite a lot of properties that come for sale in both CBD and university city but I think it is very encouraging that there are so many new buyers who are focused on the city and that focus is not just relative yield but also increasing visibility as I mentioned on some demand drivers.
5 years from now so 30% now of your portfolio is it greater or lesser than that 5 years from now?  Look I think we have expectations that we’ll continue to focus a lot of our growth in Washington DC and the other core markets so we would expect that it may move up a little bit but not much more I think we have opportunities to call inventory optimize profitability and stay very much focused and execute our business plan in the city.
Your next question is from Manny Korchman with Citi.
Good morning guys thanks.
If we look at your disposition plan for both this year and next year you said you had 300 million of asset sort of add on the market but list got hundreds of change in that or I guess 50 million of that is identified to be sold then you got another $1.15 for next year but you said that's going to close at the end of the year.
So are we looking at two different pools of assets and if so what’s the difference between the two pools?  Good observation.
Actually I think the comment that we were making frankly on the later in the year I may not have been precisely clear is the acquisitions we had modeled into our plan for a kind of the need to latter part of the year I think on the disposition front certainly we think there could be a rollover of some of the profits that we’re currently marketing into the first half of 2015.
So there could be asset sales occurring in ’15 as well as closing out ’14 that were kind of in that pool.
In addition to that we always take a quarterly review of all of our assets and are always pinging more assets into the marketplace to kind of catch pricing.
We are frankly encouraged by the amount of capital seeking some of these suburban assets obviously because of the higher yield that they’re able to achieve and notably one of the assets we anticipate closing tomorrow we sold to an institutional investor which traditionally an asset of that level would have been focused more on a private development company with third party capital but we’re actually seeing middle sized institutional investors now entering the fray for bidding on suburban properties.
So there could be I guess to answer your question precisely there could be some overlap between what we’re marketing today closing in ’14 and ’15 but then we would certainly anticipate that as the year progresses we’ll identify either through the leasing effort or through comparable sales or through user activity other assets that we’ll target for sale and execute in the second half of the year.
Great and then just to clarify on the acquisitions those are all standing property acquisitions and then any development size or land would be separate at that?  That is correct yes.
Your next question is from John Guinee with Stifel.
George I’m looking at and I guess Gerry I’m looking at your leasing activity core portfolio and basically you’ve not had almost two years of plus positive on cash and over 10% on GAAP can you sort of drill down and tell us how you’re getting there and will that continue and maybe a good idea would be to just sort of run through some numbers in as much detail as you feel comfortable on 90 000 square feet rolling out at [indiscernible] 70 000 feet already rolled in and what are the basic economics of that a deal like that? I guess from an overview standpoint John and it’s -- we’ve been fortunate with some of the execution success but I think we sat down a few years ago and looked at our average lease term being four to five years the market is being fairly soft concession package is increasing and I think we all kind of looked at ourselves and said we're really working these properties almost at hamster wheels and we're not really making a lot of progress.
So one of the key ingredients that we can focus on to create a better growth trend line going forward and it really revolved around being aggressive on disposing of assets that we thought that we can never achieve in net present value higher than spot pricing number one and I think that’s one of the reasons why we called out so many properties I think in some of these some markets have remained weak and will probably remain somewhat weak for the next few years and not even factoring in that weakness danger by functional lessons.
Then we looked at the rest of our portfolio and said look we need to lengthen lease terms.
We need to focus very hard on getting annual rent bumps that are more than 0% to 1%.
And we need to invest in feasible plans to make sure that we’re providing an attractive platform that tenants will want to lease space and call their corporate home.
So I think the big change we look back in retrospect is kind of really culling out the percentage and reducing the percentage of our inventory that was in what we call these hamster real markets.
And then more importantly honing in on assets where we think we could really improve NPV through leasing strategies and capital investment and I think that’s one of the things we look at our business plan I have to tell you having our average lease term in 2014 be greater than eight years is a sea change from where this company was five years ago.
And having a capital run rate of 10% to 15% of rents is a sea change from where we were.
So we certainly hope that that track record will continue certainly we think the portfolio today John is much better suited to continue that trend line than the portfolio we had five years ago.
There is certainly always risk in our business but from our perspective we really tried to lay out a path that provides consistent same-store growth constant capital predictability and a clear platform to creating value every time we sign up the tenant lease.
And George maybe share some of the observations on specific markets.
Yes I think John as Gerry mentioned I mean the tightening of vacancy in a lot of these markets has allowed us to obviously push rent and then by pushing term and getting these higher annual bumps is clearly helping on the gap mark-to-market side of things.
I mean the third quarter of this year benefited really from two larger and old [indiscernible] downtown Philadelphia where a large firm at our Logan Square complex renewed and then the other was with down in Tysons where we did a large renewal with an accounting firm.
The Radnor deal that I alluded to again that was a tenant that was in place when we bought that Radnor portfolio years ago finally kind of rolling out of the portfolio I mean the mark-to-market on that is going to be positive 25% on a cash basis and 29% on a GAAP basis.
So we're really just seeing a lot of these markets.
Our ability to kind of push rate push terms control capital really starting to impact the numbers for us.
Great.
And then the second question would your Board ever be so bold as to think about moving the dividend Gerry.
Well I cannot speak for the Board and certainly don’t want to predict anything but I will tell you the strong increase in CAD year-over-year which Tom and I touched on as well as the portfolio kind of reaching the low to mid 90s occupancy levels.
The balance sheet strengthening we did certainly winds up at presenting an attractive alternative for the Board to consider later this year.
We always targeted having a CAD run rate lower than 80% or 85% and it will be well below that in ‘15 and if it's our business plan execution is hopefully successful in ‘15 as it wasn’t in ‘14.
It's certainly a very fertile area for the Board to explore.
Your next question comes from Jed Reagan with Green Street Advisor.
Good morning guys.
Just wondering you guys have been pretty busy on external growth lately and looking at being that acquire in 2015.
So just wondering if you can talk a little bit about more about that strategy just given your stocks still trading at a pretty significant discount and you have stated goal to deliver the balance sheet overtime.
I guess one question if the cost of capital weren't to improve meaningfully next year would you reevaluate those net acquisition plans for latter part of the year? I’m sorry Jed if our cost to capital improves next year? If the cost of capital did not improve overtime will that sort of cause you to reevaluate those net acquisition plans? I think certainly I think I mean even as I mentioned in the comments we're very mindful of our cost of capital and I think as evidenced of that is certainly when we looked at situations of trying to balance evaluating what we think are really good growth opportunities versus our balance sheet objectives.
We've always outlined that the driving credit kit of our business plan is continued balance sheet improvement.
I think this year in our 2015 guidance for the first time in a number of years we have actually announced that we plan on being acquisitive we are seeing good pipeline of deals.
Again the primary determining factor there will where our cost-to-capital is what other uses of our precious capital are and whether we move forward with those.
And I think we look at our guidance for 2015 having sequenced in the acquisitions towards the kind of second quarter third quarter and fourth quarter.
That gives us the ability to see how our cost of capital responds to overall macro conditions and hopefully our relative improvement within our peer set in terms of more leverage neutral or even leverage positive FFO and CAD metrics.
So maybe we can close that historical discount that exists still in FFO and CAD multiple basis for the company.
But yes look I think that we are very focused on that.
I think the approach we've taken the last couple of years has really been focused on improving the balance sheet trade in that capital capacity.
And I think we want to try and do a signal as part of our plan for ’15 that we do see opportunities.
We do see the potential to grow the NAV of the company through external growth in addition to all the hard work we are doing on the leasing and property management in margin improvement side of our business.
And see how that works its way through.
I mean I think we look at the acquisition and dispositions for ’15 through almost neutral in terms of their timing on FFO.
So the bottom-line is we will remain very focused on where relative cost of capital is and what the right capital structure is to do any external growth opportunities.
Are those growth plans like actually dependent on the cost of capital improving.
I mean if you are sort of where you are today let’s say come middle of the year do you revisit those plans altogether if you haven’t seen that sort of improvement that you are anticipating? Well it’s a fair question.
And I think that I would answer it by saying that we always look at where the market is where we expect it to go.
And I think have been consistent adjusting our plans based upon where that is.
But I don't won’t be an absolutist and say as of this date we would change a certain plan.
It depends on what the future holds.
Okay.
And then also just on ’15 releasing spread guidance looks like that guidance has been flat overall and pretty much holding steady with this year.
Just wondering how we should think about that and given that comment that you guys are looking to push rates in some markets.
I guess it’s the rent growth traction not coming together the way you might have hoped.
Or is that not a very true? I think it’s more where the leasing is going to come from.
I mean the fact that Philadelphia and the crescent markets being 94.5% average occupancy.
The opportunity to lease more space in those markets where we are getting the more favorable mark-to-market metric are fewer in 2015.
As Gerry mentioned most of our leasing and absorption for next year is still coming out of Metro DC in New Jersey where cash rents are still in a roll down situation.
Okay that makes sense.
And just last one for me on the EVO project does that kind of mid 7% expected yield there still seem realistic.
I noticed that it wasn’t in the disclosure this time but as you kind of look out to the eventual stabilization of project.
Is that still a realistic goal you think?  We think we still are looking for a return on stabilization in the range what we outlined before.
We look at the long-term forecast for this project it's still generating a good rate of return to the company.
And certainly a good equity multiple that we would expect to receive greater than two times what our investment was.
So it’s challenging right now because there is still not a lot of visibility on kind of leasing up between the 50% and the 85% or 90%.
But the pipeline seems good.
And certainly we haven’t really revisited what those overall assumptions would be as we have some more visibility on what some others say near-term lease-up goes.
Your next question comes from Nick Yulico with UBS.
Well thanks.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about the Camden in New Jersey development and explain exactly what sort of plan there and what your partnership stake looks like in that project?  Sure happy to.
We were designated as the developer by Kembles a few weeks ago.
And it's for their gateway development site which is adjacent to their corporate headquarters and research facility in Camden New Jersey it’s about 13 acre site that’s immediately adjacent not only to [indiscernible] but also to the two train lines that provide multi-modal access to the site.
In being designated as developer we’re the sole developer so we’d be the owner of the sites we’ve essentially entered into a 5 year option agreement to acquire parts of that site or the entire site at a fixed price that modulates based upon ultimate density.
We would anticipate taking down those sites once we found a build to suit opportunity that justified us making that investment.
One of the public policy items that was instrumental in us pursuing this opportunity was that New Jersey passed a Garden States Growth Zone act which provides tremendous incentives for companies to locate into certain targeted zones.
Camden is the only city in Southern New Jersey offering those benefits and frankly already have begun to reap the value of that to the relocation of a couple notable companies into Camden proper.
So for us it’s a master planning exercise a marketing exercise we will be investing some money in the master planning and marketing but from a business standpoint as I mentioned provides the option not the obligation to acquire those it really does fit into our wheel house and our strategic plan of developing multi-modal office and mixed-use town center developments that are served by mass transportation and the real game changer quite candidly was the recently active economic opportunity program that provides a significant incentives for companies who are willing to locate into selected areas in the state including Camden to promote job retention job growth and spur private capital investment.
From our perspective it gives us a competitive advantage to pursue non-Brandywine tenants who that location is mass transportation access as well as the public policy may very well create a very attractive footprint for our companies to locate there.
Your next question comes from Michael Lewis with SunTrust Robinson.
The [indiscernible] article on Monday [indiscernible] college grads are moving in Philly was highlighted as one of the most impacted by a large number of young college grads moving into the city that’s not happening in the suburb so my question is what’s kind of the driver in the suburbs where you’ve been able to -- achieve high occupancy and then is there any concern of your CBD portfolio kind of cannibalizing what you’ve been able to achieve further out? Well I think the demand drivers in the suburban counties and it’s a good observation and one of the reasons why we’ve been very aggressive in kind of refining our suburban concentrations and in the crescent markets for example I mean that’s driven by demand for office space is driven by proximity to high end executive housing good interstate road system good school systems a mixed-use communities where people tend to want to work.
The suburban marketplace Michael has never really been that much impacted by student populations or their tangential benefits of what they do in the suburbs.
So I think that demand dynamic stays in pretty good shape.
I do think though in our suburban markets we are focusing our strategy on markets where there really have our office product as part of mixed-use communities whether it’s Radnor Conshohocken Plymouth Meeting a much different demand driver than now [indiscernible] for example we’re selling our Valleybrooke project good project only car served we just don’t see the lift in that submarket as we frankly would see in [indiscernible] which is why when we get to our capital deployment program we rather sell there versus buy.
There has not yet been any evidence and I don’t think there will be of a cannibalization of inventory.
The demand drivers in Philadelphia take are a bit different certainly University City is benefiting from a nice migration of young professionals as well as a continued expansion of the student base particularly Drexel University.
One more quick one my second question was going to be about acquisition since you haven’t guided any acquisitions recently but I think you hit that the flip side of that coin would be if you did decide to tackle the balance sheet a little bit more what kind of -- what’s the next step that you could get at for the most attractive data you get at what would be kind of like on your to do list for the balance sheet.
Well I think and Tom please weigh in we’ve really done a very good job of really reducing near term rollovers.
I think we have a piece of secure debt coming due in one of our Northern Virginia properties during the year that certainly is an opportunity for us to pay down that debt and add that to our unencumbered pool and then certainly as 2015 continues to kick away certainly looking at our 2016 bonds could be an attractive next step for us.
Thanks.
I would agree now the ‘16 bonds when we first took a look at the offering we did this year Michael is the make holes were pretty significant 6% money and so we looked at that and said let`s hold off on those and see how the capital plan progresses on the development pipeline in the financing of that and as we get into ‘15 if there is more clarity to that and things rate stay where they are and our capital plans moving along we can start to look at ‘16 prematurely also as a possible use of cash.
We have a follow up from Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
So I just wanted to follow up on kind of the guidance in the strategy and the guidance as just mentioned you guys hadn’t historically put the acquisitions in there why do that this time around just given that if you decide to use capital or if maybe attractive acquisitions don’t show up does that hurt if you don’t deploy 250 million of acquisitions even late in the year how much does that hurt your guidance numbers? I would guess it probably be like $0.02 or $0.03 but just wondering for some color there.
Hi Brendan its Tom.
I think on one how it affects guidance I mean we have left a wide range which we've done for a number of things including when the capital may go out the door or come in the door from either acquisitions or dispositions.
Things are back ended we only feels it’s a few cents of $0.02 to $0.03 maybe in terms of the timing.
So we did build it in towards the backend and certainly again will add it as Gerry mentioned we'll visit that continuously and update you on that as the course go out.
But we did think with where we are in the capital side that we thought there were opportunities to put that out for and it might as well signal that there are some acquisition opportunities as we looked at our markets.
Okay fair enough.
Just second to last question Tom so you guys give great disclosure on kind of the capital plan it’s very helpful.
So I was interested you have 53 million of revenue maintaining CapEx that's down from 75 that was in your guidance last year so that’s coming down and that seems it’s down a little bit more in percentage terms and the amount of leasing volume that you want to do but it’s somewhat commensurate with the drop in leasing volume but the non-revenue maintaining CapEx that number went down to 35 million from 75 million.
And so are you guys at the point now where that non-revenue maintaining portion of the business that level of CapEx should be lower and should be -- is 35 a good run rate for the next few years do you think that number can go down even more?  I’ll answer then George can chime in.
One thing we did do Brendan when I highlighted the projects that we are considering sort of development and acquisition is I did mention we do have -- I split out for ‘15 we decided to split out the one and two commerce capital cost because as we usually do we keep the capital cost into for those projects as a place holder saying we bought it at a certain price for example one and two commerce at 1.75.
We told you we stabilized it at 200 a foot when all the capital is spent that capital is still being spent because we go on a cash basis so certain leases that are being down to get that thing to get those two buildings up to stabilization of 95% which we think will be close to by the end of ‘15 the capital is being spent -- I kind of spiked that out because of that acquisition those costs of 20 million which I put into my total number of close to [300 million 280 million] for next year.
So putting side aside we think that the 35 million is a lower number because of the amount of lease up we’ve been able to do at the vacant space and therefore when you take a look at how much capital is being spent on the renewals and new we’re seeing much less capital being needed to get the building kind of up into the stabilization rate we're expecting looking out beyond next year in the 35 million I’ll turn it to George on what you think? We haven’t really spent a lot of time on that projecting going out.
Yes Brendan I think one of the other things that’s really kind of coming into play is the fact that we’ve gotten out in front of so many of these future explorations that some of our revenue maintaining spend and revenue creating for that matter spend in 2014 is because we’ve already started to renew ‘15 and ‘16 lease explorations.
So the brokerage commission being paid today versus being paid in the subsequent year.
Look I think that revenue creating number just has to kind of comedown as we continue to absorb space.
Our definition which I think is kind of the industry standard is if the space has been down for 12 consecutive months then it kind of flips into that create bucket.
But if you lease it after 11 months then it’s in maintain and two months slide you're kind of into to create.
But I think as we continue to kind of reduce rollover risk and kind of get the portfolio up to kind of that 93 94 level in general total capital just needs to come down and will.
Yes that’s helpful.
Because it seems like kind of relating back to the dividend question and the leverage question the past couple of years because the revenue creating CapEx has been pretty high.
Even that you have been kind of CAD coverage positive on the dividend from a true free cash flow perspective that the number hasn’t been positive but it seems like as long as that revenue maintaining number comes down then you should get into that position which obviously helps your leverage and would make it much more comfortable to boost the dividend.
So just seems like you are going in the right direction.
We are.
At this time we have no further questions.
I will turn the call back over to Mr.
Sweeney for closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you all very much for participating in the call.
And we look forward to update you on our activities on our next quarterly call.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's Brandywine Realty Trust third quarter earnings call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brandy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Gerry Sweeney President and CEO.
You may begin your conference sir.
Brandy thank you and thank you all very much for joining us in our year end 2014 earnings call and good morning.
On today's call with me are George Johnstone our Executive Vice President of Operations; Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Dan Palazzo our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
Prior to beginning certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
Although we believe estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as our most recent annual and quarterly reports that we filed with the SEC.
To move into our agenda as we normally do we'll start with an overview of our three key business plan components operations balance sheet and investments.
George will then discuss our 2015 leasing and operating efforts.
And we'll then turn the call over to Tom to review our financial results.
We closed the year with a very solid leasing quarter that capped off an extremely strong 2014.
These results have laid a solid foundation for continued strong performance in this current year.
When we look back at 2014 operationally we exceeded many of our 2014 key targets spec revenue retention lease term GAAP mark-to-market and met many of our other key business plan objectives.
We wound up leasing of 4.4 million square feet during the year one of our highest totals ever and we have had over 500 000 square feet of positive absorption for the year.
Brandywine’s occupancy levels continue to outperform our markets most notably Philadelphia CBD and the Pennsylvania Suburbs in Northern Virginia and Delaware New Jersey and Richmond.
We did end the year at 91.4% occupied and 93.3% leased.
Those numbers are up 190 and 150 basis points respectively from our year end 2013 levels.
GAAP mark-to-market for the year was 8.5% exceeding our targeted range and our retention rate for the quarter was 86% and wound being just shy of 72% for the year well above our original business plan forecast of 60%.
Cash same-store was 4.5% within our range and GAAP same-store number came in 50 basis points short of our target primarily reflecting several intra-quarter occupancy slides.
Another high note for us during the year was our average lease term increased 8.2 -- increased to 8.2 years exceeding our 7.1 year business plan target by 15% and almost a 40% increase on lease term over our 2013 5.9 year average.
Our average run rate increase on leases actually during the year was over 2.5% an improvement again over 2013.
During the fourth quarter due to accelerated occupancy efforts we had anticipated higher run rate on capital that we bought our overall CAD ratio for the year to 87%.
Net capital for the year did come in at $2.74 per square foot per lease year within our targeted range albeit at the very high-end.
So looking back at ’14 our tactics of lengthening lease terms reducing forward rollover generating positive same-store growth and maintaining capital spend within our targeted range were all achieved.
Shifting to balance sheet it continues to be in strong shape with excellent liquidity.
Our net debt to gross assets measures slightly below 39%.
We have no dollars outstanding on our unsecured line of credit and we ended the year with $250 million of cash on hand.
The financing activity that we did in the fourth quarter did reduce our average cost of debt below 5% and had a very good impact in terms of extending our average maturity curve from five to -- over seven years.
The combined equity and debt market activity during ‘14 strengthened our balance sheet increased our liquidity and position us for growth and as reinforced on every call creating capital capacity is our best strategy to both de-risk and accelerate our growth and is a key driver in our 2015 business plan.
And looking at investments we closed the year with $107 million of sales and $34 million under contract.
In our press release and our supplemental we do provide specifics on several transactions on which we are happy to answer any questions you may have and our development activity is also detailed on pages 12 through 14 of the supplemental.
Just two items of note FMC Tower is on schedule for delivery in July of 2016 that office leasing campaign has fully launched at this point.
We have 250 000 square feet of space that we need to lease with well over twice that amount already in active prospects.
We are confident that as the steel rises out of the ground and a building may comes more to final on the skyline we will replicate the leasing success we had with our other University City projects.
Our Encino Trace project in Austin is also on schedule for delivery midyear 2016.
We have significant activity from new prospects as well as strong indications of further expansion by our anchored tenant.
We do expect quantifiable progress on this project in the next 90 days but the project remains on schedule and on budget.
Shifting attention to ’15 for 2015 we are increasing the bottom end of our guidance range so new range is $1.39 to a $1.48 really driven by these key assumptions.
We expect tenant activity levels to remain strong with ever improving lease economics.
Looking ahead we anticipate continued net absorption in the Philippines CBD the Pennsylvania Suburbs Metropolitan DC operations Richmond and Austin with ongoing improvement in leasing and to a velocity.
We have made very good progress since our last call on our 2015 spec revenue plan that is already 78% executed.
As a consequence we are raising our spec revenue target almost 6% from $31.9 million to $33.7 million with a fairly significant increase its early in the year with a solid percentage already completed.
2015 occupancy levels at year end will range between 92% and 93%.
Leasing will be between 93% and 94.5%.
We are also increasing our tenant retention rate from 64% to 60%.
We expect GAAP mark-to-market to range between 6% to 8% and cash to be between negative 1% and 1% positive.
We do expect continuation of our capital cost to be within the range of the 10% to 15% target or $2.25 to $2.75 per square foot per lease year.
Another key positive entering the year was that our remaining lease aspirations for 2015 are only 6.4% or 1.5 million square feet which is a lowest level we've had in many years.
During ‘14 we are -- to our early renewal program renewed early about 600 000 square feet or reduced by 30% our 2015 rollover since January ’14.
And other key beneficiary of the improve fundamentals is the notable increase in CAD.
A lot of our heavy lift on capital is behind us and our targeted range for 2015 is a CAD number between $0.85 and $0.95 per share which equates to about 70% payout ratio.
This 30% increase over ’14 is a most tangible result of our accelerated early renewal program better control on capital and increases to our average lease term.
And looking at investments for ’15 we will deliver our Encino Trace project and are on schedule for construction continuing a space on the FMC Tower.
We do expect continue progress on the land sales efforts as well as several additional land acquisitions.
On the disposition front our original business forecast anticipated $150 million of sales.
We have increased that to $180 million to reflect the early 2015 sales activity.
That number does not include our anticipated $36 million cash recovery on the contribution of our first building at Encino Trace to our joint venture.
So sales activity and cash recovery from contributions will provide almost $220 million of capital versus our $250 million aggregate acquisition targets.
And certainly given the low interest rate climate and the push of capital towards office space our hope is to sell more than our current plans.
In furtherance we have almost $280 million of properties of the market with $73 million in advance negotiations or in advance stages of the bid process.
Our overall objective remains reducing exposure to non-core assets particularly California New Jersey Delaware and the ex-urban areas of the Pennsylvania suburbs.
On the development front our primary mission of course is to make sure that our current developments become fully leased.
But certainly with acquisitions pricing generally remaining dear and above replacement cost in many markets our continuing focus is on value add building land acquisitions.
And on the development front we are in the pre-marketing phases on several projects and are pursuing several builders shoot opportunities.
As we announced before the end of the year we have been awarded the development rights for the Campbell’s Gateway project.
Further to that we have been selected as the key developer for Subaru in the completion of their new U.S.
world headquarters -- new U.S.
headquarters building.
We anticipate that building commencing construction during the latter half of 2015 or early 2016.
So to wrap up 2014 was a great year with the majority of our report card items that accomplished or exceeded.
2015 is even more promising.
By raising our spec revenue target increasing the percentage completed raising our retention target reinforcing our operating metrics our portfolio is in excellent and ever improving shape.
Liquidating non-core assets into an increasingly stronger investment market and delivering well leased new products will accelerate our portfolio transition and improve both our growth prospects and market positioning for 2015.
So this year will be a drive towards growing NAV the forward leasing momentum we have in improving markets give us tremendous confidence that we will generate solid NOI growth strong same-store performance and positive mark-to-market.
At this point George will provide an overview of our operational performance and more look ahead to 2015.
And then George will then turn it over to Tom to review our financial performance.
George? Thank you Gerry.
It was an extremely busy quarter for our regional leasing and construction teams.
We signed over 1 million square feet of leases and commenced approximately 1.2 million square feet including over 800 000 square feet of new and expansion leases.
As a result we ended 2014 91.4% occupied and occupancy has increased 310 basis points over the last two years.
These efforts ensured our 2014 business plan metrics were achieved and have set the path for continued progression as we begin 2015.
Activity levels around the company remained strong.
Weekly inspections during the quarter averaged at a 170 000 square feet comparable to 2013 levels while down quarter-over-quarter as expected due to the holidays.
Our leasing pipeline totals 3.2 million square feet including 565 000 square feet in active lease negotiations.
Our CBD Philadelphia Austin and Pennsylvania Crescent markets continued to perform extremely well.
In CBD Philadelphia we are 97% leased outperforming market vacancy by 800 basis points and have less than 5% rolling in each of the next three years.
The decline in vacancy in the Class A office sector has been driven by tenants taking the flight to quality tenants relocating from outside the city and continued office to apartment building conversions.
This tightening has allowed us to continue to push rents.
Leasing spreads are projected to increase 16% on a GAAP basis and 6% on a cash basis during 2015 in our CBD Philadelphia portfolio.
In Austin we are also 97% leased.
The Austin market remains hot where 1.6 million square feet of office space was absorbed during 2014 and overall market vacancy is 8.6%.
Leasing spreads there continue to rise.
We are estimating a 50% and 6% increase for GAAP and cash respectively during 2015.
The Crescent markets at 97% are also well-positioned for continued rent growth.
GAAP and cash leasing spreads are expected to be 9% and 5% during 2015.
Town center attributes continued to be demand drivers for office space in the Pennsylvania markets.
The limited amount of available inventory in those Crescent markets has forced deal to King of Prussia and other Northern and Western suburbs.
In Northern Virginia our redevelopment efforts in Dulles Corner are nearly complete.
We've invested approximately $9 million or $17 per square foot into the common areas restrooms building amenities along with the exterior lighting landscaping and hardscape systems.
This reinvestment or this investment reenergized the activity through the properties and as a result we've executed two 40 000 square foot leases.
These leases will both commence in the third quarter.
We remain encouraged by activity levels the qualitative and locational benefits of our properties and the increase in tenant expansion activity within the Northern Virginia and Suburban Maryland markets.
We expect our Metro DC region to generate a 300 basis point increase in occupancy during the year while posting positive rent growth on both the GAAP and cash basis.
Our Richmond team did a great job in 2014 solving a large tenant move-out and improved the occupancy there to 92.5%.
And turning to the 2015 business plan page 6 of the supplemental package contains a roll forward of our 2015 occupancy projections.
Based on 3.2 million square feet of lease commencements 898 000 square feet of projected move outs and 295 000 square feet of early termination we will generate a 110 basis points of absorption 91.4% year-end 2014 occupancy level to finish 2015 at the midpoint of our 92% to 93% range.
This plan as Gerry mentioned will now provide $33.7 million of spec revenue.
While being 78% complete from a revenue perspective we are also 58% done from square footage perspective.
We’ve maintained all of our ranges relative to mark-to-market capital and average lease term.
Retention is projected to be up to 68% from our previously stated 64% level but is adversely impacted by three large move outs in the first quarter.
These large move outs account for 122 basis points of occupancy decline during that first quarter.
At 400 Commerce and Suburban Wilmington that building became a 100% vacant January 1st.
The 154 000 square foot building continues to be marketed for sale and/or lease.
Research Office Centers III in Rockville Maryland lost a 42 000 square foot tenant on January 31st.
We continue to see numerous prospects on our I-270 harder properties and have two full four users entertaining proposals.
In Radnor we've already released 78 000 square feet of the 87 000 square foot tenancy that we lost on January 31st.
This new lease will commence in the fourth quarter at very favorable terms to the expiring tenant.
Focusing on capital for a moment as we’ve discussed previously our continued efforts to reduce forward lease expirations accelerates the timing of our capital spend.
This clearly impacts our near-term CAD but it does provide a catalyst for continued CAD improvement in the future.
So to conclude we are very pleased with our performance during the fourth quarter our strong finish to 2014 and the progress made to date on the ’15 business plan.
And at this point I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thank you George.
As Gerry mentioned earlier the capital markets activity we executed in the third and fourth quarters represents significant steps to improving our balance sheet and positioning us for us to execute on our business plan.
Our fourth quarter FFO totaled $54.1 million or $0.30 per share diluted and our FFO payout ratio is 50% based on our current $0.15 per quarter distribution.
For the full year our FFO totaled $227 million or $1.34 per diluted share and our FFO payout ratio is 45% based on our $0.60 per-share annual distribution.
Some observations regarding the fourth quarter results same-store rates for the fourth quarter are 2% GAAP and 1.4% cash both excluding termination and other income items.
We've had 14th consecutive positive quarters for GAAP and 10 for cash metric on that growth.
Our same-store portfolio margins remain relatively unchanged compared to the third quarter.
Termination income totaled $1 million in line with our guidance.
G&amp;A expense totaled $6.7 million which came in higher than previous guidance primarily due to $300 000 of acquisition costs.
Interest expense totaled $29.5 million and was $1 million below the third quarter due to the completion of our liability management program in October.
Interest income increased $2.7 million primarily due to the repayment of interest on a fully reserved note totaling about $1.5 million of income and $700 000 of income from our short-term loan to the Austin joint venture related to our River Place acquisition in October.
Additionally associated with our liability management we made Make Whole premiums that took place in October for those that were tendered in the third quarter and that resulted about $5.1 million of cost for those Make Wholes.
FFO contribution from our unconsolidated joint ventures totaled $7.2 million.
It was above our third quarter results primarily due to the Austin acquisitions in the third and fourth quarters.
Our fourth quarter CAD totaled $19.7 million or $0.11 per diluted share and 136% payout ratio.
During the quarter as a result of our significant leasing activity and occupancy gains we incurred $32.9 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures.
CAD for the year totaled $117 million or $0.69 per share and within our third quarter guidance our third quarter CAD guidance was $0.68 to $0.73.
So consistent with our prior comments we anticipated that the fourth quarter CAD would be significantly below the previous quarters.
As Gerry mentioned we've increased the lower end of our revised FFO guidance range to $1.39 to $1.48.
Looking at the first quarter run rate we know the following core property’s operating income for the first quarter will be slightly above the previous quarter primarily due to high revenue associated with our significant fourth quarter lease commencements partially offset by the lower NOI due to the sale of our Atrium and Libertyview properties in New Jersey.
G&amp;A expense consistent with 2015 will be elevated roughly $8 million but will still be within the range of the annual number.
Termination fees are expected to decrease about $400 000 and interest income will now decrease down to a more normalized $700 000.
We have $180 million in net sales activity of which we've achieved about $28 million related to the sales of Atrium and Libertyview.
And our weighted average share count should be 182.5 million shares for the first quarter and roughly for the full year.
Annual FFO payout ratio at 41.6% for FFO and our year-end EBITDA is at 6.7 however including the $88 million note repayments which we had expected to occur in 2014 that ratio would've been 6.5% -- no 6.5 times.
Looking at 2015 capital we project CAD to be in a range of $0.85 to $0.95 reflecting $49 million of revenue maintaining capital at the midpoint of our guidance.
Uses of our cash for this year talking about our liquidity plan about $757 million comprised of speculative acquisitions of $250 million.
$259 million of development projects of which the larger ones are $190 million for FMC $42 million for Encino Trace.
We have $116 million of aggregate dividends $31 million of projected capital investments primarily for 40-40 and 19-19 markets $49 million of revenue maintaining as mentioned earlier $39 million of revenue creating and $13 million of mortgage amortization.
Primary sources for that will be cash on hand we’ll need about $246 million.
$270 million of cash flow from financing investment in dividends cash flow before those items $180 million of sales $36 million of the contribution of Encino Trace $88 million of the short-term note which we've already received and the capital plan and the results of those having somewhere around $10 million of cash left on our balance sheet at the end of the year.
With that I’ll turn it back over to Gerry.
Thank you Tom and George thank you as well.
To wrap up our prepared remarks 2014 was an outstanding year for our company.
Great execution on operations investments and balance sheet management with all trend lines that are moving in the right direction.
‘15 is off to a strong start and our hope is that we successfully execute our business plan.
We’ll continue to focus on financial strength NAV growth taking advantage of ever improving fundamentals and the pragmatic pursuit of select external growth opportunities.
With that we’d be delighted to open up the floor for questions.
As we always do we ask that in the interest of time you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Thank you very much.
Brandy? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Good morning.
With the increase in the speculative revenue targets and the execution rates to date if we look at the corresponding to your occupancy and same-store NOI growth numbers there were no changes.
Is that just conservatism or is it just a shift within the range or is there something else going on? Yeah.
I think we just feel confident that we’re going to perform within the range.
I think from an occupancy perspective we continue to kind of just guide to the midpoint.
I think obviously with the weekly inspections the pipeline and the achievement to date we’re certainly hopeful that we can get enough leasing done to kind of get to the upper end of those ranges.
But -- and kind of the same thing on both on the same-store growth as well.
Great.
And then on the acquisition pipeline if we’re to think about how much of that’s going to be vacant or land or development products versus standing inventory.
Do you have a rough breakdown? Yeah.
Manny this is Gerry.
At this point we really don’t.
We’re looking at number of different opportunities.
I mean certainly we would expect today a good portion would be value-added existing assets.
We are looking at the number of partials of ground where we think there might be an opportunity to acquire.
Future developments get passed at a very good price.
But we don't really have a full breakdown of that at this point.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Jamie Feldman with Bank of America.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You guys had good occupancy and for some lease growth in Northern Virginia and the DC suburbs.
Can you talk a little bit about what’s going on there? I mean I know our defense analysts are talking about the budget maybe being out to contractors finally and DC had a decent fourth quarter in terms of CBD leasing.
So just kind of big picture of what’s going on in that market and are you guys thinking about where we are in the cycle? Well look Jamie this is George.
We clearly have seen kind of continued uptick in activity.
We’ve seen a nice uptick in tenant expansions taking place down there.
And we really have seen kind of that flack the quality.
And I really think our recent successes in Dulles Corner I think are really -- kudos to our local team for kind of seeing the need to kind of invest in those buildings.
We got almost immediate dividend and just a level of broker towards tenant inspections and we benefited this quarter by signing those two leases.
Similarly what we saw up in the I-270 Carter last year so I think our tollroad properties are positioned well.
We continue to be able to offer tenants the petty packages they are looking for the signage packages they are looking for.
But it’s still a very competitive market.
But I think our team has done a great job in just kind of cutting the chase and getting deals negotiated quickly.
Yeah.
I’ll just add on to that.
It’s been very encouraging last couple of quarters with the activity we’ve had but also just in general the de-back seems to be at it.
Tenant’s psychologies began to change a bit and that the -- kind of after years of rightsizing lots of small midsized tenants will begin to grow again.
There are so many expectations.
It will be a lot more reward in terms of government contracts.
And there is -- as we’re saying the class A were higher quality products.
Clearly it’s outperforming the B and the C.
So we are fortunate that we are very well positioned with very good assets as George alluded to.
We probably had to refurbish a well located asset.
We put money in there.
But if you like to take a look statistically that market remains a bit of two worlds worth of saying.
The newly build or the higher quality renovated properties located in close proximity to a good amenity base of class A location access to transit and significantly outperforming buildings that are 25 year older haven’t been renovated no capital improvements limited amenities and that’s really where we’re focused on which is trying to improve our buildings make sure that we add to our leasing and marketing teams which we’ve done.
And even though as George touched on the market remains competitive.
We do think that the refurbishments we’ve done the marketing positioning we’ve done really has been one of the major reasons for significant -- really good performance in 2014.
And think a pretty high percentage of 2015 already being done with some upside remaining.
So when you think about the leasing pipeline you guys mentioned and compare it to may be this time last year like how does that market feel different now? Well I mean I think the pipeline in Northern Virginia specifically is significantly higher than it probably was this time last year but I think that there is more tenants in that pipeline that have more clarity on their own business and their ability to make a decision.
So I think we had some prospects in the pipeline this time a year ago who were kind of out looking for space but just weren’t sure what they could or couldn’t do.
I think now we are finding the tenants that are coming out they know what they need and they are able to kind of make a quick decision.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Michael Lewis with SunTrust.
For Jerry or Tom you guys issued equity each for the last couple years and I know it wasn’t in the original plan last year.
It doesn’t appear that you need any this year certainly but I was wondering if there was any scenario out there where you thought that might be a possibility or if it’s just highly unlikely? No look we never say anything is highly unlikely.
The reality here is we’ve been on a path to grow NAV and one of our objectives obviously is to have our public currency or stock price reflect that NAV value.
We have -- we are entering a market where we think there are increasing opportunities to create forward growth for the company.
We also have as I mentioned on every call and we talked about a key driving business plan that we need to continue to improve our balance sheet.
So it’s certainly from our perspective with our sales program and as I touched on our expectations that we will try and accelerate some of those sales efforts to provide some additional liquidity.
We think we have a number of great opportunities to internally generate funds for growth but clearly we would never preclude the fact that we would continue to strengthen our balance sheet whether on an absolute basis or to facilitate some other growth opportunities.
And just one other last one CBRE is projecting 5% market brand growth in Philly this year and almost 7% in '16 and '17.
So it seems like some of your developments are maybe in the right window there.
I know your portfolio is basically full of a CBD but is this kind of -- would that outlook be better growth than you had expected and how does that kind of relate to your original development underwriter? Good question Michael.
Look we certainly believe that Philadelphia’s recovery will continue to accelerate and we are seeing -- and that’s part of a national demographic shift towards urban course.
Philadelphia has done a marvellous job in the last decade of really expanding its downtown residential base and then Colorado expansion of retail culture institutions etcetera.
So it’s really we think a very good prescription for continued growth.
From our perspective we certainly looked at that when we commence construction of FMC Tower.
It’s good to have better than 60% pre-leased but as I mentioned on that one my comments that we still have 250 000 square feet to lease.
So we have a good pipeline of prospects for that.
In addition to that we have a property that are wrapping up renovation on at 20th Market Streets in Philadelphia 1900 Market Street building.
We have a major rollover that coming after the tenant lease expires in at the end of 2015.
The renovation plan on that project will be completed by the third quarter.
And we have a very good list of prospects for that as well for occupancy in '16 and '17.
So we’ve tried to number one in Philadelphia accelerate renewals that we could on our existing inventory to help de-risk the portfolio.
And as part of that as George touched on we’ve gotten on very -- we have achieved good mark-to-market and very long lease terms.
That kind of de-risked the existing platform.
That positioned us well to be aggressive in both leasing of that FMC Tower and 20th Market Street.
But also with the additional headwinds we’ve seen come into or tailwinds we see come into the city relative to the company is now moving back into the city.
We think that further accelerates our ability to be successful in those developments.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Ian Weissman with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Jerry now that you are about 90% leased in Northern Virginia.
In the past you have been very -- you haven’t been shy to say that you are willing to give trade lease terms and CapEx for occupancy just to drive that number up.
Now that you are sitting at 90% do you think it will be a bit more aggressive and holding out for rent at this point? In certain buildings yes.
In other buildings I think they are still be aggressive.
I think we always do follow the kind of the mantra of lease and down repair.
We have extremely solid leasing and marketing folks in our DC operation.
One of their major objectives is to really assess on a real-time basis where they think the inflection points are on lease negotiations.
But thematically in you are on point which is I mean a lot of our bias the last couple of years was to really plug holes and to be aggressive in doing that to kind of stabilize that portfolio.
The team down there did a very nice job.
We still have more wood to chop so we will remain on an aggressive posture.
But certainly given some of the accelerated activity we’ve seen on 270 with the success we’ve had on dealing with that large Lockheed vacation with the great success the team has had thus far on the repositioning of the Dulles Corner it has given us the ability on those locations to start to push asking rents as we are going through that leasing cycle.
So that has worked out exactly as we hoped it would and we would anticipate that the rest of '15 will have great results from those locations.
But look generally you have a market where there is still an oversupply of space a lot of that is B quality but that B quality space still does create a drag on the ability to really push rents as much as we would like across the board.
That’s right.
And just my follow-up question you ended the quarter I think with about $250 million in cash.
I think quarterly call you said you’ve thought you would end 2015 with essentially a zero cash balance.
So just given what we know about your net acquisition plans for the year and other capital needs just kind of walk me through how do you get into zero cash balance by year end? Are there going to be some early refis from '16? I think that we ended the cash the reason we entered the end of this year a little lower on our cash balance is because we thought the note receivable the $88 million that we had put out there for River Place would have been refinanced by the end of the year.
That didn’t take place.
It took place in January of this year.
So that was one reason.
The other reason is our sales target was lower and partially due to that $28 million that enrolled into January also adding cash factory year end.
So our cash balance was below where we thought it would be but it’s really due to timing of when the proceeds came in between December and January.
When you look at our '15 capital plan I think last quarter we thought we would be sort of breakeven with no cash.
As I outlined I think we will probably be between zero and $10 million so we are still be kind of in that range maybe a little better than where we thought.
A lot of that cash is coming two of the big uses that you mentioned one is the speculative acquisitions which is 250 but then also we had 259 million of development projects which again two of the larger ones are FMC at a 190 million and Encino Trace at 42 million along with the few other projects such as 1900 that Jerry mentioned.
So those are some of the bigger uses of cash that are going to cause our balance to get closer to zero by the end of the year.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Jed Reagan with Green Street Advisors.
Good morning guys.
On the disposition guidance increase just wondering is that the signal that the pricing or finding in the market for some of that is just coming in better than what you might have expected several months ago and maybe just how would you characterize the debts of the buy pool and financing available for sort of these lower core and non-core assets these days? Hey.
Good morning Jed.
We are definitely seeing a better pool of buyers out there unquestionably.
And as a result we are moving more things in the market.
The properties that we have in negotiation or through the bid process we’re pleased with the pricing that we seem to be achieving.
So we as I mentioned are hopeful we can exceed even the revised higher targets but the higher target gone from 150 to 180 really reflects the slide of a sale from we’re anticipating at the end of '14 into '15.
But there's no question in terms of answering your broader question there is we see a better bid list or a deeper bid list better pricing more easier access to better financing.
So we think that the investment climate for these types of product is stronger now than it was a couple quarters ago.
And would you say that those trends will deploy to some of your more colocations as well? And then maybe just general comments about cap rate churns you’ve observed over the past several months in your markets? Certainly look I mean when we take a look at our kind of the roundtable of our markets we’re seeing continued cap rate compression in number of the Pennsylvania suburbs even a slight downtick in cap rates in New Jersey and Delaware from where they were last year.
So there’s been a fairly robust investment market in Philadelphia CBD with cap rates on the quality properties breaking below 7%.
So I think the expectation of these markets continue to perform well with the prospect for at least generally more possibly biased economic growth and lower rates are really pushing a lot of people into these products.
Okay.
Great.
And just last for me from any updates on the progress that 4040 Wilson and then also at EVO would you say that at least the progress is coming along as you expected? Yeah.
Well first of all for 4040 we roundup executing exactly the plan that we had outlined before which was we were in the pre-marketing phases for 4040.
To compress the delivery time on the building the partnership went ahead and invest that money to complete the below grade garage that will be completed very shortly.
But we have not signed up an anchor tenant.
And we do not plan on proceeding with the vertical construction of the office space until we sign a significant tenant.
Our partner and our leasing team are working with the number of prospects but until something is actually inked we don't plan on moving forward.
EVO we’re actually very pleasantly surprised.
The team is reenergized is very much focused on accelerating activity kind of into the '15-'16 academic year that’s over 50% already done.
The renewal rates have been much higher than average.
Marketing platform is working very well.
So we’ve been pretty pleased in the last quarter with how that product is getting a much higher local franchise between University of Pennsylvania graduate students and Drexel students so we have expectations.
Or the plans we have laid out in terms of the stage lease up of that property will come to fruition as we enter the '15-'16 academic year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
George very good leasing activity net absorption in the quarter it appeared like your net lease economics deteriorated a little bit in this quarter relative to where it’s been in the recent past? But you still have kind of the same outlook for net economics for ’15? So was there something that drove both the CapEx per square foot per year higher and the rent spreads lower in Q4 that you don't expect to occur as we go out into ’15? Yeah.
Good observation.
Look two big deals in the fourth quarter one was the CNSI deal in Rockville Maryland the backfill Lockheed Martin.
The other was the Commonwealth of Virginia deal in Richmond that backfill Travellers so roughly 200 000 square feet.
At a little bit higher capital per foot per lease year but 11-year deals so you won't see that recurring capital occur for quite some time.
And kind of the same dynamic on mark-to-market during the quarter from those two transactions as both Travellers and Lockheed had been in those buildings for a long time and had kind of gone through many years of 2% to 3% annual rent bumps that obviously those markets didn’t sustained.
But we do kind of feel confident that everything going to gets back.
I mean if you look back 340 absent those two deals would have been 272 for the quarter so.
Okay.
Okay.
That's helpful color.
Either for Tom or Gerry just you’ve got the 250 of acquisition that are included in there.
You mentioned that maybe you're going to pick up your disposition target because -- or activity because pricing is good? How are the acquisitions shaping up given that it's a pretty challenged pricing seems to be challenged in a lot of markets given that’s moved up pretty nicely? And maybe for Tom can you remind us where are the acquisition slated to come in and the impact that they would have and the impact that they're having on your guidance from an FFO perspective? We will tacking Brendan on the acquisition front look we are -- there are certainly some markets where pricing is well above replacement cost yield compression cap rate compression is well beyond our threshold.
And in those markets anchor they have focused more on -- let say if we can effectively create for development pipeline that would position us for growth in the out years.
In a number of other markets that there are still what we view is value add opportunities versus some of what we have done in past with this 1 900 or 660 Germantown play where we can find.
Properties that either for tenant rollover reason physical plan issues financing concerns really you are going to point will they need some additional lift and we are evaluating a number of those.
The primary ones looking at those are kind of in the Philadelphia Pennsylvania Suburban area and we would expect that some of those acquisitions would come our way.
We’re also looking at some acquisitions in other markets that would fit the criteria of value add we think we can deliver a higher than normal rate of return and have an investment base below placement cost.
So when we set that target we knew the acquisition climate was challenging.
But we also know that we have a pretty good pipeline of smaller deals $25 million or $50 million type of transactions that we think might have the right ingredients for us to proceed.
Tom do you want how their timing? Yeah.
Brendan we have the timing basically in the second third quarters back ended in those quarters.
So the activity the amount of income that’s coming off and is going to be a fairly small in 2Q.
And then obviously a little more in 3Q and 4Q totaling a few cents per share that we expect to come off of the shares that’s in our guidance.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you for the color.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Craig Mailman with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Maybe just quickly can you reconcile the increase in spec revenue versus kind of the unchanged assumption on lease economics? And kind of the roll forward you guys have I know you sold some assets that came down but net-net you have a little bit more on the termination side.
Can you just kind of run through that quickly? Yeah.
Craig.
Sure.
It’s George.
Look the spec revenue change really has been driven by the deals we’ve executed to date.
As I’ve mentioned in an answer earlier I mean that page 6 roll forward what kind of purpose are we guiding that to the midpoint of our range.
We know that certain properties maybe disposed during the course of the year.
I mean the two buildings we sold in New Jersey had somewhere between 10 to 20 basis points of impact on occupancy.
So we are trying to just keep that inside the range.
And we are doing the same thing quite frankly on same-store NOI growth.
So I think depending on what we sell in the timing of that that could impact those ranges.
And then obviously continued conversion of the pipeline that we feel confident about at this point would certainly drive us towards the upper end of those ranges.
That’s helpful.
And then turning to FMCG its sounds like you have some good activity there.
But just following kind of Liberty’s lease up of the balance of Comcast with that tenant.
Can you just talk about as you kook at your pipeline maybe how much of that was looking at both assets? And so maybe now you have a little bit more leverage and I guess to an earlier question about potential rent growth in [Sully] [ph] what are you guys seeing on that particular asset relative to kind of underwriting? Couple of points.
One is the tenants that we're talking to and has entered our pipeline in the last quarter really weren’t actively looking at Comcast new building.
I think there was a general expectation in the market where there is an expectation or hoping it came to fruition was that the Comcast would take all that space.
And so there was an issue of that space being actively marketed to third-party tenants until there was some more clarity on what Comcast’s intentions were.
So the tenants that we bring into our pipeline are really evaluating either moving into the city from the suburbs or expanding from some city locations and the FMC Tower.
And certainly given the uplift in rents in the existing stock in the city not just at the trophy level but also at the A&amp;B level it certainly has made our value proposition to tenants for FMC Tower even more attractive.
And if I can slip in another quick one can you just remind us the agreement in Camden with Campbell Soup are you guys just going to collect fees on developments there or would you guys actually rebuild the suites that you’d keep on balance sheet? Yeah.
The transaction we have with Campbell’s is that we’ve been designated as the master developer.
And we have an option to take down land as we identified development opportunities.
The model we’re working on is very much the model that we’ve been able to achieve with Subaru which is that -- when that option land is taken down from Campbell's it will be done to Subaru.
The last Subaru becomes the land owner and the owner of the building.
So in that case we really are a key developer in that complex.
And that seems to be given the economic development act in New Jersey in how those tax credits are determined.
There seems to be a real bias on the part of the company -- the tenant to become the owner.
So we would certainly anticipate that our cover business plan being a key developer and will be the predominant type of activity we have there.
Great.
Thanks.
You’re welcome.
Your next question is from Mitch Germain with JMP securities.
Good morning.
Just further on the topic so we should see an increase in fee revenue associated with Campbell's and Subaru next year is that the way you think about it? Yeah.
That is correct Mitch.
I mean right now given the somewhat uncertainty when that construction will actually commence whether it’s late ‘15 or early ’16 our current plan is not include any fee revenue from anything related to the gateway project.
Great.
And then I think George you mentioned 3 million or so square feet in the pipeline.
If you could break that out between what’s operating and development? That is all operating.
Yes.
It’s all operating? All operating.
Yes.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Mitch.
And your next question is from Gabriel Hilmoe with Evercore ISI.
Quick ones Tom on the term-loan refinancing expected for this year what’s the timing expected for that? We basically think we’re going to refinance our line of credit and our term loan sometime in the first half of this year.
Okay.
And then did you have a number for your expectation for capitalize interest for ‘15? Capitalize interest for this year will be about $11 million.
Great.
Thank you.
And there are no more -- there are no further questions at this time.
Great.
Thank you all very much for participating.
And we look forward to update you on our first quarter activity on our earnings call in later April.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your line.
Good morning.
My name is Felicia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now like to hand the conference over to Gerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Please go ahead sir.
Felicia thank you very much.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for participating in our first quarter 2015 earnings call.
On the call with me today are George Johnstone our Executive Vice President of Operations; Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Dan Palazzo our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
Prior to beginning certain information discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
Although we believe estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as our most recent annual and quarterly SEC reports.
As we normally do I'll start with an overview of our three key business plan components that is operations balance sheet and investments.
George will then discuss our 2015 leasing and operating progress.
And we'll then turn the call over to Tom to review our financial results.
Looking back we had an excellent first quarter.
We made solid progress towards our meeting our business plan objectives and advancing our capital plan.
Our operating metrics remain in line with our business plan targets and we’ve encountered earlier success than we anticipated on our disposition plan.
The combination of stronger operating metrics was offset by earlier than anticipated disposition volume so we are tightening our FFO guidance range to $1.40 to $1.46 per share.
In terms of operations during the first quarter we leased 889 000 square feet and commenced occupancy on 878 000 square feet.
We had approximately 250 000 square feet of negative absorption as we indicated on our last call primarily due to the previously announced move-outs of TV Guide in Radnor and Hewlett Packard and Emergent Bio Solutions in Maryland.
We will note however that 184 000 square feet or 74% of those move-outs is already backfilled at a blended 4.9% positive cash and an 8.1% positive GAAP mark-to-market so very good results both in terms of timing and results and economics for our company on those roles.
Brandywine’s occupancy levels continue to outperform our markets most notably in the CBD Philadelphia University City the Pennsylvania Suburbs Northern Virginia and Richmond.
We did end the quarter at 90.3% occupied and 93.3% leased right in line with our projections.
Now our GAAP mark-to-market was 3.6% and while that’s lower than our projected annual range we already had executed leases commencing in subsequent quarters that will allow us to maintain our 2015 business plan range of 6% to 8%.
Tenant retention for the quarter was 72.8% and as we noted in our supp given more visibility on forward expirations we’re increasing our year-end retention target to 75% from the previous goal of 68% so a very good move on our retention target.
Our cash same-store number was 0.6% again attributable for those three move-outs and below our targeted range of 2% to 4% but subsequent lease executions will return us to our targeted range for the year.
Leasing capital came in at $1.42 per square foot per lease year and while the comp position of the deals in the first quarter resulted in a capital spend below our annual range based on leases already executed and projected to commence we’re maintaining our annual range of $2.25 to $2.75 per square foot per lease year.
And as George will touch on we accelerated some early 2016 renewal activity which will generate slightly more capital spend in 2015 and as a consequence we have reset our CAD range to $0.82 to $0.92 per share.
We have also executed 88% of our spec revenue and 73% of our spec square footage targets for the years and we will reach our year-end occupancy goals of 92% to 93% and a leasing goal range of 93.5% to 94.5%.
Finally if you look at our supp the other key operating metrics that we outlined as key drivers of our business plan goals remain very much on track.
In terms of our balance sheet continues to be in strong shape with excellent liquidity.
Our net debt to gross assets measures 38%.
We have no outstanding balance on our $600 million unsecured line of credit and over $300 million of cash on hand.
Tom will bring you up to speed on the success of recasting our $600 million line of credit as well as other projected financing activities for the balance of the year but fundamentally our balance sheet objectives remain paramount and consistently lowering our leverage is a key component of our overall strategy.
On the investment front we were very active during the quarter and subsequent to quarter end closed on a number of transactions as outlined in our press release.
We have closed on $93 million of dispositions have an additional $51 million under firm contract with an imminent close and closed also on $40 million of acquisitions.
On the disposition front our business plan established $180 million 2015 sales target.
We had programmed the vast majority of these dispositions to occur in the second half of the year.
The investment market for our product type remains very strong and we’re pleased to report that we anticipate achieving our $180 million target by June 30.
The average rate on these sales both announced and anticipated will be 6.3% on a cash basis.
The sales acceleration has created some targeted revenue loss for us but fortunately has been offset by the sale cap rates being well below our projected 8.5% and increased leasing activity which has enabled us to maintain our speculative revenue target while tightening our guidance range.
We continue to see good levels of interest on a number of properties we have on the market.
Our objective remains to continue to reposition our portfolio to create a better earnings growth trajectory assets being sold include several properties in California Richmond Virginia a complete exit from suburban Wilmington Delaware and our continued liquidation of assets in southern New Jersey.
On the acquisition front we acquired $40 million and have a number of other transactions in the queue.
Obviously our willingness to proceed on future transactions will be based on the results of our due diligence and our view on market positioning and pricing.
The year-to-date acquisitions were outlined in our press release but I’ll touch on a couple of those.
We did acquire 618 Market Street; this property is in close proximity to the Philadelphia Historic district and well located in the Market East Carter.
The property houses a parking garage totaling 330 spaces and approximately 14 000 square feet of first level retail space.
The acquisition yield was approximately 7% and is positioned as a future development site pending the continued emergence of the Market East Carter.
Brandywine is also the third largest owner of parking in Philadelphia and we believe we can significantly improve the garage's operation and yield during this transitional whole period.
We also acquired a site in Capitol Riverfront submarket of Washington D.C.
that could accommodate 271 000 square foot office building.
That property is a future development site is extremely well located within the submarket and in close proximity to both the Metro and submarket amenities.
We will be embarking on a design development process over the next year and begin the pre-marketing campaign.
The building will not start without a significant pre-lease commitment.
And finally we acquired a site in the central business district of Austin Texas for $2.6 million.
That property is currently being operated as a surface parking lot and was acquired at approximately 6% yield.
We plan on proceeding through the design development and approval process to construct an office building and a structured parking deck.
In a broader sense our land monetization program continues to make progress.
We have placed several partials of ground under agreement of sale.
The total amount of properties under agreement of sale or in advance negotiations totals approximately $30 million and we expect those closings to occur as our buyers obtain their targeted approvals.
In our land and development program there are several points I’d like to amplify for a moment first as you know customer appetites and workplace cultures in our business continue to change.
High-efficiency multimodal access amenity rich are the gating topics office companies face every day.
In this environment to be successful we need to be in a position to deliver first-class product that exceeds customer expectations and those our competitors can provide.
As such our land activities are designed to anticipate that demand and position us for future growth.
We're shifting add of land that won’t position us for the future i.e.
those $30 million of sales at a profit and investing in well located sites to improve our competitive advantage.
From a development and capital deployment standpoint we will not start a project without significant pre-leasing and good visibility into the projects future pipeline.
We will continue to recycle economically and culturally non-competitive assets to provide a dependable funding source for our development spending.
We will not create a development spend model based on leverage but one rather based on matched funding.
The third point goes without saying but I do want to amplify is that our primary development focus in the company remains on completing the construction and lease-up of FMC Tower Encino Trace and our redevelopment project at 1900 Mark Street in Philadelphia.
Until we harvest those growth opportunities our investment in future developments will be strictly focused on planning and premarketing activities.
And speaking of those projects the FMC Tower is on schedule for delivery in Q3 2016 our active prospect which has increased since our last earnings call and is well over twice the amount of square footage we have available activity continues to pick up and we remain in advanced discussions with several key prospects.
We are very pleased with the level of response the project is receiving.
And as I indicated previously we are confident that as the building becomes more definable on the skyline will replicate our past leasing success in our University City projects.
The concrete core of the building is rising; it’s currently at the eighth level with steel following closely behind it at the fourth level.
But from a construction and budget standpoint the project remains on schedule.
The Encino Trace project in Austin continues on schedule as well.
We’re anticipating a midyear 2015 delivery for the first building and an end of summer delivery for the second building.
While we have no additional executed leases to report on this call we are in advanced discussions with an anchor tenant and several other tenants for taking additional space.
Quick notes on several other projects; 4040 Wilson our joint venture in the Northern Virginia active marketing of that project continues but no active leases are in negotiation; EVO good progress on the of University City Housing project we’re 85% leased for the 2015 and 2016 academic year; our joint venture project with Toll Brothers the Parc Plymouth Meeting Pennsylvania we have about 40% of those units delivered the project is very much on schedule we are 57% leased on those delivered units which is ahead of schedule and at higher than pro forma rates; 1919 market is coming out of the ground on schedule on budget and is in a position to begin our marketing campaign about a year from now.
At this point George will provide an overview of our first-quarter operational performance.
Thank you Gerry.
Activity levels around the company remained strong.
Weekly inspections during the quarter averaged 209 000 square feet up 22% from last quarter and comparable to 2014 levels on an available square footage basis.
Our leasing pipeline excluding development and redevelopment properties totals 3.3 million square feet including 619 000 square feet in active lease negotiations.
Looking specifically at our markets; in CBD Philadelphia we’re 98% leased outperforming market vacancy by 700 basis points and have significantly reduced rollover risk for the next five years.
The demand for Class A office space remained strong as tenants seek newer amenity rich product.
Access to labor from a growing pool of millennials living and working in the city continues to influence tenants to relocate and/or expand into the city.
This tightening has allowed us to continue to push rents lengthened lease terms and control capital.
In Austin we’re 96% leased.
The Austin market remains extremely active posting its 17th consecutive quarter of positive absorption and seeing rents reaching new high.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we terminated 103 000 square foot lease for the tenant at the Parc.
This event generated a termination fee in the first quarter which Tom will elaborate upon during his remarks.
Our focus is on the backfill of the Parc and the continued lease up at Encino which Gerry addressed in his comments.
At the Parc we currently are negotiating a lease for 64 000 square foot tenant and hope to have this transaction completed shortly.
The Pennsylvania Crescent markets are 97% lease also continue to perform well the town center attributes of these properties continue to be the demand drivers for its office space.
The limited amount of available inventory in the Crescent markets continues to push deals towards King of Prussia and other Northern and Western suburbs.
Asking rents in the Pennsylvania suburbs have risen to their highest levels since 2009.
In Northern Virginia our redevelopment efforts in Dulles Corner have produced their expected outcome; our tollroad Carter properties are now 92% lease and we’ve seen rents move from the mid-20s to the upper 20s and now to the low 30s.
Our Metro DC region rollover exposure is now less than 8% per year through 2017.
The overall condition of the region continues to improve and we remain encouraged by activity levels and our team's continued ability to get deals done.
Now turning to the 2015 business plan; during the quarter we did have that negative absorption which Gerry spoke about.
In addition to the 184 000 square feet that we have re-let we have another 27 000 square feet of that move-out in current lease negotiations.
Our progress on the business plan along with our executed and contracted sales have us projecting occupancy at the upper end of our range as we've depicted on Page 6 of the supplemental package.
In terms of spec revenue we’ve maintained our $33.7 million target despite losing $700 000 from the sale of Lake Merritt in Oakland.
This decline was offset by an additional $700 000 of spec revenue generated from our Philadelphia CBD operation.
The spec revenue plan is 88% achieved as compared to 89% this time last year and the square footage needed to generate the plan is 73% complete as compared to 65% this time last year.
We’ve maintained all of our ranges relative to mark-to-market capital average lease term and same-store NOI growth.
Focusing on same-store NOI growth for a moment both the first and second quarters will perform below our ranges due to large move-outs that occurred in the second half of last year and remain unoccupied during the first half of this year and the large move-outs that have occurred in the first quarter of 2015.
As occupancy continues to grow during the latter half of the year so will our same-store NOI.
On capital and CAD we've executed 166 000 square feet of additional 2016 and beyond renewals which will accelerate its capital spend into 2015.
So to conclude we’re delighted with our continued performance during the quarter and the continued progress on the 2015 business plan.
And at this point I’ll turn it over to Tom.
Thank you George.
Our fourth quarter [sic – first quarter] FFO totaled $58.5 million or $0.32 per share and our FFO payout ratio is 47% based on our current $0.15 dividend.
Some observations about the first quarter FFO results; same-store growth rates for the quarter were 2.2% GAAP and 0.6% cash both excluding net termination fees and other income items.
We’ve now had 15 consecutive quarters for GAAP metric and 11 for cash metric and growth.
Our same-store portfolio margins decreased as compared to the fourth quarter the same store occupancy decreased from 91.4% to 90.2% which we forecasted.
Other income increased $1.9 million due to real estate tax refunds totaling $1 million and unanticipated investment income totaling $0.7 million.
G&amp;A expense totaled $6.8 million which came in higher than previous guidance the increase is primarily due to higher than anticipated professional fees and accelerated compensation expense.
Interest expense totaled $28.2 million and was $1.3 million below the fourth quarter primarily due to the completion of our liability management transactions in mid-October.
Interest income totaled $0.8 million which was in line with projections.
Our FFO contributions among consolidated joint ventures totaled $8.2 million $1 million above the fourth quarter results.
This increase is primarily due to our River Place acquisition which occurred in October and the termination fee we received from our Austin joint venture as it relates to a large tenant solar winds that left the Parc and we are backfilling that space.
Our fourth quarter [sic – first quarter] CAD totaled $39.5 or $0.22 per diluted share and 68% payout ratio during the quarter as a result of our significant leasing activity and occupancy will incur $12 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures.
As Gerry mentioned we have narrowed our FFO guidance to $1.40 to $1.46.
Looking at the second quarter run rate we’d note the following.
Our core operating income from the second quarter will be slightly below the first quarter results primarily due to our increased disposition activity which I think will affect the second quarter by about $1.7 million this is partially offset by the higher NOI we will begin to receive from our improved occupancy.
G&amp;A; consistent with 2014 the second quarter G&amp;A expense will be significantly below the first quarter decreasing to about $6.8 million.
Termination fees we expect to increase to $0.8 million for the second quarter and based on known future terminations a full year increase will go up to about $5 million.
Interest income will decrease to $0.3 million.
The FFO contribution from our unconsolidated joint ventures should total approximately $6 million the decrease from the first quarter is twofold; one is the termination that we received as well as the then lost occupancy from that tenant.
Of our $180 million sales we've achieved $144 million to date of announced activity $144 million of announced sales represents a very strong blended sales price of 158 per square foot and the blended cap rates of 6.73% and 6.75% for cash and GAAP are well below our 8.5% guidance demonstration of the strong markets and demand for our property in our markets and the quality of the portfolio.
As Gerry mentioned we anticipate reaching that sales target by June 30.
Our weighted average share count for second quarter will be 182.4 weighted average shares.
Our annual FFO payout ratio – AFFO payout ratio is 42% based on the midpoint and our quarter-end net-debt-to-EBITDA was 6.5.
Looking at the 2015 capital plan; as Gerry highlighted we had changed our CAD ratio bringing it into – down to 82% to 92% from previous guidance primarily due to early leasing that’s bringing forward some expirations in future years that we’re not spending that money this year.
We’re projecting $39 million of revenue maintaining CapEx for the nine months ended 12/31 and uses for the remaining nine months are $665 million that represents speculative acquisitions totaling $235 million with the timing of that happening later in 2015 and approximately $20 million for the identified closed second-quarter acquisitions and developments of 618 Market and 405 Colorado.
We have $208 million of development projects and acquisition capital primarily for FMC and Encino Trace $39 million of revenue creating CapEx $87 million of aggregate dividends $37 million of revenue creating CapEx $20 million for the 25 M Street land acquisition and $14 million of JV investment primarily 1919 and $10 million of mortgage amortization.
Primary sources for capital; is $209 million from our cash on hand $140 million of cash flow before financing investing and dividends $152 million in remaining asset sales with $114 million closed or under contract $36 million from the contribution of Encino Trace into the Austin joint venture the capital results in us having an estimated line balance of about $30 million the change in projected year-end liquidity from prior quarters primarily due to 25 M Street with some additional capital expenditures that we expect to have during the year.
As an update to our financing plan we anticipate closing on a four year revolving credit facility during the second quarter.
The revolver will remain at $600 million and will provide us with improved financial terms flexibility and pricing.
Once closed we then anticipate extending our seven-year term loan during the second quarter or the early third quarter and believe pricing will also improve from the current terms.
I will turn it back over to Gerry.
Tom and George thank you very much.
That wraps up our prepared remarks.
The first quarter results were strong and consistent with our business plan and we continue to focus on executing all elements of the previous announced business plan in terms of leasing activity financial activity as well as capital activity.
With that we’re delighted to open up the floor for questions.
And as we always do we ask that in the interest of time you limit yourself to one question and a follow up.
Felicia we can open the floor for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with Mizuho Securities.
Hey thanks and good morning everyone.
So first question kind of bigger picture for Gerry you know in the news last couple of days is whether or not Comcast and Time Warner Cable are going come together.
Do you have any opinion about that one way or another and how much the Philadelphia market hinges in terms of its future prognosis on something happening there or not happening? Rich it’s – as the papers report it’s a situation in flux I mean certainly we think that there's a lot of good reasons for that merger to happen.
I think the impact on the Philadelphia market is unclear at this point given the fact that Comcast before this transaction was growing at a fairly significant clip and that certainly the expectation was that this transaction occurred that would accelerate their recent expansion plans but I don’t think anybody really has any visibility into the long-term impact but I think what we do know is that Comcast as it performs today was continuing with very solid growth record that was having a positive impact on the City of Philadelphia.
Okay.
And then a follow-up question maybe for George.
Your sublease space as a percentage of the total has been trending down over the past several quarters can you kind of comment on that do you see that as an ongoing trend and how low is sublease space become in the history of the company for Brandywine? Yeah I think I think in the near term we probably do see a trending down a little bit.
I think you know a lot of larger blocks of space where companies you know went through some rightsizing put a lot of sublease space on the market but we’ve seen that start to come back we’ve seen tenants actually you know have subleases expire and then reoccupy the space but it does vary a little bit you know kind of market to market we have seen down in Northern Virginia there's been a little bit more submarket space come on the market down there not necessarily in our portfolio but I think in terms the low watermark for us I mean I think it was I’ll probably have to get back to you offline on that one try have a number to give you.
But you wouldn't say – or would you say this is a kind of a reasonable kind of indicator of improving health of the overall portfolio or is it just kind of too choppy to kind of come to that type of a conclusion? I think we feel confident that that number is continuing to come down because our tenant base is just getting healthier.
Okay.
Great thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel.
Great.
Gerry nice quarter Tom George also.
Critical sort of softball question for you when you look at your portfolio now 39% CBD Philadelphia 19% Radnor and you still have this god-awful value office logo with a ribbon glass building from the late 70s when are you going to change that? We’re actually looking at that potentially changing the logo in the next couple of quarters.
Then second.
The tough part right now and a lot of us probably never thought we’d be saying this you’ve got a tremendous amount of cash on hand and the buying environment is very very difficult given the most of your competitors are borrowing 65% 70% 85% LTV off a floating-rate where do you see the investment opportunities which you clearly need to get done to hit your guidance for 2015? Hey John good question.
Look there is no question that the acquisition environment remains very challenging.
To with – the best evidence of that if you’re having a hard time buying in some markets yourself so we've been really accelerating the pace of our dispositions I think with some fairly good success.
We do have a number of acquisition options in our pipeline.
Again we typically tend to look for things were there's an opportunity for us to add some value to the process and at this point we’d really kind of reassess to our entire pipeline and even in anticipation of the call I’ve kind of held our guidance target where we think it will be at this point and see what the next – really next quarter brings.
But we are actively looking in a number of the key marks that we’ve targeted for growth really Austin parts of Washington D.C.
as well as the asset markets in CBD and Philadelphia.
Okay and then just the obvious question everybody has to ask is.
Have you thought about a share buyback or increasing the dividend? Well we certainly keep both of those topics on the agenda and I think as we’ve talked before about increasing the dividend one of the real key highlights of the company is that our CAD payout ratio continues to improve and even with this reduction of $0.03 in our range and that's really driven exclusively by us being more aggressive and more successful on our 2016 earlier renewal program.
So the capital spend rate that we have programmed appears to be very much in place that I think will position the company for looking at that dividend question in the not-too-distant future.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
So Gerry I did want to spend a little time asking about the balance sheet or Tom maybe sort of from a opposite end of the way John was asking about it but you guys have done a really nice job bringing leverage down debt-to-EBITDA is now six and a half times but you’ve got some spend on the development pipeline that is to come and you know you've done a nice job growing the NAV or focused on growing NAV over the past couple of years but for a variety of reasons I think your share price is now below NAV so it would be challenging to issue and to issue equity to grow.
Do you think about maybe just stopping the acquisitions that are out there because if you run out the capital plan and you did the $250 million or $235 million of acquisitions you get to the point where the debt-to-EBITDA numbers could move higher even if it were temporary from – because you’ve got this development spend which should be on non-income producing assets for a little bit.
So just how do you sort of think about managing the balance sheet in the environment with some with where the share price is? Brendan great series of questions in there.
I think first and foremost we are pleased with how with the progress we've made on the balance sheet but I think we articulate in every – on every call and every investor meeting our targets remain below where we are today.
We do anticipate as we talked about in the last call that our EBITDA multiple will increase over the next several quarters primarily until FMC comes on line and generates revenue and the Encino Trace project leases up and is ultimately contributed to our joint venture so we’re aware of that sensitivity.
Look the stock price being where – it is below NAV and it was below NAV for a long time period of time as we were retooling the balance sheet and I think we've always used one of our best sources of capital and NAV accretion is by selling assets that we don't think will present great growth opportunities for us going forward.
I think that's one of the reasons why I’ve been so aggressive in pushing the sales of some of these assets in the last couple of quarters and would continue to do so.
So I think from a balance sheet stand point I think one of the operating predicates is that we’re not going to leverage up the balance sheet.
We do think that now is a good time to continue to push our disposition program.
We will continue to ferret out opportunities to try and grow the NAV of the company and that’s part of our business plan but certainly to the extent that we don't find those opportunities that we think are valuable from an NAV and from a growth standpoint I don't think you'll see us proceeding with this.
I mean are those opportunities I mean is it more important to protect the balance sheet and the ratios as opposed to maybe finding if you found a good acquisition opportunity that was out there but that could be accretive to NAV but it might hurt the balance sheet would you be less willing to do that or unwilling to do that investment? I think we’ve said that in the past and that’s what we say on every call that a driving predicate of our company's business plan is continuing to lower leverage.
And then just a quick one for Tom or George.
So the CAD reduction again and I think you guys said that you’re doing more early renewals or 16 renewals but it look like the spec leasing square footage was about unchanged in terms of leasing and your PI dollars are kind of unchanged so I was sort of unclear as to how the recent reduction CAD would come about given that it looks like the leasing plan is sort of the same as it was before? Yeah I think it has more to do Brendan with the 2016 and beyond renewals coming into 2015 than it does with 2015 leasing capital from either a volume or pricing perspective increasing.
Okay.
Alright.
Great thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Great.
Thank you good morning.
I guess my first question is sticking with the sensitivity of guidance to acquisitions.
Can you guys talks us through you know if you weren’t able to execute on some of these acquisitions that are in the guidance what you think it would do to your range? Yeah look I think our guidance range is predicated low end to high end on meeting our acquisition guidance or not meeting it so I mean Tom amplify if I’m wrong but I think the expectations we don’t meet our guidance on acquisitions were $1.40.
Right I think we're still looking at the low-end of our guidance if we don't get those acquisitions done.
And then focusing on Washington D.C.
and the land just kind of bigger picture Gerry how are you thinking about expanding into the district itself and then what competitive advantage you think you may have in what is already a very competitive development and office market? Yes Jamie.
Well look from a competitive advantage standpoint we have an operating team that’s been in that marketplace for well over 20 years and has done a very good job and continuing to build the Brandywine franchise very extensive broker relationships political contacts relation with other development companies as evidenced by our transaction with the Shooshan organization so we – but even given that that I think you’ve seen us move very pragmatically over the last several years and make sure that we find the right spot opportunities.
I think in this particular piece of ground that we acquired from the acreage companies we felt that that submarket was poised for a higher level of growth and maybe some of the other submarkets in Washington.
We certainly felt that our targeted return levels or achievable return levels on the ground up development were far is excess of what we can buy – or achieve from buying and earning asset.
So I think from the an infrastructure standpoint I think we have a lot of confidence in our team down there we also have a lot of confidence in our company's philosophy and capacity to work with other development companies to get the right result for our company again as evidenced by the transaction of 4040.
Okay.
And I guess a follow up on that.
I mean what’s going to be different about operating in DC versus the suburbs? What do you think you’ll need to change? I’m sorry I missed on following Jamie.
Just to be more active in the actual within the district market as opposed to Northern Virginia? I think in terms of what we’ve been doing is actually spending a lot of time in the district looking in lot of opportunities.
So I think that will continue.
I think the – in year [ph] share you don't see the evidence of all that work in mining effort because we haven't really gotten transactions across the table primarily due to pricing and what we thought the forward growth rates were.
But I think you’ll see us continue to be very aggressive in both operating within the broker network the political network and that the co-development network in Washington D.C.
in the district itself.
Okay.
Alright.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Gabriel Hilmoe with Evercore ISI.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Gerry just on 1900 Market it sounds like Blue Cross maybe consolidating some space and taking a few floors there.
I know Cozen hasn’t move out this year but can you just talk about the timing of the Blue Cross lease when it comes in given the redevelopment that’s going on there.
I sure can.
I mean look we do not really have a practice of announcing transactions till they’re actually completed and coordinated with our customer.
The press release was a bit premature both in terms of timing and content.
What I can tell you is the Independence Blue Cross and Brandywine are in a very constructive advanced discussions on trying to create a fairly large base of operations for Independence Blue Cross in the building which – it’s across from their headquarters building that transaction is well advanced and would expect that if successful we’ll be making a joint announcement in the next 30 to 45 days.
Okay.
And then just one more just on 4040 Wilson with the garage essentially done can you talk about a pipeline of activity there just given George's comments feeling a little bit better.
I know there aren't any serious deals right now but how deep do you think the potential demand is for that site? Well look I mean the demand I hate to say it’s almost a revolving door but there seems to be an ongoing level of prospects that come through the property and the secret sauce is getting someone to really advance their discussions and tours and romancing to the point they actually get a lease done.
But look even as of yesterday our team met with a fairly large prospect so there is good ongoing activity I think the challenge that John Shooshan and his team and our team face is finding the right tenant the right size kick the building off at the right at our pro forma rent.
So I think we continue to be pleased with the work our partnership is doing in terms of sourcing activity but I would say it’s fair to say the partnership is a bit frustrated takes so long to get to decision points with the number of tenants.
So activity pleased getting across the finish line I think there's a level of frustration but that's mitigated bit by the continual adding into the queue other prospects.
Okay.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman with KeyBanc.
Hey guys.
Gerry I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about FMC Tower and the leasing there.
Last quarter it sounded like maybe we could get something signed by this quarter just curious have any of the prospects fallen out that maybe you thought would hit this quarter or is it just taking longer to negotiate? I think more of the latter.
I think we continue to see some very good constructive conversations negotiations with folks in the pipeline.
The same thing from Encino Trace and I think look we certainly recognize that as we go into these earnings calls we want to make as many big leasing announcements as possible unfortunately we don’t always control when tenants want to sign leases but I would say that Craig for both FMC Tower and Encino Trace we have a number of very good prospects.
We are pleased with the level we’re seeing.
We’re pleased with the content of those conversations.
But it’s always hard to say we’ll have something done by next Tuesday.
I think we’re – and Encino Trace we’re very confident we’ll be getting some more things done in the very near term.
With FMC some of these tenants are larger in scale they take just longer to make decisions and I think FMC is articulated from the very beginning that building is of such a scale that the real opportunity I think comes when tenants can actually start to see the building really start to rise we can actually start to do some construction towards that really accelerates the discussion but we are very happy with the level of activity we’re seeing on both buildings as well as on 1900.
So we’re mindful of the fact that we need to get those transactions across the finish line.
We know they tend to be big bellwether events for our company if you’re able to follow our company so there is an ongoing sense of urgency to get some leases actually execute.
And then you know in the past you’ve talked about FMC as a potential joint venture candidate.
You guys go out and buy some projects for the backfill the development pipeline for future projects is that still on the table as a potential transaction? Look I think everything is on the table.
I think we’re right now focused on improving our value proposition by finalizing the residential program as well as the getting some more office leasing done.
But certainly in this type of capital market place I think at least we are I can’t speak for every company but we should keep a lot of options on the table.
I mean there's a lot of capital looking for very high-quality investments.
So we’re not saying that we will do a JV on that project by any stretch but we continue to entertain possibilities and our leverage position from a negotiating standpoint on discussions with FMC particularly on the residential side seem to be getting better as we get closer to the delivery timeline.
And then just on the project you guys kind of bought this quarter.
Where are you guys in the entitlement process in Philly and Austin kind of how long is that going take? Well look we anticipate probably about a year to get entitlements perfected we do not need a zoning change on either one of those sites.
So the entitlement process really is fairly streamlined and really just a matter of us finalizing what we want to build there which was frankly a very key part of how we underwrote those assets.
Both assets are income producing for the company today and really represent the land acquisitions with existing parking on them or generating income I mean on the 618 Market Street project that's CMX five zoning so it can do a fairly high density development.
We underwrote that acquisition really on a land price per FAR foot very similar we did down at the Colorado acquisition and Austin Texas so probably about a year to go through the approval process but again zoning is in place for both of those sites consistent with what we want to do.
It’s a matter of us going through the design development process to finalize our approach what we want to build.
And as I mentioned key construct that what we’re doing there is making sure that we do in fact lock away FMC-Encino Trace 1900 and other leasing exposure frankly through the company so we take a very balanced approach to taking one additional leasing versus through new developments.
Then just last quick one how – you said you guys have some stuff in the acquisition pipeline how much of the pipeline is projects like this that may be thrown off the current yield that are more kind of land place for future development versus longer-term core holdings? I don’t have a percentage for you Craig.
But I mean these are solid type of acquisitions for us where we can create a future growth opportunity while we’re getting some income producing revenue from it.
We’re certainly looking primarily for value-add acquisitions work through leasing and minor renovations we can move forward but certainly want to preclude us from being opportunistic and how we look at other acquisitions whether it be earning sites like 618 and Colorado or other land acquisitions.
Great thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Jed Reagan with Green Street Advisor.
Hey good morning guys.
So with the success you’ve had so far this year on the disposition program just wondering if you’re considering increasing your target goals there beyond the $180 million guidance.
And then on the pricing execution sounds like that’s coming on a little bit better-than-expected was that driven mostly by the Oakland sale and just curious if you had a cap rate you could quote on that.
Yeah Jed.
We have not raised our disposition target as of this call.
We’re not precluding that we would not do that on our next call but right now we have as I mentioned a number of transaction we close some under near-term agreement some under negotiation so right now we’re really focused on getting all of the transactions that we have a high degree of visibility on done by the end of the second quarter at that point we’ll take a look as to whether it’s the time to reload.
Look we had a number of assets in the pool of which Lake Murray was the largest that had cap rates in the 5% to 5.5% range which I think was a key driver on pulling down our blended sale proceeds blended cap rate on sale proceeds.
On the recent land acquisitions just wondering if those are development opportunities you’re kind of thinking about as potentials of this cycle or if you're really banking more for the next cycle and then how much density do you think you can achieve specifically at the Philly CBD and Austin projects.
Yeah look I think given follow up on Craig's observation the zonings in place for these will commence the design development process and have these projects in a position where we are right to really aggressively market them probably in the next 12 to 18 months.
So I’m sure how is this cycle but I think from a risk assessment standpoint we certainly given their existing uses we’ve hedged our best by making sure that we have earning assets.
In terms of the Philadelphia acquisition you know we could essentially do 600 000 square feet plus mixed-use but again we have not defined exactly what that is we really bought that assets well located.
It really is a very critical piece of real estate and what we hope will be a continued emergence of the market East Carter which is primarily retail in many base you saw the announcement by our local team at [indiscernible] the fashion outlet center of the gallery which is going to be close to $570 million retail development along Market Street there are a few other retail base projects underway so Market East has a real opportunity to become a very viable contributing neighborhood to the continued success of Philadelphia.
This asset sits right at the key intersection there so we’re basically bought a garage we’ll run it we’ll improve operations we know we have the zoning in place so we’ll be very optimistic both in terms of timing of what we want to do there as well as its ultimate use.
Okay.
And then just real quick on Austin how much density is possible there you think? We think there you can do a couple of hundred thousand square feet that office sizing will be predicated really upon the amount of structured parking we want to build.
So we’re going through that assessment process right now.
Okay thanks.
And then just last one quickly on DC are you guys seeing attraction on net effective rents it does sound like activity is picking up but lease economics improving at all or is it still too early for that.
Well look I think one of the things that George touched on and I know we’ve had a lot of discussions there over the quarters of this; we made a conscious decision to invest a fair amount of money into our Dulles Corner development.
What we saw on that was that positioning that product there is a new product in the marketplace; we were able to effectively move rents from the mid-20s to the low 30s with very much on pro forma confession packages and capital dollars allocated to each deal.
So in our mind that was a clear example of our management teams acumen in kind of getting ahead of the vacancy curve there using that period of time to invest money in the property and really dramatically change the NOI growth trajectory that property versus the Market and we frankly saw the same exact thing over in our Rockville Office Center over the Maryland 270 Carter.
Not very different than frankly I think you’ll see Jed the results on the 1900 Market Street.
So clearly I think as we go through the buy or sell decision when I say buy it means in terms of invest in our existing asset base we very carefully look at what we think the incremental return boost would be on any asset that we are considering selling or repositioning.
And to the extent that we don't believe we can get a very effective growth in rents out of a repositioning strategy we tend to sell that asset that’s the best as earlier as a non-economic and non-cultural growth generator for us.
Makes sense.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lewis with SunTrust.
Thank you.
Most of mine have been answered so I’m just going to ask one and it’s about managing development risk and exposure so you bought a few sites recently and assuming those you do have demand and can go ahead with those this cycle what’s kind of your appetite for how big a pipeline you're comfortable with whether it's in terms of you know how many balls you could juggle at one time or you know kind of managing risk in terms of percentage of gross asset value or any other way you look at it? Yeah Michael.
I thought I tried to touch on that earlier but let me be clear.
Where we are right now which is the leasing activity at FMC delivering Encino Trace leased and locking away substantially the leasing exposure at 1919 Market I mean that’s our pretty much our appetite in terms of risk-based speculative leasing and development projects right now.
So that's why number of these other projects fit in very nicely to that philosophy because they really won't be ready to be deployed and so we’ve already harvested the growth opportunities out of those three primary projects.
So we don't view ourselves doing significant capital allocation to developments unless we tend to the existing exposure we have.
And when we deploy money to future development we have significant levels of pre-leasing and a lot of visibility on the subsequent pipeline behind that anchor tenancy on new projects.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Good morning Manny Korchman is on the phone with me as well.
Gerry I wanted to follow-up on John Guinee's great question on the logo and in the senses you're thinking about changing the logo in terms of who the company is and defining who the company is today and as you think about your valuation and where the stock is I’m just curious as you go through that exercise how much time you're spending in terms of a strategic review about what the company should be and have you given thought about – you’ve seen a lot of REIT spinoffs and mergers and sales I guess help me through whether there's any sort of discussion at all about a broader strategic look at the entity as you’re changing the logo? Well look I think the board is always reviewing strategically where the company wants to go and that’s been a key predicate of how we've been really shifting the last several years into much more town center and urban-based company so that really came at a strategic review of what we want the company's growth profile to be going forward.
In a broader sense in that we’re always constantly evaluating what’s happening in the capital markets we certainly track everything that's going on from a capital market perspective very mindful of the competitive capital market conditions both from the public and private space.
So I would just tell you very clearly that this company is always looking down the road where we want to be how we want to constitute ourselves what we want our growth drivers to be and using that always viewing that within the framework of what we think overall capital market conditions are.
If you thought there was two w Brandywine’s within the entity what percentage would sort of the urban that you'd want to hold versus the other piece whether it be suburban piece of suburban that you think could be weighing down your multiple or your cap rate disproportionately relative to your core urban type of portfolio? Yeah look certainly we have targeted we get almost 70% of our revenues today from urban and town center markets and I think you just see us taking a look at our capital deployment approach you're seeing much more dollars focused in those core areas.
As a corollary I think you’ve seen a tremendous decrease in our exposure to a number of markets that – we want to be careful because we’re trying to sell assets and their markets aren’t – they’re not dying on the vine but markets it from Brandywine's perspective don't necessarily generate the velocity of growth that we’re really looking or the capacity to have the highest quality product going forward that meets today's and tomorrow's demand for tenant.
So you’ll see – you’ve seen this exit very clearly a strategy where we significantly reduced our exposure to New Jersey down from a high of a 25% or 30% seven or eight years ago to now where it’s well down below 4%.
One of the sales that was part of our commentary they complete exit from suburban Wilmington Delaware we continue to spin out of assets where we think we’ve harvested full value in California.
So we are very much focused on getting our portfolio to have a growth trajectory and a composition that the capital marketplace with you is much more valuable and then the capital marketplace will decide what the best approach for us to take in terms of optimizing value to our shareholders is.
Right but I guess do you sense any urgency to act in the near term again as you go through this change of what your company looks like do you feel like there is an urgency to potentially do something more strategically to advance those goals versus sort of just waiting it out and give where you’re trading? Well there is a always a sense of urgency I think and whenever you're involved in an operating business.
So there is – I mean from my perspective without urgency there is a sense of complacency and we certainly don’t have any complacency.
I think one of the reasons we’ve really accelerated the dispositions this year or the fact that we view the market now is being incredibly right for buying a lot of properties you want to sell both fueled by the wall of equity capital the amount of money is been raised in both PE and funds as well as those equity investors being augmented by very low interest rates and ample bank financing.
So I think that sense of urgency is incumbent upon any management team to make sure they take advantage of market windows and that's exactly we’re hoping to do here through our decision program.
Hey guys its Manny Korchman here.
If we look at the cap rate success versus expectations what do you think was the driver of such a big spread between where you thought sales would happen and they did was it a mix of buyers was it a mix of assets was it just conservative or faulty planning on your part? Well conservative and faulty aren’t necessarily the same but I think we've always indicated we build our financial model based on an 8.5% disposition in cap market.
I think if the market is same for the last couple of years we've delivered our sales below that cap rate.
So I don't recall the exact number last year but we were probably 100 basis points inside of our targeted disposition rate of 8.5%.
So I the great success we've had thus far was really driven by the specific assets that the buyers wanted to buy.
So we had a number of properties as I indicated to an earlier question that were in the – cap rates were in the 5% plus range that kind of skewed down the overall cap rate but going forward we’re going to be maintaining our 8.5% cap rate assumption.
I consider that conservative not faulty and we’ll see what the market brings in all those different dispositions.
Thanks Gerry.
You’re welcome.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I’d like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Sweeney for any closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you very much for participating in this quarter's call.
And we appreciate all the questions and the engagement and we look forward to our second quarter call later this year.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And this concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brandy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust Second Quarter Earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer session.
If you would like to ask a question during that time simply press star then the number one on your telephone keypad.
If you would like to withdraw your question press the pound key.
Thank you.
Mr.
Gerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust sir you may begin your conference.
Brandy thank you very much and good morning everyone and thank you all for joining us for our second quarter 2015 earnings call.
On today’s call with me are George Johnstone our Executive Vice President of Operations; Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Dan Palazzo our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
Prior to beginning certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
Although we believe estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we cannot give assurance that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipated results please reference our press release as well as the most recent annual and quarterly reports that we file with the SEC.
To start our call as we normally do we’ll provide an overview on our three key business plan components - operations balance sheet and investments.
George will then discuss the status of our leasing and operating efforts and then turn the call over to Tom for a review of our financial results and our balance sheet.
You will notice that we’ve streamlined the format of our press release this quarter as well as made several additional enhancements to our supplemental information package particularly on transactional disclosures.
During the quarter we made excellent progress on our 2015 business plan while advancing our long-term growth objectives.
We are further accelerating our portfolio repositioning plan and are increasing our sales target by $120 million to $300 million for 2015.
During the quarter we also made tangible progress on our growth strategy most notably on our development and redevelopment projects converting one of our larger operational joint ventures into a wholly owned opportunity and recycling our land inventory.
Our guidance that Tom will walk through still includes $120 million of acquisitions targeted for late in the fourth quarter.
Executing on this objective is purely speculative and a function of funding options and please note that the impact of us not acquiring this amount has a one penny impact on our 2015 FFO guidance.
Further given our share price performance our publicly traded implied cap rate and our stock price versus our NAV we are implementing a $100 million share buyback program.
That was announced with our press release yesterday.
We have not purchased any stock under that plan yet and our existing earnings forecast does not factor in the earnings or balance sheet impact from executing this buyback plan.
Our very strong operating results that George will walk through even with the accelerated dispositions has enabled us to maintain our 2015 guidance range of $1.40 to $1.46 per share.
Looking at operational highlights the portfolio is performing exceptionally well.
We’re 91.7% occupied up 140 basis points over last quarter and 94.4% leased.
We’re also 98% achieved on our revenue plan and raised our spec revenue target by $700 000 to $34.4 million.
During the second quarter we leased 1.5 million square feet and commenced occupancy on 506 000 square feet.
We also had 194 000 square feet of positive net absorption and achieved a 78.2% tenant retention rate up 500 basis points over the previous quarter.
Our occupancy levels continue to outperform our markets most notably in Philadelphia CBD the Pennsylvania suburbs strong recovery in northern Virginia as well as in Richmond.
We are 97% occupied in Philadelphia CBD and expect 2015 same store NOI growth there of over 4% and over 7% on a GAAP basis.
In Richmond we’ll have a strong same store number as we move that portfolio to 95% occupancy by year-end 2015.
Based on all this we’re raising our year-end occupancy target to the high end of our range to 93% and maintaining our year-end leasing to 94% to 94.5%.
Second quarter GAAP mark to market was 6.7% within our target at 6 to 8% range and while the year-to-date mark to market is below that annual range we have already executed leases commencing in subsequent quarters that allow us to actually increase our 2015 business plan range 100 basis points in the low end to a new range of 7 to 8%.
Cash same store number was 1.3% but subsequent lease commencements will again return us to our target range.
We’re also very pleased with our capital trend lines in line with our leasing strategy of extending terms.
Capital continues to be at manageable levels staying at between 10 to 15% of revenues.
We have reduced the top end of our capital cost range to reflect this trend and looking ahead as our portfolio closes in on 95% occupancy we expect a much lower aggregate capital spend on levels in our same store portfolio.
Finally other key operating metrics that we outlined as drivers of our 2015 business plan remain very much on track and as George will touch we increased several of the metrics demonstrating our continued outperformance in these improving markets.
Moving on to the balance sheet the balance sheet continues to be in very strong shape with excellent liquidity.
Our net debt to gross assets and EBITDA multiples have increased marginally due to the ongoing development spend at FMC Tower and our other redevelopment projects.
We do believe this trend line will reverse itself as those projects come online and we expect to return to our 6.5 and 35% debt to GAV targets in the next couple years as we work our way to the low 30% and below 6% long-term targets.
We don’t have any outstanding balance on our $600 million line of credit and closed the quarter with $124 million of cash on hand.
Consistently lowering leverage is a key component of our strategy on our announced share buyback program and we expect that funding will occur out of asset sales moderating the impact on leverage.
Looking at our growth strategy there are several key points to note.
As we’ve discussed on previous calls customer appetites and workplace cultures are changing.
The office business is shifting and it’s all about maximizing productivity accelerating new co-working cultures and a generational shift in workplace appetites.
High efficiency multi-modal access amenity-rich are the drivers to success and in our business we need to stay ahead of that wave.
All of our land activities anticipate that demand shift and position us for future growth.
We have historically carried land at 2.5 to 3% of our asset base and we’ll continue to do so.
We are selling out of land that won’t position us for the future - that is the $40 million of land that we have under agreement to sell and investing in well-located sites that improve our long-term competitive advantage.
From a development and capital allocation standpoint on our recent land acquisitions we’ll proceed with planning over the next 12 to 18 months and position them for starts into 2017 to 2019 time frame.
We will not start a project without significant preleasing and good visibility into that project’s future pipeline.
We will continue to recycle assets as a dependable funding source for future development spend and will not create a development spend model based on leverage but rather have one based on strong preleasing a pragmatic assessment of markets and matched funding.
Our primary development focus remains on completing the construction and lease-up of FMC Tower Encino Trace and our redevelopment project at 1900 Market.
We made solid progress on these fronts during the quarter and until we achieve our objectives on those projects investments in vertical development for future developments will be strictly focused on planning and premarketing activities.
We were active on the investment front during the quarter.
Year-to-date we’ve closed on $148 million of dispositions at an average cash cap rate of 6.7%.
We have an additional $75 million under firm contract.
The average cap rate on these sales both closed and under agreement will be 6.9% on a cash basis.
Just as importantly though we are actively marketing an additional $300 million of assets for sale.
Based on the strong activity as I mentioned at the beginning we’re increasing our sales target from $181 million to $300 million for 2015.
We will create better earnings growth trajectory.
Assets being sold include props in California Virginia Pennsylvania New Jersey and Maryland; and frankly with the level of sales we have in the marketplace if we can do more than $300 million of sales we will.
Looking at acquisitions the original business plan as you know contemplated $250 million.
Year-to-date we’ve acquired $129 million excluding land leaving the remaining balance of $121 million which as I mentioned again is in our earnings model as a Q4 acquisition so a penny impact to 2015 guidance.
More to the point though I think at this juncture we’re much more focused on sales and we view share buybacks and development funding as a much more attractive allocation of capital.
We also believe that exiting or simplifying our operating joint ventures makes great sense.
To evidence that during the quarter we bought out IBM as our 50% partner in the leasehold at Broadmoor acquired the land lease and paid off $51.3 million of secured debt.
Our total cash investment including the debt payoff was about $144 million.
The seven-building 1 million square foot complex is located in the northwest market of Austin Texas adjacent to the Domain Town Center.
Our overall investment base in the building including the newly acquired land will be $185 per square foot well below comparable sales.
The existing rents in the project on a triple-net basis are more than 35% below market.
IBM rolls out of approximately 350 000 square feet in the next year providing us with a near-term growth opportunity.
The going-in cash and GAAP yield on this investment is approximately 5% and 8.4% respectively.
We have also allocated about $6 million to the remaining developable land and both this land valuation as well as the price per square foot on our investment base compares very very favorable to comparable sales in that marketplace.
In addition if you look at the operating office JVs as outlined on Page 37 of our SIP we expect to be able to exit via third party sale the majority of the single asset listed ventures by year-end 2015 generating some additional liquidity.
Just as we are repositioning our same store portfolio our active land recycling continued during the quarter.
We have approximately $40 million of land under agreement or letter of intent to sell.
These proceeds will be realized over the next four quarters.
We have an additional $15 million of land listed for sale currently and $23 million going through active rezoning as a precedent to future sale.
Year-to-date we’ve acquired over $70 million of land so as mentioned our plan is to keep our land inventory between 2.5 to 3% of our asset base.
In terms of some of our recent land acquisitions we acquired several land parcels located in the 2100 Market Street block in Philadelphia.
This site is in close proximity to our Commerce Square and 1919 and 1900 Market Street sites.
Planning is underway and we expect a combination of loft office retail parking and potentially residential component.
In the interim we will position this site for parking and generating a 3 to 4% return and would expect this to get into the development queue as market conditions continue to improve.
It’s a very well located asset that fits in extremely well with our Market Street portfolio and provides a very attractive investment base per FAR foot.
We also acquired a 70% interest in two vacant land parcels located in the NoMa section of Washington DC for $28.4 million and a joint venture with JBG.
This two-phase project is in design-development with both JBG and Brandywine serving as co-developers.
We anticipate the first phase could start by the second half of 2016 with the second phase subject to preleasing with an anchor tenant which will probably be in the 2017-plus time frame.
More importantly though our current development projects made excellent progress during the quarter.
The FMC Tower remains on schedule for delivery in mid-2016.
Active prospect [indiscernible] remains over twice the available space and we are in advanced discussions with several key prospects.
The concrete core of the building is at the 27<sup>th</sup> level with steel following quickly behind and from a construction budget standpoint the project is on schedule and weather permitting will stay that way.
The Encino Trace project continues on schedule as well.
The first building of 160 000 square feet will be delivered later this month at 100% leased while the second building which will be delivered in late Q3 is 17% leased with a strong pipeline of near-term deals of approximately 150 000 square feet.
Just some quick notes on several other properties.
The 4040 Wilson project with the active marketing continues and the garage has now been completed.
On Evo we’ve had very good progress.
The proof of concept has been proven.
We’re 97% leased for 2015-2016 academic year - a very good result for that project.
On the Park development the joint venture with Toll 70% of the units have been delivered.
The project is on schedule.
Seventy-nine percent of the delivered units are leased which is ahead of schedule and pro forma.
Our last units will be delivered in Q3 2015 and we expect stabilization to occur in the first half of 2016.
This project is ahead of pro forma on rents and absorption so we expect to have some upward bias to our targeted 7% yield.
1919 is on schedule on budget.
The core is at Floor 21 out of 28.
The garage is scheduled for completion by the end of August and we’ll begin our marketing campaign in the early spring of 2016.
Our 1900 Market Street project had a great quarter.
The interior renovation work is substantially completed.
As projected upon completion we will have an overall investment base of less than $200 per square foot.
We executed a 228 000 square foot long-term lease with a major tenant.
This lease more than completely replaces the 204 000 square foot law firm deal that expires at the end of 2015.
First phase of occupancy will occur early in the Q1 of 2016 with the balance a year later.
The mark to market on this deal is north of 25% on both a cash and GAAP basis and the capital spend is well within our original budget.
We also have 91 000 square feet of deals in the pipeline for the remaining 50 000 square feet of availability and we are on track for stabilization at a 10-plus cash yield on a fully loaded cost basis.
At this point George will provide an overview of our second quarter operational performance.
George? Thank you Gerry.
It was an extremely actively quarter by our regional leasing teams that has our annual business plan targets nearly complete but more importantly has allowed us to increase our spec revenue and other business plan targets.
We’ve increased the spec revenue target by a net $700 000 or 2%.
It’s noted however that outperformance by our CBD Philadelphia operation Pennsylvania metro DC and Richmond yielded a $1.4 million increase which was offset by declines in New Jersey Delaware and California where the pace of lease signings was slower than originally contemplated.
We’re also seeing outperformance in our mark to market and capital metrics.
In CBD Philadelphia where we are 97% occupied and 99% leased we commenced leases during the quarter that yielded a 6.9% increase on a cash basis and a 26.3% increase on a GAAP basis.
For the full year CBD leasing spreads will be 8.5% and 17.9% on a cash and GAAP basis respectively.
Our CBD average lease term is 9.3 years with capital running approximately $2.27 per square foot per lease year.
Overall conditions in Philadelphia continue to improve as the market drafts off the performance of the trophy-class inventory.
Second quarter market vacancy declined 11.6% while asking rents have increased 5.5% over the past 12 months.
The city continues to see a number of companies relocating in from the suburbs and New Jersey.
In fact 25% of the year-to-date leasing activity has come from out-of-market tenants and Brandywine has captured roughly 40% of those.
In the Pennsylvania suburbs we’ve improved occupancy 40 basis points to 92.4% and we’re 94.7% leased.
Leasing spreads in the Pennsylvania suburbs during the quarter were 3.3% positive and 6.2% positive cash and GAAP respectively.
Average lease terms are running just shy of seven years with capital near the top end of our range.
The 97% leased Crescent markets are still seeing strong rent growth - 7% cash 12% GAAP.
The lack of inventory in the Crescent markets continues to push deals towards King of Prussia.
Our non-Crescent markets at 92% leased are outperforming the market by 650 basis points.
Turning to metro DC our absorption of 91 000 square feet during the quarter increased occupancy 230 basis points.
More notably is that during the second quarter our mark to market in DC was positive 0.5% on a cash basis and 2.9% on a GAAP basis.
Our forecasted full-year leasing spreads in that region are negative 2.2 cash and positive 4.3 GAAP truly a sign of improving market conditions.
During the quarter northern Virginia Maryland the District each recorded positive absorption the first time this has occurred in over a year and a half.
Demand was largely driven by private sector tenants.
In Austin during the second quarter we did execute a 64 000 square foot lease to backfill a significant portion of the lease terminated last quarter at the Park on Barton Creek.
The tenant signed a six-year lease with an 8% improvement in rents.
As a result the DRA JV assets are now 96% leased.
In addition to these very favorable trends on leasing spreads and capital our executed forward leasing will significantly contribute to same store NOI growth in the second half of the year.
We anticipate a reported second half of 2015 same store NOI growth rate of 5 to 7% on a GAAP basis and 4 to 6% on a cash basis which puts us firmly within our stated ranges for the year of 3 to 5% GAAP and 2 to 4% cash.
Our continued successes and execution of the business plan have allowed us to tighten and in some cases improve the ranges of our annual business plan metrics.
These are reflected on Page 5 of the supplemental package.
Specifically cash mark to market now 1 to 2% is up 150 basis points at the midpoint; our GAAP mark to market now 7 to 8% up 100 basis points on the bottom end; and capital at 225 to 250 has improved $0.25 per square foot on the top end of the range.
The improvement in these metrics illustrates how well positioned our portfolio is to further capitalize on improving market conditions.
At this point I’ll turn it over to Tom.
Thank you George.
Second quarter FFO totaled $57.4 million or $0.32 per share.
Some observations regarding the second quarter results - same store growth rates for the first quarter are 1.7 GAAP 1.3 cash both excluding net termination fees and other income.
We’ve had 16 consecutive quarters of growth in the GAAP metric and 12 consecutive quarters on the cash metric going up.
Other income totaled $1.2 million slightly ahead of projections.
G&amp;A decreased to $6.8 million in line with guidance.
Interest expense totaled $27.9 million slightly below the first quarter but in line with guidance.
As projected FFO contribution from our unconsolidated joint ventures totaled $6 million $2.2 million below first quarter results but in line with prior quarters’ guidance.
The decrease from the first quarter is primarily due to the first quarter termination fee from Solar Winds and their vacancy which was realized on 3/31 of the first quarter.
Our second quarter CAD totaled $39.5 million or $0.19 per diluted share a 78.9% payout ratio.
During the quarter we incurred $16.5 million of revenue maintaining capital primarily due to the sequential quarterly occupancy improvements.
For the second quarter we also incurred $12 million of revenue-creating capital and $58.8 million of redevelopment.
As Gerry mentioned our FFO guidance remains unchanged at $1.40 to $1.46.
Looking at the third quarter run rate we note the following.
Property level operating income - operating income for the third quarter will be above second quarter results primarily due to the full quarter effect of Broadmoor partially offset by the anticipated asset sales and the same store property group is anticipated to sequentially increase roughly 1.5 million due to the continued occupancy improvement.
G&amp;A for the third quarter should remain consistent with the second quarter at $6.8 million.
Full year should continue to range between $28 million and $29 million.
Other income - we expect a third quarter decrease of $0.7 million to $500 000.
Termination fees we expect to be around $900 000 for the third quarter and based on known and future terminations we’re decreasing our full-year target to $3.6 million.
FFO contribution from our unconsolidated joint ventures should total $6.1 million roughly in line with the second quarter.
The slight increase is due to Solar Winds’ space being partially re-let at Barton Creek offset by the lost income from Broadmoor’s consolidation.
As a reminder we anticipate recognizing our fifth and final installment of an historical tax credit income during the third quarter totaling approximately $11.9 million or $0.07 a share.
In addition during the fourth quarter we anticipate recognizing another one-time new market tax credit income item for $8 million or roughly $0.04 a share.
These non-cash items relate to our post office and adjacent parking garage assets located in University City Philadelphia.
This third and fourth quarter income will not be recurring in 2016.
On our sales to date as Gerry mentioned we have achieved $148 million of announced sales.
$148 million of announced sales represents a strong blended sales price per square foot of $150 and the cap rates were well below our modeled 8.5%.
On the speculative acquisitions as we look at Broadmoor campus and 618 Market Street and Philadelphia being our acquisitions we have $129 million done to date with $121 million of acquisitions for the fourth quarter.
Some of that and the land sales will be partially offset by about $15 million of land sales we expect to have occur between now and the end of the year.
Our weighted average share count was 182.1 million shares for the second quarter slightly below last quarter.
The decrease was primarily due to less dilution from a performance share dilution calculation.
At quarter end our net debt to EBITDA ratio was 7.1; however if you annualized the late quarter IBM acquisition the ratio would have been 6.9.
As discussed previously the debt to EBITDA ratio will continue to increase until our development projects go online and begin generating operating income.
Regarding our 2015 capital plan our CAD range of 82 to 89 projecting $29 million of revenue maintaining capex at a midpoint to the guidance.
Looking at our capital plan for the next six months through the end of ’15 we have $147 million of sources and uses comprised of the following: speculative acquisitions of $129 million $153 million of development projects primarily related to FMC and Encino Trace $29 million of revenue maintaining capex $58 million of aggregate dividends $31 million of revenue-creating capex $9 million of JV investment primarily to fund the balance of our equity on 1919 Market Street and $6 million of mortgage amortization.
Primary sources of that will be cash on hand of $116 million $103 million of cash flow before dividends and investments and interest.
$152 million of remaining asset sales with $148 closed $36 million which we should receive in the contribution and financing of Encino Trace 1 into our joint venture with DRA.
This should occur sometime during the third quarter.
Capital plan results have an estimated cash balance at the end of the year of roughly $8 million based on the above.
The change is primarily due to the liquidity that is being driven from our increased disposition activity offset by additional land acquisitions we’ve done in this quarter.
As an update to our financing plan we closed on our four-year revolver during the second quarter so the maturity of our revolver has gone now to May 2019.
The revolver will remain at $600 million and will provide us with improved financial terms flexibility and pricing--our incremental pricing has gone down by 45 basis points.
We now anticipate extending our seven-year term loan during the third quarter and we believe that pricing will also improve from the current terms.
In addition we are in the process of extending our Tyson’s Corner mortgage maturing in August and we will then assess the repayment/refinancing options over the next several months.
I will now turn the call back over to Gerry.
Great thank you Tom and thank you George.
To wrap up our prepared remarks the second quarter results were strong.
Excellent leasing and development project progress.
We’re confident in the continued execution of our 2015 business plan and creating a solid growth platform for the years ahead.
With that we’re delighted to open the floor for questions.
We ask as we always do that in the interests of time you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Brandy will you open the floor for questions? [Operator instructions] Your first question comes from Derek Van Dijkum with Credit Suisse.
Good morning guys.
I was wondering if you could just kind of talk through the rationale of the stock buyback given the funding of the development pipeline the acquisitions and then potentially paying down 2016 maturities.
Sure we’ll tag team that Gerry and Tom will.
When we look at our development pipeline funding what we have underway right now - and Tom did touch on a few of these points in the source and use - we have about $300 million of outstanding funding on our wholly owned properties primarily FMC and Encino Trace.
We have another $9 million to fund under the JVs which creates a total funding requirement of about $310 million or so.
We do anticipate as we did from the beginning that the full contribution of Encino Trace to our joint venture with DRA that will generate plus or minus about $70 million of proceeds over the next several quarters which leaves net development funding on our existing pipeline of about $238 million.
That spend will come in really almost ratably over the next 12 months until FMC is completed so that kind of leaves a remaining funding balance of about $130 million or so in 2015 with the balance of that in 2016.
So when we looked at that we basically indicated with the cash balances we have on hand the increase in sale proceeds some of the land sales funding in this year that left us in a very good position from a source and use standpoint over the next 12 months.
Certainly I think the rationale for the share buyback from our perspective is evident - we’re trading at a 12 to 18% discount to NAV actually probably a little bit higher on some days and we felt that given the implied cap rate that the stock is trading at the absolute price of the stock versus what we think NAV is that probably one of our better uses of capital at this point is to reflect the reality of the marketplace to where our stock is and to implement a stock buyback program.
Certainly as we accelerate this asset sale program and you may recall from my comments we have a lot of assets on the market for sale that will create some additional liquidity either both directly or through the sale of some of these joint ventures to more than fully meet our development funding requirements as well as fund the share buyback program.
Got you.
I guess just to talk about acquisitions clearly as you said you’re trading at a pretty big discount to NAV and you’re looking to continue or to do more acquisitions potentially for the balance of the year.
I guess in terms of just uses of capital from a perception standpoint how do you view those acquisitions going forward and do you maybe pump the brakes a little bit in terms of future growth? Well look in my commentary we did pump the brakes quite a bit.
I think we caveated the fact that they’re in our guidance right now but that they’re purely opportunistic and based upon funding capacity if we dramatically exceed some of our sales targets and find opportunities in our joint ventures or third parties like we were able to do with the IBM transaction.
That was a challenging transaction for us from the standpoint of we knew where our stock was trading.
When we took a look at the underlying growth opportunity that that simplification presented for us it was really very compelling - I mean you had existing rents as I mentioned 35%-plus below market.
We had an aggregate investment base we could buy in at pricing that quite frankly is $100 or 30% less than what properties across the street are going to trade for to be able to buy in some future development capacity on the land adjoining that developed park at an investment base that’s less than $10 in FAR foot versus land across the street trading at $40 to $50 in FAR foot.
So from a real estate standpoint it really presented a very compelling opportunity in terms of creating long-term growth for the company but it is challenging to juxtapose that against where the stock was and where the stock is.
So I think the announcement of the stock buyback plan as I mentioned in my comments certainly buying back in our stock financing that through accelerated asset sales which is frankly our best cost of capital dollar and meeting the requirements for the existing development pipeline funding seems to be a very pragmatic way to approach where we are in the cycle right now.
Your next question comes from Rich Anderson with Mizuho Securities.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
So Gerry just a follow-up on the buyback you haven’t changed any targets leverage metric targets as a result of that but part of that is maybe because in your guidance you don’t have any buyback activity.
Do you foresee having to do that if you get more aggressive on the buyback program or do you foresee that your leverage will not be impacted from the decision to buy back your stock? Look I think there’s no question when you’re buying back equity it’s going to have an impact on leverage.
The opportunity is to finance that off of asset sales mitigating that but certainly as we look at fully executing the program it would have an impact of about 25 basis points or so on our EBITDA multiple and could raise our debt to GAV by between 1.5 and 1.8% from an absolute standpoint.
That doesn’t factor in other opportunities we may have in terms of bringing these developments online or improving some of our spec revenue targets.
That’s certainly something we think about Rich but one of the interesting conundrums as a public company sometimes the public-private market arbitrage presents an opportunity for us.
So we think we’re in a recovering market the company is posting very strong operating metrics we’ve got some good forward growth opportunities.
To the extent that’s not being recognized currently in the marketplace I think it’s incumbent upon us to recognize that and to utilize capital that we can raise that’s effectively priced to take advantage of this buyback opportunity.
So I should assume the push to guidance would be upward if you start buying back stock? Yeah look - I think certainly the leverage would tick up and we’re very mindful of that as a governor on what we can do; but certainly it does have an impact on FFO and CAD as well.
Your next question comes from Jed Reagan with Green Street Advisors.
Morning guys.
I guess one more on the share repurchase authorization.
Are you guys thinking about a specific stock price or maybe discount to NAV at which the share buyback program pencils for you guys? How are you approaching that? Jed given the range the stock has been and the last trading patterns certainly is within the range of as the board and management kind of reviewed where we saw the implied cap rate the price per square foot kind of all the standard real estate metrics we look at as well as the ability for the company to accelerate liquidity through additional asset sales.
We certainly think that we’re in the ballpark where there’s going to be some implementation.
Okay.
So you’ve got call it $700 million or so in active projects in the hopper on a pro rata basis and looks like the shadow pipeline behind it is increasing a bit with some of the recent additions.
Just wondering if there’s a maximum amount of development you’d consider having in the active pipeline at any one time in terms of an absolute dollar amount or maybe a percent of operating assets or maybe would be percent leased by the primary governor on how much you’d move forward on at any one time? Great question.
Look - I think as we look at our existing development pipeline now Jed we have FMC that will roll over into 2016.
Encino is done essentially by the end of ’15.
The Park development with Toll is essentially done and performing incredibly well and will be coming into our earnings next year.
1919 will be in the premarketing phase with all of our equity invested certainly by the end of the year.
So the level of development spending we are right now we expect to be a high point given where we expect our run rate to be going forward.
As we look at allocating money to development it’s a function of certainly percent leased but also with the pipeline behind that and our read of market conditions.
We look at certainly the level of development spend as a percentage of our asset base and certainly somewhere in that $200 million to $300 million range on a run rate basis seems to make the most sense obviously subject to market conditions.
That’s been a key part of our through process on our land which is to move out some land at good pricing that doesn’t naturally fit with our landscape and create a development pipeline for us that’s basically going to be focused on premarketing and planning that would be able to be deployed on a sequential basis over the next four to five years market conditions permitting.
Okay thanks.
Maybe just one last one if I may.
Just curious if you’ve seen any upward pressure on cap rates recently just given the changes in treasury yields and borrowing costs.
No we actually haven’t.
In fact we continue to be pretty positively pleased with the level of pricing that we’re seeing in the market which I think is one of the predicates behind increasing the guidance.
I’m sure it will come at some point but we really haven’t seen particularly on the CMBS or the secured lending side spreads widen to the effect that it creates any kind of underwriting squeeze on the buyers that we’re talking to.
Your next question is from Craig Mailman with Keybanc.
Yes.
Just wanted to follow up on your leverage comments Gerry.
You guys are I guess about 6.9 times now but you said you’re comfortable running a little bit higher here longer.
What is your upper threshold and what do you see that top out at and when do you see it come down to the 6.5? I think the upper threshold is not too far above where we are now.
I think we’re certainly--we were north of 7.5 before we brought it below that now have it kind of between the high 6’s to 7’s.
We knew though with this development spend particularly given the size of the FMC project we’d have some upward pressure on that.
So I don’t think that you’ll see a level of tolerance for much above where we are right now and we’re going to continue to exercise every effort we can to move towards our stated goals over the next eight quarters or so.
And on FMC where do you think you need to get leasing before you guys pull the trigger on either a financing or a joint venture? Well we’ve got a good prospect list right now as we alluded to and certainly expect to make some good progress over the next several months.
The residential program has been completely finalized and has been completely priced out or is in the final stages of being completely priced out.
We’re frankly still engaged in some conversations Craig with some folks on the residential side.
I mean what we’ve seen happen on the residential front and I think as you all see nationally is pretty compelling.
What we’re seeing here in Philadelphia is just as compelling and we’re seeing cap rates kind of in the mid-4’s to mid-5’s.
We’re seeing per unit break well through that $500 000 per unit barrier for new construction.
Even with the pipeline of development program for rental product in Philadelphia you’re still going to see the city being fairly underserved in terms of rental units per population.
So we actually we’re going to continue to see some very good activity on the FMC Tower residential piece over the next several quarters but the forward funding complication certainly starts to dissipate once we get into the first quarter of 2016 for sure.
Your next question is from Gabriel Hilmoe with Evercore ISI.
Tom just on the increased disposition guidance I don’t know if you mentioned this but can you give a sense of just the expected timing of those sales in third and fourth quarter? Is it pretty ratable through the year or should we expect to see a good chunk of those hitting in 4Q? And then I guess when we start to think about 2016 could we see similar levels next year just given what’s in the market right now and where development spend may trend and other funding needs you have? Yeah I think when we look at the schedule I think they’re going to come in ratably over the balance of the year.
I mean a lot of the sales are obviously kind of in the 15 to 35 $40 million range so they’re kind of sequencing in so not a tremendous amount of lumpiness.
Now we have a lot of properties on the market so we have no idea how they’ll be received so that could impact the lumpiness of that pro rata comment.
But look - I think when we take a look at our portfolio looking ahead to 2016 and we’re certainly not pre-announcing any goals for next year but it’s a fairly good time to be selling the type of real estate we’re trying to move.
You’re seeing vacancies reduce across a lot of our core markets.
You continue to see an availability of debt financing.
You’re seeing a tremendous amount a wall of $82 billion of equity financing out there looking for a place to land and from a relative yield standpoint given the stable to improving economic picture you’re seeing a lot of institutional appetite for larger pools of types of suburban assets.
So we’re certainly exploring all the different options we can to complete our portfolio repositioning plan create a much better growth profile going forward and continue to improve the balance sheet.
Thanks.
Then maybe going back to Jed’s earlier question you’ve been pretty active over the last couple of quarters assembling a number of development partials but as far as the pipeline goes should we expect to see significant land acquisitions going forward just given you’re recycling out of some non-core land selling more assets? I’m just trying to get a sense of how active we should maybe expect you to be buying on the land front.
Look - I think when we took a look at our land inventory as part of our 2015 business plan the governor there clearly is that 2.5 to 3% of our asset base so we’ve been very successful in nailing down a number of sites that we can sell to third parties and generate some good capital from that.
What we’ve seen in a number of markets is that even though like in a DC market where you have situations where fundamentals haven’t really moved that much appreciably upward cap rate compression has been significant you’re looking at earning assets well above replacement cost but land prices have been fairly stable.
So in that case we saw there were a couple of good opportunities for the company to partner with two extremely well regarded great reputation companies with large infrastructures in DC to basically buy a couple of pieces of ground at an average investment base of about $75 per FAR foot which we think very much compares favorably to comps both long term and the last 24 months to present a potential future development opportunity.
But given that when we take a look at the land activity we’ve had this year I don’t think you’ll see us buy much more land going forward until we recycle some other land to maintain that 2.5 to 3% benchmark and certainly given the quality of the land that we’ve bought and the price that we bought it at we think we’ve built a very good 2016 to 2019 development pipeline that we can deploy as market conditions continue to improve.
Your next question is from Jamie Feldman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Great thank you.
You did acquire land in CBD Philly during the quarter.
Can you guys talk about your multi-year outlook for that market given just the moving pieces in terms of big box moving to new space and some of the expirations in that market? Yes certainly.
I think when we take a look at the big blocks of space fortunately we’ve been able to capture a lot of it and I think one of our real focal points Jamie was making sure that Brandywine completely saw the 1900 Market block of space which we’re very very happy we did.
There are a number of tenants moving around the market so George maybe you can walk Jamie through.
Yeah I think as Gerry said our rollover risk has pretty much been mitigated.
The competition from vacant space today really comes from Mellon Bank Center and then there are a number of tenants in the market - you know Radeon is 160 000 square feet Montgomery McCracken a law firm 100 000 square feet several other law firms in that 40 to 60 000 square foot range.
So again I think where we stand today leased but more importantly where we stand in terms of rollover risk I think we feel good on the near to midterm picture for our holdings downtown.
I guess my question is more--you know you’re acquiring more land downtown.
What are your thoughts on how the market unfolds over the next couple of years and when you’d actually be able to put that to use? What’s the vision here? Yeah I think the vision here is between the parking garage we bought over on East Market Street and this recent land acquisition which again as I mentioned will be deployed initially for parking we do view that they present good intermediate term development opportunities for us.
Certainly the 2100 block on Market we view to be very much of a mixed use development.
It will have the component of structured parking.
That Carter on West Market Street is evolving very very nicely.
We think there is a niche play for some loft office space on that marketplace so it would be something different than the market presented not too dissimilar from what we saw with 1900 where that project is very different than what’s available within the existing inventory stock and the level of activity and the rental rates that we’ve seen on that have been extraordinarily strong.
Then certainly the ability to use a portion of that land site for residential construction with one of our existing or new residential partners certainly we think fits very well into creating a 24/7 type of neighborhood along West Market Street.
Okay and if I could ask the same question on DC thinking about the parcels you’ve seen and we’ve seen somewhat of an improvement in leasing activity in that market.
How do you think about the sites you have now? Yes look I think the sites we have right now we spent a lot of time looking at where we wanted to try and make a land position in DC and certainly we think the riverfront section and NoMa are very well positioned for future growth.
As I mentioned a key driver for us was the investment base per square foot that we were able to buy in the land and then also a very key issue for us is how we structured those deals with we think two very very high quality organizations like JBG and Akridge there.
They are solid companies with a great reputation for excellence and high quality development.
They augment our talent pool perfectly to mitigate any execution risk and to accelerate market penetration through their existing infrastructure in terms of broker contacts contractor knowledge et cetera.
So again we laid out in the supplemental we think that the first phase of the JBG deal could go as early as midyear next year but the other two sites Jamie are really functions of where preleasing is.
What we like about that market is the fact that those same demand drivers that I alluded to earlier in terms of multi-modal access high quality efficient space has certainly been a key driver as some of the tenants have moved around Washington DC.
So we think that the location of those sites the development plans we’ll put forth our overall investment base and our target yields present a very attractive alternative to tenants who are looking for space to either relocate within that market or expand in those markets.
Your next question comes from John Guinee with Stifel.
Okay.
First and foremost I don’t know if you guys know this but you have probably evolved to having the best supplemental in the industry so congratulations on that.
Just as a curious aside you’ve got so many moving pieces that we’re all having trouble keeping track of it.
At the end of the day what’s the impact on your taxable income and your dividend from all of this? Where can you 1031 where can’t you et cetera? Hey John.
We do track our 1031s as we look at these gains and losses.
Depending on the markets and the transactions we’ve had several that have created especially some of the newer acquisitions we did as part of maybe the merger.
Those assets have higher bases so we’ve been able to see some tax losses.
Some of the assets that are older that are legacy we do have tax gains.
Right now the way we look at this year and sort of some of the things that are in the market taxable income we don’t have a pressure point on that.
That said we are also looking at 1031s.
In fact we used a 1031 vehicle as it related to the IBM transaction which made that very incremental to helping keep taxable income down so using the proceeds from Lake Merritt to fund that acquisition and defer gains.
So we are mindful of it and we have a tracking mechanism on everything we’re looking at and selling.
Okay and then as just sort of a curiosity follow-up I’m not sure if you mentioned this last quarter but I noticed that the DRA JV and the Philadelphia area went into forbearance I guess in the first quarter.
How are you looking at that asset what is going to be the end result? It doesn’t show up--I don’t think it shows up anymore in your statistics.
No actually John we sold that portfolio into that venture a number of years ago at a pricing level that is above what they’re going to realize from the sale today.
We really had no investment base in that venture.
We were managing and leasing it.
We’ll manage and lease it through the ultimate sale to the third party in a--I think as early as August next month.
So it really didn’t have that much of an impact on our financials or had no impact on our operating metrics or occupancy levels and we really weren’t getting any income from that for a number of years.
It was more just an incentive management fee arrangement that will come to a conclusion when that asset is conveyed or those assets are conveyed.
And John also we did take it out of our stats at the end of the fourth quarter.
That loan I think we disclosed went into a forbearance period so we no longer had any obligation towards the loan.
The forbearance put the lender clearly in responsibility for all capital calls and responsibilities for all capital disbursements as well as cash disbursements so at that point we took the related--and we knew that we wouldn’t be getting--and we at that point also John turned off the FFO and CAD numbers.
So we stopped recognizing at the end of the fourth quarter any FFO or cash flow contributions because of the forbearance as well as took the obligation of the debt out of our pro rata calculations and combined calculations.
Your next question comes from Manny Korchman with Citi.
Hey it’s Michael Bilerman with Manny.
Gerry I wanted to come back to your views on the stock price relative to NAV and both issuing and buying the stock.
So if we dial back a little less than a year ago you issued the stock at $16.10 net to Brandywine $15.35.
Your NAV was broadly around the same level is it today give or take maybe $0.10 $0.15 so call it about $16 $16.20 somewhere in that ballpark.
I guess how should we think about you trading around your stock versus trying to drive NAV or secondarily being a little bit more aggressive and thinking about strategic alternatives? I think one of the reasons we announced the share buyback program is the stock has certainly underperformed since the beginning of the year and that’s been disappointing for sure.
Our overriding objective like every company should be is to create positive NAV price currency and to maximize value.
We continue to have a lot of positive constructive dialog with our shareholders analysts who follow the company prospective investors and we’re hoping to execute a plan that will hopefully return us to our three or five-year share performance track record where we were performing much better than we have been the last couple of quarters from a stock price standpoint.
At three-year we were in kind of the top quartile of our peer group and really since the beginning of the year the stock has not done as well as we would like.
There is certainly--as a framework we all know there’s a lot of macro forces at play there but the reality is its incumbent upon to continue to post good results and that’s what we’ve been trying to do.
We’ve continually improved our operating metrics posted strong occupancy gains retention gains improvements to same store mark to market gains all the while controlling our capital costs.
I think on a number to number basis I think we’re performing very well relative to other companies in our sector.
We’ve also aggressively repositioned our portfolio to stay ahead of the changing office landscape significantly shifted our portfolio into more growth oriented product and markets.
I mean look at the numbers George walked through on Philly CBD - I mean those mark to market numbers are very strong and certainly on par with a number of other very strong markets around the country.
We’ve repositioned our land base to create better growth opportunities rather than sitting on the same land inventory year after year and I think we’ve created good liquidity.
We’ve reduced our average cost of debt extended our debt maturity schedule all in the context of trying to keep us on a path towards lower financial leverage.
But we’re at a stock price today where we think our best source of capital is continuing to accelerate asset sales which also have a corollary benefit of better positioning the company.
It’s a good market to sell and we plan on doing that to fund our forward growth opportunities improve our near term growth rates and take advantage of this dislocation between our public and private market values.
All that being said I think the board and the management team are in the business to make money for our shareholders maximize value so we remain very constructive and very positive in looking at all the different options that present themselves to the company.
We think the path of repositioning the company accelerating asset sales taking advantage of a strong private capital market will continue to pay us good dividends as we move forward over the next few quarters.
But if you were to dial back to late last July right where you issued stock net to Brandywine at a cost of $15.35 a share gross at $16.10 I guess part of that embedded into your view was you were willing to raise capital at those levels.
I don’t think NAV has materially changed from July of last year to today unless you tell me that there’s been a lot of NAV value creation since then.
So I agree with a buyback and trying to narrow this disconnect but I think that there’s some concern that the minute the stock gets back up to that level you’ll go back and issue a lot to fund the big development pipeline or other sort of growth initiatives and you sort of get into this wheel.
Well look I think as we kind of assess it we certainly look at over the last 12 months we certainly think that we’ve increased our NAV.
If you take a look at almost every single metric that governs value creation - length of lease annual growth rates forward growth rates in the markets we’re in we think at a real estate fundamental level we’ve done a very effective job of growing NAV at a rate that we think exceeds what market growth rates have been.
So to your underlying I think assumption about stable NAV I think we do look at that on a forward basis both in terms of the existing portfolio as well as the near term development pipeline I think we’ve been in a value creation mode from an NAV standpoint.
You know when we look at our forward growth opportunities I think certainly one of the situations every public company goes through is when you think your stock price is at a point where you have an opportunity to expand your equity base to create more accretive acquisitions you should do that - that’s one of the reasons why you’re a public company.
But the governor to that to a great degree is what you can do with your existing portfolio and I think if you take a look at our track record over the last few years we’ve basically sold over a billion dollars of real estate at fairly good cap rates certainly cap rates inside of our financial model and have used that to both fund growth opportunities.
Certainly one of our driving predicates is to continue deleveraging the company so asset sales simplifying these joint ventures fully leasing our development pipeline I think they’re all part of the algorithm to kind of create a good forward growth model that will be reflected well in the stock price.
Your next question comes from Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
Thanks good morning.
Gerry if you look out long term let’s say three years five years - pick your time frame how much in terms of assets in the portfolio that are in the portfolio now do you think you don’t want to own from a dollar perspective? I think we’re probably close in on kind of a $300 million to $500 million range but I do want to caveat that though because it’s important.
The ability to actually harvest value out of newly created assets is not lost on us either so I wouldn’t necessarily just say that there’s a segment of the portfolio that we don’t want to own going forward.
I mean we’ve made it very clear that we’re exiting our New Jersey Delaware marketplaces.
Long term we look to exit the 270 Carter in Maryland.
We’ll be exiting a large portion of our asset base in Richmond Virginia.
California is just about done.
We’ve culled the number of assets out of our Pennsylvania suburban division so I think we kind of let the numbers drive that thought process and we do anticipate where we want to get to is a portfolio that’s much more mass transit oriented much more town center focused higher quality larger buildings that are more effective to manage continue to maintain significant submarket share because even as George mentioned one of the great things about what we’ve seen happen in Philadelphia is you’re actually seeing a number of tenants move back into the marketplace--when I say move back into the market move back into the city.
We were able to capture 40% of companies moving back into the city - that’s coming from a lot of the synergies broker network tenant connections we have that give us we think a very strong competitive advantage [indiscernible] one or different assets.
So we’re very mindful as we look to fine tune the portfolio of what submarkets we want to remain in and what that competitive set needs to be.
So where I was kind of going with this is you guys have--you know you’ve got a subset of the portfolio that you probably look at over time as not fitting within the current Brandywine strategy and you’ve got leverage which has moved higher than what your medium or longer targets are although you’re comfortable operating there for a time.
But you also have over the next three quarters through the end of Q1 of ’16 you’ve got $450 million of debt that comes due at an average interest rate of 4.8% so it seems like you’d have this opportunity to if you took all that debt and you decided to pay it off with dispositions and looked at that in isolation it feels like you could get your leverage the debt to EBITDA down to that 6x number which was long term as you sort of thought about.
I would think it wouldn’t be that dilutive to earnings depending on the cap rate that you did and probably even less dilutive to cash flow.
I wonder if you think about that as maybe you could come out with a large portfolio sell the assets reset the balance sheet reset earnings down a little but not a lot and then be in really good position to think about normal asset recycling that I think if you were doing that it would be very accretive to earnings over time.
Is that something that you guys think about with this slug of debt that’s coming due over the next few quarters? Brendan I think it’s an excellent observation.
It’s something that we think about and spend a lot of time thinking about how we’d kind of move in that direction.
Again I think if you take a look strategically the company wants to be a much stronger balance sheet over time.
We want to have much higher quality assets.
The market to sell today is very good whether you’re selling off of actual cash flow or pro forma cash flow in some of these markets.
So I do think and I tried to amplify that in my comments as did Tom we have a lot of properties in the market.
We are engaged in a whole range of discussions with investors so I certainly would not preclude our ability to exceed that $300 million target and use those proceeds to both provide support to our stock price but also to handle our near term maturities on a debt basis.
I think it’s a very good point - thank you.
Your next question is from Rich Anderson with Mizuho Securities.
My question has been answered thank you.
Your next question is from Jed Reagan with Green Street Advisors.
Yes just a quick follow-up here.
Can you talk about how economics came in on the 1900 Market Street lease versus your initial underwriting? We can.
It came well above our original underwriting and as I mentioned it’s a significant cash and GAAP mark to market.
Capital was very much in line with what we had projected and the absorption pace I think was much greater than we expected so we’re very pleased with it.
As I touched on the comments we’ll be delivering that project at north of a 10% free and clear return on fully loaded costs so I think it’s a great transaction to get that lease put away but also I think we’re really pleased with the level of activity we’re seeing for the balance of the space and we think that gives us an opportunity maybe even to push rents a little bit more.
Okay great.
Then on a percent leased basis you’re now at sort of the high end of your full-year goal so just wondering if you think you’ll be able to hit maybe the high end of that guidance as we get through the end of the year or are there some larger move-outs we should be cognizant of in the back half of the year that maybe gets you closer to the middle or lower end? Yes on the occupancy I think we’re comfortable that we’re going to be at that high end.
I think on the forward lease percentage again we’ve got a lot of transactions in the pipeline that we think we’re 93 occupied and ultimately 94 leased come the end of the year as well.
So we have some known move-outs but then we also have 600 000 square feet of forward leases still to commence.
Any lumpy move-outs worth noting? No a couple of give-back floors but nothing of note.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Your final question comes from John Guinee with Stifel.
I’m glad this is the last question.
So you sold stock at $16 a year ago and you’re going to maybe buy it back at $14 now about 7 million shares.
You’ll probably create $0.10 $0.15 a share in value just by doing that for your remaining 175 million shares outstanding and you’re finding yourself defending that strategy? We think it’s a good strategy.
No I know.
Nothing more to be said.
Thanks.
Thank you John.
There are no additional questions at this time.
Great.
Thank you all very much for participating in the call.
We really do appreciate the engagement and the questions.
Sorry it ran a little bit over.
We look forward to continued progress and updating you on our next quarterly call.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning.
My name is Felicia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Brandywine Realty Trust Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker's remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Jerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Please go ahead sir.
Felicia thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our third quarter 2015 earnings call.
On today's call with me today are George Johnstone our Executive Vice President of Operations; Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer; and Dan Palazzo our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
Prior to beginning certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Law.
Although we believe estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we can't give assurances that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact or anticipate results please reference our press release as well as our most recent Annual and Quarterly Reports that we filed with the SEC.
So as we normally do we'll start with an overview of 2015 business plan.
We also have introduced 2016 guidance and we'll provide color on some key assumptions that's driving that range.
And I know most of our interests are 2016 business plan so we will keep our comments on 2015 as brief as possible.
From an overall standpoint we're in outstanding shape for 2015.
Across the platform our markets continue to improve all of our operating metric benchmarks same-store mark-to-market occupancy leasing capital spend and retention will either meet or exceed the business plan objectives that we outlined on Page 5 of our supplemental package.
Our disposition and leasing efforts have continued to move our portfolio to longer average least terms larger annual rental increases stronger growth sub-markets higher quality newer assets and mass transit served well located properties.
As you're seeing we have increased our 2015 targeted sales volume to $400 million which is up significantly from our original business plan target of $150 million.
We've made continued progress during the quarter on our development and redevelopment pipeline and see no traces on target to be contributed to our joint venture with DRA by year-end.
FMC Tower is on-schedule for Q3 2016 delivery.
Construction is progressing on plan we're hopeful for hurry mild winter and our leasing engagements in prospect pipeline continue to expand as the building continues to rise.
Year-to-date we have closed on $206 million of dispositions at an average cash cap rate of 6.9% and have an additional $87 million under firm contract.
The average rate on our sales both closed and under agreement will be 7.3% on a cash basis.
And just as importantly we're actively marketing over $400 million of assets for sale.
We do not contemplate any more acquisitions from the balance of the year.
As you may recall we have closed to about $135 million so we fall short of our original $250 million target but we think that's frankly a good thing consistent with our business plan revisions.
At this point we're much more focused on sales and debt reduction development funding and share buybacks is a much more attractive allocation of capital.
We also believe that exiting or simplifying our operating joint ventures makes a great deal of sense.
During the quarter as we disclosed we did implement our $100 million share buyback program and acquired about 4.7 million shares of common stock for an aggregate price of just less than $61 million.
Given our strong operating results we have increased our 2015 guidance range at the bottom end by $0.02 for an overall range of $1.42 to $1.46 per diluted share.
Looking at our balance sheet that continues to be in good shape with excellent liquidity.
Our net debt to gross assets and EBITDA multiple have increased marginally due to the ongoing development spend at FMC Tower and the other redevelopment projects.
So a key application of the funds from asset sales will pay down debt and provide ample funding for the development pipeline.
Based on our projected capital activity we do anticipate being the 6.5 target range EBITDA by year-end 2016.
We do not have any outstanding balance on our $600 million line of credit and closed the quarter with over $50 million of cash on hand.
As Tom will touch on we did extend and increase our 7-year unsecured term loan to $250 million to October 2022 and in all in a rate of 3.7%.
As we also outlined on the last call if you look at the operating office JVs on Page 37 of the supplemental we expect to exit the third-party sale and majority of our single asset listed ventures by yea-end 2015 generating some additional liquidity.
And just as we're positioning our same-store portfolio our active land recycling continue during the quarter we sold $15.8 million of land have approximately $30.5 million of land under agreement or letter of intent to sell.
We also have an additional $14.7 million of land listed for sale and $23 million plus going through active re-zoning.
Just a quick note on several JV development projects the Evo at Cira Centre South good progress 99% leased for the next academic year.
On our apartment project with Toll Brothers 84% of those units have been delivered projects on-schedule we expect stabilization by first quarter 2016.
This project remains ahead of pro forma on both rents and absorption.
So we will expect to exceed our original target yield and wind up at about 7.7% exceeding our original target of 7%.
1919 Market is on-schedule on-budget garage has been completed building has been topped-off curtain wall is in place upto floor 21 and our equity contribution has been fully funded.
We'll begin marketing in January and February of 2016 for initial unit deliveries in the Spring of 2016.
Primary development focus remains on completing the construction and lease up of FMC and our redevelopment project at 1900 Market.
We locked away 230 000 square feet of leasing at 1900 Market during the quarter that's more than 50% of our exposure in Center City and University City Philadelphia that project is now over 89% leased.
We're projecting a total investment base below $200 a square foot very much in line with the original projections and are stabilized free and clear return will be over 11%.
So the large tender that we did sign was a very attractive rate above pro forma and a very good mark-to-market.
So Q3 was a solid continuation of our 2015 business plan and we think it provides a great foundation for 2016.
And looking at 2016 we see continued market strength and improving operating metrics the completion lease up of FMC Towers at Cira Centre South and a significant acceleration of our portfolio repositioning.
We expect that by year-end 2016 we will have further reduced our exposure or exceeded New Jersey Delaware Maryland Richmond and off toll road sub-markets in Northern Virginia.
We will also have liquidated our remaining interest in this single operating asset joint ventures in both the Pennsylvania suburbs Virginia and in Texas.
Our portfolio will be better growth with longer term leases higher average rents better capital ratios and more urban and Town Center centric.
The $450 million of sales we have targeted is really the last significant piece of our multiple-year repositioning plan that has seen it sell over $1.2 billion of properties at an average cash cap rate of 7.2%.
From an overall standpoint sale proceeds will be used to reduce debt fund our remaining development spending including planning etcetera on pipeline projects and market conditions permitting completing our share buyback program with the remaining capacity of just shy of $40 million.
So overall it's a fairly straightforward 2016 business plan.
It's really about increasing cash flow and lower leverage substantially completing our re-positioning so at year-end 2016 we're more urban Town Center focused company with a well-positioned land income and stronger sub-market concentrations in DC Boston and Philadelphia.
Our guidance range of $125 million to $135 million is below consensus and Tom will provide a detailed walkthrough.
But we do believe there are several prevailing facts that impacted this guidance versus existing consensus.
First of all the 2015 range of $1.42 to $1.46 as we've amplified includes $0.11 of non-cash tax credit FFO income which burns off at the end of 2015.
So essentially embedded our 2016 guidance is replacing that non-cash income with real estate revenue which we think is a significant improvement in the quality of our strength.
Our 2016 business plan projects $450 million of dispositions occurring in the first half of 2016.
Our new 2015 target of $400 million is also above all current estimates as well and reviewing a number of the reports the amount of 2016 targeted dispositions in the estimates range from zero to $300 million versus the $450 million we have programed to occur at 8% as I mentioned in the first half of the year.
We're also not projecting any acquisitions in 2016 where numerous estimates had projected upto $200 million of acquisitions occurring during the year.
George will provide additional operating color but the fundamental recovery in our markets remains very much on-track.
We believe the assumptions built into our plan are conservative and very achievable.
And looking at our plan in more detail our 2016 business plan focuses on our occupancy levels by the end of the year continuing to improve between 93% and 94% and our leasing levels with between 94% and 95%.
We're forecasting a 2016 kind of retention rate of 65% we always seem to be low on that number at the beginning of the year and tend to move it up as the year progresses.
We do expect GAAP mark-to-market on 2016 leasing activity to range between 5% and 7%.
And as most of our 2016 projected absorption is coming out of northern Virginia and suburban Maryland we do expect a cash mark-to-market of essentially negative 1% to positive 1%.
Same-store numbers will be in the range of 2% to 4% above the cash and gap basis.
And we think another key focal point that we direct your attention to is the growing cash flow and the impact of our 2016 plan.
So another real key beneficiary of our sales program and operating performance will be the increase in our CAD.
The assets we're selling are generally high capital consumers so we're very pleased that we're projecting our 2016 CAD range to be between $0.85 and $0.95 per share or about 67% payout ratio at the midpoint.
This range demonstrates the narrowing of the gap between FFO and cash flow and is reflective of the portfolio reaching stabilization our accelerated early renewal program better control on capital increases our average lease term and more importantly positioning our portfolio for better growth going forward to our sales efforts.
So to really wrap up our 2016 plan represents a strong drive towards improving cash flow and towards growing NAV.
Significant improvement of our operating platform for releasing momentum strong leasing activity gives us tremendous confidence that will continue to generate solid and aligned growth strong same-store performance and positive mark-to-market.
At this point George will provide an overview of our third quarter results and some color on 2016.
Thank you Jerry.
A very productive quarter that has led our 2015 business plan being nearly complete.
The results of our continued lease up translated into strong same-store results for the quarter and the year.
As Jerry mentioned all of our 2015 business plan metrics performed better than or/as expected compared to the original business plan targets.
We saw notable outperformance on GAAP and cash mark-to-market along with higher tenant retention and a 10% improvement on spec revenue.
We'll end the year at 93.1% occupied and expect to be in a range of 93.5% to 94.5% leased.
Leasing activity remains robust in all of our markets the pipeline stands at 2.6 million square feet with 534 000 square feet in lease negotiations.
In CBD Philadelphia we're now 97% occupied and 99% leased outpacing the market by 830 basis points.
We continue to see double digit leasing spreads on a GAAP basis and near double digit on a cash basis.
Capital is average $2.36 per square foot per lease year on a weighted average lease term of 9.3 years.
Overall conditions in Philadelphia continue to improve as the market saw its second consecutive quarter of positive absorption.
The relocation to the city by companies from the suburbs and New Jersey is continuing.
The recent markets continue to operate in a similar strong fashion or 97% leased and have executed leases with rent growth of 7% on a cash basis and 12% on a GAAP basis from leases that average seven years in length.
Turning to Metro DC we posted our second consecutive quarter of positive absorption.
92 000 square feet in total raising occupancy to 85%.
During the quarter overall leasing activity in the market was dominated by Federal agencies.
Three of the largest six leases were signed by government agencies and as the flight quality continues we feel are fully monetized toll road properties are well positioned to capture market activity.
Austin fundamentals remain strong absorption in the market was a whopping 1.5 million square feet during the quarter office vacancy decreased to 8.7% as compared to our combined wholly-owned and joint venture portfolio vacancy of 2.5%.
Leasing spreads for the year have increased 11.6% and 7.8% on a GAAP and cash basis respectively.
In terms of the 2016 business plan it will generate $28 million of spec revenue from a leasing plan of 2.3 million square feet.
We're currently 41% complete on the revenue component and 29% complete on the square footage component.
This plan yields a year-end occupancy at the midpoint of our 93% to 94% guidance.
Leasing spreads are projected to be lower than our 2015 results based on the regional composition of the leasing plan.
I will continue to see leasing spreads in CBD Philadelphia and Pennsylvania perform at/above the upper end of our range those highly leased regions do not have the same volume of leasing in 2016.
Northern Virginia leasing spreads remain challenged we continue through a combination of rent bumps and lease terms to achieve favorable GAAP rent outcomes and strive to breakeven on cash while controlling capital.
Leasing capital for 2016 were once again ranged between $2.25 and $2.75 per square foot per lease year on a weighted average term of seven years.
So in closing we're delighted with our performance during the quarter in our ability to achieve all of our 2015 business plan targets.
The strong finish and continued improvement of fundamentals within our markets provides tremendous momentum as we head into 2016.
At this point I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thank you George.
Our third quarter FFO totaled $76.9 million or $0.43 per diluted share.
Some observations on the quarter same-store third quarter growth was 6% GAAP and 6.6% cash both excluding net termination fees and other income items.
We've now had 17 consecutive quarters of GAAP metrics growing and 13 quarters of cash metrics growing.
We sold 13 million of non-core land for $15.8 million generating a $3 million gain which is included in FFO.
We recognized our fifth and final non-cash income installment related to the historic tax credit totaling $11.9 million or $0.7 a share.
Our third quarter CAD totaled $43.4 million or $0.24 per diluted share representing a 62.5% payout.
During the quarter we incurred $11.8 million of revenue maintaining capital expenditures primarily due to the sequential quarterly occupancy improvements.
For the quarter we also incurred $9 million of revenue creating capital expenditures and $60.4 million of redevelopment costs.
As Jerry mentioned our FFO guidance range has increased from $1.42 to $1.46.
Looking at the fourth quarter run rate property level NOI our operating income for the fourth quarter will be slightly below the third quarter primarily due to full quarter effect with the third quarter asset sales.
They anticipated fourth quarter asset sales and offset partially by the NOI from the same-store group.
G&amp;A expense for the fourth quarter will be approximately $6.6 million and the full year will be about $28.5 million.
Other income for the fourth quarter we expect to decrease to $0.5 million.
Also in the fourth quarter the new market tax credit income a one-time fourth quarter non-cash item related to new market tax credits on our garage at Cira South totaling $8 million or $0.04 per share.
These third and fourth quarter non-cash items related to our post office and adjacent parking garages located in University City and will not be recurring in 2016.
We have $400 million in net sales to-date we've achieved $206 million of announced activity and as Jerry mentioned the cap rate is well below our 8.5% the incremental $100 million of sales activities assumed to occur at the end of the year at an estimated 8% cap rate for speculative acquisitions we have none in our business plan for the balance of 2015.
A share count of $77.7 million and $80.6 million on a weighted average basis for FFO in the fourth quarter and the full year are below where we were due to the $4.6 million shares we repurchased during the third quarter.
As anticipated we extended our seven-year term loan during October and also increased at $50 million to help pay for the redemption of an $88 million loan on Tyson's Corner.
The all-in rate was 3.72%.
At the end of the quarter our net debt to EBITDA was 7 times.
Looking at the remainder of our 15 capital plan our CAD range is still 82% to 92% projecting $19 million of revenue maintained spend for the three months ended 12/31/15 due to the level of capital spend relatively related to early renewals during 2015.
We anticipate being at the lower end of our range.
Uses of the remaining three months for the year will approximate $325 million and are comprised of the following -- $70 million of development spend primarily FMC and Encino Trace; $18 million of revenue -- $19 million of revenue maintaining; $28 million of aggregate dividends; repayment of the Tyson's Corner mortgage which happened in early October for $88 million; revenue creating capital of $23 million; $6 million of projected JV capital investment; and mortgage amortization of $3 million.
Primary sources will be $38 million of cash flow from operations; $194 million of the remaining asset sales; $54 million from the contributions of Encino Trace at the end of the fourth quarter; and $43 million of net proceeds from the seven-year term loan.
Capital planning results of this having at estimated cash balance of approximately $150 million at the end of December.
The increase in projected year-end liquidity is primarily due to the increased sales activity and increase to our seven-year term loan partially offset by the repayment of our Tyson's Corner mortgage.
Looking at 2016 guidance starting with the midpoint of our range which is $1.44 for 2016 -- we're looking at 2015 using the $2.44 as a starting point look at what changes will be made looking into 2016.
As mentioned the historical tax credit deduction of roughly $19 million or $0.11 a share the land sales we just incurred in the third quarter of about $0.02 a share both will not occur in 2016 guidance.
We expect a decrease of about $10 million in interest expense.
Primarily we have -- primarily made of the following assumptions -- two mortgages maturing in January and April for $208 million.
We're planning on refinancing those at similar levels of 4.25%.
Upon maturity we will pay off the 2016 bonds which is $149.9 million at a 6% yield and we anticipate capitalized interest for the year of $11.8 million.
On the investment side we have no new acquisitions or developments planned between now and the end of 12/31/16.
We expect $16.3 million of dilution from 2015 dispositions that will affect 2016.
We expect about $22.5 million for the 2016 program dispositions which we have occurring evenly at the end of the first and second quarters for now.
FMC we'll generate between $8 million and $10 million of net operating income commencing in the third quarter of 2016.
Operating results will generate an extra $16 million of GAAP NOI.
G&amp;A we expect to be between $28 million and $29 million.
Term fees are going to be lower.
We expect term and other income to be $2.2 million and $2.9 million respectively that's $4.4 million reduction from 2015 and we expect net management leasing and development fees to be similar to 2015.
We have no incremental buyback activity other than what we've announced but that effect on 2016 is about $0.02.
Looking at our capital plan for 2016 we expect our CAD range to be $0.85 to $0.95 reflecting roughly $33 million of revenue maintaining CapEx at the midpoint of our guidance.
Uses for the cash are about -- uses that we expect to have in 2016 total $950 million comprised of the following -- $247 million of development costs primarily FMC 1 900 and then some other projects we're working on in various sub-markets.
We have 117 of aggregate dividends.
We have $27 million projected for JV investment primarily for the fay.
We then have $30 million of revenue creating CapEx; $115 million repayment of our 2016 bonds; and $10 million of mortgage amortization.
The primary sources for that are going to be cash flow of $190 million; $450 million of speculative asset sales; and $15 million which is the second mortgage that will be put on Encino Trace once the second building is fully leased.
Based on the capital plan outlined above or any cash balance will be approximately $190 million.
We also projected our debt-to-EBITDA ratio will improve to approximately 6.5 x EBITDA by the end of the year.
In addition our debt-to-GAV will be about 37%.
I will now turn the call back over to Jerry.
Thanks Tom and thanks George.
That really wraps up our prepared remarks.
I mean look third quarter results were strong.
We think we're in outstanding shape to close out 2015 and looking ahead to 2016 is a very straightforward simple business plan where the core themes are financial strength cash flow and NAV growth and a continuation of solid fundamentals.
So with that we'd be delighted to open up the floor for questions.
As we always ask that in the interests of time if you limit yourself to one question and follow-up.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And your first question comes from the line of Tony Paolone with JPMorgan.
I was wondering on the development and redevelopment pipeline can you help just add it all up for us? Because if I look at the summary pages of the two projects but it seems like there's a lot in the land pipeline and just want to understand like what's likely to happen in starts and what's maybe in the offing? Sure Tony.
We do have a couple of projects that are also beginning -- well not beginning but we anticipating putting money into some of the A&amp;Es for our projects down in D.C.
We plan on spending some money on a project we're doing on a retail site in New Jersey which is an amenity to our complex and we still have some work that we're spending now to finish off 1900 Market.
So when I look at page 50 in your supplemental in these active projects like do I think of those as being projects particularly on the office side where you're out pursuing leasing? Or are these just very early at this point? These are early projects.
So these are projects -- for example we're starting to spend some money on 25N but we're not going to really -- that's really more on A&amp;E side and getting ready for marketing as opposed to spending a lot of money on putting shovels in the ground.
The same thing with our project in NOMA.
That will be dollars being spent on architecture and engineer.
Really nothing going into the ground yet on that project either.
Yes just to add onto that Tony it's Jerry.
There are active projects as well as some of the future development sites.
I mean we're really in kind of the planning engineering architectural review on a number of these projects.
So our capital spend that Tom had articulated is part of our 2016 uses contemplates really a continuation of that spending as essentially front money while we bring some of these projects to the point where we can actively begin marketing them for potential users.
Okay.
And then my follow-up -- on I think you'd mentioned cash mark-to-market next year of somewhere in the low single digits I believe.
And can you talk about just where the strengths and weaknesses are by market for that number? Yes sure Tony it's George.
And as I mentioned I mean we're still seeing good mark-to-market on both a cash and a GAAP basis coming out of CVD Philadelphia and the Pennsylvania Crescent markets.
I mean really what's impacting our number next year is Northern Virginia and a couple of lease rentals in suburban Maryland.
So we're kind of operating outside the top end of our range in both Philadelphia and the Crescent markets but the cash close to breakeven but sometimes a rolldown is kind of keeping that range based on the volume of leases and the composition of the leasing next year at that negative 1 to positive 1 range.
Your next question comes from the line of Gabriel Hilmoe with Evercore ISI.
Jerry just maybe following up on the last question and just on your comments on the portfolio improvement and how that's going to progress into 2016 if sales occur.
I guess just looking at some of the pieces of the guidance on same-store growth and just projected leasing spreads you just highlighted kind of where some of the absorption is going to be occurring.
But when you think about the portfolio that you end up with after the sale do you see metrics around spreads and same-store growth kind of accelerating into the back half of next year as the portfolio kind of gets reset post the dispositions? Yes we do.
I mean I think as George touched on Gabe look we've done a very good job in some of our markets that have been outperforming in terms of those metrics over the last couple of years.
For example if you take a look from 2013 to including what we're projecting for 2016 in Center City and University City Philadelphia our average GAAP mark-to-market has been 15%.
Our average tax mark-to-market has been 6%.
Now we bought that portfolio from 90% to 97%-plus occupied so it was a 700 basis point improvement and that really has created a lot of momentum for these operating metrics across the portfolio.
As we assess the 2016 business plan a lot of the areas where we're targeting for absorption are those sub-markets suburban Maryland the toll road in Virginia some of our other properties kind of outside the Crescent markets in Pennsylvania that haven't seen that high level of GAAP or cash mark-to-market.
That being said I think all of the markets we're seeing increase leasing activity.
Certainly as we look at the core markets of the Pennsylvania suburbs we see a tremendous lack of large blocks of space available.
There's a whole range of tenants who are out there of a significant sizes they're looking for places to land or consolidate or grow into.
So I think the overall fundamental trends in those markets will remain very positive.
I guess we're really planning on 2016 being there.
We kind of bring Northern Virginia and suburban Maryland back to portfolio average occupancy levels and the impact of doing that is a little bit of a muting on our cash and cash mark-to-market.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up Tom I think you had given an NOI projection for FMC Tower.
I think you said something like $8 million to $10 million.
I guess what does that assume for occupancy I guess when the building delivers and what's kind of in that $8 million to $10 million number? Yes I think what we put in the baseline it's Jerry I'm sorry [indiscernible] -- I think we put in the model for 2016 at this point really reflects the existing pre-leasing status of FMC -- a few other office tenants who would be moving in in 2016 and the beginning of the marketing process for the residential units.
So I think as we really assessed what number to roll into FMC really did you kind of mid-Q3 and Q4 in 2016 as kind of the ramp-up time at FMC and really 2017 is when we've always thought that FMC would really take off.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lewis with SunTrust.
So Tom did a really great job of laying out sources and uses in a lot of detail on guidance that I'll have to probably read the transcript to digest.
But the fact that you're not assuming acquisitions or development starts or repurchase activity is that kind of being conservative or do you think some of that stuff sneaks its way into 2016 especially the share repurchase which you'd executed on some of that 3Q? Thanks Michael good question.
Look I think as we thought about what to do with 2016 guidance we're one of the earlier companies to come out with guidance numbers for next year.
It happens to be somewhat of an awkward time because we have so much in the market for sale and we're really kind of not sure of the exact visibility of when some of these events might occur.
So we certainly at a fundamental level think that there might be some upward or downward bias to existing projections based upon the timing of when some of these sales do occur.
Frankly we do believe that now is the window in time we've been waiting for several years where there's been improvement in all of our markets -- accelerated leasing activity tremendous investor demand that now is really the time to optimize the value in a lot of these noncore assets to the extent we can.
So when we looked at acquisitions or additional development starts were share repurchases I think what we want to do is present a very clear -- a clear clean number to everybody that was just basically driven by the disposition volume.
So to the extent that there's opportunities that we think make sense given our cost of capital to increase our share buyback program and actually we have on the table I think that's certainly something on the table -- same thing in terms of a number of build-to-suit opportunities or user building sales that might come into play as well.
I think so far this morning the stock is agreeing with you that it's a good time to sell some of these assets.
My follow-up the New York Times this week had an article about favorable on REIT buybacks but they used you as an example of a company to be careful of because you're not investment-grade rated by all of the rating agencies.
And while I may not agree with the analysis there maybe you could comment on your progress to get investment-grade rated -- how important you think that is? And if you execute your plan do you feel confident that you'll get there maybe in 2016? Well look Tom and I will tag-team this.
You can see I have a very good dialog with the agencies; I think a wonderful relationship with the team at Moody's and S&amp;P.
The one agent that really doesn't have us rated as investment grade is Fitch.
But I do think generally as we view the rating process they're waiting for continuation of solid portfolio metrics.
And look at Tom has touched on we have 17 consecutive quarters of GAAP same-store growth.
I mean we're really laying the foundation work with the portfolio reaching stability; that we have a lot of visibility on operating capital costs.
So we do believe that with these numbers we're posting the de-leveraging that will occur as a corporate priority and as a result of these accelerated sales as well as the lease-up of the development projects and even the redevelopment project at 1900 Market which is far exceeding expectations we think that 2016 will be a good time to revisit the agencies and take the temperature on the next steps.
I mean Tom what do you think? Yes I agree with what Jerry outlined.
I think what usually happens is the agencies have been looking at our development as an example as an item they wanted to see more clarity on.
So I think as FMC gets closer to coming online as we get to see more leasing activity they feel that was sort of an unknown to them and that should improve.
And again Fitch does have us on a positive.
Who knows if they'll move us up? And then the other thing is the leverage.
I think the selling of the assets while keeping cash flow which is what we're doing now narrowing the gap and CAD spread should help them also being consistently above 90% now with occupancy also helps them look to improve where we're.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with Mizuho Securities.
So could you be able to provide an estimate on how dilutive the dispositions will be on a per-share basis when you combine both 2015 and 2016 in your 2016 guidance? Sure Rich hold on.
Yes so I think taking a look at what we have for dispositions we have about $22.5 million in dilution programmed in the first half from the sales.
So when you look at -- we basically took the dispositions and assumed that they occur at the end of each quarter -- the first and second quarter.
So obviously those can move a little bit but that's what we did for simplicity purposes.
And we used an 8% cap rate on our 16 dispositions as well as the additional $100 million of spec that we put into -- so the $100 million at an 8% generates an $8 million roughly $0.04 dilution.
The $22 million of dilution that we have for the next year -- I'd have to do the math on that but it would be about $22.5 million on our share count.
Okay $22.5 million including both the late 2015 and first half 2016 dispositions? No.
The $8 million based on the additional spec and then another $22.5 million on the 450.
And then the question may be for Jerry or George.
Can you just comment on Austin? Tech-heavy market you're kind of looking to increase your exposure there in the short term maybe through development and what have you.
But what do you think the long-term prognosis is in Austin if you have any concern at all about technology or just the health of the market in general how long that can last? I don't know that we're overly concerned about that one sector I mean all of the reports on Austin from job growth economic growth and it's coming from a multitude of industries.
I think we're quickly becoming kind of the Silicon Valley of the South but again improving metrics it's been rated the number two market from an overall real estate perspective number-one for development.
The tech sector jobs are increasing but we're seeing even within our portfolio kind of a broad range of tenants taking a look at space.
Yes I just to add on to George's comments I mean look we're certainly very focused through a really extraordinary local team on looking for early warning signs of any adverse impact in Austin on either the oil industry or technology.
And look Austin has done very well for us and a number of other companies but it's also a market that tends to run very hot and very cold.
I think we mentioned on the last call I mean one of the assets we're looking to sell because pricing has become very strong in Austin.
We're looking to sell maybe one of our assets in Austin.
So the capital recycling will take place there over the next year as well.
And on the development front I think we're going to be very cautious in terms of new development in Austin.
I think we have some very good land holdings some other things that we're looking at.
But I do think that's a market that we will be looking for any significant pre-leasing before making further capital commitments as well as a real good [indiscernible] where we think that market is going.
That marketplace has a tremendous level of in-migration of people over 130 people a day I think move into Austin.
It's heavily anchored by good medical and academic institutions state capital.
So it seems to have a level of diversity to it that provides a little bit of an insulation from the heavy reliance on the tech sector where even a corollary impact from the oil industry.
But look we've been in that market for a while now.
We've seen the rents continue to move up we've seen rents move down.
So I think our approach down there is make sure we're positioned for future opportunities make sure we mitigate that risk as we proceed with them and then constantly stay on top of what we think is happening in that marketplace.
Your next question comes from the line of Ian Weissman with Credit Suisse.
Just as a follow-up to Rich's question on Austin specifically.
I think you have about a third of your portfolio in Austin rolling next year.
Can you just give us an update on leasing progress? I think the biggest impact there is really with the IBM joint venture.
So George maybe kind of walk through that? Right.
So our IBM joint venture at Broadmoor we have two buildings that roll in 2016.
We're currently in discussions with IBM on those two buildings specifically and then also on the other five buildings that they occupy that roll in 2017.
Right now we're kind of going through the proposal process on whether or not they're going to give back space or not.
Our plan does assume in 2016 that they do give us back those two buildings.
And then those two builds as we announced when we bought IBM out of the joint venture would go through a repositioning redevelopment plan to reintroduce them to a multi-tenant or a new user tenant mix and would look for those buildings to come back online in 2017.
But we're still hopeful that when it's all said and done that it is ultimately just renewal with IBM who is at a very below-market rental rate at this time.
And just as a follow-up I think you mentioned in your comments that the assets that you recently sold were an essential drag on your fundamentals.
I'm just curious if you can quantify what type of internal growth bump we should expect that's built into your guidance for next year as a result of these sales? This is Tom.
Our metrics most of the sales while -- the way we really roll them out is on a speculative basis so we've not really programmed what transactions will occur and run them through on a pro forma basis.
So if we get a number of sales done we'll certainly update the metrics for all of them.
As we look at -- then we do have ranges that we put together but really until we do the sales our guidance we really don't take a look at what those metrics are going to be because we do have quite a bit on the market and the timing could really affect how those metrics roll out in 2016.
I guess the question is if you take into account the assets that you've already closed then right what type of internal growth were they going to expect to deliver in 2016 versus the range that you put out today? I'm just trying to understand how much of a drag those secondary markets were on the portfolio? Yes I think all of those properties or just about all of those properties given where they were located predominantly New Jersey some of the noncore Pennsylvania suburbs.
They were all performing below our ranges both our actual 2015 ranges and our projected 2016 ranges.
Your next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] with Stifel.
John Guinee here stop me Jerry if you've mentioned or you've answered this.
But if you look at your midpoint for 2014 of $1.33 ex all the tax credit noncash tax credit stuff and take out the land that's about $1.30 a share.
And your midpoint of your guidance is also for 2015 -- or 2016 I'm sorry -- it's a $1.30 a share.
So that's basically year-over-year flat FFO which seems almost too good to be true given the amount of asset sales you've got going on.
How does that math work? John it's Tom.
Really we have growth coming from FMC coming online which I mentioned is bringing in $8 million to $10 million.
I mentioned that we're going to have a reduction in debt because the sales are taking place.
We're going to have about $10 million of interest savings there.
And then I mentioned growth in the portfolio NOI was going to generate I think we have a 3% GAAP and I think it's going to generate roughly $17 million of GAAP NOI.
Okay and then the second question is this is Northern Virginia.
If you look at the statistics coming out of the research ops it seems sort of flat maybe a little bit of positive absorption.
But if you talk to the leasing brokers in that market what they'll say is the GSA downsizing and the defense contractors still giving back space results in a lot of shadow vacancy out there and you're going to still see the market maybe have vacancy go up as opposed to improve.
Which side of the equation do you guys fall off on? Is the Northern Virginia market in fact getting better or has it still got more downside? Well I think it varies.
I mean I think we feel good about kind of our position in Northern Virginia in that we've gotten that part of our Metro D.C.
region to 90% leased.
Our drag really has been more in suburban Maryland.
There is a tremendous backlog of GSA leases kind of waiting to get done.
We've got one with the FBI in our Calverton Maryland property that is on the docket for 2016 but most of our leasing during 2015 was more private sector kind of cyber security-related contractors.
So I think right now and again it's been a very up-and-down market.
We're feeling pretty good about where we're currently sitting in Northern Virginia and we've got clearly some continued wood to chop in Maryland.
Yes I mean John just to add onto that I think we certainly target reducing our exposure to all of the off toll road properties in Northern Virginia which we think will be some markets that may not come back as fast as core on toll road.
And look and we've talked to a lot of brokers some of our competitors.
We have a great leasing team down there.
I will tell you there's always this overhang of what the GSA will do and whether it all be able to make leasing decisions quickly what they plan on doing.
But I will tell you the general feedback we're getting is that the market is primed for a continued to update a very slow recovery.
Now it's always hard to determine whether that's just hope versus expectations.
But it seems like we were able to experience as George touched on at our Dallas Corner properties out in Herndon really did I think that was kind of a test case for us.
If we invested money in that park kind of repositioned it how we would do.
And I think we were just delighted with the results.
We had a couple of major rollovers in that park.
We retooled the buildings lobbies common areas outdoor areas had something new to present to the broker market and the fact of the matter is that we well exceeded our absorption pace.
But more importantly had significant improvement in rental rate achievements kept capital costs where we thought they would be.
And I think to us that said if you have the right product and the right locations you'll fare pretty well.
And against the backdrop of we think we'll be an improving market we should do okay down there.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Can you guys talk a little bit more about your leasing prospects at FMG Tower? And I guess also in the context of just -- you think about the moving pieces in the downtown Philly office market over there in a couple of years what's your outlook and how do you think that that market fares? Yes happy to do it Jamie.
George and I will tag-team.
I mean look as I touched on one of the other calls one of the other questions I think when we take a look at our performance over the last three years in [indiscernible] University City.
As I mentioned a GAAP mark-to-market at 15% cash 6% of our same-store growth numbers there in that portfolio has been 6.5% on a cash basis 6% GAAP we have during that short period of time we've increased our average lease term by over 40%.
So as we went into 2015 and now looking at the 2016 I think we saw we had about 450 000 square feet of exposure in Center City and University City Philadelphia.
So really comprise of a big block at 1900 Market and the remaining space at FMC.
And look we'd love to be reporting that we fully leased at FMC at this point.
I think as we assess the performance during the year we've reduced that overall companywide exposure by over 50%.
By executing the large lease at 1900 and the pipeline of deals for the remaining balance that space looks very good and our pro forma returns will exceed estimates based upon higher-than-expected rental rates.
When we look at FMC that property is up to the 27th floor current wall is up to about 18.
The pipeline continues to be roughly about 2% of the available space.
We have a number of proposals out active discussions underway for 40% to 50% of the space.
Tour velocity is increasing significantly.
We really just opened up our one-acre green park to the real estate community last week and it was well attended by almost 300 brokers and we've had a continued run of hard-hat tours with both tenants brokers near-term and longer-term prospects.
So I think the level of activity we're very pleased with.
I think we still are very comfortable that we're going to make some significant leasing progress over the next couple of quarters.
When we assess I guess Philadelphia overall there's a couple of buildings in this city that have large blocks of vacancy Mellon Bank Center being the largest amount of space to lease.
They're about 50% vacant.
And it's a good building.
So we think that will be good competition particularly for the B-plus inventory where we're seeing rents in that inventory class move up dramatically.
And one of the interesting things that we've seen a number of sales in Philadelphia of non-trophy properties at very low cap rates and pretty high prices per square foot compared to historical standards.
A lot of those buyers are out of market and they've done what we hoped they would do which is kind of increase their rental rates on the B-quality space which has created a little bit of an updraft for us and frankly I think some other trophy property owners continue to push rents.
So there is a number of moving pieces downtown -- a large piece of which we have Cigna locked with their lease I guess was in the last quarter George.
Yes.
But there tends to be very good activity and the point that we really do focus on is that a number of prospects that we're talking to as well as more importantly the activity in the marketplace is with a lot of companies looking at moving downtown or moving a piece of their operations downtown.
Because you can't forget that a lot of these cities are changing and a lot of perceptions need to be re-examined.
But you know Center City population has increased over 30% in the last decade and a half and is projected to grow another 5% over the next several years.
It's had a tremendous increase in high income people moving downtown.
In fact I think the CBRE came out with a recent report on retail rents in the city and Philadelphia was in the top five leading markets in the country for increasing in retail rents.
We've seen a continued pace of absorption on the residential side.
So we do think thematically the city continues to get better.
And from Brandywine's perspective that our inventory base our leasing team our ability to execute quickly on deals really does give us a competitive advantage as frankly the numbers have shown over the last few years.
Okay and just to clarify I think you said you've got leases for 2% of the available space.
I think you meant 2 times the available space? Two times yes.
It's my cold in Philadelphia accent.
Sorry.
We have prospects for over 2 times the amount of available space thanks.
And then as we think about the CAD you've laid out for next year and where the dividend is today can you give us any thoughts on potential for a bump heading into 2016? Well look it's certainly something we revisit with the Board every year.
And I think one of the gating issues with us -- increase in the dividend in the past has really been can we complete our repositioning plan and what will be Company look like after that's done? I think one of the things that we're excited about is that 2016 is the year we really start to get that to-do checked off our list and I think based upon the cash flow numbers we have frankly I think Tom the really good coverage we have from a cash flow standpoint I think we're feeling pretty good about the prospects for the Company being in an excellent position.
I know there are some concern anytime you come in below FFO ranges versus estimates.
But I think what we were very pleased with is the fact that even with the top-line FFO coming down we were actually able to increase our per-share CAD.
And I think that really speaks well to the great job our operating teams have done in extending lease terms keeping our capital really controlled over the last few years and the fact that we're finally getting through via the sales program signing off some of these very high capital consuming properties which create for the Board a lot more visibility on a very solid run rate.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Manny Korchman here with Michael.
Tom or Jerry if we look at your leverage targets that you laid out looking at those numbers you get back to sort of latter half 2014 levels.
Are those -- if we think about those as goals are those the high end of where leverage is going to go? Is that where you want to get to? And then you're going to think about longer-term leverage [indiscernible] going forward? Just help us rationalize what those targets actually represent? Manny I think from our perspective we look at the numbers that Tom mentioned on 2016.
We view that gets us to the level of leverage plateau that we were targeting on an intermediate basis.
I think the Company's path continues to be over time continues to further reduce that leverage through a combination of NOI growth better debt management and overall lower levels of leverage.
Yes Manny I think that yes the leverage targets that we laid out for the end of the year where we think we'll be into the mid 6's is a good pathway depending on sales and what happens that could change a little bit as each quarter rolls out.
But the key we're looking at is as we look into the next year which is FMC completely coming online and looking at some of our other joint ventures maybe getting more stabilized.
We should see that path continuing into 2017.
Our long-term goal is still to get into the low 6's or 6 basically.
And we think that as we look into 2017 again that's a long way off in terms of having specifics.
We do see the glide path continuing to go that 6.5 will trend lower in 2017.
And if we look at the composition of the mix of assets you have targeted for sale both in what's left of 2015 and 2016 how do you come up with a sort of first question is how do you come up with an 8% cap rate especially since you've executed sales below that this year? And secondly how are those sales going to impact -- or do they impact your same-store and other guidance items that you've given? Well I guess Tom and I will tag-team that as well.
I think it's always hard to project where we think sales will be.
I do think when we take a look at us trying to further reduce our exposure to New Jersey Delaware some of the off-toll road properties in northern Virginia Richmond you know they tend to be marks that based upon visibility we're seeing are kind of markets or that kind of 8% cap rate.
Again that's plus or minus 50 to 75 basis points.
But the mix of what we have in the market I think we're comfortable at that 8% overall range.
Now we did bring that down.
Historically we've done 8.5% Manny and I think based upon the pipeline of potential buyers as well as the mix of what we have in the market we thought that 8% was a very reasonable assumption to focus on as we projected out 2016 guidance.
Yes I think that's true.
I think also we tended to get some good cap rates on our California assets which there's not many left of them.
So it's a blend but yes as Jerry talked about it probably going to be a higher cap rate than some of the things we've historically shown on a combined basis.
And then on the metrics I think what we basically look at it Manny on that these are speculative and that we don't really adjust our metrics and our leasing plan until they occur.
So in the plan if we sell a building that's fully leased it may not change the plan at all.
We may sell a building that's empty and that would change the plan significantly.
So we have targeted a range but we haven't changed our metrics relative to the operating results for those sales.
So hopefully as they occur they may be improving.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
Just a follow-up on the disposition outlook so New Jersey Delaware Richmond I think maybe you got the remainder of California in there or some assets in suburban D.C.
And you've got about 650 to go over the next three quarters.
How does if at all the IRS facility downtown Philly play into the total disposition target? Yes Brendan look there have been press reports and we don't always believe what we read in the press but we certainly -- we think that the IRS complex with the tax credit now burning off it kind of unencumbers us to look at other options.
So certainly one of the things we're looking at is I'd say a 15-year remaining government lease.
On the positive side it's a 15-year lease no capital requirements on the countervailing side.
It's a project that has a no annual rental rate increases for us.
So it's fairly flat.
So look just like anything the question really raised is broader which is what are we prepared to sell and I think when we look at our portfolio we really do go through a process of looking.
When we say optimal value points might be and certainly the IRS campus would fit into that category where it's probably prudent to assess what the market will value that property at and whether that valuation today is something that fits into our roll plan.
Yes and I guess Jerry I definitely appreciate.
I think it makes a lot of sense to kind of sell off these noncore assets and your increasing CAD numbers guidance for 2016 even while reducing leverage sort of proves that point out.
I guess maybe part of the question is.
I would think if the IRS facility did come into 2016 disposition plans maybe you'd be ahead of the guidance from a disposition plan standpoint.
Is that a possibility as we think about 2016 sales? It's a possibility and it might accelerate some of the timing components but honestly Brendan it's really too early to project all that.
I think what we've really laid out is that we have a number of properties in the market.
To a great degree we're still in price discovery on a lot of different projects.
We have another queue ready to go out right after the end of the year.
So I think as certainly Tom touched on and I tried to mention is that the guidance we have now could have upward or downward bias based upon the timing of when these sales occur and certainly when those events occur of any sizable scale we would certainly come back to the marketplace and explain what we've done and what the impact of that transaction or those transactions would be.
I know that's somewhat vague but that's unfortunately where I think the deal processes are right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman with Keybanc Capital Markets.
Just a follow-up on the disposition questions here.
Could you just -- I know that you kind of put out a couple of markets that you're looking to sell property in; have some stuff in the market.
But could you just give a sense of what the appetite is so far from investors for those types of assets? Sure happy to.
Look I think the fact that we've increased our dispositioning guidance has given us -- it really comes from the fact that we've seen really good activity across the board.
We've sold properties to a number of users this year which has been a very successful undertaking for us.
We would expect to do a few more of those.
We've sold properties to local real estate investment companies who are following a more highly leveraged model and buying assets that are at good cap rates going in but hopefully they can get some growth out of it through the combination of leverage and market improvement.
And we've sold a number of properties to institutional investors who are clearly trying to figure out how to deploy a wall of capital they have that needs to be deployed and asset-generate pretty good returns on leveraged equity.
So I think our investments team has done a really good job of sequencing how we put things in the market what sub-markets we're hitting and then assessing that as we get information back from all the markets where we have properties being marketed for sale.
So again our average transaction size as you know Craig is $20 million to $30 million sometimes a little bit more.
So we really do get a whole range of buyers that again range from users to institutions based upon the size of the deal that we're putting on the marketplace.
I guess to Brendan's question about the IRS building and you guys accelerating dispo's here.
On the gain side are you guys able to maneuver that or is -- you know if you do accelerate sales would there be any pressure on the dividend? This is Tom Craig.
No we will be able to maneuver around having pressure on the dividend.
Okay.
And then just lastly the stock is number [indiscernible] this year and it seems like it's a mix of capital concerns and you guys ramping the development pipeline and I know that you're not putting anything into guidance for next year but just I guess some higher level thoughts on your views of getting back down to 6 times debt to EBITDA and kind of getting the balance sheet fully fortified again versus kind of incremental buybacks here and potential new developments eventually.
Let me try and answer that.
Look it's always hard to predict where the capital markets are going in terms of equity pricing etcetera.
So look we're clearly focused on doing it taking the right steps to improve shareholder value.
We do that knowing full well that the markets where our portfolio is based are not necessarily the preferred markets by the general investment community at this point.
So I think we've tried to do is focus kind of we're making the right real estate decisions and hopefully having that translate into value.
So as we sat down and contemplated what we wanted to do in 2016 based upon the answer to your previous question or some of the other questions on the call we clearly think now is the moment we've been waiting for to accelerate dispositions.
I know we frustrated some investors we weren't doing bulk sales two or three years ago but the reality we've created a lot of value through the sales through the operating plan to create a portfolio that now we think we can optimize as we put it to the marketplace.
When that cash comes in right now from those sales the marketplace is clearly signaling that de-leveraging and locking away all of our development pipeline funding with the additional possibility of share buybacks is clearly the best capital allocation.
I mean so beyond that we'll see what the market brings.
If the world continues the way it has been the world six months from now could be a lot different than it is today.
So I think our major objective is number one make the right real estate decision on what we do with each of our assets move on an uncompromising path towards a stronger more liquid balance sheet and take advantage of opportunities where we see them.
Jerry it's Jordan Tyler just following up.
It's that last piece I guess that I'm -- I don't know struggling with if that's the right term or if I'm just curious about the uncompromising path toward de-levering the balance sheet.
It seems while maybe the investment community would have looked forward to you selling bulk assets or bulk asset sales and de-levering the balance sheet that also pretty much as sort of a function of.
I think what you told us years ago maybe your June 2012 Investor Day I'm thinking of when we focused on sort of these leverage targets.
And I feel like in some sense maybe the performance in your stock has been a function of the re-levering of the balance sheet and taking on of incremental risk at a time when people are concerned about leverage from a global perspective.
And so I understand the timing and market timing and real estate decisions are very important but I think capital markets a pristine focus on sort of or keen focus on capital markets and uncompromising focus seems really important too.
How do we get convinced that that's sort of where the Company is headed over the course of the next one to two years? Well a very good observation.
I think the 2016 business plan really kind of lays that out.
Look the balance any company will have is always looking at what the right near-term and long-term perspective is.
I think we've tried to indicate we even mentioned it very clearly when we undertook a couple of these development projects will have the impact of transitionally moving our EBITDA multiple up above our range but we had plans in place to bring it back down.
I think that's what we're doing this latter half of 2015 and into 2016.
And your next question comes from the line of Jed Reagan with Green Street Advisors.
On the 2016 development plans I mean are you basically saying that you're going to hit the pause button on kind of your future Austin and Philly and D.C.
projects including 4040 Wilson and are you actually making a conscious decision to take a step back relative to some of your initial plans or do you think you could still move forward on some of these projects next year pre-leasing materializes? Well I think what we're doing is basically indicating that we're going to continue the pre-development spend as we've built into our plans for these different projects.
Continue selling assets and then being in a position to evaluate what to do based upon what the market is telling us from a leasing standpoint.
So I think even the near-term land acquisitions that we did during the year a lot of that was focused on starts occurring in kind of 2017 and 2018.
So getting ourselves ready from a development planning and a pre-leasing standpoint to get all those queued up.
Okay so three to six months ago you were still -- if you had been setting guidance three to six months ago for development starts probably also wouldn't have had [indiscernible] in the beginning next year.
It's not like a change of your path that you were already on? I think Jed what we're really focused on doing is what we've outlined today and then making sure that the Company remains in a very good position to capitalize on future growth opportunities.
I mean the market won't stop.
So I think given our land holdings given our relationships with brokers and tenants we're always constantly in the marketplace looking for future opportunities whether they be build-to-suits or controlling other asset bases.
But I think as we view sitting here today in October the major focus is on accomplishing the 2016 business plan.
And in that plan we have factored in continued front money spending on some of these development projects.
Okay.
And then I was interested that you're selling land in Austin and just curious where that land is located and why you thought it would become noncore and then also what kind of pricing you achieved there on a per [indiscernible] thought basis? The land we sold was a parcel of ground that came along with our Four Points acquisition and it was a parcel of ground that we had programmed for residential and we sold it to a residential developer.
I don't have the exact metrics in front of me Jed but we got a fair price for it that was above our basis so we were happy with it.
Thank you and there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Mr.
Sweeney for any closing remarks.
Felicia thank you and thank you all for joining us for the call.
We appreciate it and we look forward to keeping you updated in our business plan progress.
Thank you and this concludes today's Brandywine Realty Trust Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Brandywine Realty Trust Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jerry Sweeney President and CEO of Brandywine Realty Trust.
Sir you may begin.
Recalp [ph] thank you very much.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in our fourth quarter 2016 earnings call.
We certainly appreciate everyone’s patience over the last 24 hours and look forward to providing this update.
On today's call with me today are George Johnstone our Executive Vice President of Operations; Tom Wirth our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Dan Palazzo our Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
Prior to beginning certain information discussed during our call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Law.
Although we believe estimates reflected in these statements are based on reasonable assumptions we can't give assurances that the anticipated results will be achieved.
For further information on factors that could impact our anticipate results please reference our press release as well as our most recent Annual and Quarterly Reports filed with the SEC.
So to start off I think on both the investments and the operations front we had a very strong year end close and started off 2016 with solid execution across the board.
Our 2015 dispositions the Cira Square and the Och Ziff transaction that closed yesterday have substantially completed our multiple year portfolio alignment strategy.
They achieved our goals of having a stronger growth profile reducing forward capital obligations significantly increasing our overall liquidity and achieving our intermediate term balance sheet of targets.
All in all we believe excellent results that really do position our company as urban town center operator and developer.
The sale of Cira Square will close by mid February and enable us to harvest a significant profit generate a 20 plus percent internal rate of return delever and create additional financial capacity.
That sale as we had previously announced it was for $354 million about $410 per square foot.
With the Och Ziff transaction which closed yesterday we contribute 100% of our own inventory in Richmond Virginia remaining off Toll Road properties in Northern Virginia and several New Jersey and Pennsylvania suburban assets to a partnership with Och Ziff Real Estate where Brandywine will retain a 50% interest and serve as a managing member of the joint venture.
We will also remain overall asset manager of the portfolio and these elements are consistent with our previously executed strategy of reducing our exposure to non-core assets.
The upshot of these transactions is that we have sold or transferred over $1.14 billion of assets or 7.4 million square feet in the last five quarters at an average 7% cap rate.
This was a very important objective to position our company for better growth.
Operating fundamentals as George will touch on continue to perform exceptionally well.
Our pipeline of forward leasing is very strong and our potential build to suit pipeline remains very robust.
Even given that though there is no question that the recent frying in the equity and debt capital markets could give the overall real estate markets an overall pause.
As such our perspective was to accelerate value harvesting as quickly as possible to make sure the company is in an exceptionally strong financial and operating position just in case market volatility impacts the pricing or availability of near term liquidity.
The incremental sales of Cira Square and the Och Ziff transaction accomplished those objects.
They significantly improved the company’s defensive posture while achieving all the benefits of a more streamlined higher growth portfolio supported by a much stronger balance sheet.
With that brief overview we’ll take a look at 2015 business plan results and look ahead to 2016.
George will then discuss our 2016 leasing activity and then Tom of course will review our fourth quarter financial results.
As I mentioned we are very pleased with 2015’s performance.
We achieved our operating goals and made significant progress on a variety of other fronts.
On the operational side we exceeded our 2015 key targets including spec revenue retention lease terms GAAP and cash mark to market.
We leased over 4 million square feet during the year consistent with leasing activity over the past few years.
We had over 270 000 feet of positive absorption and Brandywine occupancy levels continued to outperform the markets in which we do business.
We ended the year at 93.5% occupied and 94.4% leased up 210 and 110 basis points respectively from year end 2014 levels.
Our GAAP mark to market was 13.4% for the quarter and 8.8% for the year exceeding our targeted range.
Our tenant retention rate for the quarter was 80.6% and 77% for the year well above our original business plan forecast of 64%.
Our GAAP and cash same store numbers for the year were within our business plan range at 3.6% GAAP and 3.4% cash.
Our lease duration for the quarter was 9.1 years for the year it was 7.8 exceeding our original business plan of 7.5 years.
Average annual rental increase on leases executed during the year was 2.5% consistent with the past couple of years.
Leasing capital came in at $2.42 per square foot per year well within our targeted range.
So the upshot is that our overall approach of lengthening lease terms reducing forward rollover generating positive same store growth and maintaining capital spend within our targeted range were all achieved during 2015.
Looking at the balance sheet clearly the year end reported numbers are superseded by the recent activity.
And the recent activity as I touched on has significantly accelerated the execution of our balance sheet strategy.
On a pro forma basis our investment and financing transactions have resulted in the following benefits.
They reduced our 2015 year end net debt to EBITDA of 7.1 down to about 6.4.
Given the related debt payoffs through the additional liquidity they reduced our weighted average cost of debt down from 4.9 to 4.7%.
They provide sufficient cash on hand to enable us to pay off the 2016 bonds of approximately $150 million due April 1 2016 and after all the debt payoffs will leave us with a net cash balance of $375 million with zero balance on our $600 million line of credit.
The remaining cash will be used to fund our remaining obligations on FMC and the pre-development costs on our other development pipeline projects.
We anticipate having a cash balance at the end of the year between $150 million and $175 million clearly a great result for the company and as indicated positions the company extremely well for whatever impact future volatility may have.
As we mentioned before achieving our intermediate objective of 6.5 EBITDA target which was targeted for year end 2017 has been accelerated and we would certainly expect continued EBITDA improvements through both internal growth and development lease-up as well as reaping the benefits of a higher quality portfolio.
As I mentioned on the investment front we’ve sold over $1.1 billion at an average cap rate of 7% and during the year acquired $189 million of which most represented the bite of our joint venture partner with IBM at the Broadmoor complex in Austin.
And thinking about the Och Ziff transaction it did consist of a series of transactions with affiliates of Och Ziff Real Estate that resulted in conveying 58 properties containing in aggregate 3.9 million square feet.
The sales transaction valued at portfolio at $398 million or $101 per square foot and about a mid-1/8% cap rate.
We wound up as disclosed in the press release -- sold the fee and an affiliate of Brandywine will retain a 50% interest in the leasehold venture that we're currently valuing at $26 million which consists of equity of $15 million and pre-funded cash escrow balances of $11 million.
Brandywine received approximately $353 million of net proceeds from this transaction after costs.
From an overall standpoint though the combination of Och Ziff and Cira Square will generate $707 million of cash proceeds.
So a good result for the organization.
As indicated in the press release we updated our previously issued 2016 guidance range to $1.23 to $1.30 per share primarily reflecting the acceleration and the execution of our increased dispositions offset by stronger than originally anticipated operating performance that George will touch on.
Key assumptions in our plan for 2016 is that including the Post Office and Och Ziff transaction we are increasing our 2016 disposition guidance to $850 million which is a $400 million increase over our original plan of $450 million.
To be clear after the execution of the Post Office transaction and Och Ziff we are still anticipating an additional $80 million of dispositions occurring with $40 million in the second quarter and $40 million in the third quarter at an average cap rate of 8%.
On the operating front we continue to make great progress.
Spec revenue as revised for the Och Ziff transaction has been increased $4.6 million or 23% and is already 55% executed.
We have increased our mark-to-market on a GAAP basis to 7% to 9% from 5% to 7% and our cash from zero to 2% from minus 1% to 1%.
Our financial metrics are much stronger.
We are now targeting a year-end 2016 net debt to EBITDA of between 6.3 and 6.4 and a net debt to GAV of 38%.
These transactions and our operating performance in 2016 put us well on the track to reduce our overall debt levels to our long-term target in the low 30% range and our EBITDA target to be below 6 times or below in the next seven to eight quarters.
Some quick notes on development projects.
Our joint venture with Toll Brothers called the Parc at Plymouth Meeting we delivered 100% of those units and are currently 76% leased.
We expect a stabilized return of 7.7% up from our original forecast of 7%.
Our 1919 joint venture with CalSTRS and LCOR in Center City Philadelphia that project is on budget and on schedule.
We signed an additional lease so the office and retail component is now 100% leased.
The building topped off in October on schedule.
And the tower's facade and window wall system is substantially complete.
The first set of units are on schedule for delivery in March and April and substantial completion is on target to occur by the end of June.
Our renovation of 1900 Market is substantially complete.
The AmeriHealth division of Independence Blue Cross moved into the first 113 000 square feet of their targeted 228 000 square feet of occupancy.
That project remains at 89% leased with a strong pipeline of overall transactions.
And as I touched on last quarter we still are projecting an overall investment base below $200 per square foot and a stabilized frame clear return of over 11%.
FMC Tower continues on budget and on schedule.
Curtain wall through the entire office component is complete with tenant finish work actively underway and running slightly ahead of schedule.
The residential core is rising and we anticipate office occupancy occurring on plan mid-summer as well as the residential units being available for occupancy in late summer or early fall.
On the office leasing front we've made excellent progress since our last call and anticipate shortly announcing a series of leases aggregating more than 100 000 square feet which would bring our pre-leasing percentage to over 76%.
Behind that we continue to work with a very healthy pipeline and anticipate more leasing progress prior to opening up our doors.
The residential component which is being marketed under the AKA brand is gearing up for its launch.
Pre-marketing efforts have been very encouraging and we expect to be able to have more information to report to you on the next call.
So our key objectives remain growing cash flow and net asset value.
The transactions we executed are a significant and compelling step in the right direction and will be translated into improved operating results in 2016 and beyond.
Due to our increase in spec revenue which has been driven by additional projected leasing our 2016 CAD range was revised to $0.80 to $0.90 or about a 70% payout at the midpoint.
That’s a reduction from our previous range of $0.85 to $0.90 but still a very well-covered dividend and the incremental capital we're incurring is all good news due to additional leasing.
So from our perspective the trend line remains very encouraging.
And a narrowing of the gap between FFO and cash flow reflects our portfolio reaching stabilization our accelerated early renewal program continued control on capital and much more importantly the positioning the portfolio for better growth for our disposition efforts.
At this point George will provide an overview of our operational performance.
Thank you Jerry.
Another busy and productive quarter.
We leased over 900 000 square feet of space during the quarter and over 4 million square feet for the year.
Leasing activity remains robust in all of our markets.
The pipeline excluding development projects stands at 2.4 million square feet with 625 000 square feet in lease negotiations.
We remain well-leased in CBD Philadelphia outpacing the market by 710 basis points.
We continue to see double-digit leasing spreads on a GAAP basis and near double-digit on a cash basis.
Capital has averaged $2.31 per square foot per lease-year on a weighted average term in excess of seven years.
The greater Philadelphia region's overall outlook is encouraging.
Unemployment declined in the fourth quarter to 5.4% its lowest since 2008.
Positive absorption occurred for the third consecutive quarter.
And roughly 25% of the leasing activity during 2015 came from outside the market.
The Crescent markets continue to operate in a similar strong fashion where we outpace market vacancy by 400 basis points.
The strength of these markets continues to shift deal flow toward King of Prussia.
Overall suburban Pennsylvania absorption for the year was in excess of 500 000 square feet its highest level since 2007.
Turning to Metro DC.
We posted our third consecutive quarter of positive absorption raising occupancy to 87%.
Job growth was especially strong during 2015 in Washington Metro.
Over 67 000 net jobs were added which was the region's largest gain in a decade.
Regional unemployment is 4.3%.
And for the third consecutive quarter Northern Virginia suburban Maryland and the District each recorded positive absorption.
Flight to quality continues as tenants focus on efficiency amenities and access to transportation.
2015 was a record year for Austin office market with 2.1 million square feet being absorbed and 75% of that occurring in the northwest and southwest markets.
Austin rents set new milestones during the fourth quarter and the overall vacancy rate of 9.6 is the lowest since the dot-com bust of 2001.
Our portfolio continues to perform well.
Rents within our DRA joint venture are projected to increase 14% to 16% on a GAAP basis and 7% to 9% on a cash basis.
In terms of the updated 2016 business plan with the closing of the Och Ziff portfolio our original leasing plan has been reduced by 769 000 square feet and $7.5 million.
The remainder of the company however has generated an incremental 314 000 square feet of leasing with $4.6 million of associated spec revenue.
This results in an updated spec revenue target of $24.9 million from 1.8 million square feet of leasing.
That plan is currently 55% and 38% complete from a revenue and square footage perspective.
And these updates are all reflected on Page 7 within the supplemental package.
One deal of note from this incremental leasing activity is a program 200 000 square-foot renewal by IBM in Austin.
This renewal represents one of two buildings expiring in 2016.
We still expect the second building to be vacated and subsequently redeveloped.
The leasing spreads on this renewal have enabled us to raise our GAAP target by 200 basis points to a new range of 7% to 9%.
All of our other operating metrics have remained unchanged from previous guidance.
Our leasing teams also remain focused on reducing forward rollover exposure for 2016 approximately 1.3 million square feet or 7% remains.
Five tenancies account for nearly 50% of that roll and we are in current negotiations with three of them and have already backfilled one of the two known move-outs.
In 2017 approximately 2.4 million square feet or 14% expires.
Again there are five tenancies accounting for half of this space the largest of which is IBM in Austin at 620 000 square feet and Wells Fargo in California at 335 000 square feet.
So to conclude we are excited about the activity levels in our market and our regional leasing teams' abilities to continue capturing market share.
The 2016 business plan is off to a good start and we look forward to our continued momentum in achieving its results.
At this point I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thank you George.
Our fourth quarter FFO totaled $69 million or $0.39 per share.
Some observations for the fourth quarter were that same-store fourth-quarter rates were 5% GAAP 4.1% cash both excluding net termination fees and other income.
We have now had 18 consecutive positive quarters for GAAP and 14 for the cash metric.
G&amp;A increased to 7.9 1.3 above our guidance.
That’s primarily due to incurred capital markets activity of over $0.5 million and higher-than-anticipated professional and personnel costs.
Termination fees were $2.2 million $1.2 million above our projections.
As projected FFO from our unconsolidated ventures totaled $8.1 million above our budget was primarily due to some termination fees at Allstate.
Our fourth-quarter CAD totaled $23.1 million or $0.13 per diluted share representing a 115% payout.
That number is below where we expected to be.
We incurred about $30 million of revenue-maintaining capital primarily due to some larger-than-anticipated tenants receiving their requested improvement allowances.
In addition we had $8.1 million or $0.04 a share of a one-time non-cash new-market tax credit.
So for the year our 2015 earnings included $20 million of non-cash tax credit income that will not be recognized on a go-forward basis in 2016 and beyond.
For 2016 FFO -- in prior years we have taken the approach to report FFO under the NAREIT definition and highlight certain one-time capital market activities that are included in our reported FFO.
In 2016 we are reporting our FFO without the costs associated with the retirement of the Cira Square and Garage mortgages due to the material amount approximately $0.38 per share of dilution that we believe will not result in our FFO being comparable to prior and future periods.
Looking at the first quarter of 2016 we note the following.
Property level operating income will be about $80 million.
G&amp;A expense consistent with prior years our first quarter will be $9.1 million and the full -- which is always front-loaded -- and the full year will be approximately $29 million.
Other income we expect to be $0.5 million with a full year of 2.6.
Term fees we expect $1 million in the first quarter and a full-year estimate of $3.1 million.
Interest expense will be $25 million which is below the prior incremental fourth quarter due to the repayment of the Cira Square and Garage mortgages.
FFO from our consolidated ventures should approximate $6.5 million as the residential joint ventures of Plymouth and University continue to improve offset by the Coppell sale of the joint venture with IBM.
General assumptions making for the 2016 guidance includes $850 million of net sales.
Those sales will be at the end of the second and third quarters at an 8% cap rate.
We have no speculative acquisitions in our current pipeline.
177.4 of weighted average shares on FFO.
We still have FMC generating between $8 million and $10 million of operating income commencing 3Q 2016.
Upon maturity we will pay off the 2016 bonds for $141.9 million and that yield is currently at 6%.
We'll do that at par with cash on hand.
We have contemplated a refinancing of Two Logan.
Currently that mortgage is at 7.5%.
We right now are contemplating refinancing that mortgage at roughly 4%.
We may end up paying it off however and we're working on making that decision.
But the model right now has it being refinanced.
On our capital plan we project 2016 CAD of $0.80 to $0.90 reflecting about $37 million of revenue-maintaining capital.
The decrease in CAD range is primarily due to additional leasing activity for several early terminations and improved leasing targets.
For 2016 looking at our capital plan the main proceed sources will be $100 million of cash flow after interest including the NPL and Garage of $180 million $850 million of speculative sales and $15 million when we finance Encino Trace II which is our joint venture project that we contributed in December to our DRA Austin joint venture.
In terms of uses we will have over $222 million of development pipeline the majority of that being FMC.
Aggregate dividends of $113 million.
We expect to spend about $28 million in our joint venture investments.
Revenue-creating capital will be about $40 million.
And we will repay the bonds for $150 million.
And we have already paid off the Garage and IRS mortgages on January 14 of this year.
Based on the plan as Jerry mentioned cash will be between $150 million and $175 million.
And we project our debt to EBITDA by the end of the year improving to 6.3% to 6.4%.
In addition our debt to GAV will approximate 37%.
I will now turn the call back over to Jerry.
Tom and George thank you very much.
So just to quickly wrap up I think we're very happy with the way 2015 closed out.
And 2016 plan is really off to a very accelerated and excellent start.
So we think all the activities thus far have really created a strong continuation of our drive towards growing asset value.
The operating platform continues to improve is more refined and much more focused on growth.
As George touched on we have consistent forward-leasing momentum across the board in all of our markets.
Our individual market out-performance continues.
Our balance sheet is in incredibly good shape.
With all the debt pay-downs the pre-funding in place for our development pipeline and looking at a large cash balance at the end of the year with nothing drawing our line of credit we think really does position the company well for whatever the market presents.
So with that we'd be delighted to open up the floor for questions.
As we always ask in the interest of time if you limit yourself to one question or thought that would be very much appreciated.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Gabriel Hilmoe with Evercore ISI.
Jerry just on the Och-Ziff transaction just wondering if you can provide a little bit more color on how the venture piece came about and maybe if there was an opportunity to fully fill out that portfolio? And then just maybe what kind of a longer-term plan is for the JV going forward? Gabe certainly.
And look that's a great question certainly one that we spend a lot of time thinking through.
I think as we assessed it and certainly one of our overriding themes was to harvest as much value out of our existing portfolio that we deemed to be non-core as possible as quickly as possible.
To make sure that the balance sheet and the residual owned portfolio was the best it could be heading into kind of the mid- to late-stage point in the cycle.
When we took a look at our overall portfolio including what wound up being contributed to the Och-Ziff transaction it's a large multi-state portfolio.
Good assets but in very illiquid markets.
So when you looked at it over 85% of the transaction value was coming out of Richmond off Toll Road in Virginia and New Jersey -- so markets where there is a -- the opportunity to do larger transactions is fairly remote.
So as we pulled together the portfolio we’re really focused on what was the best way for us to optimize value.
And of course when you put a lot of properties together that have a lot of tenants in a multi-market condition smart real estate investors like Och-Ziff want to have some level of continued interest by the folks that know and own and have run those properties for a number of years.
So I think as we went through the algorithm clearly a full exit would have been our preference in order to achieve the pricing levels and the accelerated recovery of a lot of equity that we could use for other purposes we realized that the best way to do that was to retain an ongoing interest in the portfolio.
Certainly it's not as clean we would like from a modeling standpoint.
But from a real estate perspective we thought it was a good decision and it helped us achieve market pricing accelerate the achievement of our strategic objectives of de-levering.
And the structure while complicated in some of its detail did enable us to realize $353 million of cash proceeds which when you work through the math was essentially 90% of full value today.
So as we look at the portfolio we are a 50% partner in the leasehold.
We had a smart real estate partner -- the folks at Och-Ziff Real Estate.
It's a well-structured transaction with significant cash escrows up in place to make sure this portfolio will be in an extremely strong competitive position going forward.
Looking ahead our perspective is that we think that we can through our combined efforts wring out some significant more value while Brandywine retains a very small economic stake in terms of dollars but has some significant upside.
We'll run this portfolio with a dedicated team retain management on leasing and certainly over the next three to five years working with our partner Och-Ziff focus on what the best exit strategy is.
But from our perspective bottom line it was an opportunity to significantly reduce our exposure to non-core somewhat illiquid markets.
And again the overlay of that with all the additional volatility in the market we thought it was better to move quickly than to sell a lot of these properties individually.
That enabled us to put money in the bank.
And as you heard from George and Tom it really does improve our operating metrics and significantly improves our balance sheet.
So as we looked at it it was a good blend of a transaction that accomplished our ability to harvest value created an affiliation with a smart real estate partner bring a lot of cash in the door to reduce our leverage levels totally bullet-proof the company from a cash proceeds standpoint to fully fund our development pipeline as well as maintain a very strong liquidity position.
So when you kind of run it through all of that business model we thought that it was a good transaction to proceed with.
And then just a follow-up to that.
I know you have a handful of other disposed programs for the rest of this year and obviously you have been very busy.
But when we think about getting into the end of ‘16 is that kind of -- after the sales are completed is that the portfolio that you want going forward and we shouldn't expect much more in the way of dispositions getting into ‘17? Again I think it's a good question.
As we looked at it the combination of what we did in 2015 and this large transaction with Och-Ziff Real Estate really substantially completes our repositioning strategy.
So I think from here on out it’s fine-tuning and just taking advantage of where we see spot opportunities to make money.
But as we look at it we are completely exiting from a wholly owned portfolio in Richmond we have completely exited all of the off Toll Road properties in Northern Virginia.
We have our remaining exposure in New Jersey down to frankly to a handful of buildings.
And our Pennsylvania suburban portfolio we still have a few more properties to move out the door but substantially the platform is in place.
So clearly we think that positions us pretty well going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of James Feldman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Sticking with the Och-Ziff transaction can you talk more about your longer-term thoughts on the JV assets? What's your thought about an eventual exit and how long do you think it might take? Well look certainly I think from both Och-Ziff's perspective and Brandywine's we are in this to make money and to harvest additional value.
I think the financing structure that was put into place looks at this thing -- a two- to five-year hold period.
The transaction is structured to provide the partnership the opportunity to do individual or smaller portfolio sales during the process as market conditions warrant.
So I think as we look it it's a three to five-year window.
We think that there is some good upside in the portfolio going forward.
And we think that frankly the math for us works well given the fact that we've harvested so much cash up front.
While we retain a 50% interest in the leasehold as we walk through -- our actual cash equity is below that.
So with the combination of the flexibility that was built into the initial transaction I think Brandywine and Och-Ziff's immediate focus on now getting value created and realized as well as our transitional role as a manager will create generate some additional fee income.
So we view this as a bridge to an ultimate exit as does our partner at Och-Ziff.
And then just my follow-up question.
George mentioned the five tenancies comprising most of the roll -- half of the roll in ‘16 and ‘17.
Can you give more color on those specific leases? Sure.
In looking at what we have remaining to accomplish in ‘16 the IBM transaction that I mentioned in Austin is roughly 200 000 square feet.
We have got a tenancy in King of Prussia for 100 000 square feet that we are in negotiations with right now.
We have got a GSA tenant in both suburban Maryland and in Radnor that we're in negotiations with.
We have had one already move out but we have re-let that space through a Comcast expansion at Two Logan Square in Philadelphia.
And so really the only known move-out was a 57 000 square-footer by Lockheed Martin in King of Prussia.
That was a $7 triple-net industrial building that the team is working on backfilling.
In ’17 I mentioned the two big ones IBM and Wells Fargo.
And then beyond that our next three largest a tenancy at Cira Centre for roughly 90 000 square feet -- leases are out to that tenant right now.
We have one known move-out in Newtown Square in the Pennsylvania suburbs for a 50 000 square-foot tenancy and then a 50 000 square-footer in Radnor that we're trading proposals with right now.
So really when you look at it five tenancies in each year and really those are the only ones that are above that 50 000 square-foot line.
So we feel good about the work we have accomplished thus far.
And then of what is remaining we feel good about where we stand in current dialogue with those tenants.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel.
Can you just help us on a few basic things? If you look at your guidance is it flat-lining or trending down a little bit? We would expect it to trend down but give us a little help on that quarter by quarter.
Second your pro forma NOI by major regions -- CBD suburban Philadelphia Tollway Austin once all these assets are sold.
And then third how does all of this affect the dividend in 2016? John this is Tom.
I will take the first part of the question on just the guidance.
As we look at the guidance it's going to trend up as the year goes on for two reasons.
One is going to be there will be some continued lease-up so the operating platform in the same-store group will increase as the year goes on steadily but then we will also bring on FMC.
So as we go through the second half of the year as we've mentioned we are bringing in about $8 million to $10 million of revenue more back-weighted to the fourth quarter than the third quarter.
So there will be a continued progression of operating income on the whole portfolio and then having FMC kick in during the second half of the year with more of it weighted to the fourth quarter -- from an operations standpoint.
From a G&amp;A standpoint it will trend down as I mentioned.
$9.1 million will then trend down as the year goes on to $29 million and that is mainly due to the way some of our deferred comp is recognized.
And then interest expense while it's $25 million for the quarter will trend down closer to $90 million as the year goes on based on the interest expense we had being paying off in this first quarter.
And John it's George.
In terms of NOI contribution because both the IRS building and the Och-Ziff buildings were categorized as held for sale our regional overview on Page 9 and kind of the pie chart NOI schedules on Page 12 are already post the IRS and Och-Ziff.
So when you look at NOI including our JVs -- CBD Philadelphia now at 33% the Crescent market is at 21% Austin at 11%.
And as Tom mentioned with FMC coming online continued lease-up at Encino Trace you will start to see a higher contribution level coming out of CBD and Austin.
And I think John the last part in terms of the dividend I think the numbers look solid.
The Board certainly evaluates that every quarter.
One of the key issues they were focused on and appropriately so was working through the final parts of our repositioning sales strategy getting down to the core same-store structure and see how that would perform.
And certainly with the capacity of these recent transactions to really accelerate the debt paydowns and dramatically improve both our balance sheet and our forward liquidity position as well as all the great work our operating teams do on managing forward capital costs particularly those that are revenue-maintaining.
We certainly think we have a well-covered dividend today.
And my expectation is that the Board will continue to look at that every quarter.
I will say having gotten these last pieces done in the last 60 days I think does create a very easy exercise for them to evaluate how the company is going to look over the next couple of years as they evaluate where our dividend growth should be.
Is there a need for a special in ‘16 because of the EPS I noticed in your guidance? John at this point we don't expect to do a special dividend.
Your next question comes from the line of Mitch Germain with JMP Securities.
Any change in posture from your tenants or leases taking longer to complete? No I think our average number of days to close is relatively unchanged from where it’s been in the past.
I think we do continue to see tenants who are up for renewal coming out earlier to kind of have some discussions but in terms of day-to-day back-and-forth no real change.
And George I think you reconciled how the spec revenue increased for this year the $4 million.
Can you just go over that one more time please? Yes sure.
Our original spec revenue target was $27.8 million.
Roughly $7.5 million of that was inside of what is now the Och-Ziff venture.
And then since our last business plan update in October we've generated an incremental $4.6 million of spec revenue.
So our revised target as we sit here today is at $24.9 million.
I understand the math but what drove that $4.6 million? The $4.6 million -- and you kind of see it in the regional chart on Page 7 as well.
But $3.5 million of that is this now assumed renewal coming out of Austin.
And then we had about a $0.5 million pick-up in CBD Philadelphia and then some incremental pick-up in the Pennsylvania suburbs.
Your next question comes from the line of Manny Korchman with Citi.
Jerry when you went through your debt-to-EBITDA statistics earlier can you just make sure that we understand how you're thinking about the large debt pieces being put on the Och-Ziff JV? Is that included in the ratios that you spoke about? A - Jerry Sweeney Manny it is yes.
And then in terms of the JV are there any put provisions? Are there buys or sells? Well there is normal governance provisions there that would be opted [ph] in terms of how we make decisions so it is a shared decision control.
There's going-forward governance objectives that include buy-sells at certain points in time.
George just given sort of the increased speculative revenues and also selling off this portfolio I was a little surprised that the same-store expectations for ‘16 didn't move.
Is that just a shift within the range or is there something else that's causing the same-store guidance to not change from your initial? Two things.
One it’s a little bit of a shift inside of the range but then the Broadmoor portfolio is not same-store.
So the spec revenue pick-up coming out of Austin doesn't translate to same-store because those properties were acquired during the course of the year in 2015.
And one more for you George.
The concessions seem to be pretty high compared to your run rate in Q4.
Is that just an anomaly or is that something we should expect going forward? The concession or the TI and the mark-to-market in the fourth quarter of ‘15 was really dramatically skewed by one deal in particular.
We had a 57 000 square-foot 15-year renewal with a law firm in Wilmington Delaware that had a little bit of a higher level of capital contribution.
And because it had been such a long-standing vacancy and kind of where that market is today in terms of rental rate had a 22% roll down in cash mark-to-market.
So that deal really did skew our fourth-quarter metrics.
All that being said with the other deals that we did we still did outperform our GAAP mark-to-market target for the year coming in higher than our previously guided 8% high end of the range.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hey guys just to follow-up on Manny's last question about the leasing costs there.
If you pulled out the law firm what would the leasing costs on a per-square-foot per-year basis look like and what would your cash rent spreads have been? The spread would have been flat for the quarter on those renewals.
Instead of the reported negative 7% we would have been flat.
And the capital for the full year would have been $2.31 instead of the $2.42.
Right but it's just for the quarter.
So the 3.95 would have been what? And that 4.2 on a cash basis would have been what? It just seems like the last three quarters you guys are still within your range of leasing costs but it's kind of been ticking up a little bit each quarter.
And we are seeing a commensurate increase in cash rents.
So I was just curious on kind of a net-effective basis if you're still -- if rent spreads still look as good? They do.
I don't have every one of those metrics with that one deal excluded so I will follow-up with you on that.
But yes that really was kind of an anomaly for the quarter was that 15-year deal with a large tenancy.
Yes and Craig it’s Jerry.
A point to add on to that.
As we look at the overall portfolio performance there are a number of markets that we are in that are very strong as Center City Philadelphia University City Radnor a handful of others Austin where we are actually seeing an ability to either compress the capital we need to offer to tenants as part of our leasing package or getting a commensurate increase in term or stronger annual rent bumps to compensate for those existing levels of capital.
The other thing and we talked about it on the last call is that a lot of our absorption right now is coming out of what we view to be the markets that still remain very competitive particularly the Washington DC corridor.
So we're really going to push there to accelerate absorption.
And those concession packages while they remain constant the overall activity coming out of those markets tends to be a pretty fair share of our overall leasing activity.
So that may be skewing those numbers a little bit above our normal run rate.
But I think we are very pleased with what we are seeing in some of our markets where we have a solid platform.
The markets are doing very well of having a really good trade-off on effective rents.
Between being able to increase nominal rents getting better annual rent bumps lengthening the terms and either holding our capital costs stable or actually reducing those from both an absolute and dollars-per-square-foot per-year standpoint.
Just separately pro forma -- all these transactions leverage is kind of in that low- to mid-6 times range.
Just curious on your thoughts if you're 12 months out here you'd mentioned maybe some pre-development spending.
I know you have some other projects you could start.
Are you kind of committed to staying in that range or could we see that tick higher again in ‘17 if better investment opportunities rear their head? I think we are committed to staying on the path of what we have talked about in terms of debt-to-GAV and -EBITDA.
And I think as we look at our platform going forward certainly that’s our objective and that’s our firm commitment.
We have a number of properties you are right in the pre-development pipeline.
We want to make sure we take advantage of those.
But we're also going to be delivering FMC in the next couple of quarters.
And as Tom touched on we'll have some good leasing occupancy going forward on that as well as the residential side.
So the FMC will drop off of being a drain on EBITDA to being an additive to EBITDA within the next couple of quarters.
So that's a big enough transaction for us where we are convinced that will be a nice driver of this push to continue de-leveraging from our operating performance.
And that will create some opportunity for us to look at other opportunities if in fact they are there.
Your next question comes from the line of Jed Reagan from Green Street Advisors.
Maybe just following on to that question can you talk a little bit about how the shadow development pipeline is looking? And are you getting any nibbles on the pre-leasing front from some of those projects? We are.
We actually have a couple of pending discussions we have negotiations underway on a couple of projects within our system that would be essentially fully or substantially leased at building starts primarily in the suburban markets on some of our development land.
We continue to ferret out more and more opportunities within CBD and University City Philadelphia.
And our portfolio in Austin which includes some land holdings is having some good traction as well.
We continue to see Jed this movement by companies to higher-quality more efficient better-located mass transportation-served products.
And certainly as labor markets continue to tighten even the numbers -- we're not there today.
With unemployment being pretty much where it is office space is now becoming once again an attractive cultural component of how companies position themselves to both their existing and new employee base.
So the idea of being in a LEED-certified high-quality flexible floor-plate building I think continues to be a good draw for a lot of companies.
Not for everybody.
But certainly we want to position ourselves with our existing inventory and some of our development sites to be able to capture both segments of that market.
Sure.
Are any of those negotiations ones that might hit this year and something you could kick off this year do you think? There might be one or two but again these are smaller-scale buildings.
I hesitate to commit to anything that's not signed so we'll be cautious for right now.
But we have some good activity on a couple of our sites in suburban Philadelphia that we think maybe one of those could be a start this year.
And I know you've got a pretty good slug of taxable gains from the Cira Square sale.
Just wondering if we should be on the look-out for some 1031 activity to come from that? And maybe order of magnitude what kind of sizing that could be? Jed it's Tom.
Right now the way we've structured for taxes we don't expect a special dividend.
If there were some sales that were smaller and had large gains we’d consider if there was a 1031 either into a development land piece that we may look at or even into a development spend.
So there are some opportunities to maybe 1031.
We do have one asset that if we did want to sell this year would be a 1031.
But mainly no taxable reason to have to do that.
And then just last one quickly for me if I may.
Can you talk about how the pricing for the Och-Ziff portfolio sale fared relative to your initial expectations? And how much buyer interest there was in the assets to the extent the deal was broadly marketed? And then just quickly if you can talk about how that 8.5% cap rate for the portfolio broke down between Northern Virginia and some of the other markets? Sure I'll answer it the best I can.
I think when we looked at it we were pleased with the overall pricing.
I think when we break down the markets we were pleased with the pricing in Richmond which again Richmond included our office product and our remaining warehouse flex product down there so I think the pricing there was very good.
The Meetinghouse Business Center and Plymouth Meeting again that's one-story and two-story office products so I think we were happy with how the pricing came out there.
I think where we came in a bit below what we thought would have been in the off Toll Road Northern Virginia.
Pretty much in line otherwise in Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
So we think it was a fairly priced deal in terms of where the market was.
In terms of the marketing campaign we talked to a number of different sources and so it was a good competition for the deal.
And as the deal progressed over a number of months I think it is fair to say that there was some impact that came into play because of the tremendous volatility in the marketplace.
But there still was a competitive set until we finalized our negotiations with Och-Ziff.
So I think we're pretty pleased with the marketing of it how it came about the tension it creates to optimize what we thought was real full-value pricing.
When you are doing these mid- to late-cycle deals and there is a fraying of the debt markets and there's equity volatility and it's a complicated structure we kept our eye on the target which was to reduce our concentration in those markets to generate significant liquidity position the company for further growth.
And recognizing full well that we did not want to be in a position where we're trying to market this portfolio in pieces over the next several quarters.
Because we just didn't have a lot of visibility nor does anybody into where the markets will go.
But we definitely focus on getting cash in the door today creating a structure that works for us to create future profitability with again we think a smart professional partner with high integrity.
And we move forward from there.
Did you see some buyers kind of backing out of the tent towards the end of the process or maybe moderating their expectations? Well I think it's a function of where the debt markets are too.
And there's no question that the CMBS debt market has had a lot of volatility with spreads gapping.
So that clearly has an impact on pricing.
I don't want to be specific but there are certainly some folks who were talking to that had some concern over where the debt markets were going.
Which is frankly one of the reasons why we think this deal from both Och-Ziff and Brandywine's standpoint is well-structured to make sure that we can continue to outperform the markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with Mizuho Securities.
I'll be brief I think.
The mid-8% cap rate that you mentioned on Och-Ziff does that take into account the fees you're going to earn? Or is that -- Rich it does not.
It is point-of-sale pricing and that’s how we looked at it.
We did not factor in the fee revenue going forward which is on market-rate terms.
Well frankly I have a dedicated team focused on this portfolio to service it and to make sure that we asset-manage it very well.
So from an executive-level diversion standpoint it will be minimum.
We'll have great operating people running the portfolio for us.
Do you have a number of the incremental fee generated off of that portfolio? About $1 million.
A year? Yes I'm sorry a year.
It could be $1 million a day who knows? And then for the 80 million remaining to sell is that coming out of California or where does that come from? We have one remaining property in California that we are in the throes of some negotiations with a tenant out there.
When that's consummated that property will be actively marketed.
The other areas where we are targeting disposing of our remaining assets from a marketing standpoint in New Jersey Delaware they are the primary markets at this point Rich.
Your final question comes from the line of Bill Crow with Raymond James.
Jerry two questions.
You referenced the mid- to late-cycle environment a couple of times.
How does that change your thought process on development going forward? Well I think it changes our perspective across the board.
So it clearly drives our operating teams to make sure that we create as stable a platform as possible and address our forward-rollover exposure.
From a financial standpoint it’s clearly reflected in our drive to build as strong a balance sheet with as much liquidity as possible.
And from a development perspective going forward I think as we look at it a key driver for us is taking a look at maintaining optionality.
So if you take a look at some of our existing developments we have some specific development sites that we think are good opportunities for near or intermediate-term starts.
We are going to require a very heavy level of pre-leasing there.
The Knights Crossing development in Camden is a well-structured transaction with Campbell Soup that is essentially a rolling option to take that land down.
One of the things we haven't delved into on the calls yet but the one thing that the transaction in Austin gave us at Broadmoor was a very good longer-term development opportunity at a very effective basis per land foot that gives us the ability to market those properties.
And again that would be subject to heavy pre-leasing.
So anytime that you are entering this point in the cycle I think our focus was to solidify the operating platform get it to where we want it to be make sure we have plenty of liquidity.
And this immutable drive towards lower leverage and stronger coverages remains in place.
And certainly looking ahead Bill as we evaluate development opportunities it's going to be cautious but opportunistic.
We're going to be getting involved in a multi-phased development we're going to be looking for optionality to respond to the market look for an advantageous cost basis and look for very strong results from a marketing campaign relative to pre-leasing.
The final question for me is you talked about the debt market changes over the course of the negotiation for the Och-Ziff deal maybe some of the other competitors dropping out.
How low – not how well did the price fall but how close did you get to just saying we are better off keeping this portfolio? Not that close.
Because we felt the pricing was always within the range of being fair.
Look we always want to sell for more people want to buy for less.
So it was an artful negotiation which I think solidified the perspective of the partners.
But certainly when there's external events that come into play like the debt markets that certainly objectively creates the need for discussions -- and I think as we went through this process.
And Bill not just this transaction but the other sales transactions where there is leverage involved that’s becoming a more increasing part of the discussion which from our perspective knowing that we had a fairly valued deal only amplified our desire to get this transaction done.
Gentlemen we do have a follow-up question from Manny Korchman with Citi.
Hey it's Michael Bilerman.
How are you Jerry? Hey how are you doing Michael? Great.
I just wanted to make sure just on the cap rates you're quoting an 8.5%.
I assume that's on the almost $400 value.
So $34 million of -- is that cash NOI or GAAP NOI that the portfolio would've produced? And is it a backwards-looking NOI or a forward-looking NOI? It is current-quarter NOI what's in place.
And it's cash.
And it's cash I'm sorry yes.
And then the way to think about in terms of dilution from your perspective 350 of cash it's sort of call it a mid-9s sort of cost of capital per se from an accretion-dilution standpoint.
And I assume that would just be offset by the $1 million of fee income you'd get.
I assume that's a profit not the net.
And then are you picking anything up from an FFO perspective from your sort of highly leveraged stake in the leasehold? Michael this is Tom.
We will pick of our share of the FFO.
But yes after ground lease it's going to be after the debt service.
So the FFO that we are going to pick up off it is there.
It's not very significant for this year.
I believe it's $0.03 or $0.04 maybe.
But that's our incremental piece after all those costs yes.
So $0.03 or $0.04 that’s actually pretty meaningful from a -- is it real cash or is it you're picking up a -- That cap rate off of that cost base is meaningful.
We've programmed a lot of capital as you know.
When we look at the cost basis of our investment basis quite a bit of cash was put into the deal to cover capital.
So there will be cash flow off the property.
And you will actually get a distribution? Or it has to stay in the -- I'm just trying to think about your FFO recognition of $0.03 to $0.04 from your leveraged leasehold position versus -- are you actually going to get a distribution out of this joint venture in terms of is it hitting FFO? AFFO? We will get cash distributions yes.
I don't know that I would say the cash distribution equals the FFO.
But it's like all of our joint ventures.
Sometimes we are taking distributions above the FFO sometimes they are below if there is capital needs at the property level.
But no the projections off of this property group will be distributions.
Right.
So effectively you sell -- you're effectively selling at let's call it a 9.5 cash versus the monies that you received the 350 and then you'll pick up $0.03 to $0.04 of accretion on your remaining levered investment? Yes.
End of Q&amp;A This concludes the question-and answer-session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jerry Sweeney for any closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you all for joining us and we look forward to updating you on our activities in the next quarterly conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes the Brandywine Realty Trust fourth-quarter earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.