Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised that this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley.
Welcome to XL Group's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast in XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We posted to our website several documents including our quarterly financial supplement.
You'll note that beginning this quarter rather than publish a separate fixed income data summary we've integrated investment information into our financial supplement.
We hope you find the tabular format useful.
We're hosting this call from our offices in Dublin.
And on our call today Mike McGavick XL Group CEO will offer opening remarks; Irene Esteves our CFO will review our financial results; followed by Dave Duclos our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open it up for your questions.
Sarah Street our Chief Investment Officer; and Susan Cross of Global Chief Actuary are with us today and available for Q&amp;A.
Before they begin I’d like to remind you that certain of the matters we’ll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
And with that I'd turn you over to Mike McGavick.
Good afternoon from Dublin.
The first quarter of 2011 was one of great devastation from catastrophes and we all mourn the many individual tragedies that came from the events in New Zealand Australia and in Japan.
It's impossible to not be moved by the vast suffering that we have all witnessed.
We in the industry and XL can be very proud of our role in helping these communities and even countries rebuild.
It's a reminder of the terribly vital role Insurance and Reinsurance play and it's important to give you an update of course how it affected our business specifically.
To do this I'll again refer to our 5 drivers for creating shareholder value that we introduced last quarter: underwriting excellence strong risk management strategic growth an optimum investment portfolio and operating in capital efficiency.
After covering these areas I'll also comment on some of the market implications that we see from this quarter of high catastrophe activity.
I'll first take underwriting excellence and strong ERM together because at the time of large catastrophes they really do work together to tell the story of how the business is performing.
If you look at our results for the quarter the obvious comes right through.
Like others in the industry we experienced meaningful property catastrophe losses totaling $387 million in the quarter.
We then at XL look internally at our loss estimates for these events as a percentage of our shareholders equity prudent risk.
We look at our experience relative to the limits that we had in those territories relative to limits we've allocated in those territories and we look at our experience relative to others who similarly compete in those territories when an event of this scope and scale occurs.
What we believe is that when these happen we should experience what we expect to experience and that our losses should not be outsized either in reference to the markets or the limits we have established.
We are pleased with how our book has performed.
It performed as it should in these events on both an absolute and relative basis and within our stated appetites and internal limits.
Another way of looking at catastrophe as an experience is how do our estimates hold up over time.
I'll take New Zealand as an example because it's a more mature loss.
Our estimates were reasonable in terms of how quickly we were able to share with the market our experience.
And in fact as they stand now the actual experience has come in slightly lower than that which we initially forecasted.
To us this means our strong risk management processes allow us to know what's going on.
And when the large events happen we can say something accurate about it.
This has been repeatedly true since this management team has been assembled and we are driven to keep this true.
With respect to underwriting there is one other area I would like to address at this time.
And that is the one number that really sticks out in the quarter as it relates to our non-CAT Property book.
We had a handful of large Property losses in the first quarter including 2 very large losses that accounted for most of this total and that's what makes this particular number stick out.
On review you should note that each time something like this happens we do an internal review we also work with our reinsurers to review the quality of the book again and reassure ourselves.
And I will tell you that once we were done with that work we continue to be very comfortable with this historically profitable book of business.
In fact we're excited for the future with this book of business for a couple of reasons.
Number one as you have noted both in North America and in International Property &amp; Casualty we have recently added new leaders to these books of business.
You should know by the way that their fresh eye reviews also affirmed that these are good books of business.
And so we're looking forward to what is likely to be some changes in those markets with fresh leadership behind our solid underwriting.
Now so that's the things I wanted to comment on in terms of the underwriting and ERM.
And I want to turn to our strategic growth initiatives.
XL did have a good quarter from a premium perspective.
In fact quarter 1 over quarter 1 of last year were up 9.2%.
We've said all along that given our breadth of products and global nature we should always be able to find pockets where our technical expertise can be applied profitably.
That's just the job.
And as we turned our attention more to that part of a job and away from just fixing the balance sheet that we had trouble with a couple of years ago we're really starting to see the progress and that really is pleasing to us.
We're already seeing traction from recently announced Insurance initiatives several nice wins in our North American Construction business the first accounts for our new Surety business and we also celebrated the opening of our China office.
This is the beginning of a very positive journey to be able to again expect profitable growth over time.
Turning then to our fourth lever our investment portfolio.
Here we continue to be well positioned to support our P&amp;C [Property &amp; Casualty] operations.
We have maintained a short duration to take advantage of rising interest rates with almost 20% in floating rate assets.
We have minimal exposure to non-core European sovereign risks.
In the first quarter we continue reducing our holdings in European bank hybrids and non-agency RMBS [Residential Mortgage-Backed Security].
So we're very pleased with where that fourth lever stands as of right now and we don't think there's much more to say.
With respect to capital efficiency this is obviously a topic very much on folks' mind.
We have taken a pause in our share buybacks so that we can review where the market stands so that we can make sure that we have all of the flexibility to react to what may be a changing market.
So as I said we have taken a pause in terms of share buybacks.
Also related to the strength of our balance sheet we would know how important reserving is to your analysis of our success.
And we would look forward to later in a week.
You're getting the chance to review our global loss triangles for 2010 which will be -- and headlined we believe will be and that with your analysis that our reserving continues to show its appropriate and prudent nature.
Now the final comment on operating efficiency and capital management.
You will also notice that the expense ratio continues to run in line with the fourth quarter of last year.
As we told you there are some opportunities to gain additional efficiencies in the business over time and we will invest to capture those efficiencies.
And finally then commenting on the market itself.
Well we're certainly seeing lots of pockets of quickly improving pricing.
What's more important to me is the conversation has changed.
If you were one of our underwriters 6 months ago the conversation almost always started out how about down 5 or how about down 10? And the conversation now is very different.
I think what has happened is on the market side of the house on the underwriting side of the marketplace these events have reawoken the underwriters to the real risk out there and to be more driven to capture appropriate pricing.
So we see that unevenly across the market but it's an important change of attitude and the very fact that the conversation has changed is entirely noteworthy.
Now whether this leads to an entire market turn or not is simply unknowable at this time.
I know there are debaters on both sides of the topic.
But the change in conversation and the change in attitude is real and it is noteworthy.
And it isn't just what's going on with respect to catastrophes.
You also see modeled changes that are terribly relevant to how the marketplace will play out and it affects everybody differently which makes it a particularly interesting time in the market because different organizations are at different places with respect to their capacity to continue to compete as they have before.
So no one can say for certain what will happen next but it is a much more pleasant and interesting market to be competing in today than it was before.
Now one final thing it's a good time to mention you're all invited to XL's Investor Day scheduled for the morning of the 7th of June in New York.
This will not be a simple recap of where we've been or even where we are exactly today.
We'll also be sharing with you our roadmap for creating shareholder value across these 5 dimensions we have discussed before by providing our customers with the Insurance and Reinsurance solutions they need to cover their most complex risks.
XL is celebrating its 25th anniversary this year.
Obviously some of the companies we've acquired have quite much longer histories than that but the XL as you know it is 25 years old this year.
And as investors we're hopeful you will be as excited about our plans for the next chapter in our history as we are.
So we look forward to seeing you in June in New York City.
With that I'll turn it over to Irene Esteves.
Thanks Mike.
Operating net loss for the first quarter was $163 million or $0.52 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to operating income of $150 million or $0.44 per share in the first quarter of 2010.
This was driven by catastrophe losses net of reinstatement premiums which totaled $387 million compared to $181 million in the prior year.
Turning to our summary financial results on Slide 3 you'll see that P&amp;C gross premiums written were up 9.2% versus the first quarter of 2010.
We demonstrated that even in a soft market disciplined underwriters can find opportunities for profitable growth.
The largest contributors to this expansion were new business in Reinsurance and an increase in our Insurance exposure base.
P&amp;C net premiums earned increased marginally reflecting the rolling effects of slowly increasing levels of gross premiums written.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 125.8 or 25 points higher than the same quarter last year.
As already mentioned and further detailed on Slide 4 catastrophe losses in the quarter is accounted for 31 loss ratio points.
Prior-year development in the quarter was a favorable $71 million or 5.5 loss ratio points.
Development was favorable in both Insurance and Reinsurance segments by $7 million and $64 million respectively.
Favorable Insurance development was largely in Property lines.
Favorable Reinsurance development was reported in both long and short-tailed lines.
Specifically these included Property risk professional for 2001 and prior European casualty several European CATs and 2005 hurricanes.
Our combined ratio x CATs and x prior-year development was 100.9 which is a 7.8 loss ratio points higher than 2010 driven by the large non-CAT Property losses in the quarter.
Our $261 million of operating expenses for the first quarter of 2011 was up 13.7% year-over-year but in line with the last quarter on a sequential basis.
The increase arose principally from costs supporting our strategic initiatives as well as some redundancy costs.
Turning to Slide 5 investment income on the P&amp;C portfolio of $203 million in the first quarter was 11% below the prior year due to lower U.S.
interest rates and cash outflows from the invested portfolio.
The average new investment rate on our P&amp;C portfolio was 3.1% and as of quarter end our gross P&amp;C book yield was 3.4%.
Our duration temporarily decreased from the fourth quarter's 2.9 years to 2.8 years as a result of higher cash balances generated from sales activities near quarter end which we anticipate will be redeployed in the second quarter.
The P&amp;C portfolio book yield net of expenses was 3.0%.
Net income from investment fund affiliates was $27 million up $19 million from the prior year.
Private investments returned $16 million as a result of year-end fair value markups within a number of the funds.
The mark-to-market was essentially flat in the first quarter as higher government rates were offset by modest spread tightening.
Slide 6 shows our book value per share down $0.75.
$0.61 of this reduction was due to the net loss in the quarter and the remainder due largely to the increase from the dilutive impact of our rising share price had on our accounting for equity security units scheduled to divert in August of this year.
Share buybacks increased book value per share by $0.14.
During the quarter we bought back 7.3 million shares at an average cost of $22.83 for a total of $165.6 million.
This brings our total buybacks over the past year to 33 million shares and leaves $690 million under our current authorization.
I'll now turn it over to Dave to discuss our Insurance segment result.
Dave before you start I'd just like to note that we're experimenting with becoming a more interesting show.
Dave is our correspondent live at RIMS in Vancouver meaning he's only half alive because it's 3 or 4 in the morning there.
But obviously Dave needs to be with our clients during this week while the rest of us are with our board at Dublin.
And I think it's great that we can give some additional perspective to what's going on in the pricing with firsthand reports from our clients and colleagues there at RIMS.
Dave? Thanks Mike.
And good morning Vancouver.
Insurance results for the first quarter were driven by the industry the worst catastrophe loss quarter since 2005's KRW and by some large non-CAT Property losses I'll discuss shortly.
The Insurance segment's combined ratio for the quarter of 121% was 19.4 points higher versus the same quarter last year and 16.5 points higher after adjusting for prior-year development.
Current year net cap losses accounted for 6.4 points of the increase with losses rising to $133 million from $80 million a year ago.
The Japanese earthquake and tsunami Australian flooding and to a lesser degree the New Zealand earthquake losses far exceeded those from the Chilean earthquake in Q1 last year.
While the suffering and economic loss from all these events was terrible XL Insurance's estimated exposure was within expectations.
The largest element of the Insurance variants which was 8.6 points came from our Property lines where we experienced some high severity non-cat Property losses and you've heard Mike's comments on these and we only do about these losses.
I share this excitement about the potential these books provide.
Operating expenses grew by 1.7 points which we anticipated reflecting our continued investment in talent to support selective expansion along with some redundancy cost as we continue to better align our people with more profitable opportunities.
Insurance gross premiums written in Q1 increased 8% or $91 million year-over-year with most of this growth coming from increased exposure bases tied to improving economic conditions.
We renewed 2 multiyear accounts which had zero written premiums in Q1 2010 and saw benefits from selective new business initiatives.
These initiatives include international professional line North America and international construction Continental Europe of upper middle markets and various professional and PC programs.
In late March our leadership team attended the opening of XL's new office in Shanghai and it was a thrilling expense for all involved.
More than 1/3 of our 1 100 global programs that we lead have operations in China and adding local presence and capabilities to this vibrant market is a great step in providing the service our clients expect from XL.
We are delighted in the quality of the professionals from all around the world.
We're working together to make our Chinese Insurance operations succeed.
We continue to strengthen the rest of the team that is pursuing opportunities across the globe.
Mike mentioned the Property talent we have attracted.
Specifically Matthias Horntrich as Chief Underwriting Officer for International Property and Joe Tocco as Head of our North American Property and XL GAP Operations.
We also appointed Cristiana Báez-Safa as Chief Underwriting Officer Professional Lines and Commercial Risk.
Pete Purvis took over as Head of our North America Programs.
And most recently Kadidja Sinz is our new Country Manager for France.
All these activities and additions are driven by our commitment to efficiently focus underwriting risk management talent toward the global opportunities we see.
Now to market conditions.
As I said here Wednesday morning on my last day at RIMS in Vancouver I'll provide the following observations.
And first I would say this RIMS has a different feel from the previous 2 since the financial crisis was first evidenced in late 2007 early 2008.
Instead of balance sheet challenges with synergies finally facing up to core earnings being impaired by a combination of almost a decade of declining price and recent cap losses.
As Mike mentioned earlier I choose to sense a different attitude among underwriters frankly losing money doesn't sit long.
Secondly while clients will gladly be the recipient of irrational pricing in my discussions they are better prepared for a correction in cores on rate both mentally and financially.
Of course like all of us they don't expect to pay for someone else's loss.
Third brokers seem to be some anyway at work trying to benefit from keeping the market as competitive as possible as they retain and win clients.
That's interesting.
So how does this translate to what we see? Some early signs in this effort are favorable as market participants increasingly recognize the need for more rational pricing.
Our pricing for the past year plus have been stuck in the minus 1% to 2% range including what we saw on our Q1 2011 results.
But on April 1 renewals we started achieving some meaningful rate increases low to mid-single digit improvements largely in the Property and Casualty lines and also our Marine business.
This is certainly encouraging.
Now back to RIMS quickly as I wrap up my comments.
This is a very important event to XL especially but not limited to our North America Insurance businesses.
But last year event in Boston there was a clear sense that XL was back.
This year I've heard from brokers and clients alike that they can see and feel that XL is a company very excited about its future and all of us from XL here at RIMS would agree.
Our underwriting expertise and capabilities have never been stronger and we firmly believe we have the operating discipline and global platform we need to deliver valuable risk management solutions to clients around the world.
And now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance.
Thanks Dave and good morning.
The Reinsurance segments' financial results for the quarter were heavily impacted by the extraordinary level of global cat activity.
Our combined ratio of 136.3% was driven by catastrophe losses of $271 million partially offset by prior-year reserve releases of $64 million.
Excluding the impact of cat losses in prior development our combined ratio was 87.7%.
This compares to a combined of 84.8% in the first quarter of last year.
The deterioration from last year resulted from the Griffin North Sea Marine loss which was $17 million or 4.3 loss ratio points.
Turning to top line as Mike mentioned gross written premiums in the quarter were $877 million a 10.9% increase from the first quarter of 2010.
This increase was virtually entirely driven by XL Re Europe.
During the quarter we capitalized on significant pricing improvements in the U.K.
motor market and wrote a new contract for $45 million in annual premium.
We also saw new opportunities in the London marine market as conditions improve there and wrote some new Property Cat [Catastrophe] business in Continental Europe.
In summary our losses from these major cat events were in line with our expectations for events at these levels.
The underlying book continues to perform well and the prior-year releases demonstrate the continued strength of our overall reserve position.
Turning to market conditions I think there are 2 dynamics in the quarter that deserves some comments.
As you all know the entire Japanese market turns over at April 1 and the earthquake loss obviously impacted these discussions.
In addition and perhaps more importantly we are of the view that the events in the quarter are a game changer for the market although we would caution we expect the impact to be combined to the short tail lines in the Reinsurance market.
As respects for renewal in Japan from our perspective it was a mixed bag.
We did have some companies particularly the cooperatives extend their program for up to 2 months.
On excess of lost business that did renew earthquake excess programs impacted by the quake had rate increases in the 50% to 60% range.
Non-impacted earthquake excess programs had increases of 20% to 25%.
And finally wind and flood cat programs had increases of 5% to 7%.
With respect to proportional placements much of it simply renewed as expiring given how close the event was the renewal date.
Other than the expected improvement in underlying rates not much has changed.
Broadly we still consider the Japanese market underpriced particularly on the primary level and far too reliant on proportional Reinsurance and swaps structures and less on indemnity-based cat programs our preferred product.
Over the last 10 years we have reduced our exposure to a considerable degree in that market.
In the year 2000 we had $600 million of direct cat aggregate in Japan.
Today we have just under $200 million.
And we've focused our participation in that market to a relatively small group of customers.
In the U.S.
market we saw a significant impact at April 1 both from the events in Japan and the international cat markets and the new RMS Version 11.0.
There was an increase in the interest for and cost of retro protection.
We saw a number of direct cat firm orders reprised with revised firm orders shortfall covers in the market and then pricing environment improved over January 1.
We expect this momentum to accelerate going into the mid-year U.S.
win renewals and we're quoting material price increases on submissions where the exposure changes warrant them.
The long tail side of the business remains very competitive with pockets of exception such as the previously referenced U.K.
motor market.
We remain disciplined in the face of this environment.
With that I'll turn it back to David for Q&amp;A.
Shirley can you please open the lines for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Just a little bit more color on the non-cat losses in the Insurance segment.
For Mike or Dave can you talk a little bit more about what those were the business the new business you wrote was it in those same areas? And I'm still not sure if I understand if that's in a cat book or if it's not in a cat book.
Dave would you go ahead with that question? Sure Mike.
And Michael the losses the 5 losses that we have in Insurance in the first quarter I would tell you that they're from all different types of classes of business.
There's not any correlation or overlap from a class standpoint or from a geography standpoint.
It's fairly diversified.
As Mike had mentioned anytime we have a large loss we do a fairly thorough post-mortem and we can very confidently state today that all of the accounts we wrote we would've written again.
And we don't see any systemic underlying concern.
It's just one of those things where we had a frequency of large losses in a particular quarter that is unusual based upon our history.
I would point out that this was the highest frequency event in 10 years.
So we do consider it quite an anomaly.
I would also mention that over the 10-year period the book is profitable.
We've got a 53% net loss ratio over that 10-year period.
And this was the worst quarter for both cat and non-cat since KRW as we mentioned in our prepared remarks.
As far as your question about new business and does it get into the same area that we just had some losses I can tell you that the new business that we're writing on a Property basis is primarily in the U.S.
and of all the losses that we had in this first quarter.
One was in Canada and the rest were outside of the U.S.
So the answer to that question is no.
But we do feel good about the quality of the book as Mike had mentioned.
And I would just add that in addition to the fact that we've got Matthias and Joe in place now.
We've got the strong teams that have been in place and we are in the midst of going through a business review that's really focused on how we can profitably grow and diversify the book out farther.
And so we're looking at all aspects of how to do that most effectively.
But I can tell you that we have a high degree of confidence in the quality of our Property book.
And just if you were to back out those if it's possible if you would look at the book x those losses I mean can you talk a little bit about what the underlying loss ratio look like just outside of those? Well these losses account for 8.6 points of our variants.
So without those losses we would've been comparable to the Q1 2010 results which would have been sort of in line with our expectations around this book's performance.
A couple of other points I'd like to add if I could one is that in these cases these are losses that are securitized or shared across the market.
So these were market losses not just XL losses.
And our shares on these would kind of range from 5% of the loss to 14% of the loss.
So we felt good about our relative position and the selection of the lines that our underwriters have taken.
You asked a question about whether these were cat books or in Property these are with our ordinary Property programs not in the cat side of the house.
And one of the reasons -- this has not been a growth area for us here before.
We would expect this to be an area that we'll be looking closely at for growth in the future with a combination of some of the fresh views of the new leaders we've hired and the changing we see going on in the Property marketplace.
So there's really -- but it isn't a driver of the growth during the quarter.
Our next question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays Capital.
Two questions.
First on capital management Mike I'm trying to get a sense is the slowdown in share buybacks does that reflect less excess capital for XL or more of a situation for market opportunity going forward? Well perhaps Jay you typically ask a very artful question that tries to get me to tell you things we won't tell you.
So that -- we certainly continue to believe that we have capital beyond the margin for safety that we prefer to have to what the rating agencies and regulators require.
And that's why we put it in the frame of a pause because if you were needing to stop you just be stopping.
So we still have choices here for what we recognize is there's a lot of uncertainty in the marketplace right now and that there's going to be really different reactions across the various players amongst the market.
And we wanted to be very flexible at a point in time like this to be able to fairly examine what opportunities are being created in the market and what is the very best way for us to create value for our shareholders.
But clearly among the choices for how to continue to create value for the shareholders is to resume buybacks.
So we will be examining those.
We don't -- we're very cautious not to move markets with our decisions which is why we give no color to when and amounts and all of that kind of thing but we thought given the significance of the events in this quarter it is very wise to take a pause and examine the state of things.
And just for reference I would remind you that we have about $690 million remaining in the current authorization.
Okay that's helpful Mike.
And then for Jamie one of the questions I often get nowadays from investors is if there's no large hurricane losses in the U.S.
this summer are we going to be in a property reinsurance situation in the U.S.
similar to after KRW where things firmed up for a while and then it kind of went back to the way it was? What are your -- what's your perspective on that? Jay I wish I had that much control over the market I could tell exactly what's going to happen.
I do think that the confluence of events both last year in the international markets and the first quarter are sort of changing the environment the pricing environment in the cat market.
And we'll see going into July 1 between that and the new version of the cat model that's just come out I just think there's a momentum for some price increases.
Obviously if we have an active storm season I think that that momentum will accelerate.
What happens if it's quiet I'm not entirely certain.
I wish I was.
Your next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Two questions.
First is you mentioned some redundancy cost I guess they sound somewhat temporary.
Can you quantify that and talk about the potential for further redundancy costs? Yes there are -- the expense bump that you see is related to 2 pieces.
One some investments that we're making in new technologies that we think can make us a more efficient growth platform over time and others are in some modest restructuring that's going on particularly in our international Property and Casualty operations in the Insurance segment.
So there was some cost from those restructurings that were also in the quarter.
So you're getting both and we would view that as how things should be.
I mean we would hope that investors would take that as a very positive sense that we're not just taking the binders off and just starting to spend a lot of money because we're healthy again.
We're trying to be very selective where we can invest and where we can also take cost out as a result of investments or improvements in process.
So it's really -- we're trying to keep those 2 things constantly in mind.
Would you expect the direction of the overall expense ratio to be down or up over the next 4 quarters? We said last year that we would expect some in-tick in order to accommodate these investments.
As you know as we've already told you in this quarter it was basically flat to fourth quarter of last year but up quarter one over quarter one and I think quarter one is a good indicator of level of expense.
It could go up some but let's get more into those details at Investor Day.
I think that's where it's best put in its total context.
That's helpful.
And the second topic is the second quarter catastrophe losses in the U.S.
I guess the question is do you expect these storm and tornado losses to impact the Reinsurance market not necessarily you but the Reinsurance market in general? It's very early days.
My own sense is that it will be concentrating in a fairly small number of carriers in the Southeast.
There will be some Reinsurance involvement as a result of that fact.
But it's unclear right now what sort of market loss we'll have to the Reinsurance market in particular.
Your next question comes from Greg Locraft of Morgan Stanley.
Mike just wanted to -- again back on the share buyback front can you give us some color as to when you actually stopped buying back stock in the quarter? Was it after one of the events or how did you at some point decided to go from buying back to not buying back? It was a gradual decision.
This is Irene.
Based on what we were seeing in the marketplace we also were looking at other opportunities to grow the business as you heard our growth during the quarter was very good.
So we're looking at opportunities for internal growth as the cats happened.
So we can't really point to one single event that created the pause.
Okay great.
And then the other one is just on I'm trying to sort of project out into '12 and '13 and to me the only reason your stock valuation makes sense is if you guys are earning your cost of capital or below over the longer term.
And so from an ROE trajectory perspective perhaps this is something we'll get into more in June at the Investor Day.
But I'm wondering it seems like about a year ago we were talking about double digits and now even with an improvement in the underwriting environment it seems hard to get to that level.
What needs to change or happen to kind of get us to a double-digit level that at one point was on the table? Yes first I think it's really important that we don't get into -- back in the business of giving you some kind of absolute forecast for our performance then which we as you remember we got out of that business at the beginning the year and I'm not going to get back into it.
I will say though that there are several -- and this really is an Investor Day question to be fair to us.
But there are obvious levers for how you get from here to there.
One and most importantly is what you do in terms of your underwriting whether under risk selection your pricing or your ability to profitably grow.
Those are the levers that in our minds matter the most.
Because we have been as you know over time very aggressive with respect to expense management 2 ways of reorganization to capture efficiencies.
Early in my tenure we've had some pockets of continued improvement.
This quarter we would expect that to always be a theme.
But the big low-hanging fruit's gone.
Mostly it's going to be a little bit of improvement here a little bit of improvement there a system that allows more efficiency here.
It's really -- we're in the part that's the hard good work of a well-run company constantly paying attention to being efficient.
And we're just committed to that forever as far as I'm concerned.
So the real levers that can move it or how that underwriting process works how we're able to improve our insight how we're able to gain profitable growth by realizing that there are opportunities within our appetite to attract profitable customers or by seeing changes in price relative to exposure.
Clearly one of those levers is starting to move.
And a couple of the others are amongst the things we're working on that we look forward to talking with you in more detail in June.
Okay.
And I guess one of the things I'm struggling with though is it seems like even if underwriting comes through and performs it seems like it's more of a investment income and book equity issue.
In other words you need to shrink book equity and get investment income moving in the other direction to get the ROE up.
What you're saying is you're saying fixed -- not even fixed it is fixed but improve underwriting into sustainable profitability and that should get the trajectory moving in to where you want it to be? That's the lever I'm most focused on because that's the hardest work at hand.
The lever that I wouldn't that I -- so going back to the 5 levers that we've talked about right you're not going to see a sudden return to the kind of reach per yield creative behavior on the Investment side that you saw out of XL 2 or 2 years ago because we all know how that bitter fruit tasted.
We're very pleased with where our investment portfolio is positioned.
You have heard us make some comments about some asset classes that we do think are better relative trades right now and you've seen some movements towards those but the kind of heavier reach per yield that you saw 2 5 8 years ago you're not going to see.
So switching to the other lever expense.
As I said there's actually some investing we'd like to do.
It's fairly modest and disciplined and it will reflect.
Over time it'd be offset by some savings along the way too.
But we don't think that there's a big opportunity in the expenses space.
We think that's going to be a constant diligence.
The place where the lever has the most power is what we do with the underwriting whether to grow the book to get better pricing for the risks we do have be more insightful about how we choose risks or more creative in how we design products.
Those are the places where there is the best absolute value creation for firms like ours.
And then the last piece that you have to modulate over time but always with your eye on the horizon not just a point in time is your absolute capital levels.
And clearly we are not fully using our capital today.
That's an obvious well-known aspect of our company right now which is partly why we've been buying in shares.
But in a changing market and with those 2 levers clearly the places we create value that's the pieces we got to get right to give the market the long-term sustainable outcome it expects from an underwriting company like XL.
So I know that I haven't answered your question narrowly which one here which one there but those have to come together to create a great Insurance company and that's what we're all about.
Your next question comes from Ian Gutterman with Adage Capital.
I wanted to circle back on the large losses and the repurchase.
First Mike on the large losses in Insurance you said these are market events.
But to be honest other companies have reported and haven't discussed this issue.
And I've asked on this a few other calls the only large losses out there that we know about are the 2 energy losses.
So can you tell us a little bit more about what's going on because it seems like you're the only one who's been reporting this? And I look through my notes here and it's 2 quarters in a row of large Property losses in the Insurance segment and again your peers haven't been seeing that.
Yes we did -- we have talked in a couple of prior quarters about an unusual level of Property losses.
But I would remind you for about the year before that we were talking about unusually light large Property losses.
So that comes and go in the market.
And when you're dealing with markets that are securitized like this you may have one player on one one player on another.
It's just kind of a kaleidoscope of players.
From all that we can tell when we examine these risks again to use Dave's phrase we have written them again.
We feel comfortable with the lines we took.
These books are historically profitable for XL.
So with those things in mind we continue to be pleased and I particularly like it.
The reinsurers have a deep interest and insight into our book of business.
They are in very deeply with us and they've had the same reaction to these events.
So they are on the hook too and they continue to be comfortable with these 5 particular losses.
But there could be a number of explanations but our focus is on where do we go from here and our focus remains that these are risks worth writing and that the book is underwritten well.
We do not as you probably know name losses in our Insurance segment.
We never have and we're going to stick to that protocol on this call.
Is it possible that you take larger net lines than your peers and maybe your peers are passing more than onto the Reinsurance but we don't see it? I'm just trying to think of why you guys have looked different the past few quarters? No I don't -- look our retention strategies were among the things that we've examined in reviewing these books.
Again if there was something that was systemically wrong like a class and business was running wrong if there was one particular pocket of underwriters that were getting -- if there was something along those lines we'd tell you and we'd tell you what we're doing to fix it.
As we look at these books again they're historically profitable.
There's been no change fundamentally in how they're being managed or underwritten and when we did the individual risk reviews that have produced that historical profitability over time we couldn't find any reason to change our appetites and therefore are not.
But it's not lost on us that we're talking about this.
But again we've done all of the steps that we have done to create what have been historically profitable books and we'll keep adding it.
Fair enough.
Just on the repurchase I guess what I'm struggling with a little bit is when I look at your restraint on repurchase capacity right now it's debt to capital and not operating leverage.
And if the debt to capital were lower arguably you have a couple of billion dollars of excess capital to write premium.
And therefore if there were a growth opportunity the easiest way to take advantage of it would be to pay down some debt because that would create excess -- essentially allow you to take advantage of the underutilized operating leverage.
So I don't understand why you have to slow down the repurchase if you think there might be a better market opportunity than we've seen the alternatives to keep repurchasing it and look to pay down some debt when the re-marketing comes through to free up your capacity that way.
Yes no we do have -- so I think that's well observed.
Clearly the greater constraint on our -- the capital our balance sheet design is where we are on leverage.
That is something because we're on the higher end of the range we'd like to be at.
That is something we do look at managing down and would have to do so in concert with anything we do meaningfully on the capital side.
So we're well aware of that.
None of that at this stage has affected any decision we'd like to make relative to how to create value for our shareholders.
But this is one of the things we'll obviously be considering during a pause like this.
Okay.
I know I won't get a direct answer on your plans for the remarketing side so I guess I'll just rub in my opinion which is I really hope you'll choose to pay off the debt when the re-marketing comes.
I appreciate that and I'm sure that I can be confident that -- and your confident that you can accept that from our point of view there are things we can be extremely transparent about and things where we don't think it serves our shareholders any benefit to be so transparent as to injure their outcomes.
So we're very careful on what we say with that lens in mind.
Well understood.
We strive for transparency and long-term value we're creating.
Your next question comes from Doug Mewhirter with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I just had 2 market-related questions both on the reinsurance side.
First I noticed you -- I guess you increased somewhat your European catastrophe exposure.
From I guess an overall risk management perspective now that the -- I guess the catastrophe business looks like it's the pointy end of the spear in terms of where the market might be hardening.
Since you already -- you did take I guess a medium-sized bite at January renewals of increasing your catastrophe exposure.
Are there any issues with taking full advantage of any direct market hardening on the Catastrophe business or do you feel you have some ample spare capacity for that kind of risk? No it actually represents a great opportunity for us.
As you know our published risk appetite for what we call Tier 1 exposures which includes U.S.
wind is 15% of tangible shareholders' equity out of 1% our current exceedings probability.
As of 12/31/2010 our most recently calculated 1% U.S.
wind exposure is $915 million which is about 9.5% of shareholders' equity.
We have not calculated the full impact of the new model on our portfolio but I find it very very difficult to believe that we won't have plenty of capacity to take advantage of the market turn at July 1 which I think puts us in a very good position relative to some of the competition.
LLC</strong> My second question still on reinsurance is the UK motor opportunities I have heard that rates have become much more favorable.
I guess I'm a little concerned that there might be a bit of a value trap there where the rates might be up well into the double digits but maybe the true rate increase you need is double or triple of that because of the legal or regulatory environment.
I've heard anecdotal evidence of lots of fraud and lots of I guess unscrupulous attorneys taking advantage of the primary market which may directly accrue to reinsurance.
I mean do you think you're pretty comfortable with the way that conditions are that that rate increase is actually an opportunity rather than just maybe playing catch-up? Sure.
We wouldn't have done it if we didn't think so.
And I would say our attitude towards U.K.
motor is very much opportunistic probably as much in that line as any portfolio you would find within XL Re.
We will grow it dramatically and shrink it dramatically within 2 or 2 quarters depending on what we see in the primary marketplace.
The vast majority of that increase as I mentioned in my early remarks came from one contract with a counter party that we have a lot of confidence in and the rate increases they're getting are a lot more than low-double digits.
So again we feel confident that these will be profitable relationships and we will not hesitate to shrink the portfolio very very quickly if we're wrong about our assumptions.
Our next question comes from Donna Halverstadt with Goldman Sachs.
You've already touched on bits of it but I was wondering if you could share with us what your vision might be for your entire capital structure over the next year or 2.
You've already talked a lot about the share repurchase and the pause in the market review you've talked about the ESUs and the debt re-marketing.
But there's also the contingent capital deal for which you need to make some decisions this summer.
There's $600 million of debt that matures in less than a year.
So without saying anything too specific can you share with us a general vision of what you would like your entire capital structure to look like a year or 2 hence? The only thing that I think would be appropriate to additionally comment on is that the efficiency of capital utilization and the debt ratio position we'd like to be in are very much in kind of the middle of the pack.
What I would tell you is we don't want to be known as anything other than -- we don't want to be known as over or under leveraged.
We don't want to be known as over or under stretched.
We're really seeking to make our ultimate difference in the quality of our underwriting because that's where we think we create the most value.
So the sort of more creative approach is kind of financial engineering style approaches on the balance sheet are not much in favor unless there is something that is a very specific risk that we're trying to address.
Then we're very interested in tools that might address it.
You could think about inflation.
You could think about a lot of things and say "Is there any tool you might want to use in those?" And then we pay attention when folks from other parts of your company come around with brilliant solutions.
But the general attitude is that we are not so much financial engineers as we are thoughtful middle-of-the-road managers of debt and capital in order to give our balance sheet an efficient platform from which to work and then we have the hard work of using appropriate and sophisticated models to move the capital behind the right segments of the business at the right time to achieve the profitable growth of the right portfolio.
So you want an efficient capital structure but we're not looking to out-engineer everybody we're looking to be a pretty straightforward company.
Okay that's helpful.
One quick follow-up if I may and I'm still trying to keep it big picture in general.
Could you talk about some of the considerations that you might weigh as you think about whether or not to extend the Stoneheath Reinsurance contract? No again getting to an efficient capital structure that has appropriate flexibility for the growth of the business in any opportunities we see while being an amount of capital that is appropriate to the amount we see in the foreseeable future right.
But those are the things that matter and I think that's really enough said.
Your next question comes from Paul Newsome with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> Any thoughts about how long your pause will be in the sense of -- not so much your pause but how long do you think we should be sitting around and thinking about whether or not there really is something going on or it just remains signs? Well we review our sort of decision matrix the three parter that I won't bore you with because you've heard it so many times you can say it to me.
But we review our three-part decision matrix for capital on a regular basis.
We will continue to do it regularly and when we see that there's obvious evidence for a particular direction or another we will act on it and where appropriate and when appropriate talk about it.
But I apologize but that's not an area we're being as you might think more transparent would be helpful to our shareholders.
L.P.</strong> I disagree but I guess that really wasn't what I was trying to ask.
Obviously the market is in sort of flux.
The question I'm asking is how long do you think it is before we know which way it goes? Do we have to get past the your lines renewals should we...
That's a very different question and...
L.P.</strong> Get past the hurricanes or...
Yes right.
Well so what I don't want to do is create a direct association okay? So if I tell you I don't think I'm going to be certain -- or certain's the wrong word but I think we'll all have a very good sense of where this market is headed by the end of the hurricane season for a couple of reasons you're going to bend through the Property Cat renewals you're going to bend through wind season which is another big variable for the year.
If Greg Hendrick were on the phone he'd remind you an earthquake can happen anytime.
There's no season for earthquakes.
But when we get into the last 1/2 of this year you're going to have a lot of evidence with which to work with beyond just these first quarter events.
Having said that I wouldn't want you to then say to yourself that that is somehow code for: We won't look at how to make decisions around repurchases before then.
We look at these questions regularly as against again the opportunities we see in the market place what's going on with pricing what's going on with other players all [indiscernible] as they shape or how we make that decision so don't take from that.
But that's the timing by which we would or wouldn't reengage in share repurchases.
We'll make that -- we could make that decision at any time.
But as it corresponds to your direct question about when we would really be able to sit here and each of us tell each other with confidence about what direction the market's going I think that it's unlikely you'll have a modest certainty until you get to the end of that wind season.
And your final question comes from Keith Walsh with Citi.
I guess Mike you mentioned underwriting improvement several times on the call.
And I just want to get some context around absent pricing what's the kind of timing you're talking about on that type of improvement? And then I've got a follow-up.
Yes books of business as you sure know can be improved in a number of ways.
You have of course selection.
You have the contract terms and design itself.
You have the pricing exposure change.
You have all kinds of variables.
So we would like to think there's never a time when you aren't thinking about how you can prove your underwriting result.
The underwriters should be constantly looking for a way to serve the client better and to serve the shareholders at the same time.
That's a constant exercise.
What I would tell you and again I'm going to point you to Investor Day as you probably suspected that I would but I would tell you that we're very excited by that lever.
We think there's a lot of potential in that lever at XL.
I'll just leave it at that and we'll get into that in more detail why that would be -- when we all get together.
But there's just a remarkable opportunity ahead.
Okay.
The second question just around investments.
You've talked about in the past about some of the people you've added recently.
Maybe you can just give us a sense update of some -- what are some of the areas still -- geographically and product lines you'd still like to add to in the franchise? Yes I'm going to ask Dave Duclos in Vancouver -- actually I'm actually going to do this myself because I was just told that Dave had to run to a meeting so that would be very foolish to ask him to comment.
Okay so Dave let me start it out then.
The bottom line is no matter where you look I can only identify 2 places in the -- 2 activities of our activities and I'm not going to get into them because they will give our competitors advantage.
But there's only 2 places in the world where I feel like our book of business is about where it should be and I wouldn't be excited to see it to grow.
Well if you stepped back and look at the world like we look at it there's an awful lot of places where we have business activities.
And I'm identifying a couple of them that I feel really right about the right part of the market for our strategy.
So we I think have the blessing of being very opportunistic across product across geography to decide where is the best opportunity in the medium term.
So I -- there's some obvious observations.
People have often observed we're underweight on a relative basis in the U.S.
on our Insurance side that's true.
Relative to the size and scope of that market we're underweight.
In some of the emerging markets our activities are still relatively young although I would tell you we were awfully proud of the fact that we got that China license in the shortest amount of time yet by a primary insurer.
So having that absolute primary license and the operation now ready to write premiums is very exciting to us.
But we could by no means claim to be the first there or the most established.
So there are places where there's clear opportunity ahead.
But again there's only a couple of product lines in a couple of geographies where I'd tell you I think we're about full.
So we have the -- I think the real blessing of really being opportune and being able to pick them among a great harvest of choices.
We have made a couple of choices that are about macroeconomic bets.
We made a choice around the construction play in the U.S.
That major construction market we think whether it's from government spending or the relighting of the economy in either way it can come back to our benefit.
And we felt that to make that really fly it was a really opportune time to enter the Surety business.
That was a fabulous combination of macro thinking about where to play of finding the right talent of being able to get the right talent and the right leadership and we're extremely excited about what that portends kind of in the medium horizon.
We're very excited to give another illustration around professional lines over in the international European market and you see us already writing some additional business there.
And I don't -- maybe we could underscore this just a bit more we wrote our first global program in the professional area during the quarter.
That's a big deal because that's another way to approach professional lines that is becoming increasingly demanded by a global client and that relatively few players can deliver and especially not with the kind of insight that our underwriters have.
So we're building out an organization to take advantage of that and they're already delivering some premium.
But these are the things that really excite us and you'll notice there's not a particular thing except for extending where we seek the best advantage.
It's an opportunistic thing but it gives us great growth potential over time even during a market that is still uneven in terms of its pricing.
Sorry Dave I probably stole all the thunder but you may want to add something.
No you did a very good job Mike.
I think the key point that Mike's made is we have a lot of opportunity.
The only I guess thing I'd add to this is we have as Mike said a couple of places where we're satisfied with our existing market share and a whole bunch of opportunities either on a product geography or segment basis to expand.
And in addition to new products and new teams that are getting us into new spaces we're constantly looking to bring in the good professionals in existing practices and believe it or not we're able to grow those books significantly.
So we feel very bullish about our ability to grow the premium in a profitable way within the broad global platform that Insurance utilizes.
Mike picked up on the key points of it and we feel very good.
I'll tell you what we've just had tremendous success the last 6 quarters now attracting really good underwriters to this firm.
And then Mike if I could just follow-up on one last question I mean just on the share repurchase it's been dialed down here.
It either leads you to believe that a you don't have as much excess capital as we thought you did; or b you think the incremental returns on new business are better than share repurchase which I find hard to believe at the levels your stock is at.
So maybe if you could just address that a little bit? No I think -- I'm sorry to say I think we probably talked about this as much as we can.
The only thing I would encourage you to focus on is it's always about the trade-offs across different activities to create shareholder value.
So we intend to be focused on generating shareholder value and you've identified the right way to think about it.
Trading where we are the economics of share repurchases are obviously very strong.
So at any given time to do something else it would have to be a very strong idea.
But these are times this is a moment in the marketplace that is a rare possible point of inflection.
And we think the best stewardship as I said was to take a pause see what's going on and then do what we think is the right thing and that's the appropriate time to explain why we thought whatever course we choose I mean is the right thing.
We think that's just purely prudent and think it's the right way to steward your company.
Okay.
So I'm going to turn the call back over to the speakers.
Okay.
I'd just like to thank everybody for the time and attention.
We appreciate that having to have people around the world makes us a little clumsier than usual but I hope you got all the answers you were seeking.
Obviously Dave Radulski and the team are available to make sure to clarify any questions that somehow we weren't effective in communicating on the call or that require a bit more technical explanation.
And we're looking forward not only to the next quarter of XL but particularly to seeing -- to being with you in June.
So with that thank you very much and I hope you have a good day.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group plc Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shirley and good evening and welcome to XL Group's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast in XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We posted to our website several documents.
These include our quarterly financial supplement which we are reposting to ensure the file is complete and readable.
Our apologies for the inconvenience.
On our call today Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO will offer opening remarks.
Susan Cross our Global Chief Actuary will do our reserving process; followed by Dave Duclos our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review the segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Sarah Street our Chief Investment Officer; and Simon Rich our Treasurer are with us today and available for Q&amp;A.
Before they begin I’d like to remind you that certain of the matters we’ll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents we've filed with the SEC and could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of which they are made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening.
As we have discussed on previous calls and shared with you during our recent Investor Day we are keenly focused on the 5 drivers that build value for XL's shareholders.
These are: underwriting excellence strategic growth strong enterprise risk management optimized investing and operating in capital efficiency.
We feel good about our progress across these 5 drivers as each has contributed to our results in this quarter.
Have you seen the quarter produced $0.75 in operating earnings.
And we grew our fully diluted book value per share by 6.3% and generated an annualized operating ROE of 10.3%.
Now first as to our pursuit of underwriting excellence.
Our P&amp;C operations produced a combined ratio of 94.9% for the quarter a solid result for this stage in the market cycle.
Our top line growth of 16.9% year-over-year came from the business initiatives in both Insurance and Reinsurance favorable FX movements and better pricing and account lines particularly in Property Catastrophe.
Market conditions continued their gradual improvement and we saw pricing in several of our most important lines rise or at least bottomed out.
RMS 11 has had a positive impact on Florida pricing already and we also saw increases in several loss-driven markets notably property excess casualty and marine lines.
Markets with very good recent loss histories like primary U.S.
D&amp;O and Reinsurance Aviation were exceptions to these positive trends.
We've already been taking advantage of what we've been learning both from our reinvigoration of our existing businesses and our strategic growth initiatives the second of our value-creating levers.
With respect to strategic growth we continued to add capacity and capability in markets we consider attractive and profitable especially in lines that complement our existing strengths like construction and surety and we expanded product offerings in environmental and excess in surplus.
A key part of our growth strategy is our focus on attracting and enabling the best talent in the industry.
And we continue to add top teams and leaders in the second quarter to our already fine crew.
And particularly we are very pleased that Pete Parrino will be joining XL as our new CFO.
Pete has a wealth of finance accounting and strategic leadership experience.
He knows the insurance industry and he knows XL.
We look forward to him joining us full time at the end of August so you can expect him to participate in our next earnings call.
We also recently announced that Paolo Ribotta will become the Head of our Global Distribution.
This new position should build on the success we're already seeing from increased cross-selling among our businesses and will play a key role as we expand to new markets and geographies.
With these 2 levers in motion underwriting excellence and strategic growth our strategy relies on the third value creating lever a strong ERM foundation.
This was again demonstrated by our Cat performance in the second quarter.
Industry's observers have reported that the 2011 tornado season taken as a single event would be among the top 10 costliest events in global insurance history.
Now we measure our loss performance in several ways.
But one significant metric is losses as a percentage of shareholders equity.
Using this metric we have performed exceptionally well on both an absolute and relative basis.
But second quarter Cat losses representing 0.7% of March 31 shareholders' equity and year-to-date Cat losses were a very manageable 4.5% of year end shareholders' equity.
Our own implementation of RMS version 11 is complete and we believe we have sufficient headrooms within our limited structure to take advantage of market opportunities.
A key reason that we have this capacity is that we have already anticipated some of the model changes and we're already applying additional loads to the version 10 methodology where we felt it was warranted particularly around the issue of storm surge.
Effective reserving is another key to our prudence.
We have performed our comprehensive semi-annual actuarial reviews on XL's P&amp;C risk portfolio in the second quarter.
This review resulted in prior year releases of $128 million split evenly between Insurance and Reinsurance.
Favorable insurance development was largely in professional lines while favorable Reinsurance development was most significant in North American Property &amp; Casualty lines.
Turning to the fourth lever optimized investing.
We took advantage of higher rates early in the quarter to deploy funds particularly into agency RMBS and corporates achieving a P&amp;C new money yield of 3.4%.
There was no change to duration in the P&amp;C portfolio at 2.8 years.
The increase in P&amp;C net book yield this quarter compared to the first quarter of 2011 was due to a couple of nonrecurring items.
The underlying yield was more in line with the first quarter's net book yield of around 3%.
We ended the second quarter with a favorable mark-to-market of $180 million largely driven by the fall in U.S.
interest rates.
In terms of the fifth lever operating and capital efficiency.
Our operating expense run rate was in line with the last 2 quarters.
The increase on a year-over-year basis largely supported the strategic initiatives we discussed in our quarter one call and throughout our Investor Day.
These plans include important improvements to increase the scalability and insightfulness of our underwriting platform.
With respect to capital management we restarted our share buyback program in mid-June buying back 4.3 million shares for $92 million in the second quarter and another 7.3 million shares for $158 million so far in the third quarter.
Since August 2010 we have bought back a total of 45 million shares for $935 million which has increased our book value per share by approximately $1.
We are also acting on our intention to reduce financial leverage.
We announced our tender for the remaining Series C preference shares and the remarketing and intended buying in of the senior notes associated with our equity security units.
All in all we are pleased with our progress.
Our underwriting capabilities are continuously improving.
Our risk management continues strong.
Our reserving prudence was demonstrated once again and we maintained our discipline in managing our debt and equity capital.
We know how important all these elements are to delivering the returns shareholders expect from XL and we are committed to generating such solid returns.
Now I'll turn it over to our Global Chief Actuary Susan Cross for some comments on our reserve review process.
Susan? Thanks Mike.
During the second quarter we complete detailed reviews covering virtually all of our reserves across our P&amp;C business lines.
This is consistent with our normal semi-annual process and there were no material changes in approach or methodology.
As Mike mentioned these reviews resulted in favorable prior year development of $128 million split evenly between the Insurance and Reinsurance segments.
The insurance releases of $64 million are primarily attributable to professional lines in the 2006 and prior years.
Primary casualty marine and aerospace also contributed favorably.
The favorable development was partially offset by strengthening related to a discontinued surety program and excess in surplus business as well as strengthening in excess casualty.
On a year-to-date basis the favorable development of $70 million for Insurance is in line with the releases of $66 million for the first half of 2010.
The Reinsurance releases of $64 million dollars are comprised of $25 million for property and other short-tail lines; $25 million for Casualty lines including Professional primarily in years 2004 and prior; and $40 million related to whole accounts release written on Lloyd's Syndicate.
The total favorable prior development of $64 million is $15 million more than the prior year quarter largely driven by the releases on the whole account treaties.
In the past we have generally recorded the Reinsurance to close on this business which has generated favorable prior year development in the third quarter.
This year we have received sufficient information to allow us to reflect at least a portion of the Reinsurance to close in the second quarter.
So this reflects a timing difference between the second and third quarters.
Overall we continue to see favorable actual loss emergence relative to expected levels across most areas of our business.
Loss cost trends continue to be moderate with no discernible changes in those trends thus far in 2011.
That said it's important to keep in mind that it can be difficult to discern such changes for many of our product lines due to their low frequency high severity characteristics.
As such although loss trends have been moderate in recent years we continue to factor in long term views of loss trend into both our pricing and reserving as we consider this a more prudent approach.
And now to Dave to discuss Insurance segment results.
Thank you Susan.
Insurance results for the second quarter were on track despite the U.S.
-- significant U.S.
storm activity Mike mentioned.
The segments combined ratio for the quarter of 97.9% compared to 97.6% during the same quarter last year.
Losses in our offshore energy and satellite books were more than offset by prior year reserve releases of $64 million primarily from our U.S.
D&amp;O business.
Insurance gross premiums written in Q2 rose by $204 million or nearly 19% from previous year.
While this growth benefited from some one-off gain premiums were materially stronger as a result of targeted growth initiatives.
Several expiring long-term agreements which were not reflected in last year's premiums were re-underwritten and renewed as annual policies for a total of $38 million.
And favorable true-ups of various premium accruals and other adjustments accounted for $32 million.
Adjusting for these factors the real growth for the quarter was 8% and benefited from the continued build-out of targeted initiatives we discussed at Investor Day.
This included North America and international construction North America surety U.S.
general aviation and international upper-middle markets.
For example in Q2 this year we wrote $12 million in North American construction business compared to 0 in 2010.
And we grew out international upper-middle market book from $17 million in the second quarter a year ago to $31 million in Q2 2011.
Foreign exchange adjustments made up the balance of the growth.
Net premiums earned were up 4.5% or $39 million largely reflecting the earn through of higher gross premiums written.
Our Q2 loss ratio of 67% was actually 1.2 points better than last year.
But when you adjust for both Cat and prior year development our underlying loss ratio rose 2.4 points due to the offshore energy and satellite losses mentioned earlier.
We expect and plan for significant losses in these lines though in light of the second quarter activity we were acting on the side of prudence and have not fully absorbed them in our IBNR.
On a similar topic after reporting large property losses during the past 3 quarters I did want to mention that despite the Q2 storm activity in the U.S.
our combined property book International North America and Bermuda performed at historical levels with a loss ratio including Cats in a mid-40s.
Acquisition expenses of 12.5% were 1.9 points above prior year as Q2 2010 included favorable one-off for premium taxes and guaranteed fund assessments.
Excluding these adjustments the unfavorable variance of 0.4 points is made up of plan changes and mix of business and a reinstatement premium related to last year's Gulf disaster.
Generally speaking a good financial results for this stage in the cycle.
Now the market conditions.
The favorable pricing trend we began to see with our April 1 renewals continue to the second quarter.
While average pricing across all lines had been declining in the 1% to 2% range for the prior 12 months for Q2 it appears to have stabilized.
As Mike mentioned U.S.
D&amp;O was an exception where prices continued to decline in the low-single digits given the industry profitability levels.
And we have accordingly reduced our exposures written in this line.
Excluding U.S.
D&amp;O we have seen pricing strengthened by just under 2%.
It's largely that property Excess Casualty and Marine lines driving this improvement although we are taking actions to push rate in other lines as well.
We are guardedly optimistic by the rate strengthening seen in Q2 results.
So while we expect to see continued opportunities for selective profitable growth we remain diligent in our underwriting activities as we see how this market plays out over the next several quarters.
And now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance.
Thanks Dave and good evening.
The Reinsurance segment had a solid quarter of underwriting results with a combined ratio of 87.9%.
These results were impacted by prior year reserve releases of $63.9 million and Cat losses in the quarter of $57.4 million.
Excluding the impact of these items our combined ratio was 90%.
This compares favorably to the combined of 92.7% in the second quarter of 2010 also excluding Cats and prior year development.
The prior year releases we took in the quarter were largely from our U.S.
business unit.
And as Susan mentioned we remained cautious about long-tail reserve releases generally and very diligent regarding recent underwriting years in these lines.
With respect to top line gross premiums written in the quarter were $472 million up 12% from the second quarter of last year.
This increase was virtually entirely driven by XL Re Bermuda and Europe.
In Bermuda we enjoyed a nice improvement in pricing and utilized additional capacity in the North American Cat renewals.
In Europe we wrote one new professional indemnity treaty for $20 million of annual premium and also had the benefit of increased premium sessions on U.K.
motor treaties that had been booked at low-written premium levels.
As we've often said top line variations and a treaty portfolio can often cause anomalies in year-on-year premium levels that do not reflect larger market trends.
That is this growth does not signal either broad market turn or weakening underwriting standards.
We've simply found some selective opportunities to write business in key markets.
Turning to market conditions we were broadly pleased with mid-year renewals.
We were in a great position to take advantage of improved pricing in the U.S.
Cat market selectively write new business and expand our lines on programs we liked.
On Florida-concentrated business pricing was up 7.5% to 12.5% and on other U.S.
business an improved 5% to 7.5% on a risk-adjusted basis.
The renewal process in the Cat market was a bit of a game of chicken with some clients instructing their brokers to place as much as they could at prices below the levels quoted by the recognized lead markets.
In these cases programs struggle to achieve full placement and we had the benefit of writing shortfall covers in a number of instances where this took place.
Those that purchased at market-leading consensus pricing found abundant capacity to place their programs.
In the International market loss impacted property programs have seen price increases of 5% to 10%.
Loss-free programs were generally flat to down slightly.
In specialty lines aviation was down 5% given favorable loss experience and loss-driven markets such as marine energy the retro market and Asia Pacific Cat renewal saw a positive movement.
On the long-tail side the environment remains competitive across most sectors of the market.
Other than limited pockets we see continued pressure on pricing.
Broadly the Reinsurance segment now prefers professional lines over standard lines and prefer the write excess of loss over quota share.
We do see occasion opportunities to write business like we did in London this quarter.
But overall the market remains very competitive and our underwriting posture highly defensive.
With that I'll turn things back to David for Q&amp;A.
Shirley can you please open the lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Keith Walsh with Citi.
Anyway just first question on net written premium looking at primary property and reinsurance property Cat seemed very very strong growth there.
And by my math gone from about 26% to 29% of total NWP.
Is there a limit or a target on how large a percent of the total book you want this to account for? Keith it's Jamie.
On the Reinsurance side we've spoken about this before.
As the long-tail markets have weakened we have increased the percentage of our writings in property particularly Cat which has gone from about 10% of our portfolio in 2005 to almost 20% today.
I don't think we ever have any absolute target percentage split.
We tend to allocate our capital where we think we can generate the best returns.
Keith this is Dave.
I'll just add that in addition to the capital utilization comment that Jamie just made the production that you saw on the second quarter for Insurance property is reflective of actually strengthening of the team.
We've got a new leader Joe Tocco who's working with the existing team.
And frankly we're getting more shots at good opportunities and pricing the business as we were earlier in 2011 and also 2010.
So we feel really good about that being a sign of us being a bigger factor in the property market in North America.
Great.
And then a follow-up around expenses.
Two-part question.
You mentioned in the press release operating expenses elevated and the build-out of the office of strategic growth and other initiatives.
Maybe how meaningful is this to the quarterly run rate if you could put some numbers around that? And then I've got a follow-up to that.
Yes this is Mike.
As we commented on the Investor Day up in New York we'd expect this to be a continuing -- we expect this to be a continuing additional cost which really began to build in in earnest in the fourth quarter last year and has continued at about the same rate at this stage.
I would expect that we will continue to see it at this level for the foreseeable future.
It could go up or down depending on particular activities that are going on at any given time.
But we've expected this really to be a continuing activity because we think that investing in new technology and approving your platform is simply a constant need of a company that wants to rely this heavily on technology to improve its underwriting basis.
The actual run rate increase in the quarter was about $20 million on a run rate basis over a year ago.
And I think that's probably a good proxy to use at this stage.
And then the other piece on the expenses is increased acquisition costs.
So what does this mean exactly? Where are these broker characters out there? What are they doing to you guys? They're taking a bigger cut of the pie it sounds like.
If you could just...
Actually Keith it's not what it seems.
Jamie? Certainly part of it comes out of our portfolio Keith.
And it is an indirect result or a direct result of the prior year reserve releases.
So if we release reserves on a casualty quota share for example very often there's a profit commission associated with that treaty.
And we have to increase the accrual on the profit commission that drives the acquisition ratio up.
Next question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays Capital.
I realized the midyear reserve review came in the second quarter and that resulted in a bit more reserve releases certainly than we were modeling.
What's the sustainability of that trend? Jay as I mentioned we continue to see favorable actual loss emergence relative to our expected levels.
And loss cost trends continue to be moderate.
So we don't have any reason to believe that's not going to continue.
We continue to apply the same prudent reserving approach.
So I'm not going to forecast for you but I don't see any reason to expect it not to continue.
Jay this is Mike.
I would also note that a couple of the independent analysts that a look at our reserve loss triangles released back a few months ago actually judged reserves to have come out a bit stronger which is not what we've been seeing generally across the market.
So that gives us even more comfort with the quality of the processes we use.
Okay on separate issues deployment of excess capital.
Mike when we had you on the call 3 months ago you seemed to pull back a bit in terms of the desire to buyback stock and even during Investor Day but it seems to have shifted gears a bit.
Can you tell us what changed in terms of your decision to go back into share buybacks? We have never changed our philosophy.
We do believe that -- I don't want to bore you with the 3-part decision-making process again we first make sure that we have excess capital to a buffer to our rating agency required capital.
We then -- if we have excess capital from that buffer we then consider ways in which we could improve the value of the firm for our shareholders by investing in the firm or through acquisitions or other activities such as that.
And if when those things are complete we don't think we can add value in that way but we believe that it's the shareholders' money we should find the most efficient practical means returning it to them.
That 3-part test has been I think quite effective over the years I've been in these chairs.
And I can tell you that as we watch the events in the first quarter unfold we thought it was most prudent to take a pause because we considered that there could be some very unusual market dynamics that would emerge.
And actually I think we're seeing around us some unusual activity in the end markets.
Having said all including both a much -- an improved pricing environment particularly in property casualty -- property catastrophe particularly we're seeing of course the implications of RMS model 11.
And of course you are seeing sort of stepped up both rumored and real M&amp;A activity.
So there's a lot going on right now.
We thought it was right to take a pause.
We went through our 3-part analysis.
And our conclusion was in the end that we should be returning capital to share repurchase at this time and that's the program that I've updated you about.
I would note that we have another 440 million or so of authorization remaining on our existing $1 billion authorization.
What's the timeframe to complete that? As you know we have never forecast our decisions around amounts or specific activities because to do so would be to the detriment of the effectiveness of the program.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi.
[Goldman Sachs] Just a question on loss ratios year-over-year.
So could you kind of tell us both in Insurance and Reinsurance if you adjust for those items that you talked about what does the year-over-year look like? Let me start this is David with Insurance.
And those large losses I alluded to in the satellite and marine areas account for over 5 points of a loss ratio on an accident year basis.
So when you normalize those i.e.
you just take the losses that would've been contemplated within our large loss load that actually represents the entire negative variance on an accident year basis.
Now I have to tell you it's tiring to talk about lumpy losses impact quarter-to-quarter.
But I do want to say with both the marine and aviation satellite business these are profitable businesses for us.
But the good news is is that on an accident year basis we would have a slight improvement year-to-year if it wasn't for the anomaly around the large losses associated with those 2 businesses.
And then on the Reinsurance side? Yes.
On the Reinsurance side year-on-year we had a 2.7 point improvement in the combined ratio if you strip out Cat losses and prior year reserve releases.
That delta is entirely driven by the Deepwater loss in the second quarter of last year which was about 3 2.7 loss ratio points.
Great.
Just a quick follow-up then.
If you're seeing -- you say you're seeing better pricing in property Cat.
I noticed non-Cat property mostly on the primary side premiums were up higher as well there.
How should we expect to see that flow through? I realized it's on a written basis so it's going to earn through.
Like how should we think about that flowing through the income statement in the next couple of quarters as you earn those dollars through? It's hardly precise.
But I think broadly you should assume that the expected margins in the Cat business would be significantly higher than you get in the property non-Cat business.
Yes.
And from an assurance standpoint Mike our -- and a lot of this growth in the second quarter came from North America property where for the past several years we've been running combines in the low 80s.
So it would have a favorable impact in terms of earnings.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I guess on the Reinsurance side did any of the growth -- you mentioned growth in Florida in the property Cat side.
Did any of that of that come from simply moving down to lower layers and thus having a much bigger rate online? Or were you pretty much even where you were last year relative to the layers that you participated on? A bit of both Jay.
We did write down a little bit lower below the Cat fund which we historically haven't written a lot of.
And in addition we just increased our limits overall.
As Mike mentioned we were in a very good position relative to our published risk appetite going into the renewal season.
We've been holding out power [ph] there and we saw some great opportunities across the market.
So we increased our overall aggregate quite materially.
Got it.
And then I guess a numbers question.
The conversion of the ESUs I guess occurs in mid-August.
Could you just -- I think I have it right in my model but can you just remind us how many shares will be added to the share count? And I thought there might be some question on ESU so we brought along our Global Treasurer Simon? As you know the exact number of shares will depend upon the average share price for the period running up to that date.
But if it's where the share price is today we'd expect 30.45 million new shares to be issued on August 15.
Our next question comes from Matthew Heimermann with JPMC.
Mike or Jamie or Dave or everyone I guess just on -- you qualitatively talked about in your opening comments that the model changes were relatively modest.
I was curious if you could just put some numbers around what relatively modest is? And then I've got a follow-up.
This is Mike.
I presume you're talking about the RMS model 11 impacts? Yes Jamie? Well I think we had anticipated and built in some loadings in the old model particularly for storm surge.
We now believe based on the changes in the new model that we can reduce our own sort of subjected loads on that.
So we're not saying that the impact overall in the model change was not material.
Certainly it was.
But it may have impacted us less than some others because of some steps we took in adjusting the old version ourselves.
Yes.
And Matthew from Insurance standpoint it'd be the same explanation.
We certainly try to load up some of the areas that we knew were deficient with version 10.
And I'd also say that from an insurance standpoint we were quite below our limit.
So we've got some room to maneuver.
I guess I was looking for -- that all makes sense.
I guess I was looking for maybe if you could quantify what the change would be because I suspect when you next update your PML disclosure it's likely going to be up but some of that's probably going to  be the growth you saw in the quarter.
So I just was hoping you could give that to us so we could separate one from the other.
We haven't finalized all the July 1 renewals.
But as you recall at the end of the first quarter we reported that our Tier 1 1% OEP was at about 10% of our shareholders equity with our risk appetite of 15%.
We believe we'll still have material room above our -- below our risk appetite.
Okay so no answer.
I'll move on.
Just with respect to the Japan renewals did you have any delay of premium into the third quarter or did all the contracts you we're on get booked in 2Q? We I believe had a couple of Cat programs renewed at July 1 so it'll be a Q3 event.
Is that tens of millions? I mean just order of magnitude is that something that we should think about consciously building in or is it less material than that? It's less material than that but I'm not good to be precise about anything relative to the third quarter.
Our next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
This is a question for Jamie.
You made a comment about property Cat going from 10% of the portfolio to 20% today.
A lot of that shrinkage of the portfolio was following Katrina and had some capital issues associated.
I wonder in terms of thinking about that time line how much of the size of the property Cat portfolio today is due to your capital adequacy? How much is it due to increasing based on where rates were? Arguably rates have been attractive almost every year since 2005 so I'm just trying to understand how you're allocating capital to the property Cat model? I think it's as much a reflection of the reduction in our appetite for Casualty business than any of the components of what you've just describe.
I think basically what we're saying is we are not at all reluctant to reduce our Casualty writings and we don't think that the returns are attractive.
And Cat even if we do nothing is going to become a bigger percentage.
So the precise break between rate and aggregate I don't have with me.
But it's as much as a reduction in Casualty as it is in writing additional Cat.
And by portfolio you're meaning premium volume? Correct.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith from UBS.
Most of it asked but one quick one here.
Just looking at the investment affiliate number really really high this quarter.
Anything unusual going on in that number this quarter? No.
We had at least one of our gang out there really had a terrific quarter.
That's essentially the difference.
That's always moves around a bit but we're very pleased to see this kind of performance.
So that number doesn't -- I thought that number kind of tracked to your alternative funds and that's why it just looked kind of unusual how large it was.
Hi Brian it's Sarah.
One of our managers starst to hit the high watermark so the leverage that you get on that in terms of starting towards [ph] performance fees can drive a significant [indiscernible] like that.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Ian Gutterman Adage Capital.
L.P.</strong> I just want to start with a couple numbers question.
Can you tell me what the share count was for earnings -- kind of the number in the press release didn't seem right to me.
Yes the number in the press release is right.
But it's as if converted so that's the big difference.
L.P.</strong> What is it the way you normally show because I think last quarter it was like $311 million and you're showing me $342 million in this press release? That's the $30 million on the conversion I believe being added in so you would just back that out.
The number that Simon gave you earlier.
L.P.</strong> Got it okay.
Second numbers question Mike when you're talking about expenses earlier I want to make sure we're talking about the same thing.
Corporate expenses your corporate expense line is that where the increase happened because for all of 2010 that was about $90 million the corporate expense is $75 million already in the first half.
Or were you talking about inside the P&amp;C operations earlier? These strategic expenditures we're keeping at the top of the house that's why it's in corporate expense line.
L.P.</strong> Got it okay.
And similarly the investment income improvement the sequential improvement can you talk a little bit more about what drove that? Was there anything onetime? Or is it a good run rate? No -- yes.
This is Sarah again.
Mike did mention in his prepared remarks that actually there were a couple of nonrecurring items in there.
On the positive side association [indiscernible] sort of some noise around in expense allocation against net investment income.
And then a tips [ph] adjustment on our investment portfolio on the tips [ph] side that came through.
So in fact the run rate or the underlying yield is nearer 3% level on a go-forward basis.
L.P.</strong> And were those one-timers more weighted towards the P&amp;C portfolio or the Life portfolio or a little bit of both? Mainly P&amp;C.
L.P.</strong> So is sort of the run rate better than Q1? About the same as Q1? I mean it that a better way to think about it? It's about 3 basis points higher on yield.
L.P.</strong> And do we still that -- given where reinvestment rates are versus maturities should that be reasonably stable now or do we still have some downside to that? No.
We still have some downside because obviously we have bonds that we bought 5 or 6 years ago that are maturing.
I reckon based off some analysis that we've done if rates don't -- if they stay at this current level it could be about sort of 18 months to 2 years before it completely stabilizes.
L.P.</strong> Got it.
Okay great.
And then Mike just my last question a follow-up I guess with Jay's question on the repurchase.
I understand how you look at it and I'm not trying to re-ask that.
I guess I'm just confused on what changed between Investor Day on June 7 and mid-June during the buyback where on Investor Day it seemed like you weren't ready to repurchase yet.
Again we make those judgments really independent of those events.
We do it by our own analysis of where we think we are.
We had completed our reviews and as soon as we completed that work we made a decision.
And in this case as you saw as we've now announced started repurchasing.
L.P.</strong> So it was just coincidence on the timing.
I guess I'm surprised you didn't tell us at Investor Day that you might be resuming in the very near future.
Yes it really was quite coincidental.
We have set Investor Day dates some significant time before and the processes we were using to evaluate our alternative opportunities just took as long as they took so that was just a coincidence in the timing.
Your next question comes from Arun Kumar with JPMC.
This a question on the fixed income side.
Given the degree of comfort that you have with your capital position as evidenced via buyback and other items you do have a contingent capital now called Stoneheath which is callable in 2011 I think in October.
I think this question came up in the last call as well from someone else.
But could you give us the intentions towards that security.
Clearly a bunch of different perils [ph] that are covered by that.
But given your excess capital your earnings during the first 6 months of this year what are the intentions towards either keeping that outstanding or converting into preferred of the holding company or some other outcome? Yes.
We have extended the Reinsurance claim until September 30 2011.
We're still looking at our options with respect to this structure and don't have an announcement to make now.
To try and understand the range of options I would just refer you back to the original transaction documents.
Your next question comes from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Just a quick follow-up on the debt side.
You have some debt coming due early next year.
I thought that you'd mentioned that you were either participating this current year as related offering or that one.
I'm just wondering do you have any thoughts about how about that offering next year? I would just give you a general answer on this.
Our general intention as we discussed at Investor Day is to bring down our absolute leverage ratio and of course also as market conditions allow to lower our cost of leverage.
And we have considered and continued to think through various actions that will help with that.
That's why we took the action on this Series Cs that we did during the quarter.
That's the context of which we're evaluating the Stoneheath instrument and we're well aware of that maturity and its particular costs and how it might fit into that general theme.
But we continue to consider the best way to get to the right level of leverage over time if the market would allow a lower cost.
And so that would still be an option currently if you chose to repurchase that as well? Or to restart that? Sure sure.
[Operator Instructions] And I'm showing no further questions.
I'll turn the call back over to the speakers for closing comments.
This is Mike.
I just want to thank everybody for being with us this evening.
I know it's a busy season and been a long earnings season.
We're very pleased with this quarter.
We're pleased with the signs of our strategy coming into place and we're working hard to advance it further.
Thanks again for the time and I'm sure David and the crew will be available for your further questions.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your line.
Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group plc Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please  be advised this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley and welcome to XL Group's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's webcast at www.xlgroup.com.
We posted to our website several documents including our quarterly financial supplement.
On our call today Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO will offer opening remarks.
Peter Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer will review our financial results; followed by Dave Duclos our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who'll review their segment results and market conditions then we'll open it up for questions.
Also in attendance and available for questions are Susan Cross our Global Chief Actuary; Sarah Street our Chief Investment Officer; and Stephen Robb our Controller.
Before they begin I’d like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents and file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of which they are made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
And with that I'll turn it over to Mike McGavick.
So the interesting quarters that have characterized the year 2011 continue.
It has been an extraordinary quarter at XL.
It is a mix of good and a few not-so-good items as it always is.
On the not-so-good side we saw heavy catastrophe activity as did the industry.
But on the good side once again we saw the progress that we have made in ERM at XL shine through as our performance in catastrophe terms we think was very much in line with our peers and in some cases even a little better.
And happily prior quarter Cat events continued to perform as predicted at the time.
Now also on the not so good side we saw a difficulty in our large property line which produced one very large loss.
And that large loss has been the continuation of a pattern of larger losses that we have seen out of that operation.
On the good side you can be assured that the new leadership we installed over that book in 2011 gets it as do all of us.
Make no mistake.
As underwriters we do not find an x Cat x PYD combined ratio of 101.7% acceptable at any point in the cycle.
But back on the good news side our challenges are on a short-tail line of business.
And we believe the underwriting actions many of which are already underway will take hold relatively quickly But bringing all of that up relates to the quarter just passed.
And that belies the fact that generally here at XL we are extremely excited about the market that is increasingly near at hand.
Broadly  speaking nearly every line of business with a notable exception of U.S.
D&amp;O is showing -- is now showing either flat or positive rate change for the second straight quarter.
In fact overall in this third quarter we saw 2 points of rate when you take away the negative pricing in professional lines and this is the continuation of a trend for the second straight quarter with positive rate.
And we believe this understates our progress as it has been accelerating each month throughout the quarter.
Now I'm not here to call it a hard market yet.
But clearly managements in our industry are becoming frustrated by reality.
The reality that we are in a prolonged low interest rate environment the reality that for some companies I think reserves are running dry and the reality that the sector has been underpricing most of these products for an extended period of time.
Now while I'm on the topic of reserves running dry you will notice that there was relatively minimal prior year development at XL in the third quarter.
But you will recall from prior calls that we do not do a deep examination of our reserves during the first and third quarters so it is not unusual for us to have a third quarter likeness.
And some will note that this third quarter PYD is less than the same quarter a year ago.
But that quarter was driven by specific case anomalies as we described at the time.
My point is that this quarter does not mean anything with respect to the overall level of redundancy at XL which has been favorably reviewed by industry analysts including many on this call.
Now getting back to the larger story why do I say we're so excited? Most of our businesses are performing very well.
The businesses where we've had some noise have our arms around it and we think quick actions will have great effect.
And the reality is if a market starts to turn you want to be the company who has momentum the company who has been adding to the talent on the ground working with clients.
And we have been adding to our underwriting talent both in terms of the underwriting in the existing businesses and we've been adding new lines of businesses where we think we had access to superior talent to drive into these markets.
Again we are very excited about our strategy and its particular timing as we see the markets right now.
Taken together this is one of the really extraordinary times for XL.
We believe we are positioned correctly and we're ready to get to work.
And we are hoping what we are seeing early signs of generally holds true to the end of the year.
Now let me be a more specific.
As you've seen from our release in the quarter that had significant Cat losses we generated operating earnings of $0.28 per share and an annualized operating ROE of 3.6% in the quarter.
As I've done on recent calls I'll  briefly describe it in the context of the 5 drivers that build value for XL shareholders: Underwriting excellence strategic growth strong enterprise risk management optimized investing and operating and capital efficiency.
First with respect to our underwriting our reinsurance operations again produced outstanding results with the combined ratio of 78.8%.
Our insurance segment's combined ratio of 112.2% as was described was impacted by Cat losses and one large non-Cat property loss.
Looking at strategic growth.
By far the most important trend in the quarter was the excelling rate -- accelerating rate achievement we've seen across both Insurance and Reinsurance as I earlier discussed.
New business and improved rate drove most of the quarter's top line P&amp;C growth of 16.4% following last quarter's gain of 16.9%.
But that's not the only way we are going to grow in a changing market.
A couple of examples: First we obtained prior approval to establish a Brazilian insurance operation.
As XL participates in 1 700 global programs and as nearly 1/3 of them have at least one policy in Latin America this is an important step in building out our presence in that critical region.
Second we announced the addition of a globally recognized Political Risk &amp; Trade Credit team led by Richard Maxwell.
This is in keeping with the expansion into additional lines of business that you've seen over the course of the year.
Our next value driver strong enterprise risk management was again demonstrated by our natural catastrophe loss performance as I mentioned earlier.
With our net cat losses of approximately 1% of shareholders' equity and 5.3% for the year-to-date both comparing very favorably to our industry peers.
We've already addressed the importance we have in the confidence in our conservative reserving.
To our fourth driver optimized investing.
As we all know turmoil ripped the markets with significant spread widening in response to events in Europe and uncertainty about U.S.
growth.
Despite this volatility our investment portfolio actually had a small positive mark-to-market.
In this low interest rate environment net investment income remains under pressure.
But we are sticking with the strategic asset allocation approach we described at our Investor Day and are not choosing to stretch for yield.
We like our relatively conservative positioning in these uncertain times.
Our fifth driver is operating and capital efficiency and we believe we have the operating leverage we need to take advantage of the improving market conditions.
We believe the strategic investments we've made to our underwriting platform will serve us very well.
Regarding capital management we bought back 15.1 million shares of XL in the third quarter.
Since August 2010 we have bought back a total of 52 million shares or $1.1 billion.
Now before we turn to the presentations of others I want to briefly discuss 4 subjects as respect to the future.
We do not give guidance and we know that's frustrating for those of you who rely on building models.
And I think there are 4 things I should comment on to be helpful and the first is with respect to share repurchases as I just mentioned.
I would not want you to take the amount of share repurchases that went on in the third quarter as a signal to the level for the future.
The fact is in the third quarter we had 2 anomalies: Number one we had taken a pause and had the opportunity to catch up and we found the value we can create during this quarter given what was going on in the markets very opportunistically attractive.
Given the opportunities I'm describing from improved pricing and lines of business I just wouldn't want you to think that we wouldn't keep some of our powder dry.
Look forward for future announcements as we go along.
Second with respect to affiliate income.
As you know our investment affiliate income is reported on a 1- to 3-month lag.
As a result the turbulence that we saw in the markets over the third quarter which of course you are all very familiar would not show up in our earnings until next -- at the end of the fourth quarter.
Third with respect to expenses.
In this quarter you will notice our expenses were a bit lower especially as it relates to lower compensation costs.
But the fact is I would still take the first and second quarter as more likely the level of expenses in the fourth quarter and going forward And finally I don't think you need to be reminded but we certainly know it ourselves our hearts and minds were certainly with the people who are currently affected in Thailand.
We have this call in the midst of yet another industry catastrophe that is unfolding.
And it is still far too early to say anything specific but we certainly know it will have some impact across the industry and we would expect some at XL.
So that's a brief summary both of how we feel about this quarter in specific how we feel broadly about the markets and the way XL is posed to compete in them and a little bit about some future events that we would encourage you to keep in mined.
Now Pete Porrino will share more detail in a moment on other actions we've taken to streamline our capital structure lower our pro forma leverage and increase our book value per share.
This is Pete's first earnings call but he is certainly no stranger to many of you given his industry experience as the Head of Insurance Practice at Ernst &amp; Young.
Pete knows finance.
He knows insurance and he knows XL.
In fact you should know that Peter has been integrally involved at XL since my arrival as he and I have worked together closely for many many years.
We are simply delighted the he has joined our leadership team.
Before turning it over to Pete you may have noticed that XL has a new global brand and logo.
We have felt for sometime that we needed to bring XL's public face up-to-date with our strategies and ambitions.
And this has been a great opportunity to communicate with our investors our clients and our colleagues about how XL has changed and is changing.
This new brand gets to the heart of everything we do at XL our opportunities to provide solutions for the world's most complex risks and as our new brand states to make the world go.
Now to Peter.
Thanks Mike.
I'm delighted to be on this call and to be part of the XL team.
I can tell you that after 2 months here this place has the excitement and energy of a start-up only with the infrastructure a deep talent pool already in place and over $10 billion of tangible shareholders' equity.
Now as you can see from our release operating net income for the third quarter was $89 million or $0.28 per share compared to operating income of $175 million or $0.52 a share in the third quarter of 2010.
This decrease was largely driven by the impact of Cat losses in the quarter of $111 million compared to $66 million in the prior year and lower levels of positive reserve development.
Now turning to our summary of financial results on Slide 3.
You'll see that Property &amp; Casualty gross premiums written were up 16.4% versus the third quarter of last year with a 16.6% and 16.0% increase in the Reinsurance -- I'm sorry in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments respectively.
Dave and Jamie will highlight the sources of growth in their segments.
Net premiums written grew more slowly than gross premiums due to the growth in our crop business which as you know is heavily reinsured.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 101.6%.
It was 6.7 points higher than the same quarter last year.
Our accident year combined ratio was 103.0% or 1.6 points higher than Q3 2010.
And as Mike mentioned and as detailed on Slide 4 Cat losses in the quarter accounted for 8 loss ratio points 2.9 points higher than the same quarter last year.
x PYD and Cat our combined ratio improved by 1.3 points driven by results in the Reinsurance segment.
Prior development in the quarter was a favorable $18.4 million or 1.4 loss ratio points.
This reflects favorable development in the Reinsurance segment of $39.8 million offset by strengthening in the Insurance segment of $21.4 million.
Now it's important to keep in mind how our reserving process works.
As we've outlined on previous earnings calls and as Mike mentioned Q3 is what we refer to as an actual versus expected or A versus E quarter for both our global Insurance segment and our U.S.
Reinsurance business.
Since we perform our detailed ground-up reserve reviews in the second and fourth quarters with the interim quarters based on actual versus expected you would generally not expect to see a significant movement in the third quarter.
One cannot simply straight-line PYD on a quarterly basis.
For those portions of our business covered by A versus E reviews which account for approximately 80% of our reserves in Q1 and Q3 we respond to movements in the shorter-tail lines or the specific claim movements in all the mature years.
We experienced some strengthening in Insurance this quarter relating primarily to specific non-Cat property claims activity.
The remaining 20% of our reserves are predominantly Reinsurance non-U.S.
Casualty and shorter-tail Reinsurance business for which reserves are reviewed quarterly with more comprehensive assumption updates performed annually.
This is a primary driver for the favorable development this quarter.
And as Mike said the release of this quarter were lower than the prior year quarter due to a couple of specific situations that we discussed last year.
Looking forward to fourth quarter it's too early to forecast the outcome of our detailed reserve reviews although we can say that actual experience on our long-tail lines continues to develop in line with and in many cases better than expectations.
At $210 million net investment income on the P&amp;C portfolio in the third quarter was 4% below the prior year due primarily to lower yield as a result of lower interest rates and cash outflows from the investment portfolio.
The average new money rate on our P&amp;C portfolio in the quarter was 2.2% with a net yield of 3.2% achieved during the quarter.
The P&amp;C book yield at the end of the quarter was 3.1% net of expenses.
Our P&amp;C duration remains unchanged at 2.8 years.
Net income from investment affiliates was $23 million up $20 million from the prior year.
We sold an investment manager affiliate in this quarter that resulted in a $25 million gain.
This helped to offset losses in the alternative portfolio due to difficult Q3 market conditions.
Realized losses were $62 million compared to $69 million in the prior quarter.
A significant portion of this was FX-related where they were offsetting FX gains in the income statement and cumulative translation adjustments.
The remaining OTTI charges were primarily on non-agency RMBS assets.
The total mark-to-market was $84 million positive with the impact of widening credit spreads being offset by lower rates during this risk loss quarter in the capital markets.
As we've talked about in the past and as you can see from our expanded FIN swap disclosure we have been actively managing our holdings and European assets over the past 2 years in anticipation of the developments we are seeing in the market now.
Our direct exposure to peripheral sovereigns is less than $30 million and our holdings and financial institutions in those countries is only $56 million.
Since the onset of the financial crisis a couple of years ago we've reduced our hybrid exposures by over $1 billion and our current holdings are now in strong institutions in Germany Switzerland Northern Europe the U.K.
and Asia.
Since the end of Q3 we've taken advantage of recent market strength to sell an additional $51 million of hybrid securities.
Now to our capital management where there's been a fair amount of activity since our last earnings call.
One of our Investor Day goals was to simplify our capital structure and reduce capital leverage to a level more in line with our peers.
And with the actions we've taken we're reducing our pro forma leverage by over 300 basis points.
Specifically we purchased and canceled 15.1 million ordinary shares at an average cost of $20.33 for a total of $307.7 million in the quarter and $566 million for the first 9 months of 2011.
Approximately $166 million of this was authorized in 2010 but not completed until the first quarter of 2011.
This brings our total buybacks under the current authorization to 33.6 million shares and leaves $290 million remaining available.
In August we completed the remarketing of the $575 million 8.25% senior notes that comprise part of the 10.75% equity security units issued and settled the related forward purchase contract.
We also completed the tender we offer for all of our remaining outstanding Series C preference ordinary shares.
In September we issued $400 million of 5.75% senior notes due 2021.
The net proceeds of this will be used as partial funding for repayment of our outstanding $600 million 6.5% guaranteed senior notes due in January 2012.
And finally in October we announced the termination of the Stoneheath Re facility and the resulting issuance of $350 million of Series D preference ordinary shares at 322 basis points over LIBOR a very advantageous rate in today's market.
I'll now turn it over to Dave to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete.
While insurance results in the third quarter for the industry and XL were adversely impacted by significant catastrophic losses including Hurricane Irene the good news is we are seeing what we believe are sustainable rate improvements across almost all of our lines of business.
Some detail on Q3 first.
The Insurance segment's combined ratio for the quarter of 112.2% was 8.2 points higher versus the same quarter last year.
Clearly a disappointing result and one which masks continued good progress in many areas as we bring our strategy to life.
Prior year reserve strengthening of $21.4 million accounted for 1.8 points of the variance mostly driven by strengthening in our property and onshore energy line.
Current year net Cat losses of $76 million including reinstatement premium accounted for 5.1 points of the increase.
An increase in the current accident year loss ratio accounted for another 2.1 points largely due to a significant non-Cat property loss partially offset by improvements in our international primary Casualty book.
A decrease in net expenses accounted for 0.8 points of improvement mostly due to recalibrations in annual bonus and long-term incentive plan.
Insurance gross premiums written in Q3 rose $165 million year-over-year or nearly 17% from prior year quarter.
While this growth benefited from some favorable foreign exchange adjustments and other one-off gains over half of the increase or 9% was driven largely by new business and improved rate.
New business included premium from targeted initiatives such as North America and international construction North America property and surety and international upper middle markets.
Net premiums earned were up $58 million or 6.6% reflecting the earn-through of higher gross premiums written.
Our Q3 loss ratio of 82.5% was 9 points higher than last year and 72.2% or 2.1 points higher than last year when adjusted for prior development in Cats.
Again this variance was driven by the large non-Cat property loss and previous price reductions which have eroded our loss ratio in this line.
In recent quarters we've seen improvement in rate with this business and will continue to push rate hard given current results are not at targeted level.
Regarding people Q3 was another active quarter for attracting top industry talent.
In addition to Mike's examples Richard De Simone joined XL to lead our expanding U.S.
Ocean and Inland Marine business.
In total we added over 30 new underwriters in the quarter while retaining existing talent as we continue to build out both new and existing businesses.
This speaks to the building momentum Mike alluded to earlier and the fact that underwriters value our structure strategy and culture.
On to market conditions.
We achieved the second consecutive quarter of positive pricing in Q3.
Both our international and North American P&amp;C businesses achieved rate increases in the 2% to 3% range.
U.S.
D&amp;O pricing is still being pressured due to the line's excellent profitability.
But across all lines of Insurance x U.S D&amp;O average rate improvement was roughly 2% and early signs for an even stronger fourth quarter.
We believe that the conditions driving the pricing momentum we saw in the last 2 quarters should continue in Q4 and well into 2012.
We remain steadfast in underwriting discipline and we look forward to the opportunities presented to us both by our current clients and our new business.
And now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance results.
Thanks Dave and good evening.
XL re-enjoyed excellent underwriting results in the quarter with a combined ratio of 78.8% producing an underwriting profit of $91.5 million.
This compares to a combined ratio of 75% in the third quarter of 2010.
Result included positive prior year reserve development of $39.8 million which compares to releases of $86.8 million in 2010.
Adjusting for both Cat losses and prior year releases the segment had a combined ratio of 80% which compares favorably to the 86.5% achieved in Q3 of last year.
This improvement is generated from the segment's expense ratios with both the operating and an acquisition expenses showing improvement of 2.0 and 2.2 points respectively.
The loss ratio also showed an improvement of 2.4 points driven by a mix of business change including the larger portion of property Cat business in the portfolio.
Turning to top line.
Gross and net written premiums were $619 million and $420 million an increase of 16% on the gross and 7.9% of the net.
The increases in the gross book came principally from the U.S.
crop book due to rising commodity prices.
In addition both the Bermuda and European business units showed increases due to selected new business opportunities.
Turning to the market.
We commented on the July 1 renewals on our last earnings calls we had an excellent renewal with both the U.S.
and international Cat portfolios showing nice risk-adjusted gains.
We fully expect trading conditions to remain robust in the Cat market going into the January 1 renewals given the level of global Cat losses this year.
Perhaps more -- most encouraging is the clear expectation of on improved pricing environment on the primary side particularly on long-tail lines.
With the exception of public D&amp;O there's a positive price momentum across the domestic market.
We've spent a significant amount of time with customers and brokers at various conferences such as Monte Carlo PCI and CIAB.
And the unanimous feedback were not only a reiteration of the need for rate but a commitment to achieve it.
This is a major benefit to the sectors of our portfolio that are most sensitive to primary trading conditions particularly our U.S.
and international Casualty portfolios where we write a significant amount of proportional reinsurance.
Broadly we are very encouraged by the trading environment that's developing across the market.
Given our global footprint lead capabilities and capacity we will be in an ideal position going into the renewal season.
With that I'll turn it back to David for Q&amp;A.
Shirley can you open the lines for questions please? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Keith Walsh from Citi.
Research Division</strong> First question for Mike.
A lot of talk around rate not just on this call but all the calls.
What do you view -- when you look at written rate is that currently trending in excess of your loss cost? And do you view the rate increases you're currently getting and expect to get as enough to really offset the loss in yield that we're seeing? That's a great question.
At this stage my answer to that would be no.
We are seeing positive movement in rate without question Keith.
But we are not yet seeing it to the level that will be necessary both to offset the losses that are seen across the investment yield in our place or even loss trend.
Now I should be specific I don't mean that with respect to the current loss trend we're experiencing.
As you know it's been a very low period.
But we don't look at it that way.
We reserve to a normalized loss trend and that's the number we focus on in terms of where we think rate needs to go.
So no we aren't where -- we -- neither we nor the market are where we think it needs to be.
But it is of course very positive to finally be working away at it as opposed to continuing to see it get worse.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for Peter just looking at the next -- thinking about capital structure and the next maturity I guess $600 million in 2014 is there a preference to pay that down or refi? And how do you think about excess capital in the context of buybacks debt pay down and growth in the business? Can you do all 3 at once? Sure.
So on the first one we don't have any comment yet on the 2014s we will deal with that at the appropriate time.
And then on your second one I think it would be yes on all 3.
I mean it is clearly a balancing act that we deal with pretty much every quarter that we think about this.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one question I had was other casualty can you remind us what's in that line and what drove the increase year-over-year? Michael this is Dave Duclos.
Are you relating to the premium? Research Division</strong> Yes that's right.
We had growth in our North America casualty operation specifically a result of the couple of programs that we wrote earlier in the year.
That would drive the majority of the casualty increase.
Research Division</strong> And those are platforms that are continuing to grow or are those kind of reaching a sort of run rate? Those are books of business that we're in the process of rolling in and they're probably pretty much completed.
Books that we are very familiar with staff and the organization that we brought on are very familiar with.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one on the Reinsurance side.
It looks like the expense ratio was low I think you made a comment in your opening remarks.
Was that lower in the third quarter because of seeding commissions because you seeded more business there? Or how should we think about that number? There's 2 parts to the expense ratio.
The operating expense ratio is lower due to accruals for year-end compensation.
The acquisition expense ratio was lower principally due to the increase in the crop portfolio in the quarter which after our significant sessions for the government and the open market has very very low net acquisition expense ratios.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay.
And so that's going to be more seasonal for third and maybe a little bit in the second quarter then? Correct.
The next question comes from Michael Paisan with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Number one Mike you talked about the progress that you've made kind of across the board.
Obviously it's very good.
But I guess the question is number one when does that progress become -- okay we've made the progress and now we're kind of heading in the right direction that's number one.
And number two it gets back to the capital issue in terms of your stock now is trading at pretty low valuations.
So how do you guys kind of balance the whole -- just buy back a whole bunch of stock versus deploying into the marketplace? Yes let me talk about that.
So you've got a 2-part question.
One how do we feel about the progress.
And the way I would have interpreted your first part of your question "When can we as shareholders expect that to show up?" And then second given where we're trading on a valuation basis "Why haven't we just kind of thrown it all in on share repurchases." Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's correct.
Let me talk about both in the same kinds of blunt terms that you've asked.
With respect to progress some of the progress is there.
When you see the kinds of additions of quality market respected and leader talent coming to the firm that is an important harbinger of what comes next.
So I would argue that kind of momentum is rare.
We're something of a hot chop right now and that is a very important precursor to what comes next.
We're starting to see that already in the top line.
This is the second quarter we're at significant double-digit plus top line improvement.
In fact when you boil through all those numbers and you get to what's about rate and real growth you'll see kind of 9% FX -- x of FX and whatnot.
That is very meaningful growth.
And that's just starting to see the rate kick in.
So I think that part is very real and it leads to improved although not at the same rate of net earned income.
And of course that's the number that starts the whole calculation in motion.
So we've very pleased by that.
Without question when you get into new lines of business or when you are correcting an underperforming line of business like our large property international book it takes time for that to show up on the bottom line.
But the things that we're looking internally at and we're very pleased by again with the exception of the urgency we have around that property book.
And so if I look at the casualty work we've done where we've done as we call them fresh starts or deeper views of those business I'm very pleased with the early actions and the early indications that we're looking at.
It's just not ready for that to show on the bottom line.
And what pleases us most is where we do have this problem that we have a lot of urgency around.
By the way when we're communicating about this we do it on purpose.
We very much wanted you to know how we're thinking about the book and this is something that's sticking out us.
And I know a lot of our underwriters are listening and I want them to know that we're paying a heck of a lot of attention to it.
But the good news on that is it's short-tail line of business.
I'm very pleased with this progress we see with similar actions in our North American property book and I expect that to be -- soon to show on the international property book.
But it does take more of a 0.5 year to 1 year's delay from action to result.
But know that these aren't actions that are newly started in this quarter.
They've been going on during the year.
I just think we're communicating to you and broadly and to all of our constituencies the sense of urgency we're feeling about it because the reality is you don't want to be fixing books.
As pricing gets better you want to be hitting on all cylinders.
And we've got a lot of urgent work to do to make sure we are fully positioned even though at this stage where I would call us broadly positioned.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you mind if I follow up on that just...
No no no.
Go right ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Because that's a very good answer.
But I was just kind of wondering about when we talk about the progress because you've been talking about the progress for the better part of couple of years now.
And I guess at least in this quarter maybe there was one large property loss that kind of hindered underwriting.
And if you could quantify them maybe you did and I missed it but if you can quantify that that would be great.
But I guess I'm just trying to -- as you say you got another couple more quarters until you really start to see it come to fruition.
By that time there will be a good 2 2.5 years along the lines of progress.
I know where you started from versus where you are today is a big big difference.
It's been a ton of progress.
But I guess what I'm trying to get a sense of is when does that progress become I guess kind of reality because I don't think we've seen it yet.
Again what I -- look I would observe that you are seeing it in 2 parts.
You're seeing it in top line growth and net earned premium growth which is the first thing you will see.
The second thing you will see is in the next handful of quarters we would expect that to start dropping to the bottom line as well.
Now the real question in terms of it being more immediate is when will we stop seeing this broad pattern of larger pops which has really been then the thing obscuring the fundamental progress.
When will see that? I don't know.
Some of that is pure futility and some of it is some things we think we can improve.
So it will just -- we're both going to have to wait for that.
But I don't expect to wait very much longer and I think we have a proper sense of urgency around it.
Yes we've been working on improving the profitability of XL for a couple of years that's true.
But I would suggest that the intensity of the work that we discussed about at Investor Day with our new strategy in mind which is really a year old is what I would focus on.
If you go back to 2009 we were really focused on stabilizing the franchise not on executing the strategy.
So I think your time frames are maybe a tad excited relative to where it will come through.
I didn't size the loss with respect to the one large loss.
It was about a $40 million net loss to us.
And of course that will have about a $10 million reinstatement premium.
So you're talking about a $50 million event on the quarter on that one large loss.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if you could just address the...
Yes on the second part with respect to share repurchases.
As I've told you before this is always a balancing act across 3 dimensions.
Number one a proper buffer relative to the rating agency capital required to maintain our rating.
That buffer meant to protect us against adverse events of multiple kinds in any one period.
So we always first make sure that we're maintaining that buffer.
Second we then think what are the opportunities for our shareholders that are present in the current market to put any excess to that buffer to work.
And then third if we cannot find sufficient exciting opportunities and maintain that excess position we would think about returning that excess to shareholders.
But generally we have found that to be most efficiently done through share repurchases.
Although we have used some of it as we have -- as Peter mentioned for reducing our debt ratio to produce a stronger franchise.
In this period as respects those 3 we're obviously -- given that we've been repurchasing we're obviously comfortable with our overall capital position.
And I think probably commentators have it right that we are in a very healthy position.
We like the flexibility that affords.
Second the only thing I tried to signal early on is as we see the markets improving in the opportunities we would want to make sure that we had room for growth so that we could do all 3 things as Peter said and I believe we can.
And that is maintain the buffer that we expect to have reduce our debt ratio go ahead and invest in growth where we find returns attractive and repositioning for what we see as an improving market.
And then repurchase shares as the board sees fit.
And while we never comment on our future actions I think my comments on directing you toward sizing properly those future actions probably gives you something to go on.
This is Pete.
The only I would add there is -- on the share repurchase thing is and I'm sure you realize that we do not as a matter of course preannounce when we're going to do share repurchases.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that makes sense.
I guess along those lines my last question is do you have any sense in terms of what types of price increases you may need in order to get to all else being equal get to a return level an ROE level next year that would be comparable to what you would get in buying your share at 70% of book? Yes.
It's really -- first of all let me talk about the nature of what I'm seeing in the marketplace.
This marketplace right now reminds me very much of '98 '99.
You may remember then that the first signs of a market change were at hand.
But it would -- I would describe that market change or that phase of the market change as a management-led change.
In other words there was no big events in '98 or '99 to speak of.
What was really going on was managements were looking at their budgets for the next year.
They were looking at the positions of their balance sheets and they were saying "Enough is enough.
We're going to have to start driving rate into this book." You'll recall that the rate achievement during those periods was relatively modest and then it was accelerated dramatically of course by the completely unexpected events of 9/11.
In this case I think we are similarly in a managements-driven nascent [ph] turn.
It's not full and broad yet it's uneven but it is clearly gaining steam as the year ends.
To really gain the benefit of that kind of turn you can't just wait until there's been multiple years of it.
You have to enjoy the compounding effect yourself.
So you've got to be making capacity for the growth implicit even if it isn't quite at the levels you would you yet like it or need it to be.
In answer to your direct that question I think there's a very very simple way to look at this that doesn't require sophisticated modeling or anything else.
If you step back from it and you consider this investment environment these combined ratios to solve for the kinds of returns that should satisfy investors need to be roughly around 90.
And they're roughly around 100.
You do the math.
It's a pretty simple rate it's just more complicated than that because it will compound over time and depend on of course a mix of business questions we've been moving toward shorter tail lines there's a lot of other variables that can affect it or accelerate it.
But that's a pretty simple way to think about it and at the highest level that's how I think about it.
The next question comes from Donna Halverstadt from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> How about another question on capital? You have done a lot to simplify and evolve your capital structure and to bring financial leverage toward that of peers.
But looking foreward and assuming a perfect world of no restrictions economics or otherwise in getting from point A to point B what do you view as the optimal capital structure for the XL tomorrow across 4 key components.
Specifically what's your optimal allocation to in terms of percent senior debt percent hybrids percent regular preferred and percent common.
So I'm interested in the composition of total capital not just the blended leverage ratio.
Donna it's Pete.
I'm glad to talk about that offline it's probably a little more detailed than we'd go into on this call.
I think what we said before is that we want to see us to get down to where our peer group is.
And that would be total debt plus preferred at about 21% of total capital.
And what we said is that we would do that over time.
Your next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Mike you made the comparison to it feeling a lot like 1998.
The one thing I think that's left out of that equation of course there were huge losses building in 1998 that didn't come to fruition until a few years later.
There's been a lot of losses over the last 2 years in property so I'm not surprised to hear that property rates are up.
I'm wondering are there losses for this industry brewing in the other lines that are being affected or would this be the first time that we've seen rates anticipate loss cost rather than technically trail them ? I think it's a grind to be clear.
I think as I commented in my opening remarks as I study the entire industry and particular results it strikes us here at XL that a number of our competitors are really running out of the favorable results from the early part of the decade.
And as that comes true it's going to flip over and they're going to have really difficult environments especially given the yield out there.
So it's the new variable that makes it different from what was -- well I suppose there's a couple of variables to make it different from '98 '99.
First of all you have fewer management teams than you had back then.
I think that's a plus for the industry.
Second I think you are running out of the reserve environment that has -- that the industry has enjoyed heretofore but the biggest is the reinvestment yield rates.
I mean it just so changes the game.
And it was only really if you're paying attention I think for 0.5 year or more you've known it was be a protracted event.
But somehow I don't know why.
Psychologically these things happen.
But if you think about all the comments that were made by the central bankers during the course of this quarter and you think about the euro prices and you think about the U.S.
it just seems to have locked in everybody's recognition that this is not a short-term phenomena and you better stop acting like it is.
I just think when you add all of that to the stew and then managements have to sit down at the end of year and produce a plan that is acceptable to their shareholders and their board I think that just creates a different environment for behavior.
And then you look at an industry that has seen such a huge portion of its capital wiped out by catastrophes during the first 3 quarters of the year I just think it creates an entirely different environment.
Even the brokers who to their credit vis-a-vis their customers like to talk down these events are finally conceding that there is something going on.
And I think it's a very very real if still in it's infancy and it's still less than will be required over time to put the industry on a proper footing.
Research Division</strong> And just a little bit more depth in terms of -- you said the rates are about 2% excluding D&amp;O.
To what extent are loss affected-lines driving that? I mean to what extent is property which clearly aligns this experienced losses? I probably would mention that's up more significantly.
Is design color there sort of subsegment that 2% number? I'm going to ask Dave to kind of break it up by the 4 main blocks of business we operate.
But I would just start by saying we're positive in specialty lines we're -- except for U.S.
D&amp;O we're positive in many of our professional lines.
And when we talk about an average overall rate number we're really I think again I think it masks the actual acceleration.
We do our tear-down reviews of the performance of all of our businesses at the end of the quarter and before this call.
And the kind of rate we're seeing in some of our sublines gets pretty exciting and tells us a lot about what's going on.
And we're seeing that of course at the comments that Jamie has made earlier on the reinsurance side.
But Dave maybe you could break it out because it will show that it's not just the property block at all.
Sure.
Josh let me start with giving you some perspective on the 4 business groups as Mike alluded to.
For Q3 IPC which is our International Property Casualty operation which is predominantly it's actually almost split 50-50 between property and casualty it's increase was 2.4%.
North America Property Casualty which is an augmation of different businesses but it does include property was up 3.2%.
Specialty was up 1.5%.
And then professional as we alluded to the most intense competition now was down almost 4%.
So those were the 4 business groups but underneath that let me give you some color and address specifically your question about property and then I'll see if Jamie has anything to add from a reinsurance perspective.
Bermuda property I'll just give you a little flavor from what's happened the last 3 quarters.
And again Bermuda property would be our excess property capability.
In the first quarter we still were seeing rates that were decreasing as much as 5%.
Second quarter that improved to a plus-4 third quarter that's up 12%.
So excess property out of Bermuda has moved almost 20 points.
Now again there are some specific accounts that influenced that outcome but that gives you a little bit of a feel.
Our North America property book sort of the same trend line.
First quarter we were still seeing negative price.
Second quarter it about leveled off.
And then in the third quarter we actually saw a 4% rate increase.
International Property again the same thing minus-3% first quarter 4% up the second quarter 6% up the third quarter.
So we are seeing increases where we're seeing losses.
And I would say that probably what's driving some of those increases is in fact the cat exposure.
The other lines in the range in terms rate price changes anywhere from -- Professional is the only one that's still down consistently.
The rest of the lines are probably went from 0 to low double digits right now.
And each month for the last 6 months have been building.
And I've said this for the last couple of previous or preceeding quarters.
October 1 looks very encouraging.
Again it's a stronger rate than we achieved in the second quarter and third quarter.
Jamie anything to add from the reinsurance perspective? No obviously we're not in a sort of daily traded environment.
But at our last major renewal period I previously reported we saw high single-digit risk adjusted improvement in the short tail cat market at July 1.
We go into January 1 fully expecting similar improvements in the cat market even for non-affected geographies from the natural catastrophe losses.
And will feed off of the improvement in the primary market that Dave describes on our Casualty portfolio.
The next question comes from Brian Meredith from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One just a clarification.
I think you mentioned there were $25 million gain in your investment manager affiliates.
Is that correct or was that a realized gain? This is Sarah that was actually a realized gain that we sold one of our affiliate stakes.
Research Division</strong> So that's not in the operating earnings number? Yes no it's [indiscernible] the earnings.
Research Division</strong> And the second one Mike could you give us a sense of kind of what P&amp;Ls are looking at like right now? It was 12.7% was your North America or U.S.
at the end of the last quarter you guys are continuing to push those pretty good growth in the property areas.
How close do you get in that 15% level? And then I guess also are you willing to take a 15% perhaps of the 20% as you continue to take advantage of opportunities in the property markets ? First of all we are continuing to grow our exposure because we do find some of those markets appropriately priced.
I'm going to ask Jamie to comment on the specific level at this time.
I know we have that in mind.
Whether we'll change the limits or not we constantly review our limits in all aspects.
From the appropriate buffer to hold relative to our rating to the appropriate level of exposure to have at any point in time.
And I can just say to you that certainly in the discussions that we've had with our board I think our board is very anxious and understanding that this is a relative competition and that at the end while we like to run our firm with a appropriate dose of conservatism especially given our history recent history.
That said we're well aware that at certain times when the market starts moving hard you've got to be a participant and we're well aware that that's the right attitude with which to approach any changes in limit structures going forward.
But I have none to announce at this time.
Brian I think we mentioned on the last call that we were still analyzing the impact of version 11 which is our risk management tool.
I think you'll see in the Q when it comes out that hour revised number after that review is no 13.7%.
Our P&amp;Ls were significantly impacted by the model change.
Having said that we had made adjustments to version 10 significant adjustments particularly around storm surge which offset the impact of version 11.
So we're now planning for 2012 our current Tier 1 outside is 15% of shareholders' equity.
We haven't made a decision to adjust that upwards yet but we're very comfortable with our risk management position.
Your next question comes from Jay Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First is on the volatility in the market the potential impact for the fourth quarter do you have any visibility of what that could mean for you? It's hard to analyze because you have different strategies in these investment managers.
I mean it is hard because flowing through that line we had 3 items.
We have our alternative portfolio which is on a 1-month lag.
So it's purely September that's not being picked up.
August was already in the numbers.
We generally perform better than the hedge fund industry as a whole because we're position in a down market.
And that's certainly based on estimates seems to be the case.
So I wouldn't expect too significant a number.
It depends on what happens.
The investment managers and the private investments it's too difficult to estimate at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess secondly back to the underwriting side you talked about professional lines being the one area where you're still seeing decreases.
And obviously lower interest rates given that's a medium to long-tail business.
That puts additional pressure on returns here yet you grew in that business.
And it just doesn't quite -- why you would be growing that business given those 2 pressures that you cited.
Jay let me take that.
We're actually not growing in our U.S.
Professional D&amp;O book.
We've got some growth in international where we see a slightly different pricing competition environment.
But actually the one area where we have seen a reduction in terms of premium is in fact our D&amp;O standard book in the US.
So we're conscious of the long-term interest rate impact that you alluded to.
That's why even though the combined still look pretty attractive on a relative basis the team there has scaled back in terms of some of their writings.
I would also add that we have a couple of books in Europe that are getting some strong rate that's generating some of the premium increase as well.
But in terms of new business professional in the quarter was probably one of the least amounts that we written both specialty and Professional show decreases as a result of the competition.
Your next question comes from Mike Sorensky [ph] with Credit Suisse.
First regarding the pretty healthy top line growth.
Thinking going forward I believe you expended the U.S.
property retentions to 750 recently.
And I also believe you're going to lose some crop Insurance adjustment in '12.
I was curious if those are items we should be thinking about going forward.
Yes.
First with respect to the U.S.
Property we increased the limits we offer not the retentions that we take.
So I would not be overly aggressive in modeling that especially as you think about it in terms of net earned premium.
It's really more about what we're able to offer our clients and the expertise we bring.
They want us to be able to offer higher gross limits and we've worked out a program to do so.
But I wouldn't focus on it as a significant net or in premium item.
Jamie? On the crop you'll recall we -- when the MGA that we've been dealing with for 10 years was sold an agreement was reached with the new owner that in exchange for them being a significant reinsurer of us in 2011 we would have the option to reinsure them in a significant way in 2012 we've made no decision around that option yet.
Okay.
I think lastly Mike you talked about earlier the 9 loss cost trends that you continue to reserve at "more normalized trends".
I'm just curious at what point do the 9 loss cost experience what point has become a trend that is factored into underwriting assumptions? No our actuaries and of course our chief reserving actuary is sitting right next to me ready to kick me if I get this wrong.
But we encourage our reserving actuaries to be very conservative in their view.
It is the devil to be wrong and optimistic early.
So we just are very patient to wait for them to come through.
Now one of the reasons that I'm so bullish about the progress you're making in the underwriting actions we've taken is we do view ourselves we do have indicators that we view for ourselves of what we think about what's going on.
We just don't drop it to the bottom line until we're sure about what's going on.
So that's one of the reasons we talk optimistically about where things are going because we're looking at early indicators in terms of loss cost trends.
but we won't take it until we are convinced.
And to give you an example in the much discussed on this call U.S.
D&amp;O space the loss cost trends continue to be really impressive.
I mean given all of the worry and all of the angst that we all have towards that line.
And even with the some of the settlements that we've seen in the recent period.
When we look at them as against the whole of the sub-prime events and your made-off events and all that has followed we continued to see it playing out very favorably.
But we're simply not going to react too quickly.
And when you factor in our view that we should be very conservative with respect to inflation in the medium term that too weighs on us.
And if we're wrong to the conservative side the shareholders will benefit on that over time and we simply feel we can sleep better at night with this disposition and we're just not going to change it.
We just aren't going to overreact to the short-term positive trends and even as they turn into medium-term positive trends.
We're just unwilling to overreact.
We've seen too many good companies burned by positive attitude before.
Our next question comes from Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to isolate kind of a core run rate number for the quarter.
And so obviously the affiliate income Cat losses and FX should be taken out.
I think the 50 million large property loss would be normalized out as well.
Is there anything else in all these conversations that we should kind of pull out to get to more of a run-rate number? I appreciate the question.
This is a difficult kind of noisy quarter and obviously we're trying to signal a number of things including a lot of optimism in the general sense.
But a real awareness around a couple of isolated underwriting areas that we still feel real urgency about.
We just feel an obligation to communicate about that directly.
But the one other piece that I would isolate on is you do have the pattern of reserving and prior year development that we have encouraged you to remember.
Just to be very blunt about it when I look at the models that analysts use for the quarter I see a lot of plugged-in numbers around PYD.
That would indicate to me a likelihood that people have smoothed over the year rather than remember that generally it's going to be kind of a second and fourth quarter event.
So that to me would be another thing I'd be isolating on.
And then more trivially we did have a better quarter in terms of expenses because we've recognized that our compensation costs will be lower this year given all that's gone on.
And we would want you to be remembering that we are making investments in the underlying business so that we can gain in a leveraged way from the market we see coming.
And the first quarters the first 2 quarters were more representative than I think was the third.
Those are the only things I would add to your list.
Research Division</strong> So on expenses it's more representative on the over the corporate expense lines collectively than what we saw in 3Q? Yes.
Research Division</strong> One other quick one if I can.
This is a follow-up to an earlier question.
But as it relates to the yield on the investment portfolio and how that ties into how you price the business.
I don't know if I quite heard the response.
But is that something that's actively going into the pricing process? The yield on the portfolio.
And if so is it assuming kind of the current yield environment or is it something that gets reset periodically? No priced to the new money yield rates.
We do not price to the -- so we get a double dose of conservatism here.
We're pricing to the actual yield rates we are experiencing as influenced by the new yield rates.
And at the same time we are reserving to what we believe will be a return to a more normalized yield environment.
So you've got 2 doses of conservatism at work and we believe that's the only way to run the business.
Now the actual pricing that's experienced that's a negotiated process.
But that's how our models go into effect as we discover what our appropriate pricing should be.
Your next question comes from Vinay Misquith from Evercore Company.
Research Division</strong> The first question is on the ROE that you are getting on your new business.
Just curious what that is.
Just trying to figure out so what's more attractive: growing the business or buying back stock ? Again Vinay it's not quite that simple because you don't take -- first of all we don't break it out in that way.
Well I know that we believe we are remixing to new business to a more profitable overall portfolio.
That is and over-time view.
You don't take -- you have to take it as where would you be when it's a mature business? For example when we enter a new line of business because in the early days the expense ratio of the new line of business overwhelms the result.
So you can only have the confidence to march into a new line.
When you look at it where will it be when it's developed? And what are the opportunities given what you see in that particular pricing environment? When you talk about new business in an existing line of business we're constantly trying to underwrite our way towards a better mix of business.
You've seen us grow our short-tail lines you've seen us decline in our longer-tail lines.
We think this is perfectly appropriate in a low interest rate environment as we are currently experiencing.
You take all of that together and you say what is the book of business you are building? What are the opportunities you are building for your shareholders? Over the medium term not the short term? Because that's the book of business we're really building is what's the earnings power of the bloc? And so it just isn't as simple as a point in time what does a share repurchase look like.
Well trading as we are it's not hard to do the math.
But that's very attractive.
But you can't throw everything to that.
Or you're going to fail to position the book of business for the superior turns we think are ahead.
And that would be a failure on our part in terms of managing your investment.
So it really isn't as simple a question as the way you framed it.
And that's not how we think about it.
That said I think Peter's already said it quite correctly.
We can afford the 3 major capital activities that are going on.
Bringing down our leverage ratio growing our business and as we see fit and as the board directs purchasing shares.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
The second question was just a numbers question on the operating expense just a clarification.
You mentioned that that should be looked at similar to the first quarter and the second quarter.
So would that be for all the subsegment operating expense or is it only for the corporate operating expense? That would be across all the lines.
Your next question comes Steve Edison [ph] from Addage Capitol [ph].
I just have 2 quick follow-ups hopefully.
First can we clarify on the large losses in the international Property.
What specifically is driving that? And you sort of hinted that this was something recurring? No with respect to recurring if I have confused I want to be clear.
This was 1 event that doesn't have a recurring feature.
In fact if it has a future feature that there will be subrogation and that subrogation could lessen our exposure to that loss.
I'll ask Dave in a moment to give a little more color on that 1 loss.
When I was observing is you go back through the past 3 years you'll find in '08 and then again in '10 and '11 some we've described often an unusual degree of large losses.
And we're just saying that we don't view that as an acceptable answer.
We think that in general particularly we've isolated that particularly that IPC property book has been responsible for too high a number of those.
And we think that is correctable.
And that's not a new thought but it's one that we wanted to make sure we were discussing with urgency on this call.
Dave could you talk about the one event in this quarter? Jay [ph] this is certainly what we would consider a bit of an anomaly from a loss standpoint.
But we sustained a large property loss due to an explosion in an adjacent noninsured location.
As Mike alluded to we will certainly pursue subrogation vigorously and the loss reserve we booked this quarter if anything will just be positively impacted going forward.
But the point there is it doesn't have any reflection on the quality of the book of business.
I would just add one thing.
While we've experienced this trail turbulence and while were not accepting it as something you should expect into the future I would still observe that that book of business historically has been very profitable.
So we want to make share that we address it in a way that reflects the urgency of having books of business performing well as we go into what we see as better pricing.
But also we won't approach it softly.
The historic performance of the block has been quite good.
That was my concern was by recurring it seems there's there seems to have this trend of large losses.
And I don't know if there's any underlying pattern you've seen or there was just a long string of bad luck.
I sure wish I could say that there was an underlying pattern because that would be to get after.
But we're just saying we don't accept it.
We don't say "Gee that's the way the brags [ph] bounce.
We think that we can do better.
And then my other one is just to this question of when is the right time to start growing and do you need to be there? And stop me if I'm misrepresenting the way I heard you explain it.
But the way I understood it was you feel you sort of have to be there early if you will? And maybe the market doesn't turn for let's take a number 2 years.
That the opportunities are going to go to the ones who are already established in those markets rather than people who try to jump in at the last minute.
Is that a fair representation before I proceed? No I think that's a good thought.
In the end if you think you have a line of business that can produce good over-cycle returns you want to be as established as possible if there is an inflection point in the market.
And again I've not said there's an inflection point there's just an improving trend that we're very encouraged by and that we think makes a lot of sense.
We can explain why managements are behaving this way.
We think that gives it a sustainability over time.
And just the simple thought is the better-positioned you are when that happens the better you're going to do during that period.
I want to add one other thought though.
The correcting books of business takes time.
And I got a question earlier that I thought expressed an appropriate impatience.
I have an impatience too.
But the reality is fixing a block of business during a time of positive rate is a heck of a lot of easier than with the wind in your face.
And that's one of the things that makes me kind of excited about where we are.
But the sooner you get that behind you and can focus on the future the better off any book of business is.
And across XL's 36 book of business boy I'm sure happy that we are where were we are for the vast majority of them and there's a couple that we've signaled we're focused on.
Can I challenge the premise a little bit that we need to be there early? Because I guess I look at past market turns it seems that people who got there early take the worst losses.
When things get bad before it finally hit bottom.
And then they get gun-shy about growing.
When the tables have turned they don't take advantage of the market leadership because they feel burned.
And the people who end up winning are the new startups like XL in '85 or Arch and Axis last time.
And the people who are established in some cases they have but it's really not uniform.
They're showing a number of cases where the established players don't participate to the extent the new players do and maybe it would actually be more prudent to wait and try to be sort of secondary player in these lines and then jump in once you've seen the turn.
Let me take what you said and refine a degree further.
Let divide it into a few.
[indiscernible] It's something we've studied a lot.
It's one thing when you get a turn that is of such a magnitude and crisis that it requires an entirely reinvented marketplace.
That's what XL and our Bermuda brother did in '85.
That's a really different thing than what we're dealing with here.
With what we're dealing with here the question isn't whether when to put your teams on the field.
The question is waiting to tell them to go nuts.
And the reality is I wouldn't tell any of our new teams to go nuts right now.
This is a time to get yourself ready.
You can establish a book of business in a disciplined way during this uneven phase.
But there's a number of phenomena that work for you.
First broker-driven markets always love a new entrant and if that new entrant is smart and has an established reputation and relationships they can drive some profitable business to them because the brokers and the clients are encouraging new entrants.
So there is a period during which you can get an unfair share of better business early in the establishment of a team as long as that team has the right kind of track record and personality.
What comes next is the important thing.
And I would tell you I've noticed some of our best underwriting competition thinking about this pretty smartly and I've seen some do it not very smart.
There are 2 approaches.
One is accept that not team may not have outside of that initial establishing activity a lot of to do for a little while.
And they'll have to bear higher expenses for a while.
And that's okay.
And that's okay.
I won't go through -- you would know some of the companies that we around here really respect and you've seen them put really high-quality teams at work.
Teams that we back in our reinsurance programs and they aren't writing a lot yet and that's okay.
The question is when do you take the leash off? When do you push the pedal? And that comes as markets take shape.
So it doesn't really matter if you hit it.
You can't time a market perfectly.
None of us are prescient enough to do that.
So you take it when you can get it in terms of talent.
You accept the higher expenses if you can't write a lot yet and you just keep getting ready.
If you do it that way you don't get burned.
What I have seen and what you've seen and what we won't do in XL is burn our way into a market thinking we've timed the market turn right.
Those are the guys that get themselves sick and then get burned.
We aren't going to do that.
We haven't been doing that.
And we won't do that.
Our next question comes from Cliff Gallant with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one on you mentioned the D&amp;O book that you had great recent results.
And a lot of things of course can change pretty quickly.
And I was wondering what your outlook is going forward in the near term? Particularly with all the market volatility we've had and we of course get MF [ph] Global and Energy this morning.
Sure.
The D&amp;O marketplace the pricing has been under pressure.
But the pricing has been under pressure because the results in the early part of the decade were so extraordinary that clients and brokers have properly challenged whether the pricing is right.
And then of course the pricing stayed strong because you have these huge events that people rightly assumed would lead to huge class-style losses.
But as we have talked about earlier in the call losses of the magnitude that were anticipated by what went on in '08 and '09 and to a lesser degree more recently simply haven't materialized to that same level.
So I think the market is continuing to challenge whether we found the right appropriate clearing price yet.
And I think I'm not bothered by -- in fact I really like what our U.S.
D&amp;O underwriters are doing.
We tend to be we tend to shine when markets get into distress we tend to shine when there's dislocation.
Things like the event this morning increased dislocation or perceptions of dislocation.
We like this marketplace.
And the fact that our guys up there are shrinking a little bit are accepting that rate is going down kind of in the 3% 4% range 5% range.
I think that's fine.
I think they're really -- they are hitting their various levers I think with great art.
And I'm very confident where they are.
I'm comfortable with where that book heads over time.
The fact that we're losing a little top line in that particular space makes sense to me.
The fact that we're losing a little bit of rate makes sense to me.
The fact that we're being conservative on reacting to the short-term trends in reserving make sense to me.
That group I have an enormous amount of confidence in.
Our next question comes from Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You brought up the Thai loss as one of the 4 factors for the quarter.
And I wanted to just -- certainly it's been a difficult year.
Is this a -- is this an Australian flood loss type of a thing is this a Japanese earthquake? Is this a New Zealand quake? Is it Irene? I mean how do we bracket this thing in the early days? I know it's premature.
I apologize.
I tried to -- I suppose I tried to encourage this question not to be asked earlier not that we shouldn't ask it.
We really don't know enough to say.
But I just observed it's a very broad event and it's going to be meaningful for the industry.
How it'll fall in terms of individual losses is extremely hard to predict and we certainly have nothing to say on that at this stage.
Although I would point out that so much of the flooding has been in industrial parks and when you get into flooding in industrial parks that's where you get those kind of pinpoint losses that certainly I would expect to show up in our insurance book because we're specific clients specific locations.
And if one gets hit in the flood it's going to get hit.
But I don't have any thing other than to add that I do think that there's been a lot of talk about BI [ph] losses just as there was a lot of talk of BI [ph] losses in Japan in the earthquake and tsunami.
And there I continue to see less reality for losses than I see talk of losses.
Maybe that's a need for the market and a gap that the market needs to be innovative to solve.
But that's so far been true across both events.
But we'll see we'll see.
I just wanted to make sure no one was missing that one because it is a big deal.
And I'm showing no further questions.
I'll turn the call back over the speakers.
We've obviously gone over the usual length of time but given the complexity of the quarter I thought that was completely appropriate.
We appreciate that we may at least in terms of the broad questions for the group have exhausted you at this stage and I know that David and the rest of our people are certainly available for follow-up questions as they come up.
Again as I opened I thought it was another of these interesting quarters there was some good there were some difficult.
But in the end we are extremely excited about where we see the markets we're working hard to be prepared and fully engaged in that effort.
And I just want to say to my colleagues and our clients and brokers who are listening around the world XL ends the quarter a stronger company and more focused and with greater urgency about what we've got to do and I'm excited to be representing our shareholders at this time.
Thank you.
This does concludes today's conference.
We thank your for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your line.
Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to XL Group plc Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley and welcome to XL group's fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We posted to our website several documents including our quarterly financial supplement.
On our call today Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO will offer opening remarks.
Peter Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer will review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Also in attendance and available for questions are Susan Cross our Global Chief Actuary; Sarah Street our Chief Investment Officer; and Stephen Robb our Controller.
Before they begin I’d like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of which they are made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I'd turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Thanks David.
As you have seen by reading our release the fourth quarter of 2011 was highly unusual and that understanding it requires some explanation which we will attempt to do thoroughly tonight.
At the same time once we clarify the unusual items I think you will come to the same  3 conclusions that we do.
First that XL has become an excellent manager of catastrophe risk across the firm.
Second that while there are large blocks of excellent underwriting at XL we remain plagued by lost activity in a handful of insurance lines that undermine our results.
And third and most important that we have the proper focus on improving or eliminating these sources of poorer results.
Now for clarity's sake this is how the call will go tonight.
First I will walk through the unusual items for the quarter at a high level.
Second I will similarly walk through our underwriting results highlighting the evidence of the 3 points I just made.
Then I'm going to turn the call over to our CFO Pete Porrino who will walk through these unusual items in deeper detail as well as updating you on other critical aspects such as investments.
After Pete our newly appointed CEO of Insurance Greg Hendrick will provide even more detail on the breadth of correction underwriting actions underway and give some examples of the early results that would not  yet appear in the financials but will give you a sense of why we have such confidence.
Finally we will conclude with a very positive report by Jamie Veghte on our Reinsurance operations.
Both Jamie and Greg will also give their perspectives on the improving rate environment.
Then we will take your questions.
So let me begin with some of the unusual items that drove the quarter's results.
First I want to give you the thinking behind the largest item for the financial note the goodwill charge.
Next I want to give you some perspective on expense levels as you will notice that expenses ran higher in the fourth quarter.
Finally I need to provide you with some perspective on tax in the quarter and for the year as without understanding this nuance one could wrongly conclude that our underwriting was worse that it in fact is.
First about the goodwill charge.
As you well know the P&amp;C insurance sector is continuing to trade at low valuations and XL is traded at an even greater discount.
When these conditions persist long enough we must closely examine the goodwill we carry in relation to the purchase of these operations.
In our third quarter 10-Q we described that this examination was intensified.
When the fourth quarter showed higher levels of non-cat loss activity as had the third quarter.
We felt that our assessment of how the market would value these operations had to reflect these recent poor results even if we remain bullish about our potential over time.
Pete will give you the greater detail but this is the basic thinking behind our goodwill write-down of $429 million.
Note that this has no impact on our calculations related to excess capital.
Second as to operating expenses.
Back in June we said that we thought the fourth quarter of 2010 would have been a good proxy for the 2011 run rate.
And so it proved to be.
Our 2011 full-year expenses were in fact roughly 4x the expense load in the fourth quarter of 2010.
But what does this say about 2012? While we generally stay out of the business of giving guidance for 2012 we expect to come in at the right around about 100 more  --  $100 million more in expenditure than our actual full year 2011 level.
But we need to emphasize that going forward there will likely continue to be meaningful volatility from quarter-to-quarter.
Technology spending for example can be quite lumpy.
And new hires can be very hard to predict in terms of quarterly timing.
And it is in those less predictable areas we are exactly where we are making investments.
Investing teams who can grow the business in lines where we find current and future returns appealing upgrading talent where we have found it to be deficient and building pricing and product modeling and the technology to deliver it while lowering costs.
And so on to the third item.
Tax.
Now this item would not be obvious just from reading the materials you have in front of you.
At XL we typically have an effective global operating tax rate in the mid-teens.
And this was true through the first few quarters of 2011.
But in the fourth quarter an unfortunate phenomena took place.
Pete will get more granular about this but it has a simple idea behind it.
The heavy losses we experienced such as the Thailand floods ultimately were written in low tax jurisdictions.
While our positive earnings such as the reserve releases in our London markets operation came in a high tax jurisdiction.
As a result the effective tax rates for the year instead of being in the mid-teens was in the mid-30s.
And in the fourth quarter this tax item added fully $59 million to our operating loss.
This rare phenomenon of tax adding insult to injury has happened at XL before in cases of high volatility low earnings quarters like we just experienced.
In general however and over time our tax strategies have proven to be very effective.
And while we will always work to make sure our global structure is tax efficient there are no obvious changes suggested by our studies of this fluke pattern.
I should add that the move of the holding company last year to Ireland has nothing to do with this result.
With those 3 unusual items discussed this brings us to Underwriting.
The essence of what we think our business is all about.
Again here there are 3 ideas as I enumerated at the start of the call.
First strong relative performance in the face of incredibly high cat losses around the globe second mainly strong underwriting performance in Insurance undercut by pockets of poor performance; and third intense corrective actions well underway in those businesses requiring improvement.
So first with respect to cat losses.
In one of the worst years on record for catastrophe losses including the fourth quarter's devastating Thailand floods XL's cat loss profile relative to our peers once again demonstrated the effectiveness of our risk management discipline.
Remember that we would expect to be infected in both our Reinsurance and Insurance operations given our global footprint in each.
That said our total losses across both businesses of $761 million compares favorably to the global carriers we compete with especially we considered as a portion of our shareholders equity.
As analysts have independently noted as compared to 19 other major insurers and reinsurers with whom we compete our loss as a percentage of shareholders equity was in the best quintile of performance.
And looked at another way while market share is hard to get at and while our market share varies around the world given our view of pricing adequacy and our drive to put our capital to work where returns are best we believe that yet in nearly every case and certainly overall our loss compared favorably to our market share.
This is an impressive result and a real improvement given as history in the first part of the 2000s.
As for the second Underwriting point we note the challenge to businesses at XL represent only about 20% of the 2011 global teams seen net premiums written.
Meaning the lion share of our premium comes from key businesses that continue to demonstrate their excellence covering a wide range of parallels on a global basis.
For example our excellence in Reinsurance method despite the high level of cash we showed an Underwriting profit for the year.
Professional lines broadly speaking continued to generate tremendous results despite downward rate pressures.
Our Specialty businesses mainly known by our businesses at Lloyd's also had excellent performance.
And we remain very pleased with our performance in global casualty over time.
In fact out of our 25 businesses in Insurance it is precisely 7 that are challenged.
To put it in perspective without these businesses our x cat x PYD combined ratio would be below 95%.
As I said I will leave it to Greg to provide greater detail on our various Underwriting actions.
But I want to emphasize the role of leadership and talent.
Talent is at the core of the completion in the complex risk Underwriting businesses of which XL is comprised.
And while there's a lot of excitement and commentary about our entry into a few new lines of similar business the far bigger story is the broader upgrade of talent at XL.
Of the 96 underwriters we hired at XL in 2011 only 18 were tied to the noted new activities.
The balance was hired to add to or to upgrade the Underwriting talent in existing lines of business.
In fact all 7 of these challenges businesses not only went through an in-depth review of all aspects of their operation in 2011 but we changed the leadership and the top underwriters in 5 of the 7 businesses.
The new leadership and the action of all these businesses are undertaking under the new plans are monitored intensely at all levels of XL.
Now with all of that said you will logically ask as you have in the past when can we expect to see the benefits of these actions? Well like you we think we're experts at these lines of business and we know that it takes real-time for the results to show up on the bottom line.
And the speed of impact depends on the lost profiles of the businesses being acted upon.
This is especially true at a firm like ours with a strong and continuing track record of prudent reserving.
But I can say this the actions are happening at the urgent pace we have set out for it the precursor indicators of progress are also showing up as expected and we expect these actions will show up to an increasing degree on the bottom line throughout 2012.
So before turning it over to Pete I would say that in some while we are frustrated as we are sure investors are with the time it takes for an Insurance book to respond to medicine we are unwavering in our faith that the right actions have been and are being taken and we are intensely resolved to make all of XL and not just most of it match our historical underwriting prowess.
Pete? Thanks Mike and good evening.
I'll be covering 3 items in more detail.
First I'll discuss the quarterly year's results including discussions on goodwill and taxes.
Second I'll provide you with an update on our investment activity including our exposure to Continental Europe and third I will address on capital market activities.
The fourth quarter and full year 2011 results were significantly impacted by severe natural catastrophes resulting in an operating net loss for the quarter of $80 million compared to operating income of $242 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
For the full year we reported an operating profit of $89 million compared to $810 million in 2010.
Cat losses net of Reinsurance and reinstatement premiums in the fourth quarter were $195 million which is at the midpoint of our preliminary cat loss estimate range included in our January '11 press release.
And that compares to $30 million in the prior year.
For the full year cat losses were $761 million compared to $294 million in 2010.
Our net loss attributable to ordinary shareholders was $516 million for the fourth quarter and $475 million for the full year.
The net losses were driven by a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $429 million.
Now this impairment of goodwill represents all of the goodwill included in our Insurance segment.
This was due to a combination of persistent low market valuations for XL and in the Insurance industry generally and the continuing underperformance in that segment.
This underperformance impacts the assumptions used in goodwill valuation tests such as market multiples and select discount rate and related risk premium a third-party might demand.
Consistent with Mike's comments we did not fundamentally change the assumptions about the future profitability of this business.
Turning to our summary financial results on Slide 3 you'll see that the P&amp;C gross premiums written were down 3.5% versus the fourth quarter of 2010 with a 4.4% decrease and 7.9% increase in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments respectively.
The Insurance segment decrease was driven by a prior year quarter multiyear Insurance agreement excluding this agreement there was a 5% increase in 2010.
Greg and Jamie will highlight the sources of growth in their comments.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 108.2% or 16 points -- 16.8 points higher than the same quarter last year.
As detailed on Slide 4 cat losses in the quarter accounted for 14.2 lost ratio points 11.8 points higher than the same quarter last year.
Prior year development in the quarter was a favorable $68 million or 4.9 loss ratio points.
This reflects favorable development of $28 million and $40 million in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments respectively from our fourth quarter detailed ground-up reserve review.
Positive movements came from Specialty and Professional  Insurance lines as well as longer tail U.S.
and European Reinsurance lines.
Although these releases are down from the prior year quarter our actual gross is expected loss experience continues to trend favorably x PYD and cat or combined ratio increased by 0.5 points.
In the quarter and for the full year our operating tax expense was clearly out of line with operating income.
In the quarter we added $21 million pretax operating loss and $59 of tax expense.
As Mike stated our losses ended up largely in low tax jurisdictions while our income was seen in the higher tax jurisdictions.
The distribution of cat losses was a function  both of where the policies were written and also our internal Reinsurance arrangements including certain stop-loss agreements.
In addition positive prior-year reserve releases which are net above positive and negative results for different lines of business were most significant in our legal entity with the highest overall tax rate.
Other items contributed such as the tax treatment of unrealized investment gains in certain jurisdictions but generally the result reflects the unusual distribution of profits and losses around our global organization this quarter.
At $192 million net investment income under P&amp;C portfolio in the fourth quarter was 9% below the prior year due primarily to new money rates and cash outflows from the investment portfolio.
The average new money rate on our P&amp;C portfolio in the quarter was 2.5%.
The P&amp;C gross book yield at the end of the quarter was 3.2%.
From the P&amp;C duration remains unchanged at 2.8 years.
Our net loss from investment affiliate was $24 million down $70 million from the prior year.
Now it's important to remember that we record our affiliate earnings on a lag of between 1 and 3 months.
As we discussed in our third quarter call our private equity and investment management business portfolios state difficult Q3 market conditions.
Realized losses were $50 million compared to $104 million in the prior year quarter.
Of this total $29 million related to OTTI charges which were primarily due to foreign exchange items and from non-agency RMBS assets.
The total mark-to-market was $130 million positive with the impact of lower rates being somewhat offset by widening credit spreads primarily on European investment grade corporate credit.
While we've mentioned our reductions to European investments on previous calls we think it is worth repeating given the continued turmoil in Europe.
Our peripheral government exposure is immaterial at $27 million.
In addition to avoiding direct peripheral sovereign risk we have also eliminated all peripheral hybrid financial exposure.
Within core Europe we have been concerned about the indirect effects of the European crisis on the banking system particularly on the risks exposed to hybrid securities given the amount of recapitalization required of certain of these banks.
Over the past several years we have successfully reduced exposure to a point where it is very manageable.
Our Continental European hybrid exposure was $102 million at year end with only $73 million to banks largely national champions in Northern Europe.
Even including subordinated bank debt the exposure's only $133 million.
In fact including senior debt and other financials our total Continental Europe financials holdings are $870 million which is down $350 million from December 31 2010.
Just as importantly these bonds have an unrealized loss of just $28 million.
At less than 3% of our 15 comp portfolio we have significantly reduced our investment risk to a Eurozone meltdown.
Now to our capital management.
We purchased and canceled $4.9 million ordinary shares at an average cost of $20.21 for $100 million in the fourth quarter and $31.7 million ordinary shares at an average price of $21.03 for a total of $665 million in 2011.
This leaves $190.5 million available for purchase under our $1 billion share buyback program.
In October we announced the termination of the Stoneheath 3 facility and the resulting issuance of $350 million of series D preference ordinary shares at 312 basis points over LIBOR a very attractive rate in today's market.
And in 2012 we repaid at maturity the $600 million 6.5% guaranteed senior notes.
All of our actions were designed to maintain a capital structure that balances the ability to build shareholder value whether it's redeploying more resources behind a considerable underwriting talent we've been building or taking advantage of attractive share repurchase opportunities or other means of returning shareholder capital.
Since August 2010 XL has repurchased 57.3 million shares or approximately 17% of the outstanding shares at that time.
We reconsidered the amount we repurchased in Q4 2011 as more indicative going forward than the earlier part of the year.
Of course this will be tampered by significant catastrophe -- large loss activity or a specific opportunity to put our capital to work.
Now before I hand it over to Greg I'll make some comments on the Costa Concordia  situation.
We expressed our sympathy to the loved ones of those who lost their lives in this tragic accident.
The loss is in early stages and investigations continue particularly as to the ultimate size of the loss.
XL has exposure in both the Insurance and Reinsurance segments.
Our exposure is significantly reinsured which we expect will contain our net loss.
Based on our exposure for Insurance and Reinsurance net of Reinsurance protections and inwards and outwards reinstatement premiums we estimate our losses in this $40 million to $50 million range.
Greg? Thanks Pete.
I'll focus on 3 topics tonight.
First our results for the segment; second some of the actions we are taking to improve these results; and third a brief comment on the current rate trends.
First the results.
As Pete mentioned we normalized for one-off multiyear deal written in Q4 2010 Insurance gross premiums written grew by 5% in the quarter.
The majority of this growth is due to a new premium from targeted initiatives.
In particular our North American construction programs in international professional businesses each had a significant new premium.
Net premiums earned were up $59 million or 6.6% reflecting the year-end grew of higher gross premiums written.
The Insurance segments combined ratio for the quarter of 116.2% was 15.2 points higher versus the same quarter last year.
Current year debt loss is accounted for $133 million or 12.2 points of the increase.
While Thailand  floods accounted for $102 million we also had $26 million development  in the quarter from events occurring in the first 3 quarters of 2011.
Lower prior year of favorable development accounted for 4.5 points of the increase as we released $28 million in Q4 compared to $66 million in Q4 last year.
While the reserve releases in many lines were offset by strengthened reserves in E&amp;S risk management and 2 of our professional businesses.
An increase in the expected account were 1.4 points of the increase -- attributable to primarily the foreign exchange rates and higher compensation cost as we continue to add underwriters and make changes in business leadership.
The deterioration that I've mentioned was slightly offset by lower current accident year loss experience which contributed 3.8 points of improvement primarily due to lower large losses compared to the fourth quarter last year.
However the current accident  loss ratio of nearly 72% adjusted for prior year development in cats is unacceptably high.
Let me be clear we view this segment result as a whole unacceptable.
There are numerous bright spots and there are business that is challenge.
So I want to walk you through some of the actions we are taking to improve results.
First it's important to step back to what we told you at our Investor Day that we have changed the way we think about managing XL.
We used to be a handful of global product lines for sign of goals.
We now consider each business a core unit of accountability but with aligned goals and strategies.
This is the portfolio of business that I know well.
In past year we've examined every pocket of performance both positive and negative that would have previously stayed hidden.
In businesses that we view as challenged we have added new leadership and experienced team and we have re-underwritten strategies.
Particularly this has meant empowering these leaders to re-underwrite the sectors of their books that are underperforming.
This takes some time but we feel it will yield the right results.
In many other areas we found opportunities to be even better at the things we're already doing well.
So it's some specifics.
With new leadership in both the North American and international property businesses we've reviewed our approach to cat underwriting.
While we have outperformed relative to the industry in almost all events we can still improve our catastrophe performance and cat is an area I know very well.
For example we've looked closely at our approach to flood underwriting and decided to  dramatically reduce limited authorities for our property underwriters.
In our International business we restricted cat authority and we've seen our exposures reduce at a faster rate than our premium base as the book renews.
Learning from our improvement in track record in reinsurance we integrated the latest industry cat models to support pricing and underwriting decisions in this portfolio as well.
We also have a new approach for our property Reinsurance treaties which we knew at May 1.
By considering capacity from a variety of capital sources we will optimize our seat of reinsurance coverage and cost.
With new leadership in our risk management business we're taking action to deemphasize the guaranteed cost workers comps in this portfolio and it's lagged the rest of the book by 10 loss ratio points.
We know there are real opportunities in workers comp and we've added new volumes in our North American and construction business.
With our focus on very large contractors most of whom have outstanding risk management practices we are selectively underwriting a book that should outperform the general workers comp industry.
To further enhance our results we're planning a new underwriting workstation greatly improving our operational efficiencies pricing data and analytics.
Other challenges we are confronting by shifting our mix of business and I'll give you examples from E&amp;S and professional.
In our E&amp;S business again an area where we have added new leadership we know one of the sectors of underperformance is the New York Contractors General Liability Line specifically subcontractor risk.
We are re-underwriting this book and shifting our exposure to general contractors.
We also know our book about partner risk to experience a 20-point higher loss ratio than the rest of our general liability portfolio.
We have decided to renew just a handful of our best risks in this class.
Since early 2011 2 of our professional businesses started shifting their portfolios towards smaller customers and optimizing a geographic mix.
We're already seeing signs of improvement we've reported claim counts down 30% year-over-year.
We're made more confident given our lengthy history in some of these classes and accumulation of data which we are minding to yield a strong competitive advantage.
Our strategic analytics team is currently working with our underwriters to take advantage of this opportunity.
Another illustration of our re-underwriting is the private D&amp;O portfolio which peaked at $75 million of premium in 2008.
As we experienced the turn of results we decided to completely revamp the business and it's now just $10 million of premium in 2011.
With new leaders and redefined strategies to improve existing businesses we're also enhancing our profitability for strategic growth opportunities.
In 2011 this meant the addition of Inland Marine Political Risk and Surety teams the latter 2 of which we view as having true global potential.
These businesses will add -- will aid our delivery of expansion into areas of opportunities in particular our new offices in China and Brazil.
Finally a word on market conditions.
We have seen positive rate trends across most of our businesses.
We achieved our third consecutive quarter of positive pricing in North America and P&amp;C businesses.
Specialty pricing was also positive in the quarter and for the year.
And we continue to see material improvement in our U.S.
D&amp;O book as rate decreases continue to slow in Q4 and early 2012 renewals are yielding rate increases.
We believe that the positive pricing momentum we see is real and sustainable and will continue on 2012.
While we are taking corrective actions in the quarter of our Insurance businesses we are very well prepared to take advantage of and a deep push for increasing rates in the remaining 3 quarters of our book.
And now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance results.
Thanks Greg and good evening.
I'd like to cover 2 principal issues tonight a review of our fourth quarter and full year results and also some comments on a very successful renewal season market conditions and how we view our position in an improving environment.
This segment has a solid result in the quarter despite the onslaught of significant industry cat losses we experienced throughout the year.
In this instance Thailand flooding.
Our combined ratio was 90.8% for the quarter and included the benefit of prior year releases of $40 million.
This compares to a combined of 69.8% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Excluding the benefit of prior-year releases we had a combined ratio of 100% which compares to 84.1% in 2010.
The performance in the fourth quarter was substantially impacted by catastrophe losses of $62 million including $56 million from the flooding in Thailand.
Excluding the impact of both cat losses and prior year releases the segment had a combined ratio of 85.6% which compares to 80.2% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
This 5-point delta from last year was driven by a number of issues including 2 fire losses from our U.S.
operations a deterioration of performance of our U.S.
crop portfolio and a co-mutation in the fourth quarter of 2010 that was nonrecurring.
For the full year XL Re had a combined ratio of 97.8% which compared to the 80.1% combined in 2010.
Our year was heavily impacted by cat losses of $406 million an increase of just under $250 million from what we experienced in 2010.
Excluding the impact of both Cat losses in prior year releases we had a combined ratio of 85.7% virtually identical to the 85.9 in 2010.
Frankly we are gratified to produce an Underwriting profit in a year when industry global cat losses were north of $100 billion.
I think this speaks to the experience and discipline of our Underwriting teams and the prudent reserve position of our business.
Turning to top line.
Gross written premiums in the quarter were $105 million which compares to the 97.5 written in the fourth quarter of 2010 an 8% increase.
This increase was driven largely by the reinstatement premiums emanating from the Thailand flood loss.
For the full year gross written premiums were $2.1 billion a 12.5% increase from 2010.
This increase was due to new business and increased share in both XL Re Europe and XL Re America increased reinstatement premiums and an increase in our U.S.
crop ratings.
Turning to market conditions our year-end renewal went largely as we expected.
For U.S.
cap business non-loss impacted programs saw rate increases in the 7.5% to 12.5 range while loss impacted placements saw increase from 15% to as much as 40%.
Loss impacted international business paid an increase of 30% to 70%.
In the U.K.
and Continental Europe we saw fairly modest single-digit risk adjusted increases a bit below what we expected going into renewals.
Capacity was readily available although we would say customers that tried to undercut the lead price indication struggled to get things home.
We saw a fair amount of business get repriced and increased during the last couple of days of the season.
In addition both aggregate and worldwide type placements struggled to get done.
While there were a couple of headline accounts that bought less capacity than they did in 2010 overall we saw a fairly healthy demand profile from the market.
It's our estimation that north of $1 billion of additional U.S.
wind exposed cat cover was bought at year end.
Broadly we were pleased with the renewal of our cat portfolio.
Turning to Casualty.
The U.S.
market was competitive at January 1.
Reinsurers were generally quite determined to retain their renewal accounts and most tried to increase their lines with limited success.
There were some increase in ceding [ph] company retention levels particularly on business that performed well over time.
As Greg mentioned relative to original pricing we are beginning to see positive movement in the primary market with the exception of sectors of the professional lines market.
For international casualty rate levels remained broadly flat with those seeing some willing to accept increases often taking additional retention.
We do continue to see improvements in the U.K.
motor market particularly on accessible loss pricing.
With respect to the Specialty areas of the market.
January 1 is a fairly light renewal for aviation and the marine market had a very late renewal season with significant improvement in the energy sector from those programs impacted by Griffin and Deepwater.
Overall we are pleased with our book of business and our market position going into 2012.
We've had 6 consecutive years of attractive Underwriting results a very experienced team deep relationships across the market and we are ready to leverage all of these assets into continued success as we go forward.
With that I'll turn it back to David for Q&amp;A.
Shirley please open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Keith Walsh with Citi.
I guess my first question for you I appreciate the extra detail around the weaker lines of coverage.
But just a couple of questions around that what percent of total premiums do those 7 lines represent? And how much allocated capital is behind that? And what accident years are really showing the weakness? And then I've got one for Peter.
Yes the capital allocation we'll have to get back to you  to get precise.
I don't have it broken out that way but it's about 20% of the net written premium 1/5.
Research Division</strong> Any years in particular that are showing strain? It would really depend by line of business.
Some of them have deteriorated as rates have come off over time and kind of revealed themselves to be under performers.
Others have been -- there might have been a year or an event over the years that has given a rise to this.
But generally speaking these are books of business where we ourselves when we started breaking the business into separate business lines rather than this kind of global view of Casualty and Property that's when we got intense about these particular businesses as ones that we had a real opportunity to upgrade the performance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for Peter just on the rate of repurchase I think you mentioned $100 million a quarter.
And I would guess you guys have significant excess capital writing $5.5 billion of premium on a $10 billion balance sheet.
Why not a much higher run rate here? Well a couple of things I'd say.
One is we do see some opportunities in the marketplace and we were certainly investing as Mike said in talent.
We do believe that we are at the beginning stages of a hardening market.
And we also noticed I mean catastrophes this quarter was a difficult quarter for the industry and for us.
And so to come out and signal I would say increased buyback activity would probably not be correct.
And then the other thing is throughout 20 -- the end of 2010 and 2011 I'd say there was a little bit of a catch up in lack of buybacks in the prior periods.
Mike you have...
No I just.
At the same -- I think your question is a very good one.
And the only thing I'd add to what Peter said is you've heard me walk through the 3-part analysis before what percentage buffer do we want to hold to our rating agency capital in order to make sure that we do not ever put it at risk to the best of our ability.
Second once we'd determined that then we understand what this truly excess and then we're always judging where can we put it to work to make the franchise better and if we can't how do we get back to shareholders the efficient way.
That thought process hasn’t changed in the time I've been here.
Right now you have 2 things kind of going in opposite directions and we're always analyzing across both.
One thing you have an improving rate environment as Pete mentioned which can give us some opportunities for profitable growth.
You have seen us invest in new teams and some new opportunities because of that.
But at the same time trading where we're trading it's hard to ignore the economics of share repurchase.
So they kind of move in competition with each other and we're always analyzing across those 2.
So that's why we want to be cautious and at the same time it's been a volatile time for the industry and I think all of us having seen 2011 in the rearview mirror we'd like to see that calm down.
The next question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> First a quick numbers question.
With the change in debt accounting coming on January 1 will there be any write down of the book value on that or impact to earnings in 2012? Our estimate is that it will be a small number in the 10s of millions of dollars that will be disclosed in the 10-K.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the impact of book value? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any impact on 2012 earnings? No at least nothing at all material.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then more broadly if I look at the Insurance segment even excluding net prior year development cats and reinstatement premiums the underlying combined ratio is it 104 of the full year 2011 up from 101 in 2010? And Mike I know you don’t like giving guidance but what do you -- what type of improvement you think you can drive through the results in 2012? Jay your first part of your question -- your first part of your comment was the governing one.
We don't give guidance.
We believe the business is too volatile for that it just has a general observation about the sector.
But I've tried to be as clear as I can and maybe I could step back and make it a little broader to at least be as helpful as I can be.
You know very well and all the people on this call being Insurance experts you know that the reality of any one period's underwritings are mainly the product of underwritings from a year and more ago and decreasingly the product of more recent underwriting activity.
So you're always getting a pretty nice lag just by the nature of the business from the underwriters action to the result.
What we can tell you and what we have told you going back to our investor call was that because of our new way of looking at it with  greater insight greater accountability we had identified some areas that really needed improvement and we're un-implementing significant change.
And you've seen announcement after announcement that really can be tied to that observation.
While it's a short-tail line as soon as you implement a new approach in underwriting you get the effect roughly a year after the underwriting action takes place or it can be sooner if you're not underwriting something again if you're not renewing you can get an immediate impact if you're writing your nonrenewal actions.
But of course your opportunity for nonrenewal takes place for the following year after you make the decision because our policies don't all incept in common at one particular day.
We certainly get in some books more bang for the buck at the 1-1 renewal point.
And at least some of our actions this past year would have taken place at that time.
So you really kind of have to get extremely granular line by line action by action and pattern of renewal by pattern of renewal or pattern of new inception by pattern of new inception before you can start adding up when exactly an action might take place.
And that's why because of the complexity of all that and bluntly the fortuity as well on what we would say is more and more over the course of '12 and certainly much more impact than we saw in '11 you will see the book remixing to these new underwriting actions and that should of course in turn see the actions take hold in the bottom line.
What we do plan to do over the course of the year as we're able to do so is to give you updates on evidence that we're seeing that may not be ready to translate into the bottom line.
We will not change our very prudent approach to reserving.
I know there's a lot of -- kind of commentary that goes on about the industry and the various phases of how people behave during different cycles during periods of the Underwriting cycle but in our reserving we just remain consistent throughout.
I would say that actually sets us apart relative to the industry from all the numbers I'm seeing at least generally.
And in fact I think when you look at the global triangles for this year for example you're going to see -- we think and I think you will judge too and independently we're seeing judge that our margins are actually increasing somewhat in terms of reserve redundancy that is not generally true about the sector.
So as I look at it when you take all of that together the fact that we're not going to overreact quickly we're going to want -- we're going have  a 'prove it to us' actuarial attitude and because these actions took place in different pockets over different time periods over the last year it will work its way into the book increasingly through each quarter you should see more influence from these underwriting actions.
Research Division</strong> Makes sense.
Sorry for follow up but are you also implying that we should expect to see premium volume in the insurance segment to be lower in 2012 than it is in 2011? Well I'm going to ask Greg to jump in here too because Greg is the one I just want to emphasize the point that was made earlier that I think is really important for the market to understand.
While Greg started his job leading insurance on January 1 Greg led our strategic review in 2010 that led us to the changes we made and how we lead the business and throughout '11 was leading various of the most urgent of our process for reviewing those lines that we found had challenges along with Jamie Veghte and a team of our best underwriters.
So Greg's starting point had a big run rate to it and the lot of knowledge added to it.
So yes where we saw business that was underperforming you should expect to see that there'll be jamming rate through it changing underwrite terms and conditions changing our limit strategy and changing our reinsurance strategy or in some cases simply nonrenewal.
And those will take place over those impacts will take place over time.
In those places you'll see shrinkage but we also have pockets but we assure you we didn't think we were using all of our capacity.
And where we'll see growth.
And I'll ask Greg to comment a little bit on some of those lines where we saw opportunities for growth and some of the lines where we actually jumped into the line because we see the conditions as so enticing.
Yes when I touched on some of them in my comments.
Jerry but generally we're looking at -- ones I didn't touch on in particular our North American property business with Joe Tucker as the new leader is showing a strong growth of our construction business.
I did mention we also didn't touch upon it but we're adding new programs as we've re-underwritten it's one of the areas that we've been focused on a new leader there as well and Pete Purpose [ph] and he is quickly refocusing the book and adding new programs in fact you will see in the press release in the last couple of days of our latest program there.
There is one new line I would add to my comment one particular book the international property book we're in the last chunk of what we had told you in previous calls are the end of LTAs.
And so that book will roll off in 2012 and we'll get a good crack at 1 1 13 for that last big chunk of business so you'll see some activity there.
It's important to point out again that's 25% of the insurance business that we're talking about and we are doing some strong growth initiatives in the other 75% of the business.
Our next question comes from Matthew Heimermann with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess I wanted to just touch on the incremental $100 million of expenses you're talking about next year.
Guess a little surprised by the magnitude of that.
But was rather than talking about what the number is I was hoping you could help us put in perspective how you're thinking about the payback on that investment and what metrics we should be thinking about over what time frame we should be thinking about to kind of judge how well spent that money is? Yes we generally don't think of things over much longer than a several year horizon when we do payback analysis because I just don't trust numbers and get out longer than that.
So that's how we think about it we wouldn't have none of these investments will be made if we didn't think they would generate an adequate return within 3 years.
So that's a general rule of thumb.
Now when you're investing in businesses they can make their returns at different paces over time.
For example some businesses with relatively low infrastructure cost let's say Surety you could -- depending on what happens in the marketplace you can have that business grow relatively quickly at relatively low cost and get to payback relatively quickly.
On other businesses that are a little more infrastructure intense say Inland Marine would come to mind I would expect the payback on those investments to take longer to realize.
But in no case would we jump into something where we didn't think over 3 years we'd be getting to a meaningful return on investment.
On the technology side and on the Underwriting Analytics side -- Underwriting analytics I expect to have fairly rapid payoff if you think about it because when we make an investment in the new model and that model gets implemented the only constraint to the speed of the benefit is the same factors I described a moment ago when you're dealing with Underwriting decisions.
That is how quickly can you get the book through the new decisions that you've made.
And then finally on the broader Underwriting and the technology infrastructure paybacks those are always the hardest to get to because the reality is they tend to be softer numbers that really have benefited may show up in the expense ratio over time.
But we do know that even our growth is enabled by these platform investments.
So we couldn't be adding some of the premiums as was described when you take out the one special items of note it was a 5% growth of Insurance in the last year we couldn't be doing that without some of these technology investments.
So while it's a little softer we would have the same rigor over return periods that we would expect.
Research Division</strong> And can you -- well I guess as I listened to your answer kind of the way that it works in my mind is you've got a certain percentage that's really about investing in people and presence and that will get paid back in terms of -- you get production and ultimately profits on it.
Part of it on the model side feels to me like it's not so much -- it enables you to accomplish a lot of things but it's more about maybe avoiding losses then it is necessarily and helping volatility than it is necessarily about an absolute dollar.
And the last one just kind of feels like some business cost  to some extent.
So -- but I'm just -- I position it that way because I'd be curious if you give a sense of whether or not how much of its people versus the other 2 because I guess from a people standpoint would've been unfair to expect that over the next 3 years you'd recoup that expense plus some margin on top of it.
All right.
First of all I think the way that you've thought about it is correct.
In terms of additional expense we're talking really about the $100 million in run rate increase as opposed to the ordinary cost of the business which we're always trying to grind down.
As I think about it I think the right answer we'll get you some confirmation is about 1/3 of this is specifically related to people that we're adding where you get the return in the profile you described.
And about 2/3 of it is related to technology and infrastructure costs which we would expect to show up in allowing for growth or in some cases and the reason you were right to split into 3 buckets and not 2 when you get into those analytics and that's -- we're really investing in what we believe will show up as a lower loss ratio.
And for us I know this will sound trite but I mean it for the way for the businesses we're in and the way we think about the business it is the loss ratio stupid.
I mean that's how we think about the business where we make investments we're trying to drive insight to give us a loss ratio advantage over our competitors over time.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just with respect just following up on the buyback.
I mean it's part of the issue here when we think externally about your capital.
Is that some of the new growth initiatives you have are basically in areas where you're not warehousing a lot of capital.
So to some extent until those get high the capital efficiency is low.
Our smaller lines of business don't line up at the beginning especially given diversification benefits consuming that much of our capital model.
So I don't think that would be a fair way to think about it.
If I was going to speculate that there is any particular miss anywhere in the analytical cycle between how we think about it and how you all think about it the only place I would speculate is that it is the way that we versus the way which you think about the buffer to rating agency capital.
If I was going to guess I would think that might be the biggest mismatch.
But by either how I've seen you analyze it or how I see us analyze it we don't dispute that there's excess capital.
It's just a matter how we're thinking about acting on that and our degree of comfort given current market conditions and opportunities.
But if I was going to speculate about the difference that's probably where that difference is and I think a lot of that where we might be able to do the difference could really not only relate to how the market works today but how the market works in the future.
Because we are preparing steadily for the impact on our legal entities as correlated to solvency to and other future regulatory impositions.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm trying to understand here you're thinking about investing for growth and we're sitting here in mid-single at least my estimates kind of mid-single-digit ROEs next year talking about spending a little bit more on expense maybe $100 million for compensation as opposed to maybe buying back stock.
And what that difference means from an ROE and book value perspective what do you look at to make sure that maybe it's not too early to invest for growth right now? And just one follow-up.
Thanks.
I appreciate the question.
And I do really appreciate the spirit of the questions because they relate to the trade-offs that are very difficult trade-offs to judge.
So we'd rather salute [ph]to the ground just as you do on our behalf in analyzing us.
But again when we can remix this book of business to more profitable line we can create returns that are not only more attractive in the short-term but very much more attractive in the long-term for the franchise.
And that is our ultimate mission.
Second as we are able to attract this better talent it's not the case and this we talked about last quarter it's not the case that you just get expense out of that and no other benefit.
You can get very quickly to lower loss ratios which are very attractive for our investors or you can grow in a space of business where you're already getting attractive returns and thereby be affecting the remix of the business towards more profitable activity that shareholders will most appreciate over time.
And so when we think about it that's why I emphasized the idea that only 18 of the underwriters 96 of them only 18 of them were tied to these  new businesses last year.
Because the new business thing has the lag effects that we've talked about.
But the other ones are immediately put to work on blocks of business that are already in the house and if they give us headaches they give you headaches and if they give us profitable for growth they can remix this book faster toward more profit.
So I view that as very common-sense activity because to not do that is to literally continue to produce these kinds of anemic returns and then just be kind of worst off over time.
The other point I would make is we can only be in the market timing game to a point.
Because in the end if you dive in after the turn and everybody knows the turn you're not ready and you're not going to be active present in the market to benefit from what comes.
We want to be present.
We want to be active.
We want to have the capital capacity we want to have the cap capacity and we want to have the talent to take advantage of what comes next.
Because while it isn't a hard market it is sure changing.
And in some lines more than others and we can take advantage of that phenomena to remix the book of business.
So I say all of that and then I'll still say what you know when we're trading like this the economics of share repurchase are compelling we know that and we're very aware of that as we make this trade-offs.
Research Division</strong> I mean I understand I guess if you're talking about 80% of your business running at a 95 combined in Insurance I mean that -- just the delta there is significant to earnings and you add to -- and then don't add the additional expense from hiring and now you have more capital to deploy.
I just wonder does it make sense to think about fixing showing some ROE trajectory and then growing? And I understand your point about missing a turn but I just wonder if that -- this puts us in a mezzanine phase for maybe another 12 to 24 months.
Well again again a thoughtful question.
I would emphasize again that the remixing didn't start today on this call.
It started over the course of last year which is why I believe that the benefits from this remixing will start to take increasing effect on the book through 2012 and beyond.
I think that's a very important notion.
So if we were at a standing start today I'm talking about actions the equation might be different we're not.
And we're very we remained resolved to see these plans that we put in place come through.
So I think that's part of the difference here.
The second thing is you can -- it is always possible to create short-term benefit by discontinuing a challenged activity or just grinding expenses down as low as you can.
You could create some short-term lift out of that but you're not building a business that's going to be great over time.
You're just giving a short term kick to it.
And that's not just what we're trying to do.
We don't think that's what you want us to do either.
So it is always a complex equation but I do think that on balance we have this equation right and have had through the year.
This is Pete Porrino.
Keith just to get back to you on your question about the capital on those 7 businesses.
So as Mike said it's just over 20% of premium.
It's quite a bit less than that on capital it's in the 12% to 14% range.
The next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I forget who mentioned it but there was some commentary around there were certain lines in the Insurance business where you saw some adverse development in the quarter.
And I'm wondering if you could talk more about that and why you're comfortable that that won't continue that's question number one.
Sure.
And we have as David mentioned we have Susan Cross our Chief Reserving Actuary here with us so she can get very precise about that.
Susan? Yes sure.
So within the insurance segment we did have net favorable prior development of $28 million in the quarter.
And that comprised of $38 million favorable in Specialty $15 million favorable in professional $23 million unfavorable in Casualty and $2 million unfavorable in property.
So we had very favorable experience across most Specialty lines and strong favorable in the core professional lines.
Areas of strengthening include the design and select professional books and that was about $40 million of strengthening.
We had strengthening in North Americas E&amp;S programs and U.S.
risk management businesses of about $20 million.
And that's related to the guaranteed workers comp and New York contractors general liability exposures that Greg mentioned in his remarks.
And finally we had strengthening of about $18 million in excess casualty related to some large energy claims in the 2010 accident year.
So overall we had very favorable in the quarter and for the full year.
Yet we are strengthening where we need to ensure that strong balance sheet and foundation for the future.
I'll also point out that we continue to experience favorable actual loss immergence relative to effective levels across most of our businesses especially in primary casualty professional and U.S.
Casualty Reinsurance.
And that gives us confidence in our overall reserve position yet we're giving this time to more fully develop before recognizing it either in our prior-year development or in our current year loss ratio picks.
So that where we had that strengthening is very specific portfolios portfolios where we're taking underwriting actions and we're confident overall.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly.
I'm sorry go ahead.
I just want to jump in it's Greg.
Sorry Jay.
Let me just -- on 2 of them in particular let me just follow on what Susan just said.
In the design and select and in particular the professionals.
2 strong leaders that have been with us for a while these activities just started either late in '10 or early in '11 design while we're disappointed with the development it's still on an on level and adjusted basis is a profitable book of business for us over the last 10 years.
And we're putting some things in place to make sure that continues into the future we're very convinced with the future of that book.
Select is also refocusing on some smaller customers and some of the better states and they're well underway to improve it and I'll touch on my comments there where we're seeing already claim counts reducing.
So not all this reserved development if necessary I mean these businesses are not going to be future profitable for us in the future but we are taking it seriously and making sure we stay vigilant about the performance on each of these books.
Research Division</strong> And just quickly and I'll follow up on that.
The stabs that you took at both design and select and North American  E&amp;S when you lasted a deeper dive I guess this would have been in the second quarter into your reserves were those running a temperature at that point? Is this something new were there reserved increases bigger than you've done in the past? In our second quarter review a couple of these areas we did have some adverse developments specifically in the E&amp;S and in the select professional portfolio.
So it's not across all the portfolios.
So we had seen some signs of it earlier in the year.
But I would say this might too was a little bit more than what we've seen earlier in the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just quick numbers question.
I'm sorry Jay.
I would also add one other thought to that.
The emergence of this development wasn't our first clue that these businesses needed attention.
When we started -- and this is just such an important plan I want to emphasize it again.
The decision to move away from these very large global lines of business approach where everything got lumped together really obscured where there were pockets of correctable underperformance.
Because you've look at the top level of casualty line and the top-level profit and you go all looks okay and given the time in the cycle blah blah blah and we just didn't know we don't want to run the business that way we want to get very clear level  accountability at the granular business level.
So when we start pulling it apart and analyzing it that way back in the latter half of '10 after this strategy was devised that's when we got a focused on these lines of business because we started looking and finding things that we really didn't like that didn't meet our kinds of standards of activity.
And since then that's when all of these things really get more intense.
So I just -- I just want to make that point because I think it's important to understand the narrative of why we're feeling frustrated hasn't shown up yet but confident that it's there that's the period of time we've been working on this not just in the last quarter or 2.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Thanks for that clarification.
And then one just quick numbers question for modeling purposes.
The loss from the Concordia sinking can you give us an estimate of kind of what is reinsurance and what's insurance at this point? No.
There are some confidentiality things that we have with our clients.
We don't -- remember we almost never will  talk about a single and short events right? So this is very unusual only doing it because others have done it.
But at this point we would not be comfortable splitting it out between insurance and reinsurance.
We did pretty clear with the client the way which we've talked about it.
But that's just specific as we can get.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions here.
First Greg you talked about looking at some changes to your cat reinsurance program.
Can you give us some sense of what you're thinking about doing here? Or could we expect more volatility less volatility going forward? Sure Brian.
First let me stress our core reinsurers have been with us a long time and will continue to be important parts of our seated plans.
But I personally and XL as a whole have a lot of comfort with alternative sources of capital.
You'll recall we did Cyrus Re for 3 years and our Bermuda book and reinsurance is quite active and trading with alternative partners.
We see the recent activity in this area we see supply from this alternative source of capital exceeding demand and we think we can see some of our peak exposures more efficiently.
And to be direct -- to be in your question we will not to an increased volatility at all.
This is to try and reduce the volatility of our book net after Reinsurance.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just 2 other quick ones here.
The investment affiliates big loss in the quarter.
Was that Select related to performance or was there some type of write off or something that happened? Seemed awfully large at $19.9 million.
So it was not a write-off we’ve got Sarah here who can get into more detail.
But as we mentioned Q3 as you know is a pretty bad equity quarter.
And we've got investment managers that go above the high-water market and they go below the high-water market.
When those happen you can get a fairly large delta but Sarah can add a lot more.
Yes that's exactly Pete at the high point.
I mean the big number was $20 million from our investment manager affiliates which effectively was a reversal.
If remember back in Q2 we have very strong earnings from our investment manager affiliates and it was because a number of them had gone above the high water marks so we've got a big pickup.
But with a very difficult third quarter one of them fell back below and therefore they had to reverse back or give back basically the performance fees that they were earning.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last question Pete I wonder you gave us the new money what you've got right now we know what your book yield is.
What's the maturity profile look like kind of over the next 12 months for the investment portfolio? Brian Pete's pointing to me on that one again.
No.
I mean in terms -- if we look at the bonds that they're maturing over the next year along with our estimates of the cash flows that we expect to get back from structured credits in total it is about $3.6 billion and they have an average yield of 3.11%.
Our next question comes from Randy Binner from FBR.
Research Division</strong> On the $100 million expense increase I'm just trying to understand where that would come through the model? If you can give out it will just be helpful for modeling if you can describe kind of the portion that might go through the corporate and other line versus down in the segments? Sure Steve? So why don't you give us a minute to go and collect that.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And then we'll get back to you.
Do you have another question we'll probably have the answer to the first one by the time you're done with the second one.
Research Division</strong> Yes I mean I just want to add I mean I had another one thank you.
Just on U.S.
D&amp;O in all the descriptions that have happened so far it seems like losses have been generally benign still but I thought I also heard commentary that pricing was getting better.
So I just wanted to make sure I understood that better.
Especially I'm thinking of large case U.S.
D&amp;O or our North American D&amp;O is that the case that losses are  benign but you actually are seeing higher pricing? Yes.
Absolutely.
We're seeing certainly benign losses around the large events.
There is some more noise as I would call it around smaller claims particularly the result mostly just the defense costs.
But the line has seen rates come off over the last few years.
And we are now seeing the early part of '12 here the first positive rate movement in that book.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean just to sound a little bit cynical so why with benign loss activity you'd think people would still be soft on price.
So is there a kind of a collective recognition that there might be some losses coming down the pike? Personally I don't think so.
I think there's a fundamental realization here that when you look at yields on your investment portfolio of where they are today and the rate decreases that are piling on the loss cost trends it have been moving out.
When I say small increase let me be clear we're still not exceeding loss cost trends we're not covering that in our rate increases.
So I think it's the accumulation of the rate decreases coming through low investment returns and a realization that you're not writing this business at a big profit in that kind of economic environment.
This is Mike.
I would just add a couple of thoughts.
One is I think as I've observed the D&amp;O underwriting space overtime as opposed to general commercial insurance overtime.
Maybe it's because they read financial statements all day long but D&amp;O underwriters tend to be more disciplined.
And the down part of their cycles in my observation of them tend to get a quicker response.
So they've been -- I think getting into areas they were uncomfortable with and they're reacting to it as the market seems to be reacting to that and I find that very understandable.
I think the second thing though is a  broader comment on where rates are.
I wish I think it's worth picking up on this theme.
With these investment yields now continuously locked further in place by the governments around the world I think underwriters are finally getting it through their heads that you cannot cannot keep these rate levels and expect to make much money.
I mean it just -- the paradigm has shifted and people are slowly more and more reacting to that.
And that's why I think we're seeing this as I said it's not a hard market yet but it's a positive turning market.
And people have said well that will fall back as competition persists I believe what will happen is people will realize that the baby steps they've taken so far are insufficient.
As against the problem of this historic low and somewhat locked in for the near-term yield environment.
And I think they're going to have to keep chasing their tail on this until they get it right.
We're certainly going to remain as disciplined as possible as against this yield environment.
I also would observe that unlike us unlike the relative discipline that we have historically and continue  to show on reserves when I look at the industry I don't see -- broadly across the commercial sector I don't see increasing reserve discipline not at all.
So when you add that in to this anemic yields I think you really got to have a newer discipline in underwriting and I expect that to accelerate as people's results show the effects of this period of time.
Randy to get back to your first question I don't want to give -- be overly precise here because this level will move around a lot based on allocations throughout the year.
But ballpark while the $30 million will be in the corporate line and $70 million would be in the operating line.
I'm sorry the other way around.
Research Division</strong> So the 70 corporate that's a delta increase 2012 over 2011 and then 30 is kind of spread among the expense rations basically? Just trying to get confirmation.
The corporate line right would be the 30.
Research Division</strong> Sorry I thought you switched it back.
If I miss-said that I apologize.
But the corporate line would be the 30 and the operating line meaning the Insurance lines reinsurance would be the 70.
Our next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> The first question is really the 7 underperforming businesses.
I believe you mentioned that's about 20% of your business.
So is that 20% of your total business or is it only of the primary Insurance? And you mentioned that the rest of the businesses were running at sub-95% x cat expire.
So it's the onset of the total business or just of the primary Insurance business? The 20% figure is of the total global net written premium for the entire P&amp;C business for the entire business.
So Reinsurance and Insurance combined.
It would be roughly a quarter of the Insurance premiums.
Research Division</strong> Sure and the 95% of that is only for the insurance correct? That's the whole firm.
Research Division</strong> That's a whole firm as a whole.
And the -- when will the underwriting actions taken to help these businesses? What has started early in 2011 and what's your target as to when they'll get an acceptable normalized combined ratio? And would you say that that's a sub-100%? Well first of all as a target over time we do find is just fundamentally unacceptable from any lines of business knowingly over 100.
I mean we have -- that just drives us crazy.
Now it will happen from time to time particularly in casualty driven blocks of business and some of it can be artificial.
I'll give you an example of where it can be artificial.
We break up our reinsurance group by geography.
And so for example with our North American Reinsurance group we basically take away their opportunities write catastrophe which we write out of -- largely out of Bermuda.
So that line can look like -- if you looked at it narrowly you can say well that's running pretty hot.
And in reality it's running terrific.
And if you look at the development overtime it's running even better.
But because we artificially have broken that business up between cat and non-cat you could fool yourself into thinking it's worse than it is.
So that's an example of anomalies that can take place.
But generally speaking we are trying to drive all of our business below 100 combined.
And in this rate environment that's even -- this interest rate environment that's an even-greater imperative than the normal.
So in terms of targets we certainly don't expect these books of business running over 100 combined.
With respect to when they'll take place I think I have answered that before.
And in fact I noticed a colleague shaking their head at the length of my last answer.
So I think getting back probably get a very strong and negative reaction from the group here.
But basically some of these started in late 2010 some started and frankly I can give you the same answer about every quarter up until the last there's nothing that's new in this quarter.
Right now we're basically fully locked and loaded on these activities and if anything else pops it's head up we'll whack that gopher too.
Research Division</strong> My second question I will be quick is on the prime Peter favorable development.
Your results seem to be actually fairly good.
Just curious as to why the level of favorable reserve releases has dropped off in the last couple of quarters? Was it just the year end cleanup? And do you expect a similar level next year? I'll take it.
Prior quarter right? We've tried to be clear we probably didn't do a very good job but in Q3 would be we delved to our in-debt analysis right? So all we do is it's only in neighbors' e-quarter.
It's probably the quarter that would have to the less least amount of movement during the year.
So that one is not surprisingly went to the prior call about some of the things that happened in the prior year that caused a larger favorable PYD than what you would have seen this year.
And I would just say that individual quarter's results what comes out of that prior development analysis reflects the unique circumstances of what emerges in each of those quarters you can have results that are somewhat higher or level in terms of prior development on a quarterly basis.
And specific to the fourth quarter of 2010 we had some significant favorable development in our professional insurance business including some releases on the 2006 and prior cash losses most notably the Enron related cases back from 2001.
And then I went through what actually occurred in the fourth quarter of 2011 where we had strengthening in certain classes.
So the pluses and minuses in the fourth quarter of '11 were less than those of 2010 but I wouldn't read anything into that in terms of any trends because as I mentioned we have had continued favorable A vs E actual versus expected emergence specifically in primary casualty professional U.S.
Casualty Reinsurance those are our longer tail lines and were we take longer to reflect that favorable experience over time in both our prior developments and in our current year loss pics.
Our next question comes from Mike  Zaremski with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Mike in regards to the writing agency capital buffer is the buffer currently larger that it would potentially need to be due to XL's historical earnings volatility? So said another way is there an element of the company's past that's suppressing excess capital which could dissipate over time? No.
Okay.
And any color on how to think about potential affiliate investment returns assessed in '12? This is Sarah.
I mean we still believe that the alternative portfolio can be generating an 8% to 10% return over the fourth cycle.
Clearly last year it ran at the lower level than that.
But we're also optimistic that over the long term that the 8% to 10% will get generated and certainly that put our 3-year and 5-year and 10-year track record show.
Your next question comes from Meyer Shields with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One quick question and one maybe a bigger picture Mike you talked about 95% sort of being the dividing line between the troubled lines of business and not.
Is the 95% command ratio enough? Is that low enough to generate an appropriate ROE? It isn't our target.
I'm just making the point that there is a really significant delta of performance difference between most of our book and those businesses that require some very intense attention.
So that's the -- and the relatively small portion that is that.
But no I wouldn't not tell you that a 95 is our goal.
Given the more Specialty nature of our book of business overall given its complex risk characteristics I would expect to see this business in -- and let's normalized per cycle conditions because obviously you're going to run hotter at the time like this when this prolonged period of soft pricing.
But I would really expect to see this book operating more around the 90 than a 95.
The only thing I would add Meyer this is Pete would be as you listen to Susan's talk discussion about reserve in Mike's comments as well we try to be really prudent when we go and set reserves.
And when said that our accident near loss ratios we certainly are expecting that they are not going to trend up anything they would trend the other way.
That's a really good point it would be in normal times kind of expected for us to have our accent here.
Be it worse than our target in our calendar year to be the number that reflected our goals more accurately.
And second recalling the 20% of businesses in these troubled lines what was the percentage of premiums in 2010 in those 7 lines? I don't have that on top of my head but I know for sure it would be higher.
Those have been reducing.
Our final question comes from Josh Stirling Sanford C.
Beinstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> This is a great granular focus that you guys are getting us on your efforts in the 7 lines of business.
And I was trying to do the math and I presume you won't give us the number but from what it backs into it sounds like you're sort of clearly well well above 100 in these lines.
And I'm curious should we view this as sort of XL specific rate and underwriting issues in these lines of business or is this more of the generally deteriorating environment that  are going to be industry phenomenon and then I guess the related question assuming it isn't just sort of some additional sort of catch-up or sort of fixing things that you guys are doing is do you feel like that they're making these changes in line with your competitors or your sort of ahead or behind the same sort of things you see playing out? I'm going to start with a couple of general comments.
But I want to ask Greg to get into it a bit more.
As has been my answer pretty consistently it really depends on the line of business.
I'll give you an example of one where I think XL can really do a much better business job.
And I'm really determined and pleased with what I see so far is our global property business.
I really think there -- some of the issues are XL issues and we can fix in fact you heard Greg mentioned one area where I think we can do a better job in applying some of the knowledge we had in our reinsurance lines around how to treat flood.
So there I would describe as idiosyncratically disappointed.
And that's a pretty sizable block of the premium that we're talking about.
In other lines what you're seeing now is really a reflection of what's going on in the marketplace.
So for example in risk management where you have guaranteed cost comp that deterioration has been noted by the market very broadly and I would say our actual rate of deterioration is comparable or maybe not even as bad.
It's just not satisfying to us relative to what we know we can deliver in that business.
So there  you really have something that's going on more broadly in the marketplace and where our actions are we think potentially can give us a leading result.
I'm going to stop there because I'm at risk of giving everything I know Greg will talk about but it really -- it is syncretic and it would really depend by line.
Greg? Let me speak specifically about when you hit programs.
When you get a program wrong you're going to be  the only one on it you're the only issuing character in almost every case except for some very large MGAs where they might have multiple characters.
So there we might have gotten 1 or 2 wrong and so we're going to have to shift our way out and that's going to be a specific XL issue.
I'd just touch it a little bit more on the international property piece.
The market is making it difficult for us though.
We were able to achieve a 3% rate increase as of January 1 but we still have a lot of competitors that are offering rate decreases.
And more troubling as we've said to you before we're not doing LTAs anymore we lost more business because competitors are offering LTAs than we did because we couldn't get to the right rate.
So it's always going to be a little bit of everything.
That's really helpful.
And if I could shift to sort of a more optimistic note can you just help us think about the relative order of magnitude of the growth that you're likely to see this year? How much of it is likely to be from new -- some from the very sort of new initiatives that you guys are pursuing new teams new lines of business things like that versus merely repricing the book? Yes it's hard to break that out specifically especially on the team side because that's how opportunistic of great team in a line that we analyzed we're intrigued by could come at any time in the year because that one's really impossible to forecast.
And as a result it's hard to break it by percentage because you don't know when you're going to get those opportunities.
In general I would expect that next year the story will be more driven by rate.
Because I see rate moving broadly more favorably than I see opportunistic growth.
The only caveat to that is a couple of our lines like let's say North American property we've really analyzed that we have some really great results over time and some real opportunity.
And just to be clear when you get deeply into the numbers sometimes this is where it can't always pay off to get too deep on XL's number.
I'll give an example.
You can find losses that will show up on the yellow apparels is in the U.S.
if you choose to dig that far.
But what you won't know is that the originating office of that account was European and it's written on a global program basis.
And it's the European underwriting operations on property that we have this really intense opportunity around not the North American group that has done a really quite good job over time.
And where we actually analyze with some additional pockets of growth are really going to help us remix the books.
So I'm sorry to give an answer that's not real specific.
Rate.
Generally will drive more of the story.
I think next year but you could get opportunistic it depends on what comes available to us.
I guess the one final follow-up I'd ask related to that is if you just look back at the last quarter I think you said it was HI after adjusting I think it was 5% growth rate if I have that correctly.
Do you still have a sense of how much of that is sort of the new initiatives taking off? Or again sort of just getting more price on your same book? In the fourth quarter specifically across the whole insurance portfolio that number would've been driven more by some of the new initiatives than the rate.
We have pockets of rate but it wouldn’t if I had to guess 20% would be rate and 80% would be new initiatives.
That's not a percentage of calculation.
Sorry to have you even more but you've noticed in this whole call we're trying to be very granular because we knew there'd be questions and we really like our story and we felt it was important to get very granular so you would understand why we are pleased.
The bottom line on that last comment where we talked about -- so much of our business is in U.S.
D&amp; O.
So when you have this negative rate trend during the year last year it was undoing the positive rate we were achieving everywhere else and the rate the positive rate improvement that we're starting to see in U.S.
D&amp;O is a  1 1 phenomena not a fourth quarter phenomena.
So you haven't seen that start to change it and contribute to better rate picture overall.
So just a nuance  that I thought I' d make sure you understood.
At this time I'm showing no further questions.
Well I just want to close by thanking everyone.
We know we stayed over our ordinary time on the call.
But then we expected to given the way the quarter played out.
We continue to focus on the long-term health of this franchise.
We continue to be very disciplined about how we build a very solid book of business.
And we believe that this quarter in a strange way the quarter actually confirmed the places that we have been putting our energy into as opportunities for improving XL both in terms of where we're growing and in terms of where we have these intense re-underwriting activities taking place.
And we are certainly looking forward to quarters in the future when we can increasingly describe that those events that have taken place as we have indicated to you tonight we will.
We thank you for the extra time and attention and look forward to our visits throughout the year next year.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the XL Group plc First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley and welcome to XL Group's first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We posted to our website several documents including our quarterly financial supplement.
On our call today Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO will offer opening remarks.
Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer will review our Financial Results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations will review the segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open up for questions.
Also in attendance are Susan Cross our Global Chief Actuary; Sarah Street our Chief Investment Officer; and Steve Robb our Controller.
Before they begin I’d like to remind you that certain matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of which they are made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I'd turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening.
As you can see from our release XL's first quarter results were solid across the board.
We returned to profitability in the first quarter with fully diluted operating earnings of $0.52 per ordinary share and an operating ROE of 6.9%.
Following a difficult 2011 where much of our progress was obscured by the high level of catastrophes and large losses this is a gratifying announcement to make and further supports our confidence in XL's days and years ahead.
In my year-end letter to shareholders I outlined several reasons for our confidence.
I'll go through some of these again updating them with our first quarter results.
First our underwriting is improving.
And look we're not confused we are not at the level of underwriting results that we are expecting to show in every business but we are improving.
The insurance segment combined ratio improved to 101.2% obviously higher than it should be but significantly better than the 121% in the first quarter of last year.
And even when one removes the extreme cat events of last year we saw margin expansion in the insurance results in first quarter last year over this year and we expect that expansion to accelerate.
At the same time Reinsurance continued their record of achievement.
The Reinsurance segment's combined ratio for the quarter was 82.4% a great performance.
Jamie will give further details momentarily.
It's a good sign that these improvements were especially noticeable among the 7 challenged businesses and insurance that we've discussed in detail on prior calls.
In fact the combined ratio of these 7 businesses was in this quarter 104.3% getting closer in line with the rest of our insurance book in this first quarter.
Again nowhere near good enough but as we expected moving in the right direction.
Now in the P&amp;C industry we all know better than to expect an immediate turnaround in underwriting results.
But as our actions take hold improvements will accelerate we believe.
Everyday these businesses are decreasingly affected by prior decisions and increasingly improving as a result of our corrections.
As we've shared with you some of these 7 businesses are already on their way to reaching appropriate margins.
And at the same time as we have emphasized we are watching all of our businesses with intense focus always on the lookout for anything that warrants special attention or greater opportunity to expand our profit.
Turning to another source of confidence.
Pricing improved in each month of the first quarter.
To use the metric that many of our peers report North American Property &amp; Casualty rate growth was 5% in the first quarter and rate achievement was accelerating throughout the quarter.
I'll ask Greg and Jamie to elaborate but we feel very comfortable that our positive rate change will continue.
We are a long way from regaining the ground lost over the past 10 years but as the momentum moves in the right direction we believe XL is well positioned to benefit from this rate movement.
Another source of our confidence is our focus on smart profitable growth.
Our P&amp;C gross premiums written increased over 10% from the first quarter of last year.
Insurance segment gross premiums written were up 9.3% as a result of new business initiatives in North American Property &amp; Casualty lines higher retention levels in our profitable professional lines and improved pricing.
Gross premiums written by our Reinsurance segment grew by 11.8% primarily in International Casualty.
We like what we are seeing remixing our businesses towards premiums written in the lines we think provide the greatest opportunity for profit.
Another source of confidence is our ERM.
Our enterprise risk management record continues to show results.
While the entire industry did benefit from a relatively quiet cat quarter where losses were reported XL again fared in line with our expectations and performed well relative to peers as a percentage of shareholders' equity.
Now in the first quarter this was illustrated by Costa Concordia an awful human tragedy obviously and one of the true marine catastrophes that we have experienced.
In fact for the sector this resulted in a loss approaching $1 billion.
Now we're a leader in insurance and reinsurance marine coverages for both haul damage and liability.
And for us to have a net loss from this event currently estimated about $45 million is a sound underwriting achievement given the catastrophe to the market.
In the first quarter we continue to invest favorable reserve development.
And we believe you should find more evidence of our reserving prudence when we relieve our -- when we release our Global Loss Triangles later this week.
Recall that the first quarter is an actual versus expected quarter.
And as usual we will again perform a complete review of our reserves in the second and fourth quarter and look forward to discuss reserving in greater detail with you next quarter.
Susan Cross our Global Chief Actuary will join us then.
As we made clear our operating efficiency remains an area of intense focus.
We are committed to ensuring that every dollar we spend improves our ability to expand margins.
As people discuss we are on track with the expense guidance for the year that we provided at the end of last year.
But as I've said we retain our ability to hold back spending of our expected loss ratio driven margin improvement does not materialize.
And we are just as committed to efficiently managing investors' capital.
We bought back $100 million worth of XL shares in the first quarter.
We've told you that we consider the $400 million in share buybacks for the year that we spoke of in our last call as less a ceiling than a floor and we intended to continue buying back shares for as long as the economics remain compelling versus other opportunities.
One final note on the quarter and I'll turn it over to Pete.
At the annual RIMS Conference recently I bet and I know you all follow I was especially pleased by how often clients and brokers would take me aside to tell me how impressed they are both with the talent we've been adding and our already strong team and their creativity.
These brokers of course follow-up by asking us to look at many of the most complex challenges exactly the kind of position XL strives to be in everyday.
We are driven to provide solutions that add value to our clients while generating return on our capital for shareholders that invest in us.
We have a strong edge -- or sense of urgency to succeed at both and we're pleased by the progress this quarter demonstrates.
With that I'll turn it over to Pete to discuss the financials in more detail.
Well thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating income for the first quarter was $165 million or $0.52 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to an operating loss of $163 million or $0.52 per share in the first quarter of 2011.
Our net income attributable to our ordinary shareholders was $177 million or $0.56 per share.
The loss in the prior year was driven by cat losses which net of reinsurance and reinstatement premiums totaled $387 million compared to $20 million in the current year quarter.
Turning to our summary of financial results on Slide 3 you'll see the P&amp;C premium growth that Mike highlighted.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 95.3% or 13.5 points smaller than the same quarter last year.
Our accident year combined ratio was 101.3% or 30.1 points smaller than the same quarter last year.
As I mentioned cat losses in the prior year quarter was significant and accounted for 30.5 loss ratio points compared to 1.5 points in Q1 2012.
Prior year development in the quarter was a favorable $80 million or 5.9 loss ratio points this reflects favorable development of $54 million and $26 million in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments respectively.
Positive movements came from professional and property insurance lines as well as shorter-tail reinsurance lines.
As we pointed out in the past the first quarter results do not include a full reserve review for the majority of our businesses.
In fact more than 80% of our reserves are not subject to a complete reserve review this quarter and as a result we generally react only to actual versus expected results in shorter-tail lines.
We continue to see positive actual-versus-expected development across most of our businesses.
Professional lines releases of $24 million in the quarter arose primarily from a large favorable case settlement on a 10-year old claim.
The current and prior year quarters were also impacted by losses from large nonnatural catastrophe events in both Insurance and Reinsurance.
In Q1 2012 this was largely related to Costa Concordia.
XL reported a loss net of reinsurance and reinstatement premiums of $45 million of which $24 million was attributable to the Insurance segment and $21 million to the Reinsurance segment.
Of the total Costa Concordia impact a significant amount was in the form of reinstatement premiums and as a result operating and acquisition expense ratios was somewhat distorted in the quarter.
Excluding natural cat and PYD our Q1 combined ratios were 104.8% for Insurance 88.7% for Reinsurance and 98 -- 99.8% for all of P&amp;C.
Costa Concordia added 2.6 5.2 and 3.3 points respectively to those ratios.
Our combined $282 million of operating expenses for the first quarter was up 8.4% or $22 million year-over-year.
The year-over-year increase rose principally from costs supporting our strategic initiatives and higher compensation cost from both growth and headcount associated with new business initiatives and certain severance costs.
This increase is consistent with the investments we have been discussing on prior calls and in line with the additional spend level we indicated last quarter.
At $190 million net investment income under P&amp;C portfolio in the first quarter was 6.4% below the prior year due primarily to lower new money rates and cash outflows from the investment portfolio.
The P&amp;C gross book yield at the end of the quarter was 3.2%.
We achieved an average new money rate on our P&amp;C portfolio in the quarter of 2.1%.
We estimate that approximately $3.2 billion of P&amp;C assets with an average gross book yield of 3.1% will mature and pay down over the next 12 months.
Our net income from investment affiliates was $30 million down $2 million from the prior year.
The first quarter performance of the equity accounted alternative portfolio was above our return expectations and reflected the positive investment environment that we expected late last year and during much of the first quarter of 2012.
Realized gains were $21 million compared to realized losses of $66 million in the prior year quarter.
This gain was net of $21 million in OTTI charges which were primarily taken on non-agency RMBS assets.
The total return on the portfolio was 1.5% for the quarter and contributed to book value growth with a positive mark-to-market of $249 million.
This was driven by the narrowing of credit spreads which more than absorbed the impact of increasing rates.
The P&amp;C duration increased by 0.3 years to 3.1 years more in line although still less than the duration of all our liabilities.
The life asset duration declined by 0.1 years.
Our fixed income holdings in Euro-zone countries is again listed in our financial supplement.
We continue to have negligible exposure to the sovereign and financial institution data peripheral countries and our Continental European bank holdings including covered bonds totaled $801 million and remain largely exposed and national champions Northern Europe.
The net unrealized gain position on these securities was $4 million at March 31.
Now to capital management.
Following the February Board of Directors meeting we announced the authorization of a new $750 million share buyback program which replaced the approximately $190 million remaining under the previous buyback program.
During the quarter we purchased in capital 4.7 million of ordinary shares at an average cost of $21.14 under the new program for $100 million leaving 615 million remaining available for purchase under the current program.
And as we announced on our year-end call in January 2012 we repaid at maturity the $600 million 6.5% guaranteed senior notes.
With that I'll turn it over to Greg to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete and good evening.
I'm going to cover 4  topics tonight.
I'll  provide updates on the insurance segment results for the quarter and on the corrective actions we are taking in our challenged businesses a review of talent changes and a summary of current market conditions.
Turning to results.
I share Mike's sentiment that while our overall results are not where they need to be I am pleased that we made progress this quarter.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by $114 million or 9.3% in the quarter and net premiums earned grew by $58 million or 6.6%.
Mike touched on some main areas of confidence and some of the big factors driving this growth.
While I would add that we had success in 2 of our targeted growth businesses international perimeter [ph] market and political risk and in our marine book driven by geographic expansion and rate improvement.
I'll cover the overall pricing environment in a few moments.
The Insurance segment's combined ratio for the quarter was 101.2% or 19.8 points better than the same quarter last year.
Reduced natural catastrophe activity accounted for 13 points of this improvement as Q1 2011 was adversely impacted by $133 million catastrophic losses compared only to $20 million cat losses this quarter.
Prior year reserve releases of $53.9 million compared to $6.6 million last year accounted for another 5 points of improvement.
In the current accident year loss ratio excluding cats of 71.3% also improved by 4.3 points despite absorbing 2.2 points from Costa Concordia.
And Q1 2011 was adversely impacted by several large non-cat property losses whereas there was one large property loss this quarter.
This marks the fifth consecutive quarter of improved accident quarter loss ratios.
These improvements are partially offset by a 1.4 point increase in acquisition ratio partly due to reinstatement premiums related to the Costa Concordia loss and a 1.2 point increase in the operating expense ratio mostly due to increased compensation costs related to expansion in many of our businesses an improved results but we are still losing money on an underwriting basis which is unacceptable.
However the corrective actions we have discussed will begin to take hold.
As you may recall last quarter we talked about the businesses that we view as challenged.
While this is just one quarter of progress these businesses came into line with the rest of the book.
Our combined ratio of the challenged businesses in the quarter was 104.3% and the remainder we reported 100.2% combined ratio.
Recall that last quarter our challenged businesses combined ratio was 151.9% versus 104.4% for the balance of insurance.
If we move the impact of prior development cats and Costa the Q1 combined ratio of the challenge businesses drops to 103.3% while the remainder of the book reported a 101.9% combined ratio.
The leaders of these businesses continue to implement re-underwriting strategies to turn their respective books around.
I'll now share some examples of the actions underway to how they have translated to progress this quarter.
We are improving the management of our cat capacity ensuring that it is allocated to those accounts where we can get the best returns.
Not only have we seen our catastrophe exposures reduced at a faster rate than our premium base in our international property book we've also freed up capacity on certain accounts on our North American property book allowing us to increase the size of our portfolio without increasing overall cat exposure.
We continue de-emphasizing the guaranteed cost workers comp business in our risk management portfolio as it is lagged the rest of the book in profitability.
Through the first quarter we have canceled nearly 25% of the renewal business achieved rate increases of 10% and increased the average deductibles by 11% on the renewed business.
In our surplus lines business we continue re-underwriting the New York contractors' general liability line where we have either non-renewed accounts or achieved rate increases of over 50% in the first quarter.
We shift to the GL portfolio mix away from distressed areas and we have successfully diversified the book in the other lines namely real [ph] and property.
The challenged businesses continue to be an area of great focus but it's important to repeat that we moderate all of our businesses very closely.
Moving on to people.
We were again pleased by our ability to add talent throughout this segment.
This quarter we appointed Jason Harris as Chief Executive for International Property and Casualty business group.
We also added new talent in our political risk international construction and in marine businesses to name a few.
As Pete mentioned we did incur redundancy costs this quarter as we continue to replace underperforming talents.
While we added 20 new underwriters in the quarter the net increase was only 3.
And finally a word on market conditions.
The positive pricing momentum which began roughly one year ago is real and we believe sustainable.
In fact in Q1 we saw a positive rating indication in all of our business groups including professional lines.
And as Mike said this return to gradual sustained rate improvement is something we've all been expecting and we feel we're well positioned to benefit from these market changes.
In North America our P&amp;C portfolio is up 5% year-to-date led by double-digit rate increases in our property and E&amp;S businesses.
While our professional portfolio was just positive our design business is up 3%.
With our specialty portfolio up 1% the only area of disappointment was in our international book which is almost flat.
Despite 2011 loss activity and depressed pricing levels we are losing business to competitors for double-digit rate reductions.
While I'm always disappointed with the customer many of the underwriting decisions we face in these situations are quite easy.
And while on the topic of rates I want to be clear that we are thoughtful about how we implement rate increases.
These are not blanket mandates which inevitably lead to adverse selection.
Rather our teams have segmented their portfolios based on a variety of factors and used a graded approach to rate change.
In summary the hard work of our teams produced progress in the first quarter but we remain relentless in our pursuit of acceptable margins.
And now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance results.
Thanks Greg and good evening.
The reinsurance segment had a very solid quarter of underwriting results with a combined ratio of 82.4%.
Naturally we had the benefit of negligible of cat activity compared to $271 million a year ago principally from the earthquakes in Japan and New Zealand.
Our reserve of leases in the quarter were $26.4 million compared to $64.4 million a year ago.
The reduction was principally due to deterioration in 2011 cat losses $10 million from the Thailand flood and $10 million from storm Dagmar in Northern Europe.
Notwithstanding this 85% of our releases came from short-tail property and marine businesses.
Excluding the impact of cat losses and prior-year development our combined ratio was 88.7% versus a combined of 87.7% in the first quarter of 2011.
The deterioration from last year resulted from Costa Concordia which had a net impact of $21 million or 5.5 loss ratio points.
Turning to top line.
Gross written premiums in the quarter were $980 million an 11.8% increase from the first quarter of 2011.
This increase was virtually entirely driven by our European and Asia-Pacific operations.
In Europe we had a significant increase of premium assumed in a U.K.
motor proportional treaty select new casualty opportunities in London and increased shares on Continental European cat business.
In Asia-Pacific we wrote new business and increased shares on property proportional business as that market responded to the non-cat activity in the region last year.
In summary we had an excellent quarter of underwriting results on both an accident and calendar year basis.
We found select opportunities to grow our portfolio and we continue to maintain a very sound reserve position.
Turning to market conditions.
The headline event at April 1 is the Japanese renewal.
You will understand this will be a Q2 event from a top line perspective.
Nevertheless I would like to comment on the renewal given the significant amount of intention this market has gotten over the last 12 months.
As we've said previously we had to significantly reduced our position in the Japanese market over the course of the last 10 years as treaty conditions have gotten progressively competitive.
While we would have liked to see more fundamental changes in the way the market is structured at this renewal there was enough improvement that we increased our overall aggregates quite significantly.
In fact we increased them by 53%.
These improvements included reductions in proportional ceding commissions of 3% to 4% event limits on proportional treaties reduced by 30% original rates increased by 25% to 50% earthquake excess of loss rates increased from 15% to 50% and wind and flood rates came up 15%.
Overall it's a very solid renewal although that marks overall rate adequacy still lags well below our U.S.
wind portfolio.
Our behavior in that market including a very manageable loss from the earthquake last year is a clear illustration of our underwriting discipline over the course of the decade of activity in that market.
Outside of Japan I would echo Greg's comments on pricing.
We're starting to see positive pricing momentum in sectors of the U.S.
casualty market particularly XL's liability in E&amp;O.
Cat exposed short tail lines are showing nice price movement and we would expect our U.S.
mid-year wind renewals to have a continued momentum in a positive direction.
We have virtually no business activity in Continental Europe at April 1 although we did renew a very large Continental European cat program with a risk adjusted increase of 6% which we are pleased with.
Elsewhere Latin America remains very competitive and as mentioned Asia-Pacific is showing an improvement in short tail lines as the market reacts to the national cat activity in the region last year.
So overall we were very pleased with our quarter both financially and relative to our underwriting activity.
As we've said we are ideally positioned to take advantage with what is clearly an improving environment with our global footprint deep talent pool and long-term relationships with customers and producers.
With that I'll turn it back to Dave for Q&amp;A.
Shirley can you please open the lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Keith Walsh with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Mike first question.
You commented about underlying margin expansion is up and should accelerate.
Can you talk to this a little bit more? What are you seeing in rate trend by month? And what do you view as your overall underlying loss cost trends? Yes I'm going to let Greg comment more on the rate trends by month because he gives you a little more insight there.
But my point is that relative to the same quarter a year ago or relative to even the fourth quarter of last year our combined ratios came down.
And that is even more exciting when you get to the loss ratios versus the combined ratios because we did have some expense expansion through both the Costa Concordia and the noise it created as well as a headcount cost associated with growth as well as cost of some redundancies.
So when you add all of that together the fact that the loss ratio is moving the right way is the expansion I'm talking about.
And I expect that to accelerate through this year as I've said leading to more attractive returns this year and we think really getting exciting next year on our -- relative to this tough market basis.
So we're excited about where the book is going and the kinds of underwriting actions that Greg describes will be critical to getting us on the right path.
Now when we get into the kind of mid-single digits rate increases that we're describing in North America we're beginning to catch up the loss cost trend and make some real margin expansion.
That is not the level across the whole book yet but as I said we expect this to expand and accelerate quarter-by-quarter as our underwriting actions take hold.
So with that I'm going to turn it over to Greg to comment a little more on what we're seeing on rate.
Sure.
February March April -- each one had success of improvements.
The figures I gave you in my comment blend over the portfolio to a positive 1%.
And as Mike noted if you blended the trend that we needed across our entire portfolio it's somewhere between 3% and 5%.
But clearly it's a story amongst very different lines of business.
In North America the rate increases are north of 10% and accelerating on the short-tail line and that is way in excess of trend.
Conversely while professional is positive just over -- just almost came to 1% that's probably behind trend a little bit.
So in summary we're doing better each month-by-month we're gaining ahead on the short-tail lines of trend and we're probably still lagging a little bit on the longer-tail lines.
Research Division</strong> And then Greg just a follow-up on -- specifically on professional lines.
You mentioned you're still probably a little below trend there but your retention is actually up and you've written more why not push rate more on that specific line if you could talk to that.
Sure.
First of all it's one of our more profitable books of business and so while we may be lagging trend we still have very acceptable margins there.
And the rate is very spotty.
It's not a smooth -- it never is with any market.
It's not a smooth 1% and we're hitting on more of the tougher risks that we like -- than we are in the general spread of business.
And so I would say the retention ratio being up is more business hitting that mark than we did in the past.
It's not a very large increase it's roughly about 1 or 2 points up on the large professional book.
Our next question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> On the net-to-gross property casualty insurance written premiums the retention rate went up to around 84.7% in the first quarter of '12 from 81.7% a year ago.
I'm just trying to get a sense if that reflects XL more exposure net or if there's something out there.
I can comment on the Reinsurance side Jay that a lot of that delta is because we switched the heart and crop [ph] program from fronting  where we ceded a lot out into the market to assume from the new owner and that dropped the ceded premium quite substantially.
Yes on the insurance side there isn't anything specific that comes to mind.
You'll know of course in some of our bigger risk businesses there's a larger amounts of business that we fund for other carriers or for the captives of our clients.
So there could be a little bit of noise in there but not anything dramatic that I'm aware of driving changes in retentions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my next issue is on share buybacks.
There was $100 million done in the quarter.
There is $650 million left in the authorization.
The debt-to-capital is down over 400 basis points just on one quarter when you repaid the maturing debt.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of what kind of speed could we see the rest of buyback completed? Yes we don't -- as you know we don't give forecast on the exact levels we'll be purchasing and that's a source of constant dialogue with our board.
But I can tell you as I've said before while we emphasize $400 million as something we were fairly certain of in this year the reality of the way the market is playing out and the confidence we're gaining and seeing our margins expand lead us to be more bullish as we've said.
But in the end we view the $400 million as more likely to be a floor than a ceiling.
And you just have to take at face value and this is the kind of thing where given the effects it has on our subs we let people know after the fact rather than before the fact what we do.
I would just add to that the debt to cap that is pretty much exactly what we pegged it to be 6 months ago.
So that's all according to long-term capital plan we had in place.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my final one is on the Insurance segment.
If you back out the Costa Concordia loss the accident year x-cat combined ratio we're still running around 102.5.
Mike to achieve adequate returns where do you think that needs to be down to? Look I believe our accident year combine has got to come in around 90.
I think that's just the reality of the back-of-the-envelope math of this low interest rate times.
And that is really what we're delivered -- we're driven to deliver as an average across the book that's how we develop our plans that's how well we think the hurdle rates are now.
You have to get into it business by business to get to an exact target for a particular business.
But I think that's where this block ought to be running.
This kind of low 90s high 80s depending on the business.
But we got a lot of work to do.
But one of the things that is going to be hard as we go through this journey together a couple of facts: One it's not just rate change.
I mean as the markets harden the first place that you usually get the most movement is on terms and conditions as much as it is on rates.
Second we're remixing the block of business towards more profitable activities.
And third we're reevaluating our lines shares and where to play in towers and all kinds of underwriting actions that aren't as obvious aren't as directly related but all of which we think have a meaningful impact.
And if you take some of these more challenged businesses or some of our business that are more market takers and you make them less a part of the whole and you take these kinds of less visible actions with real determination you'll move a block of business like that.
So that's not a forever statement to get into the 90s it's just a lot of hard work.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I just have a question on the Reinsurance business you're at an 87.7% underlying -- but what kind of ROE does that translate into? I'm just assuming lower premium surplus there than for insurance but just trying to get an understanding of kind of how adequate is that when you think about overall returns? And then just one follow-up.
It depends on what you use there.
But I think if you use any form of economic capital or rating agency capital it's certainly in the high teens.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then thinking about the bad lines versus the not-so-bad lines I guess in insurance.
I'm just kind of surprised that the range was so narrow between 103.3 versus 101.1.
Is there something -- just trying to understand what is it that makes -- like is the range within those groups wider than that kind of initial glance would indicate? Yes.
This is Mike.
I'll start with a couple of things and I'll turn it over to Greg.
First thing if you look at that block of business the entire insurance block you got to divide it in essence into 3 segments: Challenged business which is about 1/4 of it and then the balance can be -- we talked about this before at our Investor Day last year.
The balance can be kind of divided into half and half.
Half of it businesses that we're really pleased with the results of and that we would like to write more of that or somehow extend the advantage.
And then businesses that are solid businesses but they're at a very low point in their cycle they are kind of market taking at this stage we're doing the best we can to manage down their impact on results without our capabilities so that we can take advantage of the market as it returns.
So you're going to get this real big spread of results.
Remember also the Costa Concordia was in the sort of the good side of the ledger was where Costa happens not in the 7.
So you've got 2 would have narrowed in the spread between the 2.
But if you look at the history of performance of the 7 and you look at this quarter that's a pretty happy number.
And one other frustration I think we're all going to experience is when we break this book up into smaller and smaller segments and we talk about on a quarterly basis we're not going to have -- we're going to have a lot of movements around because we take big limits and there will be pops here and there.
The question for me is over time are we seeing evidence of our actions taking hold that are -- the overall numbers moving the right way? In this quarter I'm pleased to say they are.
And Mike I'd only add in that business that is performing well.
There is new growth initiatives in there where we're investing in future revenue and income streams.
Construction Surety Political Risk just to name 3 of them.
So there's a bit of everything in that in the non-challenged part of the portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean -- so if I'm looking at the insurance -- so the underlying commodities we adjusted Costa is like 102 and change I think I mentioned that before.
And you grew that segment like 14%.
I'm just trying to -- is the area where you grew the -- is that area exhibiting current underwriting profitability or are the areas that you see where you see opportunities maybe not profitable now but you expect that trends will move in your favor as you grow those segments those businesses out? Mike it's Pete.
Let's me just start off and then give it back to Greg.
What you're looking at is specialty is not -- so those are lines of businesses that we disclosed because that's the way that the market expect us to disclose them.
That's not equivalent to our specialty business.
So you'll need to -- we would need to draw you a map to try and reconcile those 2.
So they are not all that comparable but Greg you want to...
Sure.
In general Professional and Specialty where we have increasing retentions are where more the profitable businesses is located.
And in our P&amp;C business where most of the challenged businesses were at lower retention levels than we were before.
Those retention levels are following the margin opportunities that we see.
Clearly as you break each one of those down there are differing levels of activity going on based on each business's -- and indeed within each business each sub-portfolio's profit margin.
So we're getting up to high-level number that are aggregating here.
But In general we're heading more towards the profitable businesses and away from the unprofitable.
And the other thing I would emphasize is some of it -- this is Mike some of this cost will be affected by building up new activity.
We have very acceptable loss ratios in the new business activities as we've discussed businesses like Political Risk and in Marine and such.
But of course there are subscale today and they're adding an expense burden that's affecting us all.
But we like our timing of entry a great deal given where those markets are going and we're liking what that capability does for the rest of our book.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions here for you.
First Greg maybe you could tell a little bit -- a lot of companies have been talking about attritional kind of losses this quarter.
Property losses were actually quite low.
Did you all experience it all this quarter? Certainly in the quarter there was the absence of large non-cat losses.
And also on pure attritional losses there was nothing in there that we observed that would make us think that things are better or worse than prior.
I didn't -- we didn't see any abnormally low.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And the next one for Jamie.
Could you give us a little color on how you think that order is going to turn out and your capacity to write some more business down there? Let me cover the last part first Brian.
As you know we set our capacity based on shareholders equity as of the end of the third quarter of last year at 15% for our Tier 1 risk which includes U.S.
wins.
So that will be $1 570 000 000.
As of January 1 we were at $1 358 000 000.
That's Greg's book and ours combined.
So going into the win season we've got plenty of capacity to compete and we will deploy capacity.
We are expecting continued great improvement.
I would remind you though that that market got sort of 10% to 12% risk-adjusted improvement a year ago as opposed to those that renewed at January 1 2011 who basically were flat up slightly so they paid a pretty good increase last year.
I don't know what's going to happen it's a highly syndicated market.
My own view is it will  go up again although probably about halfway levels we saw last year and we will deploy.
I can't tell you though that what we've seen over the last year is anything that clears the pricing of the major league markets will get done.
There is plenty of capacity out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one quick one for Mike.
I'm just curious the technology spend that's going on that is increasing the expenses this year.
I'm wondering if you could drill down a little bit exactly what is that technology that's going through? Is it under investing in technology or is it new stuff that's going through? Yes as I talked about back in Investor let me emphasize a couple of points.
I think the firm has chronically under invested in technology.
As you know the firm is basically built over time much of it through acquisitions and much of the systems infrastructure was acquired in acquisition.
And while I think that the people did heroic work keeping those systems functioning and supporting the business in the end as we envisioned the business over time being more successful requires that we get that architecture stabilized and more uniform and more able to allow us to grow and gain operating leverage on adding new premium.
So today if we add a lot of new premium we don't get much lift on the expense side.
That's just ridiculous; we really ought to be seeing a lot of lift from adding premium.
And that can only come by making this architecture more scalable.
So you see things like really rebuilding the way in which our front-end underwriting tools work both to make our underwriters more efficient with their time to give them more access to insight to make better underwriting calls and to begin a flow of work that lowers the net cost of fulfillment for the client.
That's one big area of investment for example right now.
You know that we're investing a lot on the insight side of the equation we have been for really more than 1.5 years now in terms of modeling where we think modeling is applicable to the kinds of risk we take on.
And again the systems need to be substantially improved in order to allow that insight to be efficiently fed into the underwriting process.
So I'm very confident in the end result of all this work and our ability to then really kind of add a booster to our progress.
But as you know systems work is a big intense effort and it's not fun to finance especially at a low point in a cycle.
But we think it's the right time to be making the investment.
Brian this is Pete.
The only thing I'd add to put it in context of the increase that I spoke about the majority of that would have been not in the technology space it would have been in the compensation and related areas.
The strategic stuff we hold at corporate.
That's the point.
Our next question comes from Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Mike just wanted to clarify did you mention that the goal was a 90 combined on an accident-year basis? If all economics stayed the same our goal would be running around a 90.
Now that -- I suppose I should be a little bit cautious.
We are very prudent reservers and so sometimes I think the accident year at any particular time might run a bit hotter than the year will actually play out over time.
But that's just a consequence to that approach.
But I believe this firm needs to run in kind of in the low 90s high 80s.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
So the mass on that is...
[indiscernible] the economic's change some you can see a different result.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the math on that is more than $1 a share it seems from current levels just as -- as you run it through the model if you achieve those goals.
And so on the one hand it's incredible if you can do it.
On the other I look at 20 years of data for the corporation and it's a level that's only been achieved in a handful of years.
Actually it was achieved most of our early years and then very infrequently sense.
But if you look at the history of large pops that we've managed to produce at XL that we think we've contained through our strategic redesign and our attention to ERM and all the rest we don’t see any reason that we can't get that kind of stuff the heck out of the way and have our underwriters do their job.
But we note that competitors are achieving the profit levels it's not undoable and it's not out of sequence with our total history; it's just out of sequence with our recent history.
But our determination to improve this book is very real.
Research Division</strong> Okay and that includes -- I mean you think the march towards that level is -- obviously began this quarter and just continues in the quarters ahead and years ahead? Well actually as Greg reported that's the fifth consecutive quarter of improvement on the loss ratio which is what we're focused on.
That's the main driver we've got and then as we get these investments done we'll be able to add in the booster on expense too we believe.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect perfect.
And then just jumping to another key lever is the investment yield again in the commentary it doesn't sound like that --I mean it's just an unfortunate reality that where yields are there's no movement or ability to re-risk the book or get higher yields.
It sounds like that's going to just continue to be a headwind in the model the combined ratio is the real kicker that's where we're going to see the ROE much higher over time.
Yes.
This is -- We are underwriting loss ratio focused.
I mean that is the driver around here.
No question.
Now on the investment side I wouldn't say that there is no ability to there's just no want or desire to.
We like being middle of that pack on the investment side.
We've chosen this defensive position.
We believe in the current market conditions justify  it and you'll see relatively modest movements in line with how the market conditions involved.
We're not going to be heroes there we intend to be the kinds of underwriters we historically were.
And it's not as though there aren't pockets of us that show us what we can do.
We have businesses that are operating at this level today.
And our Reinsurance business and a number of our Insurance business are achieving these kinds of levels.
It's just about making the expectation and reality that the whole firm is doing.
Our next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> On the 7 underperforming businesses just curious as to what the targeted level of combined ratio is you've done a great job of moving it down to 103.3 but is the high 90s or is it just 100 combined ratio the target? And when do you think that's achievable by? Well Vinay first we have given explicit forecast on subsets of the business.
We've said that over time we believe will see this year that we'll see margin expansion.
Next year we'll see more exciting results on a relative basis given where the sectors stand.
I stand by that and believe we'll deliver that.
A big part of how you get that Vinay is getting these businesses to stop beating you in the head.
It's impossible to get there when some of these businesses produce such unreliable and often terrible results.
And the businesses are working hard at it.
How fast -- but what's a rule of thumb? A rule of thumb would be it takes 3 years to turn around a commercial book of business.
I mean that's a good rule of thumb to work with.
But we didn't start yesterday we started back at the end of the strategic planning cycle back in '10.
Some businesses got more attention quicker others took longer.
We discussed this in detail before how we went through our various review.
So they're at an uneven state each one of them relative to the speed of turnaround.
But I expect this speed of turnaround now to get a little wind behind its sails due to what's going on in rate generally across the market which is long overdue and well justified by the economics of the business today.
So I'm -- I feel encouraged about the work we're doing.
I see the steady progress.
We have all the short-term metrics you can imagine to make sure everybody's doing what they said they will do.
And I feel as good as you can feel when it's moving the right way but not as fast as you would like.
And we'd like it to move it faster and we'll keep working towards that.
Research Division</strong> Sure fair enough.
Second question was in numbers or question I think in the Costa Concordia loss.
Could you please give us a breakdown between the impact on the expenses and the losses of price segments please? The billing statement premiums by and large it went in 2 different ways for reinsurance and for insurance.
Insurance reinstatement premiums ended up costing -- yes for insurance $13 million and for reinsurance it was additional of $5 million.
So you can run the math through that.
Research Division</strong> So it was a positive $5 million for reinsurance...
And negative $13 million for insurance.
The next question comes from Joshua Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first one you made the comment initially that the reserve release related to the quarter were not related to an annual reserve analysis but just quarterly truing up I suppose.
I looked historically and I don't really see a pattern of the annual reserve study making much of a difference in how you release reserves can you sort of go into why you made that distinction? What the distinctions are and how you analyze your reserves quarterly versus annually? Yes the quarterly again is just we take a look at the actual versus expected and where there are and focus on the shorter lines.
Where there are unique anomalies where something is simply manifest and time to react to it we will deal with it uniquely.
The reason we emphasize it in this quarter is there was one such unique event which drove a larger than we would usually expect movement out of the professional lines relating to a 10-year-old claim that was resolved during the period and we felt at that point we could have waited if you want to follow the model that we use perfectly but we felt that it was simply manifested and should be dealt with.
That's why called out the distinction.
And again you're going to get a really good picture and the ability to get all deep in the data when the Global Loss Triangles come out here next week.
So Josh just to clarify it's not annual.
It's semiannual where we do the full reserve review.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second situation you mentioned the international casualty growth depending on where that is and what you're looking at the market.
This is reinsurance of course although we see casualty growth in insurance as well.
International casualty markets don't have the same kind of optimistic maybe as U.S.
casualty markets.
Can we sort of draw some distinctions on where it is exactly that you like the business there compared to what others might be saying about those international casualty markets? Yes the growth in our international book has principally been over the last couple years on the U.K.
motor market which is very substantial rate increases although we would admit they're slowing down now.
Elsewhere you're correct it's a fairly competitive market.
And I think you also need to be a little bit careful when comparing growth in our reinsurance book from our insurance book where our transaction count is much lower than Greg's would be on a regular basis.
So you could get distorted growth or reduction numbers based on 1 or 2 Underwriting actions.
On the insurance side the international casualty growth came in some very targeted activities typically geographically in Germany.
The book renews predominantly at 1 [ph].
So there isn't necessarily any need to project that through the rest of the year.
This is a one-one book of business and we were successful in targeting some new customers that we wanted that we wanted to pick up.
Our next question comes from Matthew Heimermann with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First I was a little surprised that when you're talking about professional lines you seem to conclude [ph] to having more business at your hurdles and large account.
Can you -- did I hear you right? And I guess any specific industry classes that's happening? I know there's been some capacity withdrawals so I was curious if that's playing a role in that too.
It wasn't -- Matthew it wasn't so much large as difficult it can come in a variety of sizes.
There's nothing that I am aware that would make me think anything industry-specific happening in that book of business.
It's more just we've found a few risks that with our somewhat contrarian view we have thought to hit the hurdles and have written them at a little bit better clip than we did the year before.
Again I want to emphasize this is not a dramatic large increase but an incrementally increase.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Jamie just -- with respect to Japan.
I guess not a surprise that that book isn't as rate adequate as your U.S.
book but just be curious how you think the Japan portfolio compares to Europe now? I would say very close to Europe the way we calculate rate adequacy levels.
I won't tell you I won't go through the entire calculation but it has moved from sort of a high 70s to the mid 90s and I would say euro win this probably about the same level and U.S.
win the way we calculate it is about 108 to 110.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just one clarification for Peter.
You had mentioned for Costa Concordia was the only impact on the acquisition and expense ratio is broadly just the reinstatement premium factor was there some ceding commission going through there as well? No the reinstatement premium that will be both on the driver on the commission and brokerage as well as the operating expense ratios.
The next question comes from Doug Mewhirter with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First obviously you bought a fair amount of shares back this quarter.
I noticed the diluted share count didn't respond as proportionately as I thought.
The diluted share count was sequentially -- only went down by about 2 million.
Is that a function of the stock going up a little bit and more options in the money or is there any residual from many of the shares that are converted or anything like that? I'm going to hand it over to Steve but it was in the dilution calculation.
Do you want to just go through that? Yes it will be options on restricted stocks that have a more diluted effect.
I'd have to go back and look at when impact of the conversions of the reinsurance [ph] they were the last -- primarily the last quarter.
So it's mostly just the dilution impact.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question is I guess a little bit more conceptual.
I know a couple of quarters back you were commenting on some actuary lines which you thought were actually historically excellent very profitable lines with 10-year combined ratios of 60s.
They were going through periods where the combined ratios run the 90s and the 100s because of a few large losses here and there.
And this is Casualty and Property it's not necessarily -- large property losses could be anything.
And it's almost like there is a luck -- a big luck factor involved in any given quarter.
How do you think this quarter would be characterized in terms of that factor where a good line might have had unusual string of losses and a bad -- or a bad line or a challenged line as you would say might have had an unusually good string of non-losses for lack of a better term.
I think that's a very interesting question.
Let me give you a little perspective in the line that comes to mind the most by far the most which is International Property.
I think it's true that 3 years ago in '08 for example we were talking a lot about large pops that there was an unusual level of large loss activities.
I don't think we were the only ones talking about it.
The market was talking about it too.
And I -- and we did talk about how -- if you looked over 10 years these had been very profitable lines and we were confident that this was an aberration.
But you may remember us being very direct in our disappointment the more we study these lines as the large pops continue.
And we felt that the underwriting in this business on deeper examination did not justify the confidence that we have placed in them or the defense that we had made to them 3 years before.
And we were pretty candid about that and I'm trying to continue to be candid about that.
Not of our standards.
So we really have torn into those books in a very rigorous way using resources from all over the company to try and get at what we think is going on and how to improve it quickly.
And while we'll -- given the kind of large lines complex risk strategy we have given the fact that we're not a shop that has large blocks of kind of commodity business around we will have some more volatility perhaps and others but I think the level of volatility that XL has been seeing is unreasonable to the size of the blocks of business.
And so we have been using a variety of underwriting tactics and other tactics to lessen that volatility.
So I just want to give you that thematic comment.
With respect to this quarter I'd say that in general this was a more favorable quarter certainly than the kind of stuff that we were going to last year.
But every time you say that you have to say well except for Costa Concordia a true marine catastrophe and happens marine is a business that were a big and leading player and want to be a leading player in giving results over history.
So if I were to characterize the quarter it was more favorable than what we've been seeing.
Certainly less influenced by the kinds of things we were seeing out of International Property.
Would I claim that's all because of Underwriting actions at this  stage? No it's too early for them to all have taken hold.
But we would expect over time that it's less and less likely we'll see those kinds of pops because there is less and less opportunity for the kind of practices that were in place before to be influencing the book.
So interesting question and I hope that's responsive.
Our next question comes from Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> We appreciate all the color around the underperforming businesses and the initiatives that are going on.
The big question I'd ask is big picture Mike.
If the underperforming business is relatively converging with your better business and I want to recognize it it's skewed by Contra Costa -- Costa Concordia pardon me.
Just actually literally do the math.
The question I think is longer term how much of the improvement you're targeting are you really hoping to get from these underperforming businesses? And how should we think about I guess improvements in these businesses versus say just broader mix initiatives that you're talking about improving the mix and more property -- or some of these other lines that you're growing? And then just generally sort of broad industry pricing and broad repricing at your book.
When you think about the weights of those 3 things how should we be monitoring them&gt; And generally and I wonder if you could give us some targets for us to think about it over the next couple of years.
Yes I'm going to disappoint you on targets by that level of granularity.
I think that gets me too close to the forecasting business which we try not to be in except where when we think there's very controllable things we can talk about such as expenses.
So as I look up let me give you a few flavors.
First of all as rate accelerates it's going to be an obviously bigger part of it but it changes where you think of your improvement coming from.
The fact that we're now seeing positive rate in some of the Casualty business for the first time that we've seen it is one of the biggest positive indicators I can point to.
When you have a very large book of already meaningfully profitable business like our professional book and you start to get some positive rate into it as well that's a  very encouraging fact that prevents the margin there from being hollowed out while you work on the rest and that is a very large portion of our block of business.
When you look at the underperforming which is kind of a quarter of our business when you start to pull that thing into the 90s which we are believing we can do at reasonable pace you then really have taken away one of your biggest deadweights and you turn it into at least at that point benign.
You take those together and you've got about half the book described.
You add in specialty businesses which are performing well by and large.
You add in the reinsurance book that continues to provide very good combined.
And then you're down to the kind of the portion that is kind of in the market taking phase where we still like the business and there it's about being very assertive on pricing doing what we can and not losing our capability for when the turns come.
You add all that together and it doesn't -- I think you can see that rate isn't the whole focus.
What we can do on those market taking business is every bit as important.
Every new dollar of earnings we get there is every bit as important as what's going on in the so-called challenged business.
And believe me somewhere during this year if things go as I expect we're going to stop talking about this breakout because it won't be relevant anymore.
It will be about how the whole book comes together.
But when you have something hurting you as bad as -- what was it 150 or some ridiculous number on some of these challenged business last year it really gets your attention you realize that that just can't happen that kind of so-called bad luck is not bad luck it's not quality underwriting and you've got to get your arms around it.
You take out that kind of beating your head on the rock and you can really get this book moving.
So there's no -- every dollar of added earnings is valuable no matter where it comes from.
And as we get these kind of more aggressive actions completed in these underperforming business then it's the usual soft market stuff remix to the more profitable lines maintain your capability push rate explore rate see what you can do manage your loss cost as best as you can and you'll come out of it.
Sorry that that's not the specific forecast by 3-part division that you want but that's how it's going to happen.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> That's fine.
I guess the final question that you guys have been in front of some of these issues are certainly related on your own book but I think it's sort of publicly so.
I'm wondering how over the past 6 months sort of -- the tone of this conversation has shifted at conference like RIMS and even in dealing with some of these troubled businesses.
We have had to have a lot of tough conversations with these brokers that you have to have big broad relationships with.
Is the market coming to you? And do you think that maybe there is some momentum for taking more pricing in some of the market taking in the price-taking businesses as well? I really do I -- the market -- look this is not a big radical sudden hard market.
This may be that long-awaited slow appropriate turn that the market has long thought would be great where we don't just see sudden disruptive events for clients and instead just a rational conversation towards pricing levels that are acceptable.
And as we talk to brokers their attitude is generally very supportive.
I mean every once in a while on the reinsurance side we'll see someone put out a study about capacity.
But generally we're on the insurance side people know that the game has to change.
They know that there is a reality to these low-interest rate environments.
They know that there is a reality to many companies I think increasingly finding their reserves less pull some [ph] and as that plays out those of us who've been more prudent those of us who have been more cautious are in a good position.
And the brokers understand that.
They're seeing more rate-driven behavior I think by competitors.
And as a result they are I think generally very supportive.
We've certainly have no big disruptive conversation with them.
Occasionally if you get into some subclass when there is a program involved or something they'll be a very very unpleasant conversation.
But that's really rare.
Your next question comes from Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to get some color on the PYD that happened in P&amp;C and reinsurance specifically looking for color on what business lines stood out there and what accident years drove the favorable development? Well the -- overwhelmingly it's the short-tail lines and recent years that we would recognize relatively quickly.
So that's the heart of the story.
There are couple offsets as Jamie mentioned in his remarks about 10 million associated with New Zealand earthquakes where there was some adverse development some adverse on Dagmar the Northern European storm.
You got offsets you got short-tail lines otherwise being released whether it wasn't -- and then you have the one big one that we're calling out specifically that otherwise wouldn't have been addressed in this quarter it being an A versus E quarter which was a -- Professional lines loss one client where there was a big settlement and it's from 10 years ago if I remember the accident.
But that's what's driving all this it's really recent years short-tail reaction.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for bringing all that together.
And so I guess kind of '03 to '07 liability redundancies are those pretty much faded at this point or have those have been realized? I think next week you're going to hit the Global Loss Triangle.
That's going to be a good place to study that you want to study carefully because there is always noise of this large event to that large event you want to get to the underlying trends so study carefully.
But you're going to find I think well -- we'll let those speak for themselves and talk about it next quarter because next quarter is when we get the in-depth reviews from the entire book and that's where we could give you more color on that.
I can tell you Randy that by class this quarter 16.2 part of the 26 was from Property and 7 was from Marine.
So very much for short-tail relief [ph].
Your next question comes from Meyer Shields with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
One is there any reason why the first quarter interest expense shouldn't be a good run rate for the rest of the year? Well I'm sorry could you repeat that? The answer is no.
It should be reasonably the same.
I mean there's a few days of extra interest on the debt that we retired so that that would be about it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay Mike.
The question was whether the interest rate...
We got it.
Pete just listens faster than I do.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Second question just with regard to life re is there any long-term planning going on right now? It looks like the ROEs on an annual basis are low single digits? I'm sorry is there any kind of what plan? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Long-term adjustments? So we will -- for the life reinsurance book as we said before we put it in run off we would at the right price -- I mean we said we would sell that business.
The returns -- you have to be a little careful coming up with ROEs.
You can describe different levels of capital for that business right.
In fact if you look at our economic models on the  floor-wide [ph] basis the returns are actually reasonably strong.
The business has been pretty consistent over time.
Right so we're happy to -- we're happy to hold it but we'll be happy to sell it at the right price.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay there is nothing no updates I guess is the right way of asking you.
There is nothing that has happened in that book of business to the last several quarters.
Given that that block is what has us talking about long-dated European financials which are as we mentioned in the national champions in Northern Europe but that's the block that's causing us to have that portfolio.
You can guess that the likelihood of something stepping up to that given the uneven news that we continue to experience from Europe is relatively slight.
And our final question is a follow-up question from Michael Nannizzi.
Research Division</strong> So I guess one question I had is just on the kind of businesses that you've invested in and talent over the last year or so.
And kind of what was your baseline expectation for the market overall pricing those lines of business? And what's your kind of runway as you look out and if conditions change or if they don’t meet your expectations for maybe to reverse course in some areas where maybe you don't see the growth or opportunity that you saw when you made the decision to ramp up? Good point.
First of all we didn't enter any business where we didn't think there were adequate returns at the point we were entering the business.
So none of these were on comp.
We thought that there were adequate returns available if we could find the right talent.
In terms of loss ratios from Day 1 combined ratios take time because you have to build the book to the size to absorb the cost so that's all obvious and it will take time.
I don't -- I can't give you a precise -- because it will be very different by line of business.
I mean Surety can grow very fast for the couple of writings and you could be in great shape then Surety doesn't cost us very much to begin and I'd really love our guys.
I'd be willing to take our time and let the market work out.
So it would be a different answer there that it would be on Political Risk where we've made a pretty substantial investment.
We like that marketplace right now with all the uncertainty in the world and the quality of our underwriting team.
But I do expect them to get going.
And they're under pressure and they should be and we're very careful in monitoring very carefully how they're allocating their risk.
So you really got to go business by business.
I can't give you a real rule of thumb.
I think Greg want to add a little color and I'd like him to.
The piece on talent too is the big component can be also the replacement of leaders that we need to replace to be effective at turning around some of these challenged books of businesses.
They can't underestimate the impact of a strong leadership and Mike and I saw the firsthand of RIMS with a couple of different challenged business where a new leader not only energized the marketplace -- I had people pulling me aside to tell me what a great hire it was but also how they have observed much better response and actually with the remaining team.
The other part of it is there's talent being added in existing lines of business for instance North American property where it's a very very easy metric to watch.
How much premium you're getting per underwriter and what kind of returns you gain in the pricing.
So not all of this is new business additions.
And then there is probably one last thing to add is really talented underwriters have a greater utility than just narrow business activity of their own line of business.
So we will have cadence where the talent come in we'll work at the business.
We may in the end decide that isn't working out like we thought but here is something else you can contribute to this place.
And we find that having a community of talent where underwriting talent is what we celebrate what we try to drive everyday supported by world-class insurance professionals in every discipline this is what makes the place fly and that's why we've had such success as people sense that this is a unique point in XL's history where there is an increasing excitement among that community.
And they're being treated in a way that they perhaps haven't experienced in their other places and they just realized they are a part of something special.
And we intend to make this a great home for that kind of entrepreneurial exceptional complex risk underwriting talent.
And we're seeing people -- our doors are knocked on all the time and we're excited about that.
I'll turn the call back over the speakers for closing remarks.
I don't think I can give a better closer remark than I just did.
This was and is becoming again a very special place.
We are proud to be a part of it it's not easy we've got a long road to hold between where we stand today and our aspirations.
But we're driven to bring that to life as quickly as the economics of our business rule out.
So thanks for all the time and we appreciate sharing our story with you.
Thank you and this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group plc Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please be advised that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley and welcome to XL Group's second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We've posted to our website several documents including our quarterly financial supplement.
On our call today Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO will offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer will review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Among those also available for questions are Susan Cross our Global Chief Actuary; Sarah Street our Chief Investment Officer and Steve Robb our Controller.
Before they begin I'd like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified on our Annual Report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date at which they are made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening.
Tonight we are pleased to discuss XL's second quarter results.
Results with intermediaries have us greatly encouraged and make no mistake.
We are not yet where we want to be across the board but our actions are taking hold and we are beginning to see emerge the target book we have discussed with you before.
So while our work continues in absolute and relative terms this is a very solid quarter.
To give you a sense of what you can expect from this call.
First I'm going to give you a high-level look at these results including a brief discussion of our reserve releases I'll then briefly touch on pricing in the quarter and then we'll turn to two noteworthy topics; the effect of drought impacting so much of the United States and the developing issues around LIBOR.
I'll then turn it over to Pete for a closer discussion of our financial results and to Greg and Jamie to get more granular on our insurance and reinsurance performance.
Now first to our overall results.
As you saw in our release for the second quarter we reported fully diluted operating earnings of $0.71 per ordinary share and an annualized operating ROE of 9.1%.
Again this is a solid result especially at this point in the cycle and at this point in XL's improvement.
All of this translates to fully diluted tangible book value per ordinary share of $30.65 which is up 3.6% in the second quarter and 8.3% higher than where we began the year.
We improved our loss and combined ratios in both insurance and reinsurance and reported a total P&amp;C combined ratio of 90.8% more than four percentage points better than the second quarter last year.
And most notably our insurance results continued their recent improvement.
The Insurance segment combined ratio ex-cat ex-PYD improved 98.5% which is obviously still higher than we would like but trending in the right direction.
It is also good to observe that this is the sixth consecutive quarter in which insurance produced a better accident year loss ratio ex-cats.
So as I say we are delivering on the margin expansion we expected.
Meanwhile Reinsurance delivered a combined ratio of 72.6% another really stellar result.
Turning briefly to pricing; broadly we continue to see improvement across the vast majority of our lines especially in insurance and this progress has accelerated through the quarter.
On reserving as you'll recall the second quarter is one in which we regularly perform an in-depth reserve review and you've already noted in our materials this review again resulted in sizable releases totaling $101 million a positive development in the quarter.
Now I'll touch on a couple of issues of note.
First with respect to the ongoing drought conditions; as you'll recall our exposure to risks in crop insurance have reduced over recent years and while we do have some exposure that exposure is manageable and even in extreme conditions for us being unpleasant but modest earnings event.
Jamie will have more detail.
Second with respect to LIBOR I know there are a lot of questions on this topic particularly as we are [writing] of relevant coverage both in the U.S.
and abroad.
Unfortunately the reality is it's just too early to tell how this will play out.
And finally I do want to recognize one change in our leadership team that's the addition of Eileen Whelley as our new Chief Human Resources Officer.
Eileen has a deep resume including top HR leadership positions both inside and outside of the Insurance sector and she is already taking a principal role in our ongoing mission to build on what I truly believe is the most talented group of risk professionals in the industry.
So as I said at the start we are encouraged by the results we've reported today.
They demonstrate our continued progress and are directly tied to our focus on improving margins while meeting the needs of our clients.
With that I'll turn it over to Pete to discuss the financials in more detail.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating income for the second quarter was $222 million or $0.71 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to operating income of $243 million or $0.75 a share in the second quarter of 2011.
Fully diluted tangible book value per share grew $1.07 in the quarter and $2.34 year-to-date.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio was 4.1 points better at 90.8% in the same quarter last year.
Our accident year ex-cat combined ratio was 93.7% or 5.7 points better than the same quarter last year due to a reduction in non-cat large loss activity.
Our Catastrophe losses decreased by $8 million from the second quarter of 2011 and totaled $61 million in Q2 2012 mostly in the Insurance segment.
Top line growth was slower in the quarter due to the impact of FX in certain areas of targeted non-renewal.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange the Insurance segment gross premiums written increased by 4.2% and the Reinsurance segment decreased by 3.4%.
The same percentages on a net premiums written basis were an 8.1% increase for insurance and a 1.9% decrease for reinsurance.
The Insurance segment movement includes a positive shift in business mix towards top performing lines which Greg will expand on.
The reinsurance decrease is due primarily to selective cancellations and the timing of renewals.
During the second quarter we completed our normal semiannual detailed review covering virtually all of our loss reserves across our Property and Casualty business lines.
There were no material changes in approach or methodology.
Prior year development in the quarter was a favorable $101 million or 7.2 loss ratio points.
This reflects favorable development of $43 million and $58 million in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments respectively.
Positive movements came from the Casualty and U.S.
Professional Insurance lines as well as casualty reinsurance lines partially offset by strengthening mainly in Insurance International Professional and excess and surplus lines.
You will note that our interest expense for deposit liability accretion in the consolidated statements of income in the financial supplement increased by $19 million this quarter.
This is due to an annual review of our runoff structured products business which resulted in higher interest charges due to changes in expected cash flow timing on certain structured workers compensation contracts that are accounted for as deposits.
The net loss this quarter related to that reserve review was less than $10 million since there was positive reserve development on contracts accounted for as reinsurance.
That positive PYD is included in the $58 million I previously mentioned for the Reinsurance segment.
Our combined $299 million of operating expenses for the second quarter was up 12.4% or $33 million year-over-year.
This is on track with the full-year expectations we communicated earlier in the year.
The year-over-year increase arose principally from cross supporting our strategic initiatives and higher compensation costs from both growth and headcount associated with new business initiatives and certain severance costs.
At $188 million net income on the P&amp;C portfolio in the second quarter was 12.2% below the prior year due primarily to lower new money rates as well as cash outsourced from the investment portfolio.
The P&amp;C gross book yield at the end of the quarter was 3.1%.
We achieved an average new money rate on our P&amp;C portfolio in the quarter of 2.2%.
We expect net investment income will remain under pressure given interest rate levels and our estimate that approximately $3.4 billion of P&amp;C assets with an average gross book yield of 2.8% will mature and paid down over the next 12 months.
Our net income from investment affiliates was $17 million down $34 million from the prior year.
This is driven by an especially strong prior year quarter from our investment management affiliates compared to solid results this quarter.
Realized losses on investments were $12 million compared to realized losses of $10 million in the prior year quarter.
Our realized losses include $28 million in OTTI charges which is consistent with the prior year quarter.
The total return of our entire portfolio was 1.4% for the quarter and contributed to book value growth with the positive mark-to-market of $131 million.
This was driven by decreasing rates particularly in the U.S.
which were partially offset by widening credit spreads.
The P&amp;C fixed income duration decreased by 0.2 years from the end of the first quarter to 2.9 years due to the accumulation of cash and cash equivalents in the portfolio given the heightened risks associated with the continuing turmoil in Europe at least the end of the first quarter the life portfolio duration increased by 0.1 years to 8.6 years.
Our fixed income holdings in Eurozone countries are again listed in our financial supplement.
We continue to have negligible exposure to sovereigns and financial institutions in the peripheral countries.
Our $400 million exposure to Eurozone banks including $143 million in covered bonds remains largely to national champions in northern Europe.
Through targeted sales and maturities we reduced our Eurozone holdings by $173 million during the quarter principally in the financial sector.
We bought back $125 million of our ordinary shares in the second quarter purchasing and canceling 6.1 million ordinary shares at an average cost of $20.44 leaving $525 million available for purchase under the current program.
We continue to balance new business opportunities with the attractive economics associated with share repurchases and we are not looking to add to our surplus capital position.
I'll now turn it over to Greg to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete and good evening.
Tonight I'll cover the Insurance segment results for the quarter provide an update on the corrective actions we're taking in our challenged businesses comment on our recent talent changes and provide a summary of current market conditions.
Starting with results I'm happy to share that we made progress again this quarter both on profitable growth and more importantly on continued improvement in accident year combined ratio.
And while I'm pleased with our improved performance we remain focused on operating Insurance segment at a lower combined ratio.
Insurance segment's combined ratio excluding cat and prior year development of 98.5% improved by 5 points relative to second quarter of last year driven primarily by the current year loss ratio.
Our combined ratio for the quarter was 99.1% or 1.2 points higher than the same quarter last year driven by 1.6 point increase in the operating expense ratio.
This is largely due to increased compensation costs related to continued upgrades in our talent as well as expansion in a number of our businesses.
On the loss side the current accident loss ratio excluding cats was 65.8% improving by 6.8 points year-over-year.
As Mike mentioned this marks the sixth consecutive quarter of improved accident quarter ex-cat results.
Our reported loss ratio of 66.2% reflected cat activity of 4.9 points as the second quarter of 2012 was impacted by $49 million in cat losses and reinstatement premiums compared to only $13 million in the second quarter of 2011.
This was largely driven by a single risk loss in each of the Midwest tornadoes and the China earthquakes.
This cat activity is partially offset by prior year reserve releases of $43 million or 4.5 points in the quarter compared to $64 million last year.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by $114 million or 8.9% in the quarter after normalizing for foreign exchange and the planned non-renewal of one large foreign account.
While this growth reflects success in our targeted new businesses such as political risk and North America construction we also had strong growth in some of our higher-margin businesses including U.S.
Professional and Marine &amp; Offshore Energy.
The second topic is an update on the businesses that we have been referring to as challenged.
The combined ratio for the challenged businesses in the quarter was 125.7% and in the remainder of our book we reported a 90.6 combined ratio.
Prior year reserve changes namely strengthening in the challenged businesses and releases in the performing businesses explained much of this variance.
If you look at performance on an accident year basis excluding cats the second quarter combined ratio in the challenged business drops to 105.6% while the remainder of the book reported 96.2% combined ratio.
As we indicated earlier in the year the quarterly improvement of the challenged businesses will have some volatility given the nature of large risk insurance.
Our shift towards businesses with the higher margin has resulted in the challenged businesses representing a smaller portion of the segment.
In fact for the second quarter on a net premium written basis adjusted for foreign exchange challenged businesses shrunk by 11% while performing businesses grew by 15% as compared to this quarter last year.
This was not by accident.
Some of the corrective actions we discussed last quarter.
Management of cat capacity deemphasizing guaranteed cost workers compensation and re-underwriting our New York contractors’ general liability portfolio are having the intended consequences from a top line perspective.
And we expect the benefits from our activities will lead to continued margin expansion with time.
Clearly we still have work to do but with new leaders and disciplines in place for many of these businesses we’re confident that we are implementing the right strategies to turn these books around.
Moving on to talent we further enhanced our teams throughout this segment in the quarter.
We added to our already strong insurance leadership with the arrival of Jason Harris Head of International Property and Casualty.
We expanded our regional excess casualty team with the addition of new underwriting talent in Dallas Philadelphia and Kansas City.
We recruited a cyber liability team with underwriters in New York Atlanta and Chicago.
We also broadened our E&amp;S capabilities by adding umbrella and excess casualty underwriting expertise.
In our distribution network team added new talent to improve our local presence in Mexico and Spain.
Finally let's turn to current market conditions.
In the second quarter we once again saw positive rate indications in all of our business groups with an overall segment rate increase of 4%.
To put this in a context we haven’t seen a rate increase of this magnitude since 2003.
Further 20 out of 24 businesses in the Insurance segment saw large rate increases in the second quarter when compared to the first quarter of this year.
Not only did we see 6% rate increases in our North American P&amp;C portfolio led by double-digit rate increases in our property and E&amp;S businesses but our international P&amp;C portfolio was also up nearly 3%.
In specialty lines we saw an increase of 5% led by marine and offshore energy and in our professional book rates were up 2% including 3% in our U.S.
D&amp;O business.
As we indicated last quarter this return to gradual sustained rate improvement is something we've been expecting and we believe it must continue given the industry's insufficient investment returns particularly in long tail lines of business.
And while we are pleased with these pricing improvements we still face a competitive marketplace where underwriting experience and discipline coupled with improved analytics are critical to selecting the best risks.
While rate continues to be a very important factor expansion of margin is our ultimate measure of success.
And now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance results.
Thanks Greg and good evening.
The Reinsurance segment had an excellent quarter of underwriting results with a combined ratio of 72.6% producing an underwriting profit of $120.9 million.
These results were impacted by prior year reserve releases of $58.4 million and cat losses in the quarter of $11.2 million net of reinstatement premiums.
Excluding the impact of these items our combined ratio was 83.2% which compares favorably to the combined of 90% in the second quarter of last year on the same basis.
During this quarter $46.6 million of prior year releases were released from our U.S.
business unit which does a major reserve review in the second and fourth quarters of each year.
While $34.9 million of these releases were from casualty lines we remain very cautious on recent underwriting years and the majority of these releases were from the 2005 underwriting years and prior.
On a year-to-date basis this segment has a combined ratio of 77.4% which compares to the 112% combined last year.
Excluding the impact of cat losses and prior year development the six month combined of 85.9% compares favorably to the 88.9% in 2011.
With respect to top line gross premiums written in the quarter were $452.4 million a 4.2% reduction from the second quarter of 2011.
Our year-on-year premium saw reductions in our North American European and Latin American business units and a significant increase from XL Re Bermuda driven by increases in our Japanese cat portfolio and a changed inception date on one large treaty.
The reductions in our other profit centers were driven by selective cancellations share reductions and some timing differences.
Turning to market conditions we were broadly pleased with the mid-year renewals though the rate of increase on Southeast wind renewals were below our expectations.
Our risk-adjusted improvement on this book was 5% below the 8% to 10% we expected and quoted going into the renewal season.
There was abundant capacity available in both traditional and non-traditional forms to play substantial programs in the market.
Notwithstanding this we would point out that this is a portfolio that had a very healthy increase in the 2011 mid-year renewal and remains the most attractive component of our cat portfolio as measured by rate adequacy in our pricing system.
On the long-tail side our position remains highly defensive as we continue to navigate through an improving but still competitive primary and reinsurance market environment.
Finally with respect to our crop book you'll recall 2011 was our final year as the fronting carrier for the Heartland Crop program due to the sale of the agency.
We continued this year as a quota share reinsurer of the new owner and through the second quarter this year we have booked $11.6 million of net earned premium at a technical combined ratio of 82.7% which does not include operating expenses.
This was driven principally by the solid performance of the winter weak component of the portfolio.
Our projected premium for the year is $58 million from this source and we do protect the book with stop-loss reinsurance attaching at a loss ratio of 110% we buy 40 points to cover with 5% co-participation up the pillar.
In addition we write a book of aggregate stop-loss business on this class out of our Bermuda business unit.
There our total aggregate limits are $41 million with just over 50% of the book attaching that loss ratios of 130% or higher.
With that I'll turn it over to David for Q&amp;A.
Shirley please open the lines for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
You may ask your question.
Thanks and good afternoon.
Mike before everyone goes out and starts raising their estimates dramatically that insurance combined ratio underlying of 98.5% I think it was the best in eight quarters.
What’s your expectation in terms of being able to repeat that level going forward? Well.
First Jay thanks for the question.
Your perspective is a good one.
I think I mentioned on our call last quarter that well I feel that things are going directionally correctly and we’re very pleased with the progress.
If I go back kind of in the fourth quarter I felt that well some of the long-term issues in some of the challenged businesses were coming home to roost that we were actually a bit on the unlucky side.
In the sense that a lot of stuff all happened at once and I think I would put this quarter in the same context in the reverse.
I think this was a favorable quarter.
I think at this point we are well on the way in a lot of the corrective actions we’ve undertaken and we would expect results to be improving and we have said so.
Could this one have been a bit luckier just as the fourth quarter of last year was a bit more unlucky? Could be so our attitude is look as long as we’re continuing to deliver on the activities that we plan as long as we continue to see the margin improve in the way in which we would expect we will be pleased.
And given that we’re in the large loss business we should expect some volatility quarter-to-quarter but directionally this is consistent with our actions we would just say that it'll take a bit more time before we say there is less luck and more of our actions really taking hold in the book.
Greg you might want to add something to that but that’s the basic sense we would have around here we feel good would we say this is absolute proof? No we wouldn’t say that yet.
No I totally agree Mike.
Okay.
And then a separate one on crop Jaime for the reinsurance exposure what's the potential maximum possible loss in the second half of '12 from the crop reinsurance exposure? Okay.
Thanks Jay.
Maybe I'll give you perhaps a bit more information than you just asked so some of the information others may be wondering about will get answered as well.
There are two components to our crop exposure the first is Heartland it’s the only proportional contract we write.
We write at 30% quota share on that book of business with a 7.5% commission.
We expect $57.8 million of premium on a gross basis to be booked during the year.
We buy stop-loss cover of 95% of [40x] of 110.
So assuming that we totaled the stop-loss cover the exposure would be the 10% retention which would be $5.8 million the 5% co-par up the stop-loss which would be another $1.15 million and the 7.5% commission which would be 4.3.
So that would be $11.25 million of underwriting loss.
The book is 50% corn 18% soy 20% wheat and 12% cotton and other.
The largest states are Minnesota at 21% which is a very good yield state so far; Texas at 12% followed by South Dakota at 11% Nebraska at 11% Illinois at 8.5% and Kansas at 8%.
The book is split 50-50 between states in the Tier 1 category and Tier 2 and the way the government program works with the 500% gross loss ratio Tier 1 is capped at 194 and Tier 2 at 150.
I'd also remind you as I mentioned in my opening remarks 20% of the book is in the winter wheat category which is already done and performed very well.
We also overlay both the corn and the soy states against the U.S.
state progress report and mapped our portfolio with states that have greater than 50% rating of poor or very poor.
And in corn our book is 19% in that category versus what we believe in industry number of 24% and soy is 19% versus 21% for the industry.
So bottom line on this book as we think it will be extremely difficult to go through the top of our stop-loss program and therefore the answer to your question is the downside risk is about $11.25 million to $11.5 million depending on when the premium comes out for that part of the portfolio.
The stop-loss portfolio out of Bermuda is a little bit more difficult to measure at this point in the growing season.
As I mentioned we have $41 million of total in-force aggregate ranging in attachment points from just over 100 all the way up to 140 150 but I picked 130 as sort of key demarcation retention for what I kind of view as maybe the downside in the industry.
So about half the book attaches at 130 or above and about half below.
We have got no noticeable loss on a provisional basis for many of our customers.
We have nine customers in that portfolio and frankly most of them are very reluctant to give us much information at this point.
So we will know a lot more by the end of the third quarter but if you wanted the total Armageddon downside it would be the in-force aggregate on the stop-loss and the figures I have quoted on Heartland.
The 41 plus an underwriting loss of '11? Right.
Okay.
Thanks.
And if I can sneak one more and Mike on the LIBOR exposure I understand it's early days on D&amp;O but maybe you can give us a perspective on the mix of business in terms of exposure to large integrated financial companies as a percentage of the book? Yeah let's have Greg walk through some of the details that we can give but again I just want to underscore this one is going to take a while to sort out and it's going to be really interesting to see how much if any winds up being covered loss as opposed to a big market mess.
Anyway Greg? Thanks Mike.
Thanks Jay.
We know at this juncture the government investigations and resulting litigations involving the finance institutions are ongoing and in some instances at very early stage.
Because it's a developing event it will take some time for us to come up with any kind of precise loss estimate.
However let me give you a brief macro perspective some general coverage observations and some facts around our professional portfolio.
From a macro perspective the uncertainty begins the lack of clarity around how many of the institutions engaged in the saying of LIBOR were not following established guidelines.
That uncertainty is amplified by the inability at this point in time to establish the specific culpability of a particular insured.
And further the amount of U.S.
securities exposure through U.S.
exchange ADRs would also impact any loss potential given they follow the level of class actions outside of North America.
If we shift to the general coverage observations standard D&amp;O policies issued to public companies typically exclude coverage for regulatory fines and penalties.
In addition entity coverage in a public D&amp;O policy does not protect against antitrust allegations.
And finally Side A coverage response only if a company cannot indemnify an individual director or officer and looking at our professional insurance portfolio our mix of business helps us navigate any potential exposure as well.
We have a blend of primary and excess as well as the strong geographic distribution.
As with the case of our entire portfolio the financial institutions book has a blend of Side A full coverage D&amp;O and E&amp;O.
In fact over half of our large financial institutions exposure is Side A only which is a far more limited coverage potential.
Specifically to our international financial institutions business we reduced our average limit by 20% over the last few years which will mitigate any potential loss severity.
The only thing I can add is as you would expect Jay we are monitoring the situation very closely.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Matthew Heimermann with JPMorgan.
You may ask your question.
Hi thank you.
Good evening everybody.
First question is just could you may be quantify just the large how much of the improvement year-on-year you would attribute to the large loss side and then we can kind of do our own math in terms of the mix shift and kind of reworking the portfolio? I am going to turn that over to Greg in a moment.
But it isn't just large loss that’s improved here.
Without question we are seeing the impact of our re-underwriting and the mix shift as every bit is important as what's going in the large losses.
The other thing I would add is our improvement in a large loss performance wouldn’t all be arbitrary.
We've been changing the way we’re underwriting changing the way we’re putting limits into the market and changing the way we’re using reinsurance.
So the difference between large loss performance in the quarter or a year ago in this quarter wouldn’t only be fortuity it would also be actions that we have undertaken.
Yes there is a lot of moving parts ins and outs the main drivers last this quarter last year were in our satellite and our marine portfolio and this year there's one in property and one in upper middle market but roughly two points of benefit quarter-over-quarter.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
It wasn’t implying that there it was just luck in the question.
No no I was just essentially the fact that I said there is luck in there somehow or at least we feel that way and we didn’t want to think it was – that’s all that’s going on here sorry.
That’s fair.
I guess just with respect to the life I mean this is something I think we revisited from time-to-time over the past couple of years but just with the life reinsurance portfolio with kind of the financial system or companies within the industry starting to repair their balance sheets little bit.
Any new thoughts in terms of kind of end game for that business and I'd just be curious if you could maybe talk a little bit about the equity you've allocated to that when we think about what the returns how much that might be dampening the returns that are being generated on the P&amp;C side or kind of obfuscating those from coming to the surface? Yeah I'll start this is Mike and I'll turn it over to Pete.
The bottom-line is there are some improvements as you say there is some rationalization going on among the life players and that really has our attention.
We would love to think that as conditions become clear or improve that there would be alternatives to just a slow run up.
At the same time we want to be very thoughtful economic oriented stewards of your money and this thing has some particular challenges with respect to GAAP and in terms of sort of true economics that we have to pay very close attention to as we consider alternatives.
Now we have always said hey if someone has a great idea we are all ears.
We continue to have folks reach out and share their ideas with us none of those has yet caused us to go forward but we are going to keep pushing because we do see it as something that in the end is not a part of our future and the sooner that's true I think the better for all of us.
And obviously the portfolio that is connected with being in this run-up is part of what gives us this very unfortunate and I think to some degree unfair nexus to what's going on over in Europe and the sooner that misimpression is shed the better the firm will be.
But to get a little more specific I'll turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Michael you have covered the most of it extremely well you covered all of it very well.
But I will try and add just a little bit more there.
So one thing Matt that is difficult to see from what we put on the financial supplement is what's there is a total is a total amount of capital that's been ascribed to the life book but we use that capital in our P&amp;C business as well.
So it isn't as simple as just taking the return on the $1.9 billion and saying I can go and if I remove that the impact on the ROE would be easily calculated.
So we've taken a look at it.
If you look at a rating agency capital if you look at an economic capital derivation you'll find that it is materially materially less than the $1.9 billion.
That being said I mean I will just echo what Mike said it is not something that we are looking to keep long-term.
We do think right now with all that's going on in Europe it is a difficult transaction to see happen in near term.
That being said we've got our doors opened for as Mike said interesting conversations.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Jay Cohen.
You may ask your question.
And you are from Bank of America/Merrill Lynch Yeah.
Thank you.
Just two maybe smaller number questions.
First I guess it was Pete you had mentioned that there were some severance expenses in the overheads.
Can you quantify that for us? Sure Jay.
It's year-to-date about $5 million.
Evenly split in the quarters roughly? Yeah roughly.
Okay.
And on the reinsurance side I believe you mentioned there was one large treaty where there was I guess a timing difference or the inception had changed.
And I'm wondering does that impact the comparison in the second half of the year? Certainly in the Latin America it will Jay because actually just a couple of accounts change their anniversary date from June 30 to July 1 so they become Q3 events so that's all about $11 million.
So if those are renewed as it would obviously aid the comparison in the third quarter from a top line standpoint? Correct.
Great.
That’s all I got.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Mike Zaremski with Credit Suisse.
You may ask your question.
Thanks.
As a follow-up to some of the earlier margin questions would you say a majority of the underlying improvement is from business mix changes? I know Mike earlier in the prepared remarks you said that the challenged businesses I'm not sure if you meant premiums I'd have to read back through it but it fell by 12%.
Did that accelerate from last quarter or from previous quarters? Yeah.
First of all I think the basic answer to your question is yes.
I would say it's more than half and I would say I expected to decelerate over the course of the last half of the year.
And we have talked about this before.
The reality is that as you start working your way through the book it all depends on the timing by business by line by account and when you get your mix on that renewal and get to work it.
And obviously those things that you don't like that you get off you get an immediate reduction in your risk and those things that you feel you can modify to have better terms you get a reduction in your risk going forward from that point.
And as the book works its way through we would expect to be able to confidently say that more of it has to do with our actions than with simple flow of fortuity during the quarter.
Again one of the things I emphasized when we talked about all this at the end of the year and called out ourselves on this idea that we had a handful of challenged businesses was one I think unfortunate results of doing that was that people thought maybe we were just getting started on this work when in fact we've been working and focused on these businesses and all of our businesses throughout last year.
So some of these we would have already started the process of re-underwriting going back now more than a year others got more attention over the course of the last half year So you kind of almost have to and we do by the way internally we chart it out by business by action and by expected benefit of that action over the timeframe of getting to the renewals and having those actions take hold in the market.
And so every quarter we would expect to be able to more confidently say that a still greater percentage of the result is due to our actions and where we think we've been fortunate we’ll say so where we think we have been unfortunate we’ll say so.
That’s the nature of the large risk we take on.
I guess I'd only make one other point by the end of the year I don't expect to be talking anymore about challenged businesses as a separate reporting item.
All of our businesses go in and out of favor depending on market conditions that are unique to them and depending on the new issues that may arise in the industry.
We view it ourselves as governing these 35 separate businesses and where they'll each stand at any moment will be something we'll discuss with you as much transparency as we can but through the end of the year we'll keep you up-to-date on our progress so that you can track it after that I think it just all goes back together it's XL and hopefully by then we are all as excited as we are about this quarter.
Okay then one follow-up then on the challenged businesses and hopefully we won't be talking about this going forward but in the prepared remarks I thought I had heard the delta the combined ratio delta between the challenged and the performing businesses being wider versus last quarter was that correct or maybe the challenged businesses are just smaller so even today is wider didn’t have as big of an impact? It’s true it’s wider all-in but that’s because the movement that we saw that was meaningful in the quarter really had to do with prior year development.
We had positive prior-year development on our better businesses but on the challenged businesses we did have some adverse development so you saw a widening perception of GAAP but on an accident year basis they are actually coming together.
Okay.
And lastly… On an accident year ex-Cat basis they are coming together.
Okay.
And lastly is there anyway for us do you think about alternative investment income in the next quarters is it too early to tell? I would say it's too early to tell but you can look at our information we've disclosed what’s disclosed either on a month or a one-month or a quarter lag so you can you know the market better than we do so you can predict that probably as well as we can if not better.
Thank you very much for your answers Thank you.
Your next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
You may ask your question.
Thank you very much.
I don’t know want to use the word challenged businesses so maybe I want to talk about the business that you allowed leave the company.
Everyone's talking about prices going up here.
What do you think the rate increases could have been on the businesses that you let go off and would those have a better rate increases than the business that you are keeping that you think is a better quality business in general? Well.
I am going to just give a general observation and turn over to Greg.
The general observation would be that if we thought we could get rate and if we thought that rate was the cure we would write the piece of the business.
We believe though that there are accounts out there that have been a part of the portfolio that we simply think the best answer is that we part ways.
When we see it that way we are going to call that chart and move on and that’s why you see part of the remixing coming from business we are walking away from as opposed to simply care by a rate.
Often the way that happens is we'll put the price out there in the market that we think is appropriate to the risk and the market will take the risk at a lesser rate than that and so it goes.
I'll turn it over to Greg for specific color.
Yeah I break it into three parts one would be our international property book where we know for a fact that rate's not there.
So we are gaining about we got about 3% in the quarter the business that we shared was flat to down 10% and so we know that we are not missing out on rate.
Shift a little bit to our E&amp;S book where we are getting rate in fact double digit rate.
And there I would say we've kept a few pieces of the business but within that business is a mix of things that rate can cure and things that rate can't cure.
So we are keeping the business where we get the rate and shedding it out.
There some is just structurally not efficient which rate doesn't really matter and I would say in our US MR business the guaranteed workers' compensation book would be an example there.
The only thing that matters there is getting the right level of deductible and the right coverage for us.
And so they could put 30% more rate on it it doesn't matter.
It's not going to be a profitable piece of business in our opinion.
Is there any way that you can quantify retention among large accounts in a way that I would understand? Well our retention overall I'll give you the color our retention overall for this segment is 82%.
How does that compares with the past? That's down from the prior year of about 86% in the quarter and most importantly particularly in our international property book we are down below 60s there.
So we would spend all day doing every business but that's kind of a marker of the spread and the further spread point I gave you is also E&amp;S which is probably most of you know we usually run in the 40% or 50% retention ratio if you're running a good book because there is a lot of turnover there.
We're down in the high teens on that book.
So it's a widespread by business but we're down and I think that's the right sign because as you know when you are getting down on those low 80s you know you're pushing the rate just about the right amount you're not going too hard you're not going too soft.
Well.
Thank you.
That’s all very helpful great quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
You may ask your question.
Hi good afternoon.
And congratulations on the progress you have been making no doubt a lot of heavy lifting.
I was hoping that we could talk a little bit more about the business you have been growing in and just the two questions are on casualty professional lines.
If I am reading this correctly it's something up like 17% year-to-date and I would love to get a sense of your view of sort of the current profitability and attractiveness of this business given some competitors seem to be taking and also talking about taking prices up dramatically in some segments including D&amp;O and perhaps some areas of E&amp;O and some concern about just whether recent vintages have been as profitable as everyone had originally thought? Thanks Josh.
Let me start with the professional piece and the 17% I believe you're quoting the net number.
Yes.
So the biggest portion of the book that we have is our U.S.
D&amp;O business and while I cited a 2.5% rate increase we don't follow a practice of underwriting here where there is a blanket rate increase mandated on an entire book of business.
So it’s a very lumpy rate increase.
There is great risks that are renewing at flat and there is also risk that we are getting a lot more than the 2.5% I said.
As we get that rate we’re hitting our benchmark of where we want to be on that business.
So part of it in the professional lines is business on our biggest book coming in at the right profitability level.
The other piece of it is we are retaining more of that business now.
From April 1 we changed our session on our professional reinsurance to keep more of what we think as a profitable book.
So you get the two pieces acting together there on the net premium number.
That’s great.
That’s was going to be one of my other questions.
So have you guys made similar changes across a lot of your other businesses because to drive some of these net to gross differences? That’s the main driver of where we’re retaining more in the quarter that the property reinsurance also renewed and we paid more money but ceded the same expected margin away but it isn’t of a dramatic variation like you saw on professional.
But Josh the one thing I would add to Greg if there was I think Greg mentioned one contract that was a large program that was 100% ceded that was so that also drove our ceded ratio.
That's great and if I could just ask sort of the color question that comes to mind on other specialty which has a similar maybe net-to-gross issue but even our earned premiums base is growing relatively materially.
I'd love to get some color around sort of the political risk business you are putting on as well as surety and trade credit and if you guys have any sort of European exposures on that liability book we should be thinking about anticipating or you have been frankly underwriting around to avoid? Thank you.
Sure.
On the other specialty the political risk business is the biggest piece it's not adding we haven’t written anything with exposure to continental Europe to answer your question directly.
It’s more spread around countries that are transitioning in my language from emerging to merged economies.
So it's a very well spread book it's very early days of course as well but it’s a very well spread book in terms of exposures.
We have also started up the inland marine line of business as well in North America which I believe falls into the other specialty as well so those are the two biggest pieces of that bucket.
And again the one comment that I would make Josh we made it last quarter as well those lines do not map to when we talk about our specialty business for example they don't necessarily map.
That is more of a I'll call it a U.S.
statutory line of business than it is the way we actually run our business.
Okay.
Great thanks for the time.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
You may ask your question.
I think this is related to Josh's last question.
Good evening everyone.
Your press release yesterday Barbara Luck joining you highlighted that you are touting a new risk appetite for large primary casualty accounts.
I didn't know whether there was more of a PR press release or a signal to the analyst community that you are in more of a growth mode on large primary casualty.
If you are in a growth mode I'd like to hear that amplified? Sure.
Thanks Bob for the question.
We are and this is one caveat I'd give to and I have another strong reason why we need to stop just trying to segment out challenged businesses from perform and just talk about what's going in XL Insurance as a whole.
U.S.
risk management and primary casualty is one of our challenged businesses and the challenges come from the prior underwriting activities.
We added Ken Riegler and Jay Lefkowitz late last year Barbara is part of that team I am a pretty frugal person I am not fond of paying for people that aren't going to produce on the bottom line so that is a very deliberate growth mode for that business where we are looking to the right kind of risk management in primary casualty business where on the risk management side you get the right kind of structures around captives and self-insured retentions.
On the primary casualty there will be a flavor towards kind of the companies that have international exposure where we can add value with our global network so that's a deliberate growth that we will execute on.
Okay so it is a change in this little segment that you want to be more aggressive? This is Mike Bob.
You and I would have talked about these lines of businesses even go back to days at C&amp;A.
I think that the risk managed account business is an attractive business and one that fits very naturally with the kinds of clients we take on around the shop.
And the fact is that our risk management operation our U.S.
risk management operation had previously I think missed a couple of important themes to the plot; number one generally speaking stay away from guaranteed cost business it isn't that attractive and I certainly think that would have been something we would have talked about in the past you and I; and second that if you're going to be in the risk managed account business you need a couple things.
First you need a lot of people with proven track records in the space who have both the knowledge and the relationships to execute the business plan and that we have been attracting and we are very pleased to have these folks having joined our team with the kinds of track records that they have.
And then second you have to look at your own portfolio and your own unique skill set and say what is that we can do uniquely for clients with these folks on board and there we looked at the kind of innovation and the global footprint that we have and we say there are clients in the house who already like XL where we can make a big difference for now that we have this expertise.
So that's where we're headed and that's where it's all done.
So in the narrow context it will be a chain story away from one kind of business toward another and as the netting effect of that goes into the past it will be a growth story overall.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore Partners.
You may ask your question.
Hi good evening.
See first question is on the margins in the so-called challenged business.
Do you think you are pretty close to reaching your profitability by the year-end or do you think some more actions will be required for next year? Quite simply Vinay the answer to that one this is Greg.
The answer is no they're not at 105.6 combined ratio we're not where we need to be.
That's not the target combined ratio we have for these businesses.
So there is still actions that we've already taken that need to earn through and some further actions that we have planned to happen in subsequent quarters need to have us and move us much lower than we are now.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And just as a follow-up to that seems that the top line growth is slowing and that's a good thing because you are pulling back the amount of underperforming businesses should we expect that slower top line growth to continue for the next one year as you [reaching] the portfolio to a more profitable business.
I would say and as part of the commentary from the last question from Bob was there are businesses that are in the challenged category at the moment whereas this U.S.
risk management and primary casualty we just discussed were submission flow by the way is much higher than its ever been before and we are winning the accounts as we speak.
As you pull down guaranteed comp business you are pulling down high premium items and you are putting on U.S.
risk management business where the net premium impact also is going to be lower but as they are successful they'll move.
So that I would not project a fixed growth pattern based on what you are seeing.
I will end by saying absolutely that right now for us in the insurance segment.
If given the trade between top line and profitable margin we are going for profitable margin.
Where the market goes I don’t know that's another component of why I can't give you a direct answer on what we see for the quarters ahead.
Sure.
Fair enough.
And just on the expense part of that equation since we are seeing the global economy slowing and then the significant portion of your premiums are in Europe.
Do you have some levers on the expense side that you can pull to reduce the expense ratio? Thanks.
Yeah this is Mike.
The answer to that is yes as we've been making these investments which we have been doing for the last couple of years.
We've been constantly looking for how the investments allow us to operate in a more efficient way and we believe as we get into the back half of the year it's time for the reasons you cite the continued economic uncertainty what's going on and the difficult challenges our European client space and just the need to get to the level of returns through expanding margin that we've promised we'll be taking a very hard look in the back half of the year as to what we can do in addition to accelerate the benefits and advantages that are created by these investments some of which are about inside and we'll be continuing investments.
Some of which were about enhanced leverage of our platform and those would be places where we might be able to start capturing some of the advantage so that will be an intense examination that Pete and others in the firm will be leading in the back half of the year.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
You may ask your question.
Thanks.
First off Greg thank you so much for that additional disclosure on a crop that was a granularity was really helpful so thanks for that.
One question I had is on non-cat property insurance what sort of rate change are you seeing there right now and just a quick follow-up? You are looking for that from reinsurance or insurance or both? Mostly on the insurance side because it looked like that’s where premiums fell a bit on a year-over-year basis.
Yeah you have to split it into two pieces in North America we were just over 10% ratings.
Positive We just are over 10% rate increase.
Right okay.
And in the international property piece we are at the 6% rate increase in the quarter so both one in North America far exceeding any increase due to trend.
And in international a very positive sign and this is the first quarter I'm happy to report that we actually had some very meaningful positive rate in the international book.
Okay.
I guess a question as to rate was higher but the premiums you wrote in that business were down and then whereas in a line like professional liability and I totally understand the comment about a big large mostly ceded contract but on a net and gross basis it look like professional liability premiums were higher and rates there seem like they were maybe not as good.
So I am just trying to understand we can't see on the insight the decisions that you are making there just trying to understand contextually what's happening in those two areas that's causing that kind of disparity from the outside to be there? So if you look at the gross basis on the other property Yeah.
That's almost entirely driven to the dollar most by that one large contract that we referred to before.
When you get down to net line it is lower that's related partly there is a bit of net premium associated with that contract but also there is as I did refer there is an increased cost to the cat cover and the risk cover that we bought at May 1 as well as some re-instatement in premiums associated with both of the losses in the quarter the Midwest quake and the Italian earthquakes.
Got it.
So on the PL for professional liability for a second so where is that business now on sort of underlying combined basis like is it kind of where you wanted to be or are you still a few quarters away from the rate action that will get you there? Thanks for the answers.
So the professional book as you break it apart particularly for D&amp;O would be in the mid-90 combined mid low-90s to mid-90 combined ratio.
We have other smaller niche books that we've talked about before which fall into these challenged business categories.
Our design and select that will be much closer to 100% combined ratio so that's kind of the split of the book by the combined ratios.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Meyer Shields with Stifel Nicolaus.
You may ask your question.
Thanks.
Good evening everyone.
Mike you mentioned when you were talking about capital management I guess balancing share repurchases with other opportunities and I was wondering whether you could discuss if the opportunities that are being presented now compared to a year ago are shaping expectations for how the overall insurance market is going to play out for the next couple of years? depressed yield environment remains the most important fact that seems to me it is still be not sufficiently addressed by the insurance and reinsurance marketplace.
So that piece will continue to give me pause on performance.
At the same time it is the case that we have pockets of very profitable activity that we would like to grow and we have opportunities to remix our book to a more profitable level that we think are already starting to influence the results.
So for us maintaining some investment in those activities is very intelligent positioning of the firm for what we hope will be an improved market over time maybe not spectacularly improved but moving forward with I think some appropriate discipline.
In balance though we can't get away from the fact the trading where we're trading buying in our shares is a very positive economic benefit to our shareholders.
You saw us increase our repurchase in the quarter beyond what we would have forecasted at the beginning of the year and as a result the net will keep balancing those out.
Sorry my voice is starting to go but we’re pleased with the progress we are marking.
We're going to continue to invest in businesses where we see good margin.
Okay that was very thorough.
Thank you.
And one quick numbers question if I can.
Did foreign exchange contribute at all to the reserve releases in the quarter? No.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Randy Binner with FBR.
You may ask your question.
Hi thank you.
I guess just as a follow-up on the buyback question.
There was an incremental increase but it still seems very small relative to our estimate of capital capacity.
And so I kind of wanted to get some color on how we might think about that in the back half of the year and in particular if the hurricane season is something that you want to kind of way to see passed before that allocation would get bigger or if we would continue to be kind of this very gradual increase? This is Mike with my new voice.
One of the things that I've noticed in working with Peter since you have to shout to be heard your voice goes a little quicker in the day than it used to.
So I am going to turn it over to Pete since I blame him for that fact.
The one what I would tell you is look we said that we viewed the 400 which we had forecast as a four assuming things went according to plan.
We’ve said that as margin expands if we continue to see margin expansion that that would give us additional flexibility and we’ve said that we will continue constantly to evaluate the trade-up to try and make the right decision for our shareholders now and in the future and by that we don’t mean just immediate future but the medium term future as well.
So Randy the only thing I would add two things to that first we do not typically stop buybacks because we are entering winter season.
So I would be view as likely to continue and I would also say it is likely to be incremental we don’t see we have we are working hard to try and be a little bit maybe predictable is not the right word but just a little bit more even handed and how we go into buybacks and so without getting into too much on specificity I expect that we’ll do something in the third quarter and I would expect that going forward to the rest of the year it would be comparable slight – possible slight increase but that’s it.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
I want to sneak another one in just because I thought it was interesting Mike you mentioned that there is in the life business one of the previous questions had to do with offloading that run off risk which is always difficult and you mentioned there is challenges at kind of economics versus accounting and I want to understand your comment better is it a challenge that you might lose the DAC associated with that business or are you saying that you think the economics are better than what you get with accounting.
I’d be interested for more color on kind of what that comment meant kind of accounting versus economics and challenge of offloading that risk.
Yeah Randy this is Peter let me try and take that.
The issue is not DAC per se.
DAC is fine.
We haven’t seen any material changes in our expectations of how that book is running off clearly as Mike said it’s a book that does has no future at XL.
The question about economics and GAAP has to do what I said little bit early as well with what the economic capital is right and there literally is $1 billion difference between what some would say economic capital is and what you would see us disclose as our GAAP capital.
So when you think about economic returns versus accounting returns you have to take that basically into account right.
There is $1 billion difference.
Well that’s two different things.
I don’t think we’ll ever be at a type of place that we’ll make decisions based on accounting results we’ll make them on economic results right but the pure fact is it’s a life reinsurance portfolio it’s an annuity reinsurance it is very different than a primary portfolio right.
There are costs that are different for to buy a reinsurance block in order to buy a primary block.
So again we are welcome to have conversations with people but at the same time we do look at the economics of any transaction that we would enter into.
Okay.
That’s great.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Ian Gutterman Adage Capital.
You may ask your question.
L.P.</strong>  Hi great.
Thanks.
I just want to clarify one more time what’s going on the accident year and the Insurance businesses because I guess it feels like there are two different things going on where you’ve obviously shown a lot of overall improvement and you said there was some good luck helping out but when I look at the challenged business at [1056] that actually got worse from last quarter and I would have thought if anything the luck would have helped that businesses given some of the lumpy stuff in there.
So what made that part of the business actually get a little worse sequentially? Ian this is Pete sorry.
Just I’ll turn to Greg but my first comment is when you start looking at a block of business the size of what our challenged businesses are we are going to have noise all over the place okay.
And that really that has a lot to do with what happened in this quarter versus a prior quarter.
Greg?  The accident year loss ratio ex-cat was 69.9 this quarter up just slightly from 69.2 in Q1 of 2012.
So minor deterioration and none it had any one chunk it’s a lot of little things.
Yeah.
There was actually a change in the allocation of expenses as well in Q2 versus Q1 that drove that a little bit.
But again that I think is more because of just the absolute size of what’s in the challenged businesses.
L.P.</strong>  That makes sense and then similar question.
The reinsurance improvement obviously you had excellent quarter.
Was that I guess two things I know one is the expense ratio came down a lot from sort of a normal Q2 type level was – and given the investments you are making I guess that’s surprising a little bit.
Was there something one-time in the expenses or you are doing better than expected and on the loss side was that just very favorable large losses?  Let’s take one at time.
On the expense side Ian on the operating expenses our actual expenses went down by about 3.6% principally from compensation and professional fees and our net earned premium went up by 10.8%.
So that drove a significant reduction in the operating expense.
On the acquisition expense there was a lot of small things but the biggest was you are absolutely correct a one-time event but that was a Q2 2011 event where we paid a very large profit commission to one of our large North American customers.
On the loss ratio side about a two point improvement and that’s broken down really between two items Griffin last year at $6.4 million and a warehouse loss in Latin America again in the second quarter of last year for $2.2 million that equals about a two point improvement in our combined ratio and our loss ratio.
L.P.</strong>  Okay.
So that roughly 30% expense ratio for the first half is that a reasonable run rate?  It’s hard to say a lot of that will depend on business mix.
We have written a lot more cat business which should reduce the acquisition expense ratio overall.
But it’s a very lumpy portfolio we could write one large deal with a large commission and it would move things slightly.
It doesn’t mean there is necessarily a massive change in either our strategy or the market environment.
L.P.</strong>  Got it got it.
Okay.
And Peter I’ll try on one more and if this is a long answer I’ll take it off line but it’s a short answer hopefully you can give it quickly.
Can you one more time do the deposit book business caused that $90 million of interest expense is essential because that was – that you saw what we would normally call adverse development instances booked as a deposit it shows up as higher interest expense or are you seeing something else? So that’s pretty much what we are saying the loss amount is cat and has been cat and so there is no increase in the total amount of losses that we are going to pay into the contract but since the ultimate underlying that are going up.
We will be paying our share faster than what was assumed previously.
So it literally is an acceleration of payment the amount of payments has not changed.
L.P.</strong>  Okay.
So it’s just a discounting issue a PV issue? Yes.
L.P.</strong> Got it okay.
Thank you.
Thank you and at this time I’ll turn the call over to the speakers for closing remarks.
This is Mike.
I just want to thank everybody for taking the time and the interest especially as the Insurance and Reinsurance sector earnings season winds down.
We obviously are feeling very good around here about the progress we are making this is as I said at the beginning a solid result whether that – at on a relative or absolute basis and well the call has focused on some of the reasons that we – none of us should get ahead of ourselves as we would not because we believe in the end we can do still better and we are absolutely driven to deliver that result.
We are pleased with the progress but we are nowhere near satisfied and we won’t be satisfied both until the results are wonderful and until we can tell you and look you in the eye and say that and the results are exactly what we’d expect given everything we are up to.
So we are pleased with the progress and look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thank you and this does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group plc Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley and welcome to XL Group's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast in XL's website at www.xlgroup.com and we posted to our website several documents including our quarterly financial supplement.
On our call this evening you will hear from Mike Mcgavick XL Group's CEO; Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance operations; Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive Insurance operations; and Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer.
Before they begin I’d like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
And therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of which they are made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I turn it over to Mike Mcgavick.
Thanks Dave.
Welcome to our third quarter call.
Obviously this call comes in a difficult time.
We know a lot about the third quarter and I've been looking forward to sharing it with you.
What we don't know a lot about is the event that occurred just last week with Sandy which I'm sure is on all of your minds.
The first thing to say with respect to Sandy is the most important truth about being in the risk business.
It is sadly often about human misery.
Our thoughts go out to those who are still suffering.
To respect your obvious curiosity about Sandy we'll start the call with a brief discussion of what we know.
Following this we'll discuss the third quarter in our usual way and then we will take your questions.
With Sandy we know you are working hard to understand the answers to 3 basic questions: how big is the industry loss; what is the XL loss going to be; and is this a market changing event of some kind.
I will comment on how we're thinking of the markets after Sandy Jamie will give our perspectives on the early industry loss estimates as well as what he can on XL Re.
And I'll ask Greg to talk more about what we're seeing in our insurance book from Sandy at this point.
Of course the reality is that no one really knows anything with certainty about Sandy from an overall point of view at this stage.
I would point out that even the external risks modeling group we work with most closely has not yet posted its own industry estimate.
In terms of the broader market.
I do not think Sandy ends up being a capital event for the industry at least based on what we are seeing so far.
But while Sandy might not change the industry's capital position I do believe that this may change the industry's perception of risk.
When this is all said and done I don't think any of us are going to feel that people were as well insured as they could have been.
I don't think people will feel that the region was as well prepared as it could have been as several leading elected officials have already said.
And in the end I believe the underwriting community will have to we think with care what they should charge for risks in a region with such a complex concentration of values exposed to such storms.
Now I'll turn it over to Jamie for his comments on Sandy.
Thanks Mike.
We've had very little specific information from our customer base.
Those dialogues are just beginning.
We have seen the ranges of industry loss estimates from various sources.
And as Mike mentioned one of the prominent modeling companies has not released an estimate and it's due out with information for us to work with tomorrow.
Our instinct is that the industry loss will be at the top end of the published ranges $20 billion or above.
This loss really highlights the concentration of values in the region a loss of perhaps $20 billion to the industry or above from the storm that was classified as post-tropical cyclone as it came ashore is remarkable.
We will have exposure from several sources and clearly a $20 billion market loss.
It's a significant loss to the reinsurance market broadly.
However we typically do not provide significant capacity on lower layers of New England mutual companies principally due to our historic concern over winter storm exposure.
Our capacity on those accounts would typically be skewed to the middle and upper parts of the program.
We do write a variety of national accounts.
After Katrina a number of nationwide commercial carriers increased their retention significantly.
And given the uncertainty around the impact of flood and BI on commercial carriers it's too early to predict the precise impact on individual clients.
We will also have potential exposure from our North American profit center from both the treaty which is a non-CAT property treaty book and some facultative exposures.
We do buy retrocessional coverage but at a very higher attachment point and our expectations will be that the retro program will not come into play other than some perhaps small proportion of recoveries.
So broadly our gross loss will be our net loss.
Greg? Thanks Jamie.
I'll cover 3 topics around Sandy: our reported notices of loss to date the reinsurance coverage we have in place and the generic loss example.
First after 1:00 this afternoon we have set up 175 potential claims comprised partly of loss notifications from clients and partly based on reports from brokers and the media as a result of Sandy.
This covers a wide range of risks from small claims in our general aviation book to reports from some of our large property clients.
As perspective based on prior catastrophes of these initial loss notifications roughly 50% in term to claims payable by XL Insurance as often the losses have not reached deductible attachment point or self-insured retention of the policy.
We are in the very early stages of the claims adjusting process and have adjusters moving to the impacted locations as we speak.
Next I'll turn to the reinsurance protection that we have in place for our property exposures.
First we place a property per risk coverage attaches at $25 million and runs to $600 million for our large property exposures.
We retain 45% of the first $15 million of limit which translates into a retention of $32 million per risk and we have multiple reinstatements for each layer.
In a per-event basis we buy U.S.
catastrophe program which attaches at $100 million and exhausts at $450 million.
Within the first $100 million of limit we retain 40%.
And as a result on losses of $200 million or greater we retain $140 million.
This cover protects all of our property lines of business and has 2 limits available in any one treaty year none of which have been used to date.
We also have in place various reinsurance covers that protect specific portfolios which could lower our net loss where they to come into play.
Let me be clear at this point it's too early to tell whether any of these reinsurance covers will be impacted by Sandy.
The difficulty of loss estimation is best brought to light using a specific loss example.
As always our clients' confidentiality is our utmost priority so I've taken one of our largest loss notifications and made the location and insured information generic.
The risk is real estate-driven with a large location in downtown Manhattan and numerous locations in the region.
Based on our modeling and post-event processes we have identified 15 locations in the impacted areas.
In total the insured value for the entire schedule is over $1 billion and XL's full loss limit is $250 million.
As a result of our underwriting approach to flood we provided $25 million flood supplement and we bought $15 million of facultative reinsurance covering flood and other perils.
In terms of damage we do know the lower Manhattan location had substantial water in the basement and the recovery process at that location began on Wednesday of last week.
We have adjusters at or on the way to all these locations.
But at this point we do not have a loss estimate.
It is worth noting that business interruption and contingent business interruption losses resulting from flood are included within the flood limit and not in addition to this sublimit.
In short even in the worst-case scenario our loss from this risk as a result of flood cannot exceed $10 million.
Mike? Thank you both.
With that we'll turn to our third quarter results.
Our third quarter results are solid and in line with what we have been suggesting would happen.
Our margins expanded resulting from 3 main drivers.
First and this pleases us most is the fact that our underwriting operations on an ex-CAT ex-PYD basis provided the real substance of our improvement.
With our Insurance segment delivering a 70 -- or excuse me a 94.7 ex-CAT ex-PYD combined ratio this is directionally consistent with our work and what we're trying to do.
We are delighted to see it coming through.
Second we have fewer catastrophes in the quarter which was of course helpful.
This has been true at XL as it has been true around the industry at least until Sandy.
And third we have positive PYD.
While it's relatively light in this quarter it was a nice contributor.
You'll recall that next quarter is the one in which we take a deep examination of our reserves and we'll see what that reveals.
Of course you'll want to know is this how we'll perform from now on.
We'd say there's still work to do.
But every day we are moving further along.
More of this positive trend is a result of our actions and less of it is fortuity.
Still we'd say that we are not done with our re-underwriting until we are regularly delivering a combined ratio of around 90%.
Reinsurance continues to deliver with an 86% combined ratio in the third quarter.
While this is up from the nearly 79% combined ratio in the third quarter a year ago only 5.4% of this difference is driven by the $26 million in crop losses an amount in line with what we forecast to you in our second quarter call in addition to some modest CAT activities.
Crop as we have previously discussed with you also explains our lower reinsurance premiums written reflecting the decision last year by a leading agricultural MGA to be purchased by another reinsurance firm.
All in we reported an overall P&amp;C combined ratio of 92.2%.
This is 9 points better than our quarter 3 last year.
We had significant gains in our Investment Portfolio mark-to-market.
And as a result our fully diluted tangible book value per share is now at $32.82.
This is up 7% in the quarter and is 16% higher than where we began the year.
We think our 7.7% ROE for the year-to-date given the overall economic environment and the lower turn on interest rates is solid.
Is it where I want -- is it we where we want it to be? No.
But again we're on the right path and this is directionally consistent with everything we have shared with you.
So all of these indicators are pleasing us.
At the same time you would guess that -- we would guess that you might be curious about what is going on with the top line.
This is a bit more complicated so let me spend a moment on it and then Greg and Jamie will expand on this further.
We did see good growth in the quarter when you take to account 3 factors that offset it.
The first has been mentioned before the crop book that was sold affecting reinsurance premiums written.
Second was the impact of the re-underwriting of our European property operations where we have been willing to shed underpriced business.
And third foreign exchange.
Excluding these 3 factors our overall growth rate was 5% and we are growing strongly where we are profitable and thus remixing the business toward more profitable lines.
Turning briefly to pricing.
We continue to see improvement across the vast majority of our lines especially in Insurance.
And this progress has accelerated in the quarter.
In some lines we are now seeing the compounding benefits of rate-on-rate year-over-year.
So you can see that for the third quarter XL had a terrific result we're very pleased and we are driven to continue this kind of progress.
With that I'll turn it over to Pete to discuss the financials in more detail.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating income for the third quarter was $188 million or $0.61 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to operating income of $89 million or $0.28 per share in the third quarter of 2011.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio was 9.4 points better at 92.2% in the same quarter last year.
Our accident year combined ratio was 94.7% or 8.3 points better than the same quarter last year due to a lower level of both CAT activity and non-CAT large losses.
Prior development in the quarter was a favorable $37 million or 2.5 loss ratio points with $36 million of this favorable development attributable to the Reinsurance segment.
As we have outlined on previous earnings calls Q3 is what we refer to as an actual versus expected quarter for our entire Insurance segment and our U.S.
Reinsurance business.
The $36 million redundancy in our Reinsurance segment in the quarter related to our non-U.S.
Casualty and other shorter-tail Reinsurance businesses where we review reserves quarterly with more comprehensive assumption updates performed annually.
We experienced positive movements in our property marine and aviation lines.
Our operating expenses for the third quarter were up 23.4% year-over-year driven by higher compensation costs and to a lesser extent certain severance costs and costs supporting our strategic initiatives.
The overall operating expense increase is higher than the recent run rate almost exclusively due to the impact of improving financial results on our performance-based compensation plans and our pay-for-performance culture.
We think this is exactly the right compensation philosophy to drive XL forward and incentivize and reward our colleagues.
It's important to note that in the third quarter of 2011 the exact opposite occurred and compensation costs were reduced due to the same performance-based measures.
Excluding these variable compensation cost we expect operating expense levels to be in line with what we have communicated to you since the fourth quarter of 2011 earnings call.
The total return of our investment portfolio was strong at 2.5% for the quarter.
This contributed to book value growth with a positive mark-to-market of $521 million.
This is driven primarily by significant tightening of credit spreads most notably on our structured credit portfolios.
At $166 million net investment income on the P&amp;C portfolio in the third quarter was 20.9% below the prior year due primarily to lower reinvestment rates.
There was also significant decline in P&amp;C net investment income of 11.7% from the second quarter.
There were 4 primary drivers of this quarterly decline 2 that you would expect based upon our published book yields: lower reinvestment rates between maturing bonds and new money rates and also higher cash levels held by us given the heightened tail risks emanating out of Europe over the summer.
Two other factors impacting this quarter's net investment income were reduced income on our inflation-protected portfolio due to lower inflation in Q2 and accelerated premium amortization on our agency mortgage-backed securities due to lower rates in an environment of ongoing quantitative easing.
We expect net investment income will remain under pressure given interest rate levels.
The P&amp;C gross book yield at the end of the quarter was 3% down from 3.1% at the end of Q2.
The average new money rate on our P&amp;C portfolio was 1.9%.
We estimate that approximately $3.8 billion of P&amp;C assets with an average gross book yield of 3.2% will mature and paid down over the next 12 months.
We've added further details on this in our financial supplement at the bottom of Schedule 3.
Our net invest -- our net income from investment affiliates was $9 million down $15 million from the prior year.
This was driven by a weak second quarter from our investment manager affiliates compared to strong results in the prior year quarter which have benefited from the sale of our -- of one of our manager affiliates.
As previously discussed our investment manager affiliate results are reported on a one-quarter lag.
The alternative and private investment portfolios had satisfactory results.
Realized losses on investments were $6 million compared to realized losses of $62 million in the prior-year quarter.
The third quarter results included $13 million in OTTI charges compared to $67 million in the prior-year quarter.
Our effective tax rate in the quarter was lower than historical levels due to both several discrete items and a re-estimation of our expected full year effective tax rate from 12% to 11%.
We continue to buy back our ordinary shares purchasing and canceling 5.3 million ordinary shares at an average cost of $23.44 in the third quarter.
For the year-to-date we have repurchased 16.2 million ordinary shares at an average cost of $21.63 leaving $400 million remaining available for purchase under the current program.
I'll now turn it over to Greg to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete.
Tonight I'll cover the Insurance segment results for the quarter the performance of certain businesses recent talent changes and current market conditions.
Beginning with the results I'm pleased to report that we continue to make measurable improvements as our combined ratio for the quarter is 95.3% or 17 points lower than the same quarter last year.
To put this into perspective this is our best performance since the fourth quarter of 2008.
On the loss side our reported loss ratio of 63.3%  was 19.2 points better than last year.
Limited CAT activity accounts for 7.2 points of this improvement as we incurred $10 million in CAT losses during the quarter largely from hurricane Isaac compared to nearly $70 million in the third quarter of 2011.
Prior-year development accounts for 2.4 points of improvement as there was some strengthening in the third quarter of 2011 as opposed to a small release this quarter.
But most importantly our current accident quarter loss ratio excluding CATs were 62.6% improving by 9.6 points year-over-year.
While much of this improvement is driven by very strong results in our North American and international property books we continue to see measurable progress in many of our businesses.
In fact our accident core loss ratio excluding large account property business improved by 2.5 points year-over-year.
Given the inherent volatility in quarter results it's important to note that our current accident year ex-CAT loss ratio stands at 66.5% through 3 quarters an almost 7-point improvement over last year.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by $28 million or 2.5% in the quarter after normalizing for foreign exchange.
This growth reflects continued success in our targeted new businesses such as Political Risk North American Construction and E&amp;S as well as increase in opportunities in our core Hartford professional portfolio.
I'll say in this growth is our measured underlying discipline where we're reducing writings in those businesses with unacceptable margins such as guaranteed cost workers' compensation international property and selected programs.
This leads into an update on the 7 businesses we have previously referred to as challenged.
The combined ratio for the challenged portfolio in the quarter was 90.1% benefiting from strong results in our international property book.
Excluding international property the combined ratio of the remaining challenged businesses was 103.3% on a calendar and accident year basis which is an improvement of what we reported in the first and second quarters of this year.
This improvement reflects our continued execution of corrective underwriting actions many of which we have discussed in previous quarters as well as improved pricing of more than 5% this quarter.
Both the challenge and the performing portfolios had improved accident quarter loss ratios relative to the second quarter of this year as well as the third quarter of 2011.
It's important to note that while we continue to improve or surgically remove poor performing sublines we are strategically growing other components of the challenged businesses such as property railroad and umbrella lines in our E&amp;S book large risk management business in our North American primary casualty book as well as new programs in our select professional portfolio.
As noted last quarter to be in line with how we manage our businesses we're going to shift our future discussions away from the collection of businesses we identified as challenged at the beginning of the year and going forward will focus on any sub-portfolio in any business that needs corrective action.
In particular we've decided to close our upper middle-market business in North America.
We have retained the portfolio of environmental-related property and casualty business as well as a few accounts that will transition to a risk management policy.
We will continue to write upper middle-market accounts in many of our businesses.
But in particular any clients that have growing international operations as our global network allows us to deliver a unique offering to the market.
Moving on to talent.
We continued to enhance our teams throughout the segment.
We added Chris Dougherty as CFO and David Vavrasek as Head of HR to our already strong Insurance leadership.
We appointed Ian Brandt [ph] as Chief Underwriting Officer of our IPC Property business and he joined us in just 2 weeks.
We added Alfred Bergbauer and Barbara Luck to our North America Primary Casualty management team.
We also added underwriting talent to our marine team in Chicago our international casualty team throughout Europe and the U.K.
and we opened a new international upper middle-market underwriting office in Leon France.
Finally let's turn to current market conditions.
In the third quarter we saw a repeat of the second quarter with positive rate indications in most of our businesses and overall segment rate increase of just over 3%.
North American Property &amp; Casualty continues to show the most strength with rate increase by almost 8% led by double-digit rate increases in our Excess Casualty and E&amp;S businesses.
Our overall professional portfolio also had another solid quarter with increases of nearly 3%.
In the quarter 20 out of our 24 businesses generated rate increases and the only disappointment was a 2% rate decrease in our international casualty portfolio.
We remain convinced that positive rates is needed broadly and in particular our long-tail lines of business given persistently low investment returns.
In summary I am proud of what our Insurance team has accomplished through 3 quarters.
While a degree of fortuity helped particularly in our short-tail portfolio the hard work of the last year has already showed through in our improved results.
However we are still short of our ultimate goal and I can assure you that XL will continue to focus on underwriting diligence as expansion of margin continues to be our utmost priority.
And now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance results.
Thanks Greg.
XL Re had a very good quarter with a combined ratio of 86% producing an underwriting profit of $67 million.
This compares to a combined of 78.8% in the third quarter of 2011.
Our result was positively impacted by $35.7 million of prior-year reserve releases which compares to $39.8 million a year ago.
Excluding the impact of both prior-year reserve releases and CAT losses the segment had a combined ratio of 88% which compares to the 80% achieved in the third quarter of 2011.
The quarter was also impacted by $26 million from the drought conditions impacting our U.S.
crop portfolio.
As we mentioned in our last earnings call the 2 sources of exposure to the drought are from our U.S.
and Bermuda profit centers.
The loss in the quarter breaks down to $20 million of reserves for the Bermuda stop loss book and $6.1 million from our U.S.-based proportional book specifically the Heartland Crop account.
In both cases we've reserved the book at levels above the range as suggested by the impacted clients.
We are confident that the potential for significant deterioration in the fourth quarter is unlikely.
Turning to top line.
Gross written premiums in the quarter were $417 million which compares to $619 million in the third quarter of last year.
As we have advised the Heartland program converted from a primary facility with significant reinsurance ceded to a reinsurance assumed treaty this year.
So year-on-year gross written premium comparisons are misleading in this case.
If you use the net premium written from Heartland in 2011 to do a like-for-like comparison our gross written premium last year would have been $436 million so we reduced by 4% in the quarter year on year.
This 4% drop was due to selected cancellations in the U.S.
and Latin American portfolios.
On a year-to-date basis again adjusting Heartland in 2011 to the same treatment we currently have our gross written premium would have moved from $1.73 billion to $1.85 billion this year an increase of 6.9%.
Turning to market conditions.
We spoke of our midyear renewals on last quarter's call and I would again describe them as satisfactory although candidly we did not get the level of risk adjusted improvement in the U.S.
CAT book that we quoted and expected.
We've attended a number of industry conferences over the last 2 months and the expectation until last week was for a reasonably smooth renewal season in the property CAT space with the benign hurricane season potentially having some downward pressure on U.S.
pricing.
With the impact of Sandy there's now some question as to how the rest of the year will develop.
If as we expect the upper end of the industry loss estimates becomes reality I would have to expect year-end pricing to be impacted.
One of the characteristics of the CAT market is it responds very quickly to major market events.
While there is abundant capacity available the typical placement process on large accounts requires a clearing process on the pricing for market leaders to unlock this capacity fully.
This is a heavily syndicated market and no one can forecast with precision what will take place at year end but I suspect assumptions about year-end pricing have been adjusted over the course of the last week.
Ours certainly has.
On the long-tail side I would reiterate Greg's comments.
While we see general improvement in the pricing environment based on our audit work and negotiations with clients there remains plenty of room for additional progress before we would declare the market as rate-adequate based on in-current investment yields.
In addition we continue to see customers absorb additional retention both vertically through co-participation or in cases entire treaties dropped.
During this particular quarter our U.S.
Casualty team lost an $11 million premium account due to the ceding company absorbing the entire treaty at renewal.
Overall we are very pleased to produce an excellent underwriting result and we look forward to an action active renewal season.
With that I'll turn it back to David for Q&amp;A.
Shirley please open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Jay Cohen with BofA Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One thing just to confirm the -- on the Reinsurance side the CAT losses those are separate from the crop losses? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Second these are relatively short.
The second question the premiums in the business that you dropped the upper to middle-market business on the Insurance side what kind of premiums are we talking about there? Should we be adjusting our models for that? It's Greg Hendrick.
All in when you keep the business that we wanted to keep the environmental and the risk management components too is about $50 million of premium.
I don't think -- we will -- we are growing in other areas I don't think that's a major number but that's what the previous portfolio of pure middle-market North America business was.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then just last question.
PC investment income.
You'd obviously talked about some of those issues that impacted this quarter was a big drop off from the last quarter.
I was just wondering if you could talk about what an ongoing number looks like? How much of what you saw this quarter was unique to this quarter and would not be ongoing? Sure Jay.
It’s Pete.
So let me break it into the 4 components that I spoke about.
The drop in yields I mean that's going to continue to recur.
That was about 1/3 of the decrease.
The adjustment on the fixed securities would have been another 1/3.
In essence the inflation underlying that tips [ph] went from 1% in the prior quarter to just under 0 on average in the second quarter.
So that was also about 1/3.
The agency amortization would have been a little bit less than a 1/3.
Again it's -- I mean I certainly can't predict what's going to happen but it doesn't feel like they're going to -- rates are going to continue to drop enough to continue to change the amortization of those.
And the last piece which is the smallest one was the cash and that cash is already being put back to work in the investment portfolio.
Your next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> So just to clarify on the net investment income once again.
Would this quarter's number be the run rate for the future? Or are you seeing that there was some onetime items in that? So I would say it's not a run rate the one caveat that I would give you is that there will be pressure on investment income just because of reduced yields right.
And so the number is going down quarter-to-quarter but 3 out of the 4 I would say were not run rate items.
So I would expect it not to be -- it would not to be a run rate just make sure you think about the drop in yields and how that's going to flow through.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So you're saying that the base number is slightly higher.
But from that level we'll have a lower investment income going forward? I mean is that the way to think about it? It would be higher than the $166 million certainly right? But at the same time there will be continued pressure on the net investment income.
Research Division</strong> Good that's helpful.
The second question is for Hurricane Sandy and thanks for giving some detail on the Reinsurance program.
But trying to wrap my head around on the primary Insurance operations last year for Hurricane Irene you had about a $200 million gross loss about $100 million net loss.
Just want to get a sense for -- where things are right now the industry loss estimate is about $20 billion for Sandy.
It was about $4.3 billion for Irene.
Simplistically just multiplying it by 4 seems too simple.
Can you help us understand how we should think of scaling it? This is Greg Hendrick.
First of all Vinay you can't scale it.
Every event is a unique event the pattern of the storm where the exposures are where the water piles up in this particular case unfortunately for so many people.
But let me give you a little bit of color so hope I can explain why I think these are totally unrelated.
First the $200 million and $100 million was from Irene and Lee combined both.
There was -- there were a bit losses that triggered out of Lee that because of all the saturation from Irene produced flooding.
Second it was dominated by 2 large corporate insurance where we were the lead carrier.
In other words we issued 100% of the policy in the United States.
We booked as gross the 100% loss from those locations and then cede off to the captive or the coinsurers a portion of that loss.
As of this point in time there aren't any notifications that look anything like what we had on those 2 losses in Irene and Lee.
Clearly very early days that's not a promise or commitment.
It's just what the facts are as I have them at the moment.
So those are couple of reasons why you really can't draw parallels from one to the other.
Our next question comes from Paul Newsome with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I actually was hoping we could step back from hurricane Sandy and just kind of get some big picture comments thinking about the quarter.
7% ROE probably not where you want to be but the combined ratio is actually kind of where you are is not bad at all.
So can we talk about steps longer term to get you to a cost of capital? Yes this is Mike.
Clearly as I said in my comments 7.7% ROE is not where we want to be.
We do think that the -- that it's critical to continue to expand our margins so that we can get back to double-digit ROEs.
And that's very much the drive we are on.
We have said that we thought we could drive meaningful margin expansion in this quarter and that we thought we could get through more acceptable returns on an absolute and relative basis in the next year.
To me this quarter is a very much in line with that thinking.
We've shown a continued willingness to buy a bit more back in on the capital side than we had forecasted at the beginning of the year which is in line with the stronger earnings we've been able to deliver.
We have been able to continue to drive down the combined ratio particularly in our Insurance operation where it was not where we wanted and we very much like the trend there as well especially when combined with what we're seeing in rate across the book.
So taken as a whole these are exactly the actions that we expected to be able to get us back to the levels you described.
And there's nothing that I would change in what we're doing to deliver that result.
We just have to keep at it with real rigor and real discipline.
And then as we work our way back through the book and get the chance at the rate that we've been describing we're getting the math starts to continue to change in the direction we all desire.
So we're very pleased.
Paul it's Pete.
I'd only add that as these marks continue to -- bad choice of words but pile up it's just hitting us and everyone else in the industry.
It is going to get tougher and tougher to achieve the corporate ROEs that we've talked about because those were all been sort of ex-AOCI [ph] and the numbers that we're publishing included.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
But is this -- could you talk about maybe just as we think about getting to cost of capital is rate or how much is it rightsizing the business relative to the capital? I'm going to give you a couple of general comments and then I'll call any of my colleagues to add.
The most important thing from our point of view the thing that we have to make our true north star is our underwriting results.
We are driven at this company operating somewhere around 90% as a combined ratio.
We believe that is achievable.
We believe that we're working on exactly the right things to deliver that.
Once you get there it's possible I suppose that the continued diminishment of investment yield it's slow erosion combined with if it were to continue continued adding of capital due to marks you could get to an equation that doesn't get you there but I'd be a bit surprised by that.
In the end with the marks having reversed themselves so severely it seems to me that that's going to be pretty fluid.
You still have Europe pouncing around out there.
And somewhere out there who knows where or with what impetus you're going to have some kind of normalization around interest rates.
So we have to plan our life around what we can control.
And our best things to control are continuing as we have said to not add to capital it's not our intention over time.
And then at the same time experience profitable growth at the kinds of levels which we have described here.
And at the same time get ourselves to kind of a nice combine.
I think that equation is a very healthy equation over time.
And that's what we continue to do bit by bit.
But I don't think where we are calls for any change.
It calls for continuing to do what we know we're doing.
And our next question comes from Mike Zaremski with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In regards to the LIBOR issue we know that at least one reinsurer put up IBNR reserves due to casualty class reinsurance policies.
Do you have an updated view on potential LIBOR claims? And related have reserves been increased in international lines which are exposed to LIBOR? And I have one follow-up.
Yes Mike I'll comment.
Generally you've seen some information in the marketplace about programs in recent calls I know.
Just to be clear we are not participants in those types of programs.
Obviously we write and write a good book direct D&amp;O exposure.
And I'm going to turn it over to Greg to comment on our particular book and what -- frankly we're not seeing it.
Yes I'll be brief.
Mike as I said last quarter there's so many variables that play here.
We are just -- we're not able to give an estimate of losses.
But what loss there is to be covered is very uncertain as well as how the coverages might apply.
We are in the process through the fourth quarter reserve review that we are going down and diving into each insured the potential exposure and our coverage around it.
And we'll work through the process as we go through the fourth quarter.
Of course I would not hold that out.
There was a promise that we will have it solved in the fourth quarter completely but that is a process we're going through at the moment.
There's unfortunately no update at this time other than we're not able to put out certain number around it.
I would just add that from the time of the financial crisis in 2008 because of the unusual circumstances in line with what we have learned over the years going back to Sarb-Ox and so on we have maintained the clash load.
We maintained it through Madoff.
We've maintained -- and then it seems like every couple of years the industry seems to give us something else to maintain it for.
That clash load currently is around 20 points on the loss ratios in that segment of our business.
And whether LIBOR will in fact take a bite out of that it's hard at this stage to tell.
It's just -- when you're looking at it risk by risk rather than as a clash event it is very hard to know how this will play out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And lastly for Pete the tax rate looked low this quarter what drove that? And should we -- what should we think about for 4Q if Sandy losses come through? So as I said in the call there were -- it was a series of discrete items and then it take down from 12% to 11% for the annualized -- for the expectation for the annual right.
So that would be the number that we would say we would have expected for the fourth quarter.
It would have been the 11% rather than the 12%.
And the other difference would have been discrete items.
We settled an open exam favorably and a couple of other smaller items.
The complication here of course is the way -- is the right question on Sandy right and what does this mean.
It all has to do with what legal entities the business resides in.
So to the extent that the losses would be predominantly in Bermuda that would take our effective tax rate up for the quarter right because we'd have losses without any tax benefit.
To the extent that they're in taxable jurisdictions it would have less of that negative impact.
So I can't -- since we don't know what the Sandy losses are we surely don't know what they are by legal entities.
So it's too soon to tell.
My expectation all in is that it will drive our effective tax rate up.
But to how much that I can't say.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So this point given the uncertainty around Sandy I mean how are you thinking about buybacks for the fourth quarter and kind of capital deployment in that sense? And I imagine it's sort of a wait-and-see or does this kind of your capital deployment program sort of supersede that? And there's just one follow-up.
So this is Pete Mike.
So if you go back and look certainly over the last year or so you have seen that it is -- we have tried to be consistent with our buyback program.
We are very very comfortable with our capital levels.
So we have bought back in quarters when other companies don't right when suppose they win quarters.
And we've also bought back -- if you look at last year we bought back $670 million of stock and that we had significant catastrophe losses impacting our results.
So we don't see any -- as of now we don't see this as a stop buybacks.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's really helpful.
And then I have one question.
I mean in terms of -- I mean there's obviously another storm potentially coming who knows what sort of impact it will have but I have one question about business interruption.
If you have a business interruption event from the last storm.
And then before that's cleared you have another event how do you account for or how does the industry account for the time if the second event delays the interruption period? Mike it's Greg Hendrick.
Certainly the answer is going to depend on policy by policy what the form says.
We have some policies written under our own form.
We have some business written on broker manuscript forms and we have some of our smaller businesses in E&amp;S and programs where each policy is slightly different.
In general the history has been that when you're not able to differentiate between the damage that was caused and it's exacerbating existing damage that will be picked up as part of the original loss event.
But it will be a case-by-case and we saw it in 2004 in Florida with all the intersecting storms.
It became more and more difficult to determine what loss went to what storm.
You did the best you can and get the adjusters out there as fast as you can to set the baseline.
But by and large it goes back to the original event if it extends the waiting period.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just one last one maybe for Mike on -- you mentioned the 90% combined ratio goal and you talked about a double-digit ROE.
I just kind of looking at the numbers I find it hard to get to a double-digit ROE with a 90% combined overall.
And then maybe I'm just doing something wrong but is it -- if it's not yield because the investment income is kind of what it is is it operating leverage or some other -- is there another lever that allows those 2 kind of data points to meet? I already answered it.
It is operating leverage.
Our next question comes from Ryan Burns with Lane McLaney [ph].
Quickly on your accident year loss ratio excluding CATs in the Insurance segment where there any takedowns from first half of 2012 reserves? Yes there was.
We had booked based on what we had seen at the end of the fourth quarter of 2011 particularly on our short-tail lines what we thought was an appropriate loss ratio on the Property business roughly speaking was about 3 points in the quarter for Q1 and Q2.
For Q1 and Q2.
Okay got you.
And then I guess quickly I guess holistically obviously with rate increases and lower loss cost inflation as well as I guess re-underwriting the books is there a targeted on accident year loss ratio? Or where is your target or I guess where's the ultimate goal? Where can you guys drive this do you think? Well on a combined overall we're seeking to push down to 90.
When we budget around here we don't count in PYD.
The losses in the past we have reserved to what we think is appropriate and then it develops as it develops.
So when we set our budgets we have in mind an accident year 90 is the target that we're driving towards.
Our next question comes from Ian Gutterman with Adage Capital.
L.P.</strong> Pete can I get one more clarification on the rest of income I'm still a little confused.
The inflation impact in MBS are you -- it seems you're saying those were sort of catch-ups and that's why they're not run rate going forward? I mean I would think of inflation is lower going forward too.
No.
So separate -- I'll have Sarah chime in here but separate the tips adjustment from the agency-backed ones.
So the tips adjustment is whatever the inflation rate was in the prior quarter rolls through that income.
So if inflation is 1% right you get a certain amount of return and at 0% you get another amount of return.
For us that delta was about $8 million in the current quarter.
L.P.</strong> And why wouldn't it be $8 million again next quarter if inflation stays low? Inflation is not rebounding.
Well because -- so quarter-to-quarter we've already recognized the fact that it was at 0.
So if it's at 0 again next quarter the quarter-to-quarter delta would be 0 because it depends.
L.P.</strong> Got it.
So there's a catch-up then.
Okay got it.
And the MBS is similar it's a onetime adjustment.
If it stays where it is it's not going to cause an incremental? If it stays where it is it would not cause an incremental.
L.P.</strong> Perfect okay.
And then Jamie on the $20 billion or more estimate on Sandy do have any thoughts on personal versus commercial break down of that? Yes.
I mean you've seen a lot of commentary out there that's suggesting it's sort of 60-40 personal and commercial.
My own view is that in the end it's going to grow to be more of commercial lines loss than personal.
So again my opinion only flip it say 60-40 commercial to personal.
L.P.</strong> Interesting.
And then on pricing impact.
Obviously I can understand why you would drive pricing in the Northeast and on national accounts or Northeast-heavy.
Do you think it's going to have much of an impact on sort of regional Florida-only Gulf-only type capacity as well? Who knows Ian? All I can say is that as I said before there was a lot of discussion earlier in the fall in the convention circuit about downward pressure on U.S.
rates.
And again as I said it's a heavily syndicated market.
A couple of bad actors can't keep rates down.
I just simply think that people are going to reevaluate where their pricing will be now that we've had this episode.
And I'm not sure I can forecast what it's going to do region by region.
Just suffice it to say that the atmosphere has changed over the last week.
L.P.</strong> Got it.
And Greg would you mind answering a question from an insurance perspective? The Fortune 100-type property accounts I assume will get pricing.
Anything beyond that you're think about at this point? Well I think Mike touched on it.
Anything with a great deal of uncertainty on the tail will have to be reexamined and looked at and gives you more confidence to your underwriters to go out and seek those rate increases that we need to get.
We've had a lot of momentum in our E&amp;S line of business.
We expect that to continue now but it will be a case-by-case.
What is of interest to me Ian is the read through the -- through to long-tail lines to everybody starts to wake up that we've been in this low investment return period that we're pricing the risk probably below where we need to be at and then we get a little more oomph behind that momentum as well.
But time will tell.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Matthew Heimermann with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> Jamie first question for you just a comment you made on retention.
I mean if you're not the only company to mention that retention trend to some extent it feels like it's been ongoing for the last several years or just maybe not gotten as many headlines on the casualty side as perhaps on the property side where people were doing it more to mitigate spend and balance out rate increases when they were thinking about purchasing.
So I guess with companies having -- being more comfortable writing that business and prices going up is this a trend you expect to continue to see on the reinsurance side? And if so should we think about there's something that's coming disproportionately from kind of the large nationwide-type writer? Or is this something you worry about spilling in maybe into some of the smaller regional companies who we might normally think about as more consistent in their buying? I worry less so about those companies Matthew.
They tend to be more conservative in their balance sheet management.
But clearly with larger companies the retention trend has been there for 5 years or so.
And frankly if you look at loss cost and so forth that hasn't been an irrational decision.
I do think we'll have opportunities to write business going forward.
There is always new opportunities companies going into new lines of business trying to buy reinsurance as they ramp up.
But I don't view large account casualty reinsurance as something that may necessarily bounce back as hard as it has in other past hardening markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when we think about your book at like what percentage of the book is kind of safe versus -- and in plays so a little bit too dramatic of a word.
But is probably -- what part of your book is immune versus to be determined as your going out.
Well let's talk about what happened to our casualty book overall over the last 5 years and it's for a variety of reasons.
And I would say retention is probably been not the biggest one frankly.
The largest recently has gotten smaller it's because we just don't like the return profile of the portfolio.
So we are down really particularly in the U.S.
to those companies that we believe in the long run have a good earnings potential based on their underwriting expertise and so forth.
I don't view those accounts as necessarily more at risk by increased retention.
It's not the very very very largest national writers.
It's a variety of companies.
But we produce the portfolio more around return profiles than retention although retention has been an issue.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And I guess part of my rational for asking this was just I want to get a sense right.
We've seen some business remixing over the last couple of years which had a net favorable impact on loss ratio and also risk-adjusted return we would argue.
So I guess is that potentially -- is that trend which I had kind of thought about being potentially played out is there potentially more room to go there? I'm not sure.
We're going to have to see how the market evolve.
We love the Casualty business.
It's just been -- based on our -- the way we price the business which is a very realistic view of primary rates coupled with duration matching the liability profile of that book against investment profile it's just hasn't been as attractive as the short-tail lines business over the last 4 5 years.
It's not to say it can't come back.
If we go back -- again we've said this before there's a big difference from the way we view rate adequacy on a CAT book and the way we view it on the Casualty book.
And the Casualty market we're attached to the hip to the primary market because we are writing quote sharing insurance working et cetera.
I don't necessarily -- again I don't necessarily think we're predisposed to go one way or another.
We remix the business based -- the book of business based on what we see out there.
It's just so happened over the last 5 years shortening the tail of the book has been the only rational way forward as we've seen it.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
And then just on the -- I guess for Greg just on the short-tail book impact on the first half loss re-estimation I wasn't quite sure since you've said short-tail specific how I should translate that just into the quarter if you could bottom line that.
And then would that be all the favorable year-over-year impact you talked about in the short tail? Or was there any other kind of frequency benefit as well? Sure.
The impact in the quarter from Q1 and Q2 is about 3 points.
So we had 3 points better performance based on the reserve that we have put up for Q1 and Q2 on the short-tail lines.
There isn't anything else that comes to mind that would have impacted the loss ratio significantly.
L.P.</strong> Okay.
So in the press release when you talk about improved large loss activity year-over-year that's -- I should think about that tying directly to 300.
300? To 3 points.
Research Division</strong> To the 300 basis point improvement yes.
Yes sorry.
Yes 300 basis points yes.
Our final question comes from Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So listen I'd love to just get a sense.
When you think about suggesting that your intuition has the modeled estimates rising to $20 billion or so level in the industry sort of playing out at that level is there anything in your data that's driving that? Or is this just sort of your intuition having sort of seen this story before in thinking about the various biases of the models with respect to [indiscernible] Josh it's largely intuition.
But based on what we've [indiscernible] LLC.
Research Division</strong> Then the final question I think this is probably for Greg.
A very helpful example of a typical policy.
I was just trying to make sure I understood.
So you suggested I think that the gross sublimit was $25 million for a $1 billion schedule of insured value? Is that per-facility charge? Or is that for the entire customer and all the potential flood exposures only $25 million? Josh it was $250 million gross sublimit for all risks.
It's $25 million flood for all locations sublimit.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So hypothetically...
And then we further bought that down with facultative reinsurance of $15 million down to $10 million.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I see.
So as a practical matter when a policy like that assuming it's not all non-wage and you'd be thinking of that the $10 million -- for net to you guys $10 million of exposure but you might see an industry loss associated with something like hypothetically a $25 million in each of the facilities assuming they all weren't in the same place is the right way to think about how that might that stack up? $25 million across all the locations not each and every.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So I'm sorry to be slow here but so you're saying that even with all $1 billion of exposure there would only be sort of 2.5% of the total amount would be available for flood even if multiple exposures were impacted -- or multiple locations? Correct.
And Josh sorry to interrupt let me -- I just want to make sure I'm clear.
This is an example from the largest loss notification that we have so far.
So it is not meant to be typical of the risks that we have reported as part of the $175 million right? This is the largest of the bunch.
So don't read across $10 million each and every loss notification.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Well actually I was impressed it was so small.
I think you’re listening [ph] now Josh.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes is that the net -- is this what's driving -- is this driving your thought that people are going to come out of this and feel like they've been underinsured and even large commercial accounts that probably thought they were on top of these issues? This is certainly a case for the large commercial business.
The personal lines which of course is the more tragic of the story because it affects so many more people is a combination of what's going to be covered by the flood program what's going to be covered by private carriers.
And when that's all added up how much of the loss will actually be reimbursed by some form of insurance.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just for clarity this would cover business interruption and similar purchases CBI where you sell that as well? LLC.
Research Division</strong> As a result of -- of losses resulting from flood yes.
And at this time I'll turn the call back over to speakers for closing remarks.
Well it's a feeling I've had many times in our industry and I know those of us at this table are feeling it now.
It's a strange set of emotions on one hand we were looking very much forward to reporting this quarter to you because it is -- it speaks I think well to the progress that the firm is making and the trajectory that we're on.
At the same time we have this new event and that event has a number of really terrible elements that we're watching around the region and even some in this room are experiencing so it's a difficult effect.
But at the same time we just want to give you our views because as clearly as we could.
We appreciate that you've been patient with us with respect to Sandy.
I've just -- it isn't that much that one can know at this stage.
And we can promise that we will be back to you as soon as we feel confident we have our arms around it with as much clarity as we can give.
So thank you very much for your time tonight and we look forward to paths crossing soon.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group plc Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dave Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley and welcome to XL Group's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast in XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
And we posted to our website several documents including our quarterly financial supplement.
On our call this evening you'll hear from Mike Mcgavick XL Group's CEO will offer our opening remarks.
Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer will review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive Insurance Operations; and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions and we'll open it up to questions.
Among those also available for questions are Susan Cross our Global Chief Actuary; Sarah Street our Chief Investment Officer; and Stephen Robb our Controller.
Before they begin I’d like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
And therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date in which they are made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I turn it over to Mike Mcgavick.
Good evening.
We're pleased to report that 2012 was a year of progress across XL and our fourth quarter continued that momentum.
A year ago we committed to expand margins and we were able to do so due to a combination of price increases greater underwriting vigor and being more disciplined about our spending while also benefiting from a benign year as with respect to non-CAT large losses.
We also said we would buy back shares.
We estimated that we would buy back about $400 million worth and maybe more if the year progressed better than we expected.
In the end we bought back about $500 million in shares that we associate with our 2012 performance $402 million during the year itself and another $98 million in January a delay made necessary by the uncertainty around the losses caused by Superstorm Sandy.
And in connection with buying back our shares I would observe that this level could go higher in 2013 if the year plays out as we expect.
It is not our goal to expand our capital buffer but rather to keep it level.
As we enter 2013 we intend to keep grinding away at what we must do to keep our progress going.
As mentioned we know from what we've heard so far in the earnings season it is clear that 2012 was in many ways a light large loss year for the industry.
These kinds of years come and go.
What we feel best about is that with the tighter management processes we had been driving home these past several years if 2013 were to be to an above-average year for large losses for the industry we will perform much better than we have in the past.
So let me share some other results from the fourth quarter.
Of course the most notable event was Sandy one of the top 3 insured storm losses in history and devastating to many on the East Coast.
XL's current loss estimate of $355 million is in line with what we provided in our December release and we think is a continuing example of solid risk management and underwriting.
Greg and Jamie will provide more detail in a moment.
But looking beyond Sandy it is pleasing to us that our underwriting operations on an ex-CAT ex-PYD basis continued to trend in the right direction.
Our Insurance segment delivered a 96.5 ex-CAT ex-PYD combined ratio for the quarter.
This segment was about breakeven for the year on the same basis even after the very challenging quarter one results.
But as we told you before we won't be satisfied with our underwriting in this segment until we are regularly delivering a combined ratio of around 90%.
The trend is in the right direction and we are pleased with the momentum.
Reinsurance even after taking the brunt of our Sandy losses had a combined ratio of 104.4% for the quarter and 96.9% for the full year on an all-in basis.
We are very pleased by these underwriting results.
Turning to reserves.
As you know every second and fourth quarter we make a deep examination -- someone just said I got the number wrong 86.9% was the full year combined on Reinsurance.
Thank you.
We are very pleased as I said by those results.
Turning to reserves as you know every second and fourth quarter we make a deep examination of all of our reserves.
And for the fourth quarter of 2012 this resulted in $98 million in releases.
As for our booked value our fully diluted tangible booked value per share was $33.35 at year end.
This was up 1.6% in the quarter and 18% higher than where we began 2012.
The 2 largest contributors to this growth were gains in our investment portfolio mark-to-market and net income.
A couple of last areas of comment.
First with respect to ROEs and second with respect to pricing.
As for ROEs I would say our all-in 6.2% operating ROE for 2012 was not where we want it to be.
But it is certainly an indicator of improvement built upon an increasingly solid foundation.
To be clear driving a better ROE is best achieved by expanding our core operating margins.
No other action makes a comparable difference.
This grinding work will not stop.
And as we get our operating earnings moving in the right direction the goalpost we will focus on more and more is the ROE we produce.
We really need to get back to double digits.
And we are very driven to do so even in this low interest rate environment should it persist.
In this connection there is one thing you should know and that is we are focused on getting to double-digit ROEs on an x AOCI basis given that mark-to-market fluctuations currently positive about $1.3 billion in our fixed income portfolio could obviously turn the other way.
As a result we won't focus on these fluctuations and we'll focus on x AOCI ROEs in our drive toward double-digit performance.
Second on the pricing environment.
This is the first quarter in which I feel that those of us who operate insurance businesses on the whole are finally getting it.
You can see that rate is starting to grow year-on-year.
We have been expecting this because in these interest rate environments the rate levels that are being priced into these risks have not made sense.
So it is really good to be hearing the kinds of commentary I've heard across the market about rate and about underwriting discipline overall particularly on the primary side.
This makes sense to us as we have been in a long time willing to walk away from business that was not adequately priced and have been pushing rate across our lines of business.
But let's be clear rate levels are not yet where they should be and we will not change our approach.
But I do feel strongly there's now a bit more tailwind to our efforts than there has been in the past.
2012 was a solid year of continued progress.
We certainly are not done making this a better company.
It is not yet the XL we dream of but I can confidently say we are prouder of the company every day.
With that I'll turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
As Mike mentioned our fourth quarter results were significantly impacted by Sandy.
Catastrophe losses net of reinsurance and reinstatement premiums in the fourth quarter were $352 million which is composed of Sandy and some modest positive reserve developments from other 2012 catastrophes.
Our CAT losses in the fourth quarter of 2011 were $195 million.
For the full year our CAT losses were $464 million compared to $761 million in 2011.
Despite Sandy's impact we generated fourth quarter operating income of $39 million or $0.13 per share compared to an operating loss of $80 million or $0.25 per share last year.
For the full year we reported operating profit of $614 million or $1.98 per share compared to $89 million or $0.28 per share in 2011.
Net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was $81 million for the fourth quarter and $651 million for the full year.
Our accident year ex-CAT Property &amp; Casualty  combined ratio improved by 9.8 percentage points in the quarter and 4.8 points for the full year a nice illustration of Mike's earlier comments regarding XL's margin improvement.
Prior year reserve development in the quarter was a favorable $98 million or 6.4 loss ratio points and is up from $68 million in the prior year quarter.
This reflects favorable development of $43 million and $55 million in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments respectively resulting from our fourth quarter detailed ground-up reserve review.
For Insurance positive movements came from Professional Specialty businesses partially offset by reserve strengthening in our Excess &amp; Surplus lines business.
In the Reinsurance segment the favorable movements were predominant from our short-tail lines with contributions from our U.S.
Casualty book.
Our operating expenses for the fourth quarter were down 7.2% versus the prior year quarter and down 6.2% compared to the third quarter of 2012.
The decrease from last year was largely due to the timing of costs associated with our strategic initiatives.
The decrease from Q3 2012 was due to changes in variable compensation due to Sandy.
Our Investment Portfolio delivered total returns of 1% in the quarter and 6.7% for the year.
A positive mark-to-market of $72 million for the quarter was driven by tightening credit spreads partially offset by a marginal increase in interest rates.
We had a positive mark-to-market of $987 million for the year.
Our P&amp;C fixed income duration increased by 0.3 years to 3.1 years since the end of the third quarter due to lower cash holdings and an extension in our agency mortgage-backed portfolio due to a slowing in prepayment projections.
However we continue to manage the P&amp;C portfolio approximately a year short of the corresponding liabilities it supports.
The life fixed income portfolio duration marginally increased by 0.1 years to 8.8 years.
At $169 million net investment income on the P&amp;C portfolio in the quarter was 12% below last year due primarily to lower reinvestment rates.
The $3 million increase in our P&amp;C net investment income from Q3 2012 was primarily due to a small positive adjustment on our inflation protected portfolios this quarter versus a negative adjustment last quarter.
We expect net investment income will remain under pressure given the low interest rates.
The P&amp;C gross book yield at the end of December was 2.9%.
We estimate that approximately $3.5 billion of P&amp;C assets with an average gross book yield of 3.1% will mature and pay down over the next 12 months compared to average new money rate in Q4 on our P&amp;C portfolio of 1.9%.
Our net income from Investment affiliates was $32 million compared to a loss of $24 million last year.
We experienced more constructive markets this quarter compared to challenging markets in 2011.
Net realized gains on investments in the quarter were $11 million.
And net realized gains for the full year were $14 million compared to net realized losses of $188 million in 2011.
Last quarter I discussed nonrecurring beneficial tax items that had impacted operating income.
This quarter there was a $24.5 million tax benefit arising from the release of valuation allowances held against capital loss carryforwards that we utilized in the quarter.
This had no impact on operating income.
Our full year tax rate on operating income excluding nonrecurring items was approximately 11.5%.
We continue to act on the compelling economics of buying back our ordinary shares.
As Mike discussed during the fourth quarter we bought back 2.1 million ordinary shares at an average price of $24.78.
For all of 2012 we bought back 18.3 million ordinary shares at an average price of $21.99.
And in January 2013 following our Sandy loss estimate release we bought back an additional 3.8 million shares at an average cost of $25.94.
This leaves $250 million available -- remaining available for buybacks under the current program.
And finally for those of you who might have missed it back in December S&amp;P revised their outlook from stable to positive.
I'll now turn it over to Greg to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete and good evening.
So I'll cover the results for this segment discuss Superstorm Sandy and finish remarks on recent market conditions.
Beginning with the results Insurance segment combined ratio for the quarter was 106.6% reflecting the adverse impact of Sandy which contributed 14 points to the loss ratio $138.7 million in losses $11.8 million in reinstatement premiums.
Our underwriting loss is always disappointing.
This is a 9.6 point improvement over the fourth quarter of 2011 which was also impacted by CAT losses namely the Thailand floods and development from prior quarter CATs.
On an accident year basis excluding CATs the combined ratio for the quarter was 96.5% or 8.6 points better than the prior year quarter.
Once again our current accident quarter loss ratio is contributing to most of this improvement.
For the fourth quarter the accident loss ratio ex-CAT was 66.8% or 5.1 points better than prior year quarter driven by favorable loss experienced in our international and North American property books as well as a lower current accident year loss ratios in the aerospace and international primary Casualty.
The expense ratio in the quarter improved by 3.3 points 2.4 points driven by flat operating expenses relative to growing net earned premiums and 0.9 points of improvement in the acquisition ratio.
Given the variability of quarterly results the best indicator of our improvement in 2012 is the reduction in our accident year ex-CAT loss ratio.
For the full year of 2012 we experienced a 66.6% loss ratio which is a 6.4% improvement over last year and this is our best full year performance since 2007.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by $161 million or 13.9% in the quarter and $468 million or 9.7% for the full year when normalized for foreign exchange and long-term agreements.
Both the quarter and full year growth is attributable to the numerous additive and corrective plans we had put in place over the last 12 to 18 months.
We are realizing planned growth in many of our new businesses in particular North American construction E&amp;S and Political Risk.
In addition new leadership has helped reinvigorate a number of our existing businesses.
For example our North American U.S.
risk management team continues to build momentum in the marketplace and underwrote a unique nonrecurring policy of $17 million of gross written premium contributing to the high growth rate in the quarter.
Also contributing was material rate increases in most of our North American Property &amp; Casualty  lines as well as our U.S.
professional book.
In the U.S.
professional portfolio we experienced growth from both increased rates as well as an increase in number of accounts that reached our pricing hurdles.
Turning to Sandy.
The adjustment process continues to progress smoothly and I am pleased with our claims and underwriting performance to date.
As of the beginning of the week we have received 641 loss notices and new claims have all but stopped.
We have closed 84 claims with the resulting paid loss of just under $20 million.
To date we have only a few notices that are in dispute and just one has resulted in litigation.
Our gross loss estimate is $207 million and is split 80% property and 20% marine and fine art.
The largest individual risk loss net of faculty of Reinsurance is $10 million and this is indicative of an event with a relatively large number of small losses.
We have attached to our Property Catastrophe and Marine Reinsurance covers so any adverse development would largely be absorbed in these Reinsurance protections.
Our policy holdings are holding up well and in particular a strong underwriting of flood and contingent business interruption has served to keep our losses contained.
Finally turning to recent market conditions.
The fourth quarter was very much a continuation of what we saw in the second and third quarters with positive rate indications in nearly all our businesses and an overall segment rate increase of just over 3%.
Roughly half of the fourth quarter premium experienced rate increases this quarter and in the fourth quarter of 2011.
North America Property &amp; Casualty continues to show the most strength where rates increased by 5%.
Our global Professional portfolio had another solid quarter with increases of over 3% led by our U.S.
Professional portfolio with a nearly 6% increase and a strong December of just under 9%.
International Professionals 1 of only 2 businesses to experience downward rate pressure.
As a result our solicitor's gross premiums written were reduced by $28 million in response to aggressive competition some of it from unrated carriers.
Our Specialty business were virtually flat driven by a competitive aviation renewal.
And our International Property &amp; Casualty book had the strongest quarter in years albeit on low volume with rate increases exceeding 4%.
Additionally an early analysis of our international January 1 renewals which represent nearly 1/3 of the portfolio shows rate and property up 3% compared to up 1% in 2012 and casualty up by 2% compared to down 2% last year.
While we are in a much better position for a pricing perspective heading into 2013 than we were a year ago we remain convinced that further rate is needed broadly and in particular on long tail lines of business given persistently low investment returns.
We have sacrificed top line in a number of areas where returns are not in an acceptable level and showed no signs of improving.
We will maintain this discipline in 2013.
In summary I think 2012 was a decent year for the Insurance segment reflecting a great deal of hard work.
But more importantly I think it sets the stage for further improvement in 2013.
And so far from what we've seen in the last quarter and the early weeks of this year we believe we can make further progress towards our ultimate goal of combined ratio of 90% or better as underwriting diligence and expansion of margin continues to be our utmost priority.
And now to Jamie to discuss our Insurance results.
Thanks Greg and good evening.
I'd like to cover 2 principal issues tonight a review of our fourth quarter and full year results and also some comments on our recent renewal season and market conditions.
The Reinsurance segment underwriting result was obviously heavily impacted by Sandy and produced a combined ratio of 104.4% and an underwriting loss of $22 million in the quarter.
CAT losses in the quarter net of reinstatement premium were $204 million with Sandy representing the vast majority of this amount.
In addition we had the benefit of $55 million of prior year releases in the quarter.
Excluding both CAT losses and prior year releases the segment had a very solid combined of 72.9%.
This compares favorably to the 85.6% for the fourth quarter of 2011.
Six points of this improvement relates to the property CAT book which includes the benefits of a lower level of development on smaller current-year CAT events compared to 2011.
We also had a 4.7% improvement in operating expenses driven by reduced year end compensation accruals and an improvement of 2.5 points resulting from changes in business mix.
We remain very prudent around reserve releases on long tail lines particularly for recent underwriting years.
For the full year this segment had a combined ratio of 86.9% which compares to the 97.8% combined in 2011.
This was impacted by catastrophe losses of $241 million and prior year reserve releases of $176 million compared to 2011 where CAT losses were $406 million and reserve releases $208 million.
Excluding the impact of both CAT losses and prior year releases we had a combined ratio of 83.1% compared to 85.7% in 2011.
Overall we had a very solid year of underwriting results.
We remain convinced that Sandy will be materially north of $20 billion to the industry and our own loss was within expectations given the size of the industry loss.
Turning to top line.
Gross written premiums in the quarter were $158 million which compares to the $105 million written in the fourth quarter of 2011.
This increase was driven principally by reinstatement premiums as a result of Sandy and new business opportunities at XL Re America.
We reentered the crop business on a primary basis.
On a year-to-date basis our gross written premiums were $2 billion down 3% from 2011.
You will recall that our gross written premiums were down significantly in earlier quarters this year as a result of the conversion of the Heartland Crop program from a primary program to Reinsurance assumed program in 2012.
A more appropriate year-on-year comparison therefore would be on a net written basis where we grew 9% to $1.88 billion for the year.
Turning to market conditions.
Our year end renewal went largely as expected although we did see some unexpected pockets of competitions in areas of the market and we reduced our position or retired from several large placements.
For U.S.
CAT business loss impacted programs saw rate increases in the 10% to 15% range while loss-free programs were either flat or in some cases down particularly for non-win driven programs.
Demand for capacity was broadly flat.
There was more momentum for aggregate-type structures and 2 large U.S.
programs moved that format.
In the U.K.
prices were down 5% on a risk-adjusted basis.
And in Continental Europe the reductions were 3% to 5% with the exception of Italy where we saw a double-digit increase as a result of the earthquakes last May.
Again for very large programs there was plenty of capacity available once the pricing cleared the main lead markets.
On Specialty lines the Marine market saw a very robust renewal as Sandy was the latest of the series of significant losses into that market.
All indications suggests the Marine component of Sandy was as much as $2.5 billion to $3 billion and the market reacted accordingly with significant price increases and coverage changes.
On the aviation side the general airline book showed price reductions of 5% based on continued good experience while the general aviation account was reasonably stable.
Turning to Casualty.
Both the U.S.
and international markets remain competitive.
Reinsurers were again quite determined to retain their renewal accounts and most tried to increase their lines with limited success.
There was some increase in seeding company retention levels a pattern we have seen repeatedly for a number of years.
We do take comfort from the continuing improvement in the pricing environment on the primary side and we do find opportunities to write selected business.
But broadly our posture in these markets remains highly defensive.
Finally I'd like to highlight one operational note.
During the quarter we added Craig Wenzel most recently from a leading investment bank as Senior Vice President of Capital Markets.
The convergent space and utilization of third-party capital in our underwriting activities is not new to XL.
However we see this trend becoming an ever increasing part of the capital landscape of the industry and we are delighted to add Craig to lead our efforts in sourcing and structuring alternative capital to support our underwriting teams.
With that I'll turn it back to David for Q&amp;A.
Shirley can you please open the lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Mike on the share buyback potential I believe you mentioned more than $400 million is likely in 2013.
Given your return on equity goals where do you feel the capital base needs to be sized to? And how can the buyback get you there? Yes let me make Jay the first one.
The first thing I would emphasize is that the capital leverage by virtue of buybacks is not the most powerful lever we have on producing acceptable ROEs.
By far the most powerful lever we have is on expanding our operating margins and we are moving nicely towards that objective.
That's going to be our core focus.
That said as I emphasized it is not our goal to expand our capital buffer at this time.
We'd like to keep it level.
And if we are successful through the year in expanding our margins to keep it level obviously that would imply that we would need to buy back at a higher level than the $400 million we committed to early last year.
I'm not ready to put a number around that.
I think it's premature as we have a number of our capital management policies still to consider with the board.
But just the logic of keeping it level would suggest that we would be looking to do more over the course of this year if it plays out as we expect.
But our focus in driving the better ROE comes from expanded operating margins.
That's what we're working toward and we believe we can continue to deliver that in 2013.
Jay this is Pete.
Just one point of clarification on the way you asked the question.
We view our buybacks in '12 as $500 million right because of timing difference from Sandy.
And I think Mike's comment that he made in his prepared remarks was that was where we were starting from.
Research Division</strong> That's an important clarification.
Okay.
And then on the Insurance segment if we look at the ex-CAT ex-prior development baseline it went from 94.7% in 3Q this is with the Insurance segment to 96.3% in 4Q.
Previously it had been improving every quarter on a linked-quarter basis and this ticked up a bit.
It'll be helpful to understand does this reflect some onetime items or some noise or should we expect that to continue to head back down in subsequent quarters? Jay it's Greg.
I'd say one note at the high level is that given the nature of the business we're in upper middle market and large corporate space the quarter is always going to have some variability to it.
So what I'd like you to do is focus on the accident year ex-CAT loss ratio which is the real -- I think the real interesting piece.
If you look at that for the full year our accident loss ratio ex-CAT was 66.6% and 6.5 points better than prior year.
And I'd put that improvement into 4 categories.
First our traditional short-tail property lines performed better than prior year and account for about 2% of the full year improvement.
So this is the result of a lot of hard work in re-underwriting the portfolio particularly around driving rate where we've had the highest rate increase in our North American property book in terms of conditions as well.
The second piece is around large property losses which account for roughly 3% of the improvement.
And there we used $10 million of the threshold for large losses.
And in accident year 2011 we got $157 million of those large losses versus just $11 million in 2012.
Now this is a scenario where it's hard to attribute precisely between fortuity and scale.
We are de-risking the international property portfolio but it's really impossible to tell you precisely how much we have done that on scale and fortuity.
The last 2 drivers are rate exceeding trend on the entire portfolio and that's about 0.5 point and change in business mix drive the other point.
So year -- our full year over a full year I had to attribute at least half better improvement to our underwriting actions.
I know this is a subjective exercise.
You can't put a pinpoint on it.
So I just say any quarter-to-quarter there's going to be noise in it but let's really focus on that full year to full year result because that's a little more of time particularly because we can't have lumpy books of business and activity in a particular quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just to clarify that 90% combined ratio target in the Insurance segment that's on a calendar year including CATs and any prior-year development? It wouldn't include prior-year development.
Our next question comes from Mike Zaremski with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> My first question the expense ratio appears to have benefited from operating leverage.
Is that a trend you believe will continue in 2013? I guess that's kind of a backdoor way of asking about the growth outlook as well.
Yes.
So I would tell you that toward the end of the year and particularly in the fourth quarter we did begin to see some lift from the relationship between expenses and top line for the first time.
And that is because some of the investments that we've been making so heavily over the last couple of years are beginning to pay off.
We expect that to be a more pronounced feature of how 2013 plays off.
So I think you are seeing the initial signs of that.
But as we think about expenses relative to growth next year we think that should be a trend that does continue.
Research Division</strong> I guess in regards to the growth this quarter I think higher retentions were cited in the press release.
What type of a component was -- did that play in the growth? For the year -- sorry this is Greg.
In Insurance segment for the year I'd break it roughly down new business both within existing businesses and in what I would call new operations like construction and E&amp;S was about half the driver.
Rate increases were about 1/4 of the driver.
And that increased retentions a larger base of renewal -- retention are actually mix depending upon which segments you're in but over the whole book we are up a little bit.
It was about 12% of that rest of that change.
And the rest is a lot of other noise  that -- lots of them are small items.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly in regards -- there's lot of different names for this type of business that convergence I guess initiative or -- do you expect to have that up and running by midyear? And any other kind of details around what the plans are for that segment with the new hire Craig Wenzel? I'm not sure how you define up and running by midyear.
Craig has already joined us...
Research Division</strong> I guess the announcement of side cars or whatever you guys are looking to do.
Well we're not certain.
And frankly when we hire new underwriting teams we don't push them to put business on the books because they've joined us.
We've hired Craig because he's an expert in this area.
And one of the things we want him to spend a lot of time on in the first 3 to 6 months of his tenure is to figure out where we fit into this environment and what the best products would be for us to go out in the market around it.
So even if we don't have a structure in place by the end of the year we won't consider this a failure.
This is something that we are planning for in the long term.
We think it's part of the capital landscape of this industry for a long time.
And we will put structures in place when they are appropriately sized.
And Craig he got to spend a lot of time trying to figure out what the best way forward for us would be.
So we don't have any current target date to put any structures in place.
The only thing I'd add into Jamie's exactly correct answer is that they can be -- they can come in to market pretty quickly.
And it's not like we haven't been looking at these kinds of deals over the last several years it's just that we've finally decided that we really did need to get into the space and wanted someone who is a market leader and thinking about it on our team as we did.
So it could be that we don't do any next year.
It could also be -- it could happen relatively quickly.
It depends on how we feel about the specific opportunities that are advanced.
And I really love the emphasis we feel no -- under no pressure.
We will do the right thing as they come along.
I do -- I'd add one thing too.
I do think we're ideal candidates to attract interested members of the investment community into the space.
We've been in the property CAT business for 20 years now based on our origins with Mid Ocean Re.
Our loss ratio is in the mid-40s.
And I think there would be very very few companies that could match that sort of track record.
Your next question comes from Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to understand how are you thinking about CATs within your guidance of -- or within your target of the 90% accident year? While we don't discuss it in precision publicly we of course have an average CAT load that we developed based on the models and our recent experience.
And that CAT load is built into the budget and it's part of how we would expect -- when we say getting to a 90% combined we think of that with the average CAT load as the core plug for what will happen in the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
That's how we actually model it.
So 3-year 5-year 10-year average CAT load is between 7.5 to 10 points.
So I mean I guess I'll just -- my math would then mean that you're aiming accident year ex-CAT for the low 80s? Have to be right? Well look we write large accounts large limit complex business.
So you would expect that we would have the lumpiness that Greg expressed and that we would have meaningful CAT loads as a part of it.
That's one of the reasons when we're talking about reinsurance for example we don't focus on ex-CAT numbers because we're in the business.
And for large parts of our industrial business that same is true.
So yes we would have meaningful CAT load in there but we haven't chosen historically to get into the details of the CAT loads we view as competitive.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay great.
And the somewhat along the same lines if you take today's -- or if you take the 2012 accident year you're over 1 000 basis points away from the target.
It seems that 100 basis points improvement is about $0.19 a share.
So you just did $2 in earnings $2 plus on the year.
If you do another 1 000 basis points that's another $2.
That's $4 in earnings.
Are you aiming better? Are you aiming for better than a 10 ROE? Or how do we think about it? Well I guess I look at it as steps along the journey.
The reality is with the interest rates being where they are those double-digit hurdle rates that used to look sort of like the least you would expect are getting very difficult to produce.
So as I look at it in the near term our fundamental objective is to get back to double digits.
And once we're there we'll see how far we can push it.
But when you get to the kind of 90% combined if you can run the 90% combined as we believe we can in our insurance operations if Jamie and his team keep the kind of performance levels we've seen over the last several years on a blended basis you get to the right kinds of returns.
And remember that some of the capital that is now used surplus starts to get -- put to work through our growth over that same period.
So you have to be able to kind of triangulate the growth the declining combined ratios stability in our expenses.
When you get all those pieces in line is when it will produce the right kinds of ROEs.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then last one just on the same thing.
It's just this trajectory and we can see it coming through the numbers I mean it's happening.
What is sort of the gating mechanism on speed at which you can achieve these targeted returns? I mean I know you've broken out granularity in the business and stuff.
So what's keeping it from happening say in 1 year's time versus 3 years' time aside from the weather being a bit of a wildcard? I'll give you -- well as long as we feel confident in our modeling around CAT loads over time I feel very comfortable with ignoring the weather if you will.
Obviously any insurer has to be thinking very seriously about the frequency of large events right now and we are too.
The good news is that most of the modeling organizations and certainly the additional work we do beyond what the modelers give us includes a real respect for recency.
And I think that's the appropriate way to take into account what we're seeing.
But as I think about the speed of improvement we've seen over -- on a year-on-year basis when you strip away all the noise and I really like Greg's answer with regard to 1 quarter versus another.
I don't look at it 1 quarter versus another.
We love it when it keeps coming down.
We don't expect it to come down every quarter.
But if you put a ruler on over any 4-year period -- or any 4-quarter period we expect to see real improvement.
I personally have a view that it should accelerate.
Why? Because we've been getting rate on rate.
And that's the first time we've been able to say that in a long time.
When you start seeing rate on rate year-over-year you're going to get some improvement especially as in many lines we are certainly exceeding loss cost trends at this stage.
That's very positive.
The second thing is if you go back through the period in which we've had this more rigorous mentality around our underwriting operations our fresh leadership in place many of them are getting their second crack at their books of business on this renewal stretch.
So you're going to get there first wave of impact because day by day last year we were improving the books through underwriting actions.
That starts to compound itself.
So these things should accelerate.
I haven't established publicly nor will I any particular "on this date we will hit 90%".
But clearly the trend is very positive and we believe momentum should accelerate if we remain focused disciplined and grind it out.
Yes let me just add that this is really a question for me around rate adequacy.
And Greg you started kind of with that high-level look down.
We do a top-down look at rate adequacy.
When we run it through economic capital models and translate that back into a combined ratio targets we get into that same 10% to 12% range -- 10% to 12% improvement range that you started with.
We also measure it although it's a building skill for us we measure it from the bottom up as well in a number of our businesses.
And a lot of that technology spend that we've talked about over the last 2 years is going towards making us better at building it from the bottom up so account by account.
But even that way coming up it gets us into that same range of kind of 10% to 12%.
How do we get there? How do we get to adequacy? It is a grind.
It's not a fun word but it is a grind.
I believe that where the market pricing is going we will get there in a couple of years in of itself but we're not going to sit by here and contingently watch that happen.
We're going to grind it and mix within businesses.
So within a particular business where they're doing an exceptional return overall winnowing out some of the parts of it that aren't performing well.
And then we're mixing our business in total towards more profitable segments of the portfolio.
So it's not just rate it's rate and it's mix in both directions.
Our next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> The first question is on growth.
That was pretty significant in the primary insurance operations this quarter.
Did your new operations have some traction? And should we expect some sort of similar level of growth in the near future? Or were these some onetime items this quarter? This is Mike.
I'm going to turn it over to Greg.
But to be clear as he described in his introductory remarks there were some pretty remarkable onetime experiences in this particular quarter like the one in risk management the kind of one-off short-term contract that affected these numbers.
But in general should we expect to be growing and should those new operations be contributing? Yes.
I don't think that will be the big defining moment.
I think the rate beginning to accumulate combined with some of our existing operations that have also been able to source some more attractively priced risk I think that will be the main driver.
Vinay at the risk of being redundant always pointing you towards the full year rather than the individual quarter.
Particularly though to give you a little bit of color in the quarter the normalized growth was just over 12%.
About 1/3 -- almost 40% of that was in new businesses coming online.
We talked about I talked about construction E&amp;S political risk.
About 1/4 of it was in rate increases.
And then there are just -- it's just the nature of the business we are in.
They are quite often large transactions that can be lumpy and so there are a whole number of moving parts that would take way too long to go into what makes up the rest of that particular movement in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Sure that's very helpful.
The second is a numbers question.
Within the Reinsurance segment the operating expense ratio was really low.
Should we be using the prior quarter's number as more as a baseline versus the current quarter? There was a significant reduction this quarter principally around compensation accruals both in the annual cash plan and reductions versus 2011 in particular because some long-term incentives paid last year and didn't pay this year.
As to whether we would use it as a normal run rate would really depend on where the bonus pools come out each year.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So normally you would expect it to be higher than 10? Slightly yes.
Your next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the last years of re-underwriting your commercial property book do you have the right exposures you wanted to be in New York City commercial property now that Sandy happened? What are sort of the postmortems on this loss and your exposures? So Josh I mean one high-level comment is always to be very careful both from a positive or negative standpoint to overreact to one event right? It's -- you're looking at 1 point on a -- when you look at the CAT model in particular you've got 1 point on a curve of 100 000 events.
So you don't want to overreact one way or another.
We are able to track our flood aggregates quite tightly.
We have made a big push on that.
So from the dimension of Sandy and flood in our exposure in New York City I'm quite comfortable with those.
In terms of the overall book I don't -- we monitor across not just nat cat but also across terrorism earthquake -- I'm sorry not just winds and flood but earthquake terrorism.
And all those things are well within our risk tolerances.
So I think the mix of business we have there is strong and I think the exposure levels we have are appropriate.
Research Division</strong> Let me try and ask this another way which sounds completely different but really about the same thing.
To what extent do you think that Hurricane Sandy will post rate increases to New York City commercial property and other lines of business as this storm is a storm with a payback? So that's a different question.
And there I do think that Sandy was a very meaningful wake up call to exposures that are concentrated in these intensely urbanized areas.
I thought our book performed -- first of all it performed as we expected under such an event and performed well.
And I think our underwriting teams had done a good job of thinking about our exposures particularly in the flood and business continuation spaces as Greg mentioned earlier.
But I do think that there's going to be a number of rethought approaches to underwriting in the area.
And I think we and our competitors are going to sort that out.
Whether that will lead to wholesale price changes I'm not so sure.
I certainly think that it will lead to some reaction in the marketplace and we're seeing that.
I also think to be clear there are few lines of business that really made Sandy stand out and I think you'll see very strong reactions to those.
And I wouldn't be surprised as the mayor and the governor have indicated to see structural responses in the region that will also affect how one will approach rate over time.
So to break that down a little bit lines like fine art space [ph] those are going to get significant changes.
And I bet there's differences in business practices that emerge as a result of the losses we saw.
When you see the marine space I imagine there will be differences in business practices and in structures than when those things are rebuilt than we saw before.
So whether it leads to wholesale price changes I don't think is exactly the right question.
It will be what will be the changes in risk and how will we price those going forward.
And I think that will require a lot of thought because it's going to -- it's not going to be a static game.
It's going to be a moving game.
Research Division</strong> Well it's been 3 months now I realized probably right off Sandy there were no increases in terms of -- have these started to flow through? I mean I don't know much about the artwork insurance market but have you been able to reprice? Is this business going elsewhere if it's not meeting the price? What's been happening in the past 2 months? So Josh yes in the property insurance market this has definitely put a -- and particularly in the Northeast put a floor under the pricing environment.
It varies greatly by risk to risk and whether you're loss effective or not.
In general watching the market on property drive lower sublimits for flood higher deductibles for flooding and some movement of coastal wind deductible.
But this is in the large property space right? These are large upper middle market or large corporate customers.
Particularly your question to fine art a little early and not enough data points to make a strong standard point but certainly anecdotally from my conversation with the team yes we're getting rate.
I think our team performed exceptionally well in Sandy but we are getting rate there.
I wouldn't want to put a lot of figures around it but right now we're seeing more rate.
Your next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple questions.
The first is I guess a year ago you talked about an expense load that would impact your 2012 year.
I'm wondering if you could talk about the -- are we talking about the investments really you are making.
I'm wondering if you could talk about the level of those investments in '13 versus '12 if it would make it even more challenging or will it lighten up a little bit? In fact I almost did a run-on sentence in the prior question because this is the other piece you need to look to when you get to the ROEs we're talking about.
It's not just what we can do on the underwriting side but how the expenses now give us some operating leverage instead of being kind of a hill to climb every year.
So I'll let Pete get into specifics but the short answer to your question Jay is the burden comes down because a bulk of this expansion has been made.
Yes so Jay what I'd say is we're not -- we're clearly not done in that space but we do see a leveling off.
And as I think about expenses for the next year I see I would call it normal expense growth that you would see plus a little bit for some of the new business initiatives that Greg and Jamie have in mind.
If I sort of look at in the big picture I would see it in the low to mid-single-digit range which certainly was less than what we told you we would do last year and what we actually did last year.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
The other question is on the Life Re business.
You've seen a number of transactions or certain companies have been able to greatly reduce or eliminate their exposure to run off businesses Sun Life Cigna.
And the environment just seems to be getting better for those types of transactions.
Is that something you could possibly do for your Life Re business? Should I give you my phone number now? I mean we have been actively open to proposals that could yield such an outcome for us.
However nothing has come forward that makes any sense.
The book is performing as expected.
And if it's a run off it's a run off.
So we'll just have to see what comes.
But make no mistake all on the call and any beyond if you have a brilliant idea for that block of business and can do something more attractive than we can run it off we're all ears.
Jay this is Pete.
Just a little amplification.
I agree completely obviously with Mike.
The other thing I would add is we do have conversations here from time to time.
I would make 2 comments with a comparison.
One life reinsurance has got different set of obstacles to it than primary life business does.
And the second one is our book as you know is based in Europe and that also has a complication to it.
So you can see how this works.
I encourage all callers and then Pete says don't bother.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Greg and Mike I'm just curious here.
Greg you mentioned that casualty pricing is up about 2%.
And if I think about what the decline in interest rates have been over the last couple of years I'm kind of struggling to understand why is casualty all of a sudden attractive? And why all the growth all of a sudden? Well Brian so let me -- so the 2% was around international book which I know it's sad somewhat to cheer plus 2% but we've arrested a number of years of declining rates.
I think if you're looking at the financial supplement I'll let Pete and Steve add in here part of the growth there is coming from lines of business in the casualty other for the year.
I think it's about $200 million.
The 3 biggest movers in there are the U.S.
risk management business which -- okay it's casualty but given the structured nature of that I don't view it in the same way as being as hugely investment sensitive -- interest-rate sensitive as some of the excess casualty or the large limit casualty.
International upper middle market which has a component of casualty and property to it and our construction business which has some workers' comp some g/l but also some professional and property.
And this is just a consistent thing.
We've mapped those businesses by casualty class for a number of years based on the fact that when we started out with those they were predominantly casualty.
But that -- those 3 alone explain about 80% of that growth year-over-year.
And Steven you want to add to that? Research Division</strong> And then I wonder if you could kind of talk a little bit about you're seeing with respect to loss trend? Anything unusual going on? Nothing unusual.
For the full year of 2012 our 3% rate change maps to a blended overall loss trend of 1.8%.
So not a large victory but a victory nonetheless.
Generally speaking short tail lines are ahead of trend and long tail lines are trailing.
And on a geographic basis the U.S.
book is getting rate ahead of trends and the international book is lagging.
You can -- always happy and you'll take it when you're beating trend but clearly that differential needs to keep growing.
The next question comes from Meyer Shields with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> We haven't talked at all about the lines of business that were considered challenging at the beginning of this year or described that way.
Is it safe to infer that they're basically in line with the balance of the book now? Yes entirely.
We don't think about them anymore.
What we think about is that every part of our book has to perform well.
And anywhere we're not getting the performance we need we're going to put a lot of love and care and attention on it.
And so we don't break it out internally anymore.
It doesn't have any meaning.
It's just kind of a thing of the past.
But we do -- we can give you some numbers if you'd like but I don't think it adds any insight to how we're performing.
Yes at the risk of open-door but the business formerly in the challenged category performed at an -- in the quarter ex-CAT loss ratio 96.6 -- combined I'm sorry.
Combined 96.6 compared to 112.4 Q4 '11 and 96.5 for the remainder of the portfolio.
For the full year which I have always said is the more important one the ex-CAT -- the accident ex-CAT combined ratio was 99.3 compared to 113 last year and 98.3 for the performing portfolios.
So 5 of the 6 businesses experienced the fourth quarter accident ex-CAT improvements.
And that's it we're done breaking them out.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I don't remember if it was Peter or Greg that talked about adverse development on excess and surplus lines.
I was hoping to get a little more detail on that.
Sure.
Greg do you want me to...
We have our Chief Reserving Actuary here too Susan Cross.
She is the best to answer that question.
Sue? Right.
So the development that we experienced from the quarter on the excess and surplus line portfolio was $50 million.
And that is concentrated in 2 specific portfolios an apartment book and New York contractors.
And that we've experienced more notices and a longer period of reporting than what we had previously assumed.
Let me add you also heard me talk about growth in E&amp;S which I know it sounds somewhat contradictory if you look at the $50 million.
It is a completely different book.
I think we've talked about this before that it's a brand-new management team.
We have added expertise in railroad.
We've added expertise in properties something we didn't have before.
We've completely re-underwritten to almost the point of extinction the 2 books that Susan mentioned.
We've added auto capability and excess -- and umbrella capabilities as well.
So that's a whole different book of business going forward just to be clear why I note the growth in it.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Jamie would it be possible just to understand how much of the low frequency of large losses impact the loss ratio in the Reinsurance segment in 4Q? And just one follow-up.
The delta from Q4 '12 to '11 roughly 13.5 point improvement 6 if it was from the CAT.
And the reason is that we assess our IBNR requirements for the benefit of the information on actual CAT activity through the year.
During 2012 the level of smaller CAT events has been significantly lower than past years and lower than 2011 in particular.
So we reduced the loss ratio for this business during the fourth quarter even though it really was attributable to activity during the course of the year.
In effect it's a true-up based on the sort of that target pick relative to the actual.
Research Division</strong> So better to think about the full year kind of number as ...
Exactly.
The New York CAT-loss ratio this year was 35% last year was 71.6%.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Pete one question I was wondering.
From what we've seen so far this quarter we've seen AOCI marks have been mostly negative.
So I was a bit surprised that you're bookmarked up in the quarter and I realized it's hard to kind of speculate why yours zigged when everybody else zagged.
Is there any granularity you can give us on why that -- what might have contributed to somewhat of an unexpected outcome? Sure.
I think our portfolio probably is a little bit different because of the European Life book that we have.
I would say that probably contributed the vast majority of that surprise to you.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And then you said or could you give us an idea of how much capital is supporting that Life Re business? It's in the Fin Supp.
We disclosed both the GAAP capital.
And since last quarter we also disclosed in essence to get into the statute -- the regulatory capital as well.
Research Division</strong> Last one real quick.
Satellite loss in the quarter is there any -- do you know if we have exposure there or if you have exposure there? Mike we don't talk about individual losses.
We do -- we are an active participant in the satellite market on the insurance side.
We have roughly on average of 3% to 5% market share of a given launch.
But we then buy reinsurance protected it for about 50%.
So that gives you hopefully enough color to put a box around it.
Mike so you don't have to look it up.
It's in the Fin Supp Page 22.
It's about $2.2 billion of GAAP net assets and the regulatory would be about $1 billion.
And our next question comes from Paul Newsome with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Why do you think that the rate outside the U.S.
has been so different than in the U.S.? I think -- this is Mike.
I think there are couple of factors that affect us internationally and particularly in Europe.
Number one is culturally the insurance buying process there has a larger expectation of continuity than we would see in the U.S.
market where there is much more responsiveness to fundamental economics.
So there's just a cultural difference that I think makes achieving rate a more difficult task in the European market.
I think the second thing you have to look to and this is an area where there's opportunity for us is that Europe is under tremendous pressure.
So if you're a risk manager in Europe you are working like the devil to try and lower your cost of your operations to your company because the economy there is providing such a bleak and difficult outlook to you.
And this means that's what's really important for us is to work with those risk managers.
And we're often the lead on these programs.
So we're in the position best able to work with them.
Not so much to gain rate but gain rate per risk.
So try to restructure programs so that they can actually lower their cost which may yield the result for us that looks like decline in premium but may actually be better structured in our own eyes in terms of the rates per risk that we're taking on.
But the 2 characteristics that I would cite are the pressures they're under economically over there combined with the kind of the continuity culture that drives the renewal process.
With that I'm going to turn over to Greg for a more specific answer.
I'd only add one thing to Mike's answers which is quite often again we're in the large corporate upper middle market space.
Most of the business is quite often what is referred to as trophy accounts.
So in the market they are big-name clients that everyone's -- that carry large premiums relative to whatever else is bought and sold in the marketplace and the competing insurers want to have on their roster of insureds.
So that's another dynamic where you have a fewer number of insurers to draw from.
And the large ones where we are particularly specialists in get quite competitive with the local carriers.
That's one of the reasons we called out the progress we're making in terms of early indicators on rate this year.
It's a small sample size relative to the book because we're really pressing our folks.
And we feel they've done a -- given those difficulties that we've described we feel they're doing a really nice job and we're standing behind them 100%.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Unrelated question.
There's been a lot of talk that the securities market is sort of absolutely here to stay in the property CAT business [indiscernible] financial issues the CAT bought.
Do you think that this is -- I guess what's your opinion on whether or not this is a sign that profitability is somewhat capped in that business now? I don't know whether it would be capped.
I certainly think like any business the law of supply and demand are going to have an impact on things.
And there is a tremendous amount of capacity available on that market both traditional and nontraditional.
So I think by definition there's liable to be some impact on rate levels.
But I do believe that third-party capital is going to be a component of this business for quite a long time.
The level at which it participates in the market will depend probably on interest rate levels and other opportunities that these sources of capital have invested.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Do you see this as kind of a fundamental change in the market or not? I beg your pardon? L.P.
Research Division</strong> Do you see this as sort of competition just from another source as opposed to a real change in how the market dynamic is working? Yes I mean we think it represents about 15% of the market now.
That's probably going to ebb and flow over time.
I think the days of automatic startup pure equity-related entities after major losses may be different.
Next time you might see ramping up of third-party capital that can participate directly into the market rather than that.
But it is liable to go up and down over time depending on the broader investment environment.
This is Mike.
I'd add a couple of other thoughts.
I certainly think that where you suddenly to get into a harder market it would take the top off of that move because you'd have people -- in current conditions you'd have people flooding in.
But you have to remember part of this is the tremendous pressure these managers are under to find new sources of opportunity.
The rest of the investment world just looks so bleak.
So that's one piece that we don't know how long that piece lasts.
And another piece that we think about around here is it's one thing to have it happen in times like these.
But if you ever got into a big set of losses I'd be curious to see how many folks are really in for it 100% of the time when big losses are over and over.
So as long as it kind of bounces along like it is I think what Jamie said holds true.
But there's a lot of volatility that could come into that market and we'll see how it performs after that.
That's why I think the fundamental traditional reinsurance market is going to continue to have its place.
It's just going to have this additional activity that will be a part of the market episodically and that's fine and we intend to participate.
Our next question comes from Ian Gutterman with Adage Capital.
L.P.</strong> Just hoping to clarify some of the -- a couple of earlier things I'm still a little confused on.
So on the expenses Pete I just was looking at the overall full year P&amp;C expense ratio.
And in 2010 it was 31.
In 2011 it was 31.
In 2012 it was supposed to go up and it was still 31.
So I guess my question is is 31 just the right rate? Or was this year's 31 under what you would've planned and this is going to be higher than that going forward? So I would say 31 is what we planned for this year.
I'd say the expectation is as Mike and Greg talked about is that it is going to go down.
It's going to go down because of the operating leverage that we are putting in place at the company.
Our rate of -- obviously our rate of expenses are going to grow I think pretty significantly less than our business is going to grow down the road.
You will see that accelerate with time.
L.P.</strong> Got it great.
And then on the capital buffer question maybe I'm oversimplifying it but the simplest way to look at capital buffer being steady is to say you'll buy back earnings minus dividend? We'd never put it in exactly those terms but that is -- that would be the simplest idea.
However you have to remember growth.
As we grow some of the capital is consumed by that growth.
I think we've said -- Ian this is Pete.
I think in the past we've said that it depends on your mix of business.
But certainly you can easily get to where 40% of your growth in business as a capital charge.
L.P.</strong> Got it.
And then just my last one Peter the affiliate income this quarter is about $31 million.
I'm just curious do you consider that a normal quarter a really strong quarter? I'm just trying to get some sort of sense of where run rate is for those businesses? We would put that slightly above our expected run rate.
Our next question comes from Josh Stirling from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So we talked about -- I think Greg you mentioned growth in U.S.
casualty is from the risk management upper middle market in construction.
I was curious is this for you guys more of a cyclical story so competitors raising pricing and pulling back and creating these opportunities or are these some of the strategic growth initiatives from a couple of years ago? And if that's the case are these businesses for you guys structurally attractive? Sort of remind us sort of how do you think about them? These are certainly strategically important businesses to us.
And the one you picked U.S.
the U.S.
risk management for the primary casualty business.
I mean this is a great product to cross sell from our existing customer base and also to attract new customers and then we can then cross sell remaining products to them.
Construction E&amp;S primary casualty political risk inland marine those are all businesses we've talked about in the last 2 years.
They're all very well-planned out and really very strategic for us.
I do think like any other underwriter I'm always fond of a market dislocation.
I wouldn't call the U.S.
risk management space that you particularly observed completely dislocated but there certainly is some movement around in that area.
We're looking at it closely.
We won't do anything rash.
Where we have an opportunity we'll take advantage of it.
It does put a little bit of lumpiness into the premium figures because they can be large gross and premium transactions.
So I'm optimistic but I wouldn't want to convey it to you as a raging dislocation.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's an interesting color.
Jamie I was waiting for the follow-up.
One final question -- maybe there'll be others but on convergence you mentioned the point that there were 2 large programs places aggregates[indiscernible].
From a distance that feels like a big move by the seeding carriers to try to put traditional reinsurers at a bit more level playing field with collateralized players.
Is that one of the primary drivers of this or am I just imagining sort of too much[indiscernible]? No I don't really think so.
I think there has been such a frequency of CAT events over the last couple of years that they're trying to protect themselves against that rather than play one part of the market against another.
And Josh I'd just add this is Greg.
I'd just -- from XL insurance perspective we're going to be looking at that same trade-off of currents and aggregate for ourselves to -- for our own protection.
I think it's just a good risk management principle to follow to consider the kind of coverage.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Right and obviously you are not just a reinsurer.
Our next question comes from Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Most of it asked and answered but one thing is the question on D&amp;O.
I feel like a year ago there was maybe more chatter about kind of more claim activity as a follow-through from the financial crisis.
And I suppose there has been this LIBOR issue but I'm not hearing that from this conversation or in the financials.
And it sounds like you're growing on the other side of the equation.
So is there still claim activity that come from the financial crisis? Or are you not seeing it it is hitting others? Or how is that body of risk developing? So there's a number of pieces in there and I'll give you a high level and then let Susan who oversees the reserving if she wants to add anything in particular.
Let me start with LIBOR which I heard you mention in there.
LIBOR continues to be an emerging topic.
I know it for myself and probably for you as you asked the question it's unsatisfying to say 9 months after we start talking about it that the original news coverage arose that it's an emerging topic but that is the reality of it.
We don't know how many institutions didn't follow the guidelines.
We don't know the exact culpability of the particular insurers.
And we don't have a full feel yet for how it's going to break between what's exposed to U.S.
versus international legal standards.
As a reminder the standard D&amp;O coverage for public companies excludes regulatory fines and penalties Side A responds only if a company cannot indemnify any individual director or officer.
And we have a good strong spread of business between Side A D&amp;O and E&amp;O for financial institutions.
We believe that any LIBOR exposure would be covered within our current reserving levels.
If you're wanting me to step back now and say some of the other older events let me turn it over to Susan because she spent more time in that area thinking about those reserves.
Sure.
Randy I would just say that the reserves that we have established for the subprime and credit crisis events really are holding up very well.
And some of the older claims are reaching that level of maturity that actually in Q4 for the first time we actually released a portion of reserves from the 2007 year related to the subprime event.
So we're very comfortable with the reserves that we have established.
Those claims are developing kind of much to be expected if not more favorably.
And we did take some action in Q4 in that regard.
And I think I've heard in there as well around where we see the market.
And certainly we're observing on the whole that there is a reduction in class action activity.
But there is an increase in some of the M&amp;A-related what I would call legal expense which really is really hitting primarily layers.
So when we talk about rate increases we're seeing that 9% we had in December in the U.S.
professional it's a very different number for -- much higher for the primary book of business and a lot lower for the excess book of business.
So you're seeing the reality of the shift at least in the last few years from less big cases -- less big numbers to kind of smaller claims or eating away at the lower primary layers.
Research Division</strong> If I was going to kind of bottom line it at least for XL because I know you can't speak to how other firms are managing claims and setting reserves it sounds like you are slowly kind of chewing through the exposure from the financial crisis just working its way into the numbers.
It seems like we're going to hear a lot more about it if I thought back 1 year or 2 and it's kind of disappearing in.
And so is that a fair statement for XL? Yes.
I think it's the right way to think about it.
But remember this is just a very slow developing set of claims and activities.
And so it'll as you said bleed in over a long period of time.
But our view of it is that the environment for professional is actually getting better both in terms of what's going on in the claims side and in terms of what's going on in rate.
And that gives us a lot of good feeling about the future for this line of business.
Our final question comes from Ryan Byrnes from Langen McAlenney.
I just have one last one left over.
In the property-casualty net investment income I think last quarter it was a little lower than expected.
I think there were some onetime items due to some tips in RMBS.
But it was -- in the fourth quarter it was I guess equally as maybe a little bit lower than expected.
I just wanted to see if there were any onetime items in there.
I'm sorry the fourth quarter -- so this fourth quarter of 2012? Yes versus third quarter of '12 in a net investment income.
Yes so that one I would say the fourth quarter '12 we would say is more indicative of a go-forward run rate than the third quarter was.
There were some -- we talked about it on the call some reasonably large adjustments negative for some -- for our tip securities.
This quarter they were a very small positive.
This quarter they were a very small positive right? And so if you're thinking about going forward I think Q4 is a better starting point of course taking into account what we've disclosed as the $3.5 billion leaving the portfolio and being reinvested in that a much lower yield.
At this time I'll turn the call back over to the speakers.
This is Pete.
Just one clarification for an earlier question that came up on our insurance combined ratio targets.
One thing I -- just one clarification that might have been obvious to everybody but me.
But when we talked about that 90% we're talking about that as fully developed.
So it doesn't include PYD for past accident years okay? But if we do what we believe we do which is be very prudent in the way that we set our reserves okay you need to let that develop out to open it.
So with that -- this is Mike.
I just want to thank everybody again for taking the time on this call.
I know it's getting late in the evening here in the New York area.
But I just want to observe that this was a very positive year for XL.
It's a real turning of the corner for us operating this book of business.
We feel very good about the insight we've gained momentum we've gained but we're very humbled.
We know this is a very hard business.
There's a lot of small things done every day by 4 000 people around the world that produced this improvement and that can produce the future improvements that we expect.
And while we're not yet the XL we dreamed of we can see where it is and we feel very excited to get there.
And we'll work with the kind of urgency you have a right to expect in the coming year.
Thank you very much for your time.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon my name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group PLC First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dave Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley and welcome to XL Group's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast in XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We posted to our website several document including our quarterly financial supplement.
On our call this evening you'll hear from Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who'll offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer who'll review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market condition.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Among those also available for questions are Susan Cross our Global Chief Actuary; Sarah Street the Chief Investment Officer; and Stephen Robb our Controller.
Before they begin I’d like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date in which they're made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening and thank you for joining our call.
In the first quarter of 2013 XL showed continued momentum.
While the entire industry benefited from benign CAT and large loss experience XL's core metrics again demonstrate that the margin-expanding initiatives we have shared with you in previous calls are producing the desired result.
We have told you that an important indicator of progress for us is the improving trend in loss ratio especially in Insurance.
In the first quarter our accident year loss ratio for Insurance improved by 9.8 points versus the same quarter a year ago and Reinsurance by 8.5 points.
Greg and Jamie will provide more detail when they discuss their segment results in a moment.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio of 87.7% was 7.6 points better than the first quarter last year.
Net income for the quarter almost doubled from a year ago with operating net income up 70%.
Our first quarter annualized operating return on shareholders equity was 10.7%.
As we discussed in our last call we recognize that movement in our investment portfolio can lead to volatility so we focus on our operating ROE ex-unrealized gains and losses.
In the first quarter that was 12.3%.
We grew our fully diluted book value per ordinary share by 2.1% in the quarter.
We also continue to buy back shares and raise our dividend as people discussed.
In this regard it is worth restating that it is not our goal to expand our capital buffer but rather to keep it level and the economics continue to favor share purchases at these levels and we expect it to continue.
Overall P&amp;C gross premiums written for the quarter increased 3.8%.
The Insurance segment saw an increase of 12.1% primarily due to new business initiatives and pricing improvements across most lines.
However the same improving pricing trend is not being played out in the reinsurance market and we wrote 7.5% less premium versus the same quarter a year ago.
In sum we are keenly focused on grinding our way through sourcing selecting underwriting and binding better performing risks across all of our businesses.
We should also note that we see 5 tailwinds that should help us sustain our progress.
The first tailwind comes from the fact that we are seeing the reunderwriting of our books of business now earning their way to the bottom line and we expect that positive impact to continue over time.
Second the new leaders that we have put in charge of many of our businesses are hitting their strides.
Whether they are industry stars attracted to join XL or company veterans who are rising to the challenge and we expect these leaders to continue delivering improving results.
In connection with this second wind at our back we have many examples.
So let me give you a highlight.
We recently announced that Andy Pinkes would be joining XL as the Global Head of Claims.
He's taking over from Paul Tuhy who had built our claims team into one of the best in the industry and was looking for a new challenge.
Andy has a great track record and we see him building on our already solid reputation.
Meanwhile Paul has agreed to become Head of our Insurance Aerospace team.
So from outside and within we believe we are attracting and motivating the very best.
Third we continue to refine our business mix.
We are generally allocating more capital to those businesses with lower loss ratios leading to expanded margins.
This effort too has more room to run.
The fourth XL-specific tailwind is that we are seeing improvements in our operating leverage.
This was illustrated in the first quarter by the 1.2% reduction in our P&amp;C operating expense ratio the second consecutive quarter of meaningful improvement.
Fifth and finally we have benefited as has the broader primary insurance sector from continued improvement in rate for the risk we take on.
It is not yet where it should be but it is moving in the right direction and we will continue to push for adequate rate in all of our lines in both insurance and reinsurance.
Of course we are in a severity business and we don't expect to go through the entire year with all of these tailwinds not to mention this benign loss environment perfectly aligned at our backs.
Yet with what we are seeing now we are very pleased with our progress and quite excited about the momentum we have in place.
And I would emphasize to all who are listening in this call we are certainly not satisfied.
We will continue to work to continue the progress we have demonstrated for the past 4 quarters.
With that I'll turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating net income for the first quarter was $280 million or $0.93 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to operating income of $165 million or $0.52 per share in the first quarter a year ago.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was $351 million or $1.17 per share.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 87.7% or 7.6 points lower than the same quarter last year including favorable prior year development of $31 million.
This reflects favorable development of $10 million and $20 million -- $21 million in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments respectively.
As expected positive movements came generally from the short-tail property and catastrophe lines in this A versus E quarter.
Our semi-annual full actuarial review will be reported on next quarter.
P&amp;C favorable PYD in the prior year quarter was $80 million generally in the same lines combined with a single large positive settlement on an older large professional claim.
On a reserve-related note we intend to publish our Global Loss Triangles next week.
Our accident year combined ratio was 89.8% an 11.5-point improvement from the same quarter last year.
CAT losses both this quarter and the prior year quarter were relatively light and accounted for 0.3 and 1.5 combined ratio points respectively.
Our accident year ex-CAT P&amp;C combined ratio improved by 10.3 points mainly due to lower attritional and large losses changes in the mix of business and improved pricing.
It is important to remember that the Costa Concordia accident was our first quarter 2012 event and added 3.3 points to last year's combined ratio.
Our operating expenses were marginally higher than the prior year quarter and slightly lower than the fourth quarter of 2012 largely due to the timing of costs associated with infrastructure and organizational initiatives.
Underlying expenses continue to grow along with the business but with increasing levels of operating leverage expected as the large initiatives continue to come online.
As indicated in the last quarter call we expect -- we continue to expect that overall operating expense levels for 2013 will be modestly higher than 2012.
Our Investment Portfolio delivered total returns of 0.7% in the quarter.
As a result of increasing rates in the U.S.
we had a small negative mark-to-market of $82 million in the quarter.
Our P&amp;C fixed income duration increased by 0.3 years to 3.4 years.
This was a combination of adding duration in the Euro portfolio to be nearer our benchmark duration putting cash to work in our U.S.
portfolios and the extension of prepayments in our agency mortgage portfolios.
We still remain short duration relative to our liability.
At $175 million net investment income on the P&amp;C portfolio in the quarter was 8.1% below the same quarter last year due primarily to lower reinvestment rate.
We did have a couple of small items in net investment income in the quarter that contributed positively to our results.
The P&amp;C gross book yield at the end of March was 2.9%.
We estimate that approximately $3.3 billion of P&amp;C assets with an average gross book yield of 3.3% will mature and pay down over the next 12 months compared to the average new money rate in Q1 on our P&amp;C portfolio of 1.5%.
As a result net investment income will remain under pressure.
We have added some further breakouts related to our investment income on structured products in the financial supplement to improve clarity on where the components of investment income flow through our financial results.
Our net income from investment affiliates was $51 million up $21 million from the prior year quarter supported by capital market tailwind.
As you know these results can be volatile but this quarter we saw good returns in all 3 investment affiliate classes: hedge funds private investments and our investment managers.
We also had positive returns from our other strategic affiliates as several had very good fourth quarter 2012 operating results.
Now to our capital management.
We continue to see compelling economics and share buyback.
And during the quarter we continued to buy back our ordinary shares.
Following the February Board of Directors meeting we announced the authorization of the new $850 million share buyback program.
This replaced the approximately $250 million remaining under the previous program.
We also increased our ordinary dividend by 27% to $0.14 per quarter.
In January we purchased and canceled 3.8 million ordinary shares for $98.4 million under the previous buyback program as we pause our buybacks as a result of Sandy in the fourth quarter.
We also purchased and canceled 4.2 million ordinary shares under the new buyback program for $125 million compared to $100 million in Q1 2012.
In total during the first 3 months of 2013 we purchased and canceled 8 million ordinary shares at an average cost of $27.89 for $223 million.
I'll now turn it over to Greg to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete and good evening.
Tonight I'll cover results for the segment provide some color on our continuing improvements give a brief update on talent and finish with remarks on current market condition.
Beginning with the results.
The Insurance segment combined ratio for the quarter was 92.9% generating underwriting profit of $74 million.
This is an improvement of 8.3 points compared to the prior year quarter and it's the best quarter for this segment in more than 5 years.
Like the rest of the industry XL benefited from both minimal CAT activity and limited large losses.
On an accident year basis ex-catastrophes our combined ratio of 93.5% improved by 11.3 points.
The accident year loss ratio ex-CAT was 63.2% or 8.1 points better than prior year quarter 2 points driven by favorable loss experience in our International and North American property portfolios and 3 points from lower accident year loss ratios and several other books reflecting better loss experience changes in business mix and the impact of various underwriting action.
Also contributing to the improvement as Pete mentioned was the absence of the Costa Concordia marine loss which adversely impacted our first quarter 2012 loss ratio by approximately 2 points.
The expense ratio improved by 3.3 points this quarter with 2.2 points driven by flat operating expenses relative growth in net earning premiums and 1.1 points of improvement in the acquisition ratio mostly due to business mix.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by $155 million or 11.6% in the quarter when adjusted for foreign exchange movement.
We continue to realize planned growth as a result of new leadership in existing businesses as well as businesses that are new to XL.
Further we have less drag as some of the corrective actions we implemented over the past 12 to 18 months take hold.
Meaningful rate increases across nearly all of our 22 businesses contributed to the growth.
Our U.S.
Professional North American Construction North American property and U.S.
risk management businesses experienced the largest percentage growth with the U.S.
risk management teams solidifying their position as a new force in the market.
Our momentum continues to build.
At the recent RIMS convention clients and brokers were eager to learn about how XL Insurance can help solve their risk management needs and there was no pushback to our assertion that further rate is needed to generate appropriate returns.
Although we clearly benefited from a quiet quarter in terms of CAT and large loss activity we believe that the improvements we are beginning to see are the result of our ongoing efforts to expand margins.
These are the tailwinds that Mike described.
Clearly we're not ready to wave the victory flag especially given the variability that can occur with poor results due to the nature of our business but we do feel confident that we are making material progress.
Moving on to talent.
We continue to enhance our teams throughout this segment.
In addition to Andy Pinkes Stephen Ashwell joined us to lead a new crisis management business that will include our current product recall portfolio.
And we have recruited Lee Meyrick to lead Global Marine.
And while we have been adding talent from outside the firm we are also promoting talent from within.
Mike touched on Paul Tuhy and we also promoted Matt O'Malley to lead our North American Environmental business.
We continue to add underwriting talent with additions to our construction surplus lines and political risk teams and we expanded our underwriting capabilities in Atlanta and Australia.
Finally turning to recent market conditions.
The first quarter was a further continuation of what we've been seeing for the past several quarters with positive pricing trends outpacing claim trends in most of our businesses and an overall segment rate increase of 3.5%.
Over 70% of the first quarter premium experienced rate increases this quarter and in the first quarter of 2012.
This rate-on-rate is up from 60% in the fourth quarter of last year.
North America Property &amp; Casualty continues to show the most strength with the first quarter rate increase in the 4% to 5% range.
Our Global Professional portfolio had another solid quarter with rate increases that were also over 4% led by our U.S.
Professional portfolio which increased by nearly 6%.
Our International P&amp;C business which has a large January 1 first renewal book received meaningful rates for the first time in years with a rate increase of nearly 3% compared to flat rate in the first quarter of 2012.
And lastly our Specialty business had a rate increase of just under 4% led largely by our Marine portfolio.
While rate increases are broad-based the increase over loss trend is small and we continue to believe more progress is needed to achieve rate adequacy especially given the low investment rate cited by Pete.
In addition to the need in long tail lines that I've spoken on prior quarters excess layers across many lines of businesses are suffering from an oversupply of capacity and require further rate.
We have and we'll continue to walk away from business if the returns are not an acceptable level as we maintain our discipline and grind our way to a better return.
In summary we're off to a solid start as we continue to build on the foundation that was laid over the past couple of years positioning us for continued improvement in 2013 and beyond.
There is still a great deal of work to do to achieve our ultimate goal a combined ratio of 90% or better but we have more confidence than ever that is attainable as long as we maintain our underwriting diligence.
And now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance results.
Thanks Greg and good evening.
The Reinsurance segment had a very solid quarter of underwriting results with a combined ratio of 74.9%.
Naturally we had the benefit of negligible CAT activity but we were broadly pleased with the performance across the portfolio.
Our reserve releases in the quarter were $21 million compared to $26 million a year ago.
On an accident year basis the portfolio generated a combined ratio of 79.9% which compares favorably to the 88.7% produced in the first quarter of 2012.
The improvement in accident year performance was driven principally by the Costa Concordia loss in 2012 and the lower attritional property losses.
As respects our reserved releases we remain vigilant on our long tail business in recent underwriting years.
In the first quarter virtually all of our releases were from short tail lines.
Turning to top line.
Gross written premiums in the quarter were $907 million a 7% reduction from the first quarter of 2012.
These reductions were principally driven by 3 factors.
A year ago after a long period of mediocre returns we decided to reduce our position in the marine market.
We closed our U.S.
operation and have tightened our underwriting standards in London where the bulk of our remaining activity takes place.
This accounted for a material portion of the segment's premium reduction.
Second reinsurance by nature is not a daily trading business and a small number of specific underwriting actions can make a significant difference on premiums written in any given quarter.
In the first quarter for example 3 treaties in our U.S.
Property department failed to meet our return targets so we canceled 2 of them and reduced our line on the third.
This accounted for over $30 million of the drop.
Finally we reduced our writings in both the U.S.
and European casualty markets as a result of our own underwriting actions and an increase in client retentions a dynamic we have been observing and discussing with you for several years.
So with respect to our top line and the market broadly there is no question as Greg reported that there's positive pricing momentum across many sectors of the primary market.
We do not believe the reinsurance market is showing the same level of discipline and we've responded accordingly.
In fact the obvious benefits reinsurers should enjoy as a result of primary pricing power have been diluted by weakening terms and conditions particularly in proportional treaties where commission structures are under pressures in sectors of the market.
Since the end of the first quarter the most significant renewal activity for XL Re at April 1 was in the Japanese market.
This went reasonably smoothly this year with risk adjusted rate reductions of about 2%.
The signing environment remains challenging but in both last year's and this year's renewals we had some success and selectively increased our lines in the market though the weakening of the yen will moderate the gain on our top line.
As you're all aware June and July 1 had a large component of U.S.
Southeast wind renewals.
We have a significant portfolio of renewal business in this market are actively quoting business and while it's too early to say what the pricing environment will ultimately be we anticipate a successful renewal.
From a pure rate adequacy perspective this is the most well-rated business in the world and we expect it will remain a very attractive component of our account once our renewal activity has been completed.
So overall we are very pleased with our bottom line results in the first quarter and we remain committed to our long-held focus on underwriting discipline and cycle management which has produced a strong track record of underwriting profit for XL.
With that I'll turn it over to David for Q&amp;A.
Shirley please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> The Insurance segment underlying combined ratio of 93.5% stronger than we expected and clearly approaching your target of around 90%.
I'm just trying to get a sense of if you feel that you've got everything in place to achieve that targeted goal.
I'll start -- this is Mike Jay and thanks for the question.
I'll start and pass it on to Greg.
Broadly speaking for the reasons that I identified the so-called 5 tailwinds clearly we have some momentum toward those goals.
And while it's hard to be precise about how close we are we clearly demonstrated in this quarter what we're capable of and we just need to keep driving in the business mix changes the reunderwriting and the right kind of pricing to get the job done.
But it's clearly within our grasp.
That to us is very much what this quarter demonstrated.
Yes not too much to add to that Jay.
We are on the right path.
We've got to be incredibly disciplined and execute on all of our plans.
We've got a stream of underwriting activity new corrections that we need to execute on.
But we are definitely headed in the right direction.
There was a low amount of particularly on our property book a low amount of large loss book -- effectively no large loss activity as we define it in the quarter.
And so there's still a little bit of fortuity in there but it's becoming more and more skill every day.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Switching gears to share buyback.
I believe the plan for 2013 was in the $500 million range.
You completed almost half of that in the first quarter alone.
I'm just trying to get a sense of the seasonality for the remainder of repurchases or whether there's upside to that plan now.
Well Jay a couple of points.
First I think that the first quarter is a little bit confusing just because we were finishing off repurchases that we associate with the fourth quarter of last year.
Now they certainly occurred in this quarter and are accounted in this quarter's results.
But you'll recall that when Sandy occurred of course we were busy in analyzing our losses and because we had knowledge the market didn't have as we were going through that we felt it prudent to stop our repurchases in the open market and not continue them again until we had put out our Sandy loss.
So that caused a pause in repurchasing that we -- and given the time of year and everything else that we really couldn't get done until we were in the first quarter.
So we associate that portion of the repurchase with the fourth quarter and don't really count it against what we were forecasting for this year.
What's been repurchased in this year as we associate it with this year is $125 million as Pete said.
That's obviously directly in keeping with our sort of our commentary around what we thought was the likely level of repurchases but we had said when we -- and so that's clearly 1/4 of $500 million.
But we've also said we try to give a number that we're pretty confident around and that if things come in better we would see there is some opportunity for upside to that.
And that statement is every bit as true today as it was when we said it.
That said we don't give a direct guidance about our plans.
We don't see anybody being well served by that and we'll look forward to discussing next quarter what we choose to do in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one for Pete.
The property-casualty investment income came in stronger than expected and my sense is the robust level of returns in the alternatives may have had something to do with that.
Do you have a sense of how much above plan investment income was recognized in last quarter? Sure Jay so I would not go towards the affiliate income there.
What I would say I did mention a couple of items that moved that number up in the quarter.
There were 2.
One was we had some paydowns on our MBS that were I'll call it more in line with expectations this quarter as opposed to the acceleration that we saw in the past couple of quarters.
So that I think drove maybe one of the things that might have surprised people.
The second one was some stronger cash flows on a few older CDOs that we received in the first quarter.
When you add those together it's talking ballpark $6 million $7 million.
Research Division</strong> And that's in the P&amp;C investment income line? That is in the P&amp;C net investment income line.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Was there an impact Greg from crop in the first quarter or maybe Jamie in terms of reserve reestimates or losses related to 4Q? Yes we increased our reserves on last year's crop results by $4 million in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one question I mean we've heard a lot -- Jamie mentioned conditions in reinsurance not being as favorable as what Greg talked about on the Insurance side.
What about the stuff that's in the middle like the broker-placed primary and excess business what are the conditions like there from a rate perspective? And is there a risk that that -- or what is the risk that that starts to see these sort of conditions bleed over from the reinsurance market? And just one follow-up if I can.
So Mike are you on like the Property E&amp;S line there? Research Division</strong> I mean not anywhere in particular.
But sure let's say property.
Let's say like U.S.
non-CAT property.
So far what we've seen right now is -- the rate increases I described to you are broad-based across our entire portfolio which would include a portion that's an E&amp;S property as I would call it.
And so to date we haven't seen nor do we hear about any noise from the market if there's any damage to that coming over from the reinsurance market.
They're just 2 very different markets at the moment.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just maybe if I could Greg you mentioned 4-ish percent rate in some U.S.
lines.
What is loss trend that you -- where are you booking that from a loss trend perspective and how much of the year-over-year combined ratio improvement was driven by rate well in excess of loss trend? Sure Mike.
For the quarter our 3.5% rate change across the segment compares to a blended loss trend of 1.8% so we're about -- just under 2 points rate over ahead of trend.
That's on a written basis though.
So we're -- an earned estimate of that would be just under 1 point is where we're thinking in that delta.
We've got 17 out of 22 businesses or 85% of the premium that's in that camp of rate exceeding trend.
Geographically split the U.S.
is getting more further ahead of trend.
International is finally starting to make a dent against trend.
So as you look at it across on a written basis all-in this translates to just under basically roughly 1% improvement in loss ratio.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You had mentioned some timing issues that affected the expense comparison and hard to tell if it benefited this quarter or hurt past quarters.
Is the expense run rate for this quarter understated because of these timing issues? Jay I would say broadly yes and I would pretty much reiterate what we talked about last quarter which was that we thought for the year that we were looking at something in the low to mid-single-digit range of an increase.
I would say that is still holding true.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then separately do you know at this point if you have any material exposure to the plant explosion in West Texas? Yes we don't -- as you know Jay we don't get into specific clients or accounts but at this point no we don't have any specific news out of Texas to comment on.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Two questions here.
The first one the quick one was there commutation in the life insurance segment? It looks like something happened there.
No no.
There wasn't.
What happened -- so you're talking about the reduction in the premium line? Research Division</strong> The reduction yes.
Yes.
So one of our blocks of business is some term life business Reinsurance business and we had a client that had a number of I'll call it policyholders that were coming up upon -- every 5 or 10 years you get a large increase right scheduled increase.
Most people have 6 months in which they can go back and cash in and say "I really didn't want that policy." We had a number of those in the first quarter right and that's what drove it.
It was simply some term life movement.
I would not view that as a permanent decline.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And the second one Mike I'm just curious you all have a Lloyd's Syndicate.
And I'm wondering what your thoughts are on the Aon deal with Berkshire Hathaway.
What that means for the Lloyd's market kind of what are your thoughts on it? Well the specific answer to your question is it's too early to tell.
I mean this is a fairly new phenomenon.
I think everybody is trying to get their head around it.
You can't help but step back and admire Ajit.
I mean this is a very smart shrewd industry participant and he demonstrated again those qualities.
In terms of how we're viewing it what we'll be very mindful of is we too have a very significant relationship with Aon and we too have a very significant presence in the Lloyd's market.
And we don't expect that arrangement like this with other players should have meaningful impact on our own experience with either our broker partner or our market experience.
And so that's what we'll be monitoring for.
But you can't help but admire the creativity of Ajit.
It's very impressive.
Our next question comes from Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to congratulate you guys.
The combined ratio was the best since from what I can see 2007.
So great work by the team.
Just a small thing on that.
It's just reserve releases were actually lower than what we had thought and lower than actually most of the first quarters that I've seen for a while.
We're going to see your Triangles it sounds like very soon.
Can you comment a bit on what we'll see and how you're feeling on the reserve side and -- relative to previous periods? Yes this is Mike.
I'll start and then Chris we have the benefit of having Susan Cross here our Global Chief Actuary and I'll ask Susan to make a couple of comments.
But the first comment is the obvious one.
Remember this is not a quarter in which we do a deep dive on our reserves.
That's for next quarter.
So you don't get a lot of action in this quarter.
And each quarter has a result when you're comparing first quarter to first quarter to first quarter.
It can have its own little story.
The second thing I would say is that the real place to get deep inside into where we stand on our reserving is in the Global Loss Triangles.
That's coming shortly and I won't steal any of the thunder from that.
But you can -- you know our history and you know how we think about these things and I continue to be very comfortable with both the approach which is unchanged and the results which I'm pleased by.
But Susan do you want to add a little more color? Sure Mike.
As Pete mentioned in his comments regarding the prior year development releases that we had this quarter relative to last year the first quarter in 2012 we did have a large professional liability settlement that we reflected last quarter.
And from time to time we will have those kind of one-off adjustments that we'll make in an A versus E quarter.
The magnitude of that was about $24 million and that yes obviously did result in a larger favorable prior development last year.
But this is very much in line with what we would expect in an A versus E quarter.
The releases were driven by the short-tail lines.
I would say one of the other differences we had relative to the first quarter last year is reflecting some of the short-tail experience in our Marine business in the first quarter of last year we had some favorable development and this quarter we had some adverse development related to some large Marine losses.
That was another $10 million of the difference.
So nothing to read into those changes.
It's what we would normally expect.
With the Global Loss Triangles that we have coming out next week there's essentially no change in terms of the presentation of the information.
We have 12 classes of business.
We hope you will find that useful in doing your own analysis.
We believe they will demonstrate what they have in the past around a very strong reserve position.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then shifting gears entirely just one of the things I'm wrestling with is the pricing power outside the United States and you had mentioned actually International was at plus-3% which is actually a little better than what some others are talking about.
Do you see the International markets lagging the U.S.? In other words will they be catching up in future periods or is the International markets -- are they just doomed to be beneath structurally for some reason what we're seeing in the United States? I'll start and hand it -- this is Mike.
I'll start and hand it to Greg.
There's no structural reason for the difference.
There's a matter of habit and we think those habits are correctable over time.
And that's I think illustrated by the progress we've made by seeing I think some really good leadership.
People like Jason Harris who's now leading our IPC booking in France who's been recruited to lead our property book; our longtime leader of casualty Thomas Stamm.
I think those folks just have a real sense of determination and purpose and are approaching their clients to show what the XL difference is that is worthy of a fair price.
And that determination is working.
And I'm just -- I'm really proud of that crew and all the people who work with them.
We're really seeing a real difference now.
But there's no structural reason.
The only thing you can point to that people do tend to point to is of course the general weakness in the European economy.
But in the end the companies that we seek to serve over time are not just in the European economy.
Many of them are export driven and multinational.
They're going to have experiences from all around the world.
So we're not accepting the notion that because Europe is specifically experiencing economic weakness that that means that somehow that has to translate into us selling our products for less than they're worth.
We don't accept that argument and I think our lack of accepting that argument is serving us well.
Greg? Yes it's nothing to get -- Greg it's nothing to get excited about right? We're talking about from all the color I've seen anyways flat to plus 1% from some of the peer group and we're at just under 3%.
One thing that is helpful is that the trends in our book.
When we have -- when we talk about International Property &amp; Casualty it is literally just that.
It's our global property and our primary casualty and our upper middle-market books.
We don't -- and I think some others may blend in professional and other lines of business.
And so you have that delta going on as well but the loss trend is about half in IPC what we call IPC International Property &amp; Casualty than it is in North America.
So we're making some progress.
I am -- I have long said that you're foolish to try and predict rates going forward.
You're balancing the need for better margin there with some strong sources of capacity both from global players and local champions as we would look strong local companies.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Hats off to the team.
It wasn't just weather that helped in the quarter.
There's a lot of real good progress being made here very tangible signs of that coming through the P&amp;L.
And the next question comes from Mike Zaremski with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess you guys cited low levels of large losses.
Is there a way to kind of help us size that up and what is -- how much a benefit it was versus normal? We -- while many of our businesses have large loss loads that we measure to we don't disclose those.
But this quarter was exceptionally light.
I mean I think you know that from just about every call you've been on.
Certainly it's true at XL.
And we would experience -- we would ordinarily experience at least some in the quarter.
And while there are always some losses that stick out and that we're paying particular attention to it was one of those odd quarters where things didn't seem to happen to the degree they usually do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In terms of -- and lastly most of my questions have been answered.
In terms of the reinsurance outlook it sounds like clearly there is some pressure on pricing a number of companies' reinsurers have cited expectation for supply to outstrip demand at mid-year renewals as well.
I was curious if you guys can touch on -- if you guys are thinking the same and how you guys will manage that going forward.
Well I'd make a couple of points Mike.
One is we only have 2 firm orders so far and there were double-digit risk-adjusted reductions in both of them.
Having said that from the way we measure rate adequacy they were both very very highly paid before they went in to their renewals.
So there clearly seems to be a real demand for people to write additional Florida business.
I think it's too early right now having only had 2 firm orders to say precisely what the pricing outcome will be.
But the other point I'd make for our own portfolio is our Florida book is about $35 million of CAT business.
We write proportional business as well.
Last year we wrote $460 million of worldwide CAT premium.
So while we have a significant book even if there are risk-adjusted reductions in the high single digits or low double digits we'll still have a very attractive portfolio of CAT business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess I'll slip one last one on Reinsurance then.
You're hearing a lot of -- seeing a lot of headlines about the crops not being potentially planted.
If a farmer didn't plant his crop would that qualify for crop insurance if you know? To be perfectly candid with you I don't know the answer to that question.
Our next question comes from Ian Gutterman with Adage Capital.
L.P.</strong> First I want an answer to the other Ajit question which is your thoughts on how XL and the rest of market may be affected by Ajit looking to build a large E&amp;S operation.
Well first you've told me more than I know.
All I know is that there are 4 very respected folks that moved from one company to another but exactly what all they're going to do when they get there I was unaware there was so much news about it.
People move around the industry a fair amount.
One of the things we've been extremely excited about is the degree to which we feel that we've created a company where birds of a feather who love being great underwriters and love innovation are wanting to work.
So to the extent that Ajit has charms that he has prevailed upon these guys that's normal to me.
And so Ajit having some -- and Berkshire having some interest in perhaps the E&amp;S market welcome aboard.
It's a tough space to make money in and those are people who have real skill at it.
Whether they were applying that trade where they were or where they're going they'll be I'm sure tough competitors.
At the same time I'm awfully proud of our team and the progress that they've made in our E&amp;S book and we're going to keep sticking to our knitting and growing our nice book of business.
But there's not -- I don't -- you just can't overreact to that kind of stuff.
It feels like it goes on all the time.
We've just enjoyed the fact that we tend to be issuing more releases about what's coming our way.
That's been our joy around here.
L.P.</strong> Understood understood.
And then Pete can you clarify I was wanting to understand a bit better why increase the ratio now.
It seems there's -- the consensus is to keep duration shorter.
It seems maybe a risky time to go out right now.
Yes well so the one I'd say is part of it is just getting closer to where we're supposed to be right? So it isn't -- this isn't a massive move out on the  curb.
Part of it is pushing -- part of it is putting cash to work right? We had an awful lot of idle cash at the end of the year that we put into some fixed instruments.
But I don't know Sarah do you have any -- anything you like to add? Yes the only thing I would add is a lot of the duration expense came in the Europe portfolio and there we all less concerned about rising rates and in fact the other way given the struggle that the economy is facing there.
The next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but from a retention perspective I think you mentioned that your retentions were higher.
Could you help us understand so what's happening behind the scenes for that? Well first of all I want to make one general comment.
And then I'll turn it over to Greg for some specific retention comments on Insurance.
But as Jamie described in Reinsurance we've had a couple of decisions not to retain business on our part and at least in one case a client retaining some risk.
And in the insurance side we've seen some strong retention performance backed up by some positive rates.
So we're -- that's a very pleasing combinations.
Now look some people -- we're really pleased that we have a portfolio of businesses.
And we love the fact that when we see poor market behavior in one space we can shift capital to where the grass is greener.
And we try to do that with sophistication both across the segment level from insurance to reinsurance depending on market conditions and then within the various businesses in each of those segments according to their prospects.
So for example in reinsurance while our top line suffered a bit in the quarter because of some very specific underwriting actions we've also got a couple of green shoots going in a few product lines at the same time.
And at the same time in insurance we're remixing through what we -- where we will push growth and where we push rate and maybe have a more mix retention because the overall profitability of book has improved.
We love having this many levers.
This gives us we think in the marketplace an advantage.
Greg? Vinay across the segment the retention is 85% versus 81% of last year which doesn't surprise me.
We had a lot of corrective actions going on.
You remember particularly in North America they're up to 83% from 78%.
So that makes sense.
And in terms of discipline that's one part of the story is how you're doing on your renewals.
The other part is how you're doing on your new.
We've got an 8% increase in submission flow in the first quarter.
We're quoting 4% more than we did last year.
So we're quoting 43% of our submissions.
But our hit ratios are down.
We're down to 28% from 31%.
So I feel like we're seeing the flow.
Our teams are getting out there and quoting the business and we were still -- we're not as successful as we were last year because price is still tough to come by.
So I think those 2 together give you a pretty good picture of what's going on.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Just as a follow-up within the primary insurance operations your premiums were up 12% this quarter.
Last quarter I think quotes on a normalized basis it was 12%.
Do you think that momentum accelerates as your teams gain further traction in this market? That's really difficult to forecast.
We had forecast that we would -- that we believe we would have growth but we haven't been specific about the number because these markets change every day it seems.
We have to really have the people on the ground with the right message about what it is we want that the fact that we put profitability as the first concern and great underwriting and then we let people run.
And when they've got that message right we get a mix of results.
And in this quarter it turned out to yield strong growth.
We do have a lot of new activities going on that are now maturing.
And I think that is part of the as I mentioned earlier the tailwind at our back from having these new lines of business maturing and these leaders maturing.
I think all of that is positive.
But we wouldn't turn that into some kind of an assurance about what happens next because it will depend on the environment for profit in the market.
Research Division</strong> So fair enough.
And just one last numbers question.
I think you mentioned it was -- the net investment income was $6 million to $7 million higher this quarter did I hear that correctly? Yes Vinay this is Pete.
Yes that was -- those are the numbers we quoted.
Our final question comes from Ryan Byrnes with Langen McAlenney.
My first question was just quickly on the tax rate obviously was kind of a little bit lower than you guys previously stated kind of mid-teens area.
Is that still the kind of the target we should shoot for is mid-teens even though it was a little bit lighter this year -- or this quarter? What we've talked about is an effective tax rate typically in the 11% and 12% range.
This was pretty much exactly in line with where we thought it would be.
Remember the way that we look at our tax rate is we annualize it.
So we look to see what we think our effective tax rate will be for the year and that's what we booked in the quarter.
And this one was pretty much in line with what we thought it would be.
Great.
And then secondly I realize I'm probably a little early on this but you're kind of -- you stated 2014 goal of getting a double-digit ROE ex-AOCI.
It seems somewhat achievable I guess a year early in 2013.
I guess at what point do you guys kind of move that goal forward obviously as rate increases and the reunderwriting kind of takes shape? Well this is Mike.
Certainly we're not moving it forward just because 1 quarter came in well.
There are other -- as we've emphasized several times there are some winds at our backs that you don't count on.
You don't count on this kind of a benign catastrophe environment.
You don't count on this kind of benign large loss environment.
But that said and maybe I'll say this in a way that I'm really talking not only to you but to all of my colleagues who I know often phone into these calls.
We are very driven to continue to improve this business.
We are not satisfied with this result.
We don't think it is a time to say victory.
It is not at all that.
And while I'm fond of that notion that the harder I work the luckier I get I think the reality is that we have a lot of work left to do to really be able to see this kind of result repeatedly which is ultimately what we'd like to do.
But we know that this is just a taste of what it's like when we're hitting on all cylinders and that's a pretty sweet taste and it makes us driven to do what we can to assure it happens more often.
But that's all I can say about it.
This is 1 quarter down.
The year stretches out long ahead of us.
And I'll turn the call back over to the speakers for closing remarks.
Well I think I just gave them really.
I mean we're excited by this start.
It gives us a sense of what can be achieved.
We're well aware of the fortuity involved but we're very pleased with the underlying metrics that demonstrate that the work we have promised we would do is delivering the results we intended.
We appreciate all of your time and attention.
We know you'll have follow-up questions and we're happy to take them and look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group plc Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Shirley and welcome to XL Group Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We posted to our website several documents including our quarterly financial supplement.
On our call this evening you'll hear from Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who will offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer will review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Among those also available for questions are Susan Cross our Global Chief Actuary; Sarah Street our Chief Investment Officer; and Stephen Robb our Controller.
Before they begin I’d like to remind you that certain of matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they're made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening and thank you for joining XL's second quarter 2013 earnings call.
As you would have seen in our prerelease XL's results for the second quarter like those of many of our peers were significantly impacted by natural catastrophes.
This comes after our sector had enjoyed the benefits of relatively low CAT losses in the first quarter yet we feel the same about each the first and the second quarter.
Setting aside the level of CAT losses we have maintained our focus on strengthening the quality of our underwriting businesses and enhancing our already strong leadership and we are excited with our progress as it is demonstrated when one looks at the first half of 2013 in its entirety.
Year-to-date our all-in combined ratio was 90.8% versus 93% for the first half of 2012.
Our combined ratio for the second quarter was 93.8%.
Ex-CAT this was a 92.7%.
Again an improvement over the 93.7% ex-CAT combined ratio for the second quarter a year ago.
As regards the second quarter it includes 3 positive results one that moves sideways and one that was at least on the surface negative.
On the positive side first is the fact that we had strong contributions from favorable prior year development of $119 million a nice affirmation of the strength and prudence of our reserving process.
Second our income from investment affiliates was $74 million in the quarter versus just $17 million in the same quarter a year ago.
And third the pricing trends and insurance continue to be positive and we have seen positive rate in 19 of 22 of our insurance businesses.
Those are the 3 things that went well.
As for a result that was more sideways that would be this quarter's action ex-CAT combined ratio insurance.
While it improved by 1.5 points versus the second quarter last year it did not stay at the very healthy levels of the first quarter.
We are unconcerned.
As we near the goal of running a 90% combined we would expect it to not always be improving but to bounce around some and this was such a quarter.
At the same time we were able to grow insurance premiums written in the first half of the year by 12.2% even as we chose to write 3.8% less premium in reinsurance and the underlying trends in our books leave us convinced that we will continue to see the improvements towards our goals.
Rising interest rates on the surface provided our negative result.
In the second quarter they had a predictably significant impact on our mark-to-market losses and our book value per share on a fully diluted basis decreased $1.59 in the quarter and $0.86 for the year-to-date.
We have long been in a defensive position with regard to interest rates and while timing and the degree of movement cannot be predicted we have been expecting an upward move.
And everyone on this call knows there are also some very positive benefits to rising interest rates that is why I call this only a negative on the surface.
This interest rate volatility is why we regularly refer to our operating ROE excluding unrealized gains and losses.
On that basis our operating ROE was an annualized 9.7% in the second quarter and an 11% for the year-to-date.
So while in aggregate we feel very good about the first half of 2013 a quarter like the second quarter reminds us we must continue to improve to reach the goals we have shared with you and we intend to retain our focus on daily execution.
I have 2 other issues I would like to briefly comment on before turning it over to Pete.
First as you all know there are public reports that XL is involved in the insurance coverage of the tragic train accident in Canada.
You may have questions on this topic but I must emphasize that we cannot comment on this ongoing situation.
And lastly just in the days leading up to this call we concluded the establishment of a new Bermuda-based company formed in partnership with a private equity firm Stone Point Capital focused on marrying our exceptional underwriters with third-party capital where appropriate.
We are delighted to announce this new venture and to partner with Stone Point.
They have a fantastic track record of investment in the insurance and reinsurance sector and this initiative aligns perfectly with XL's continued objective to offer innovative solutions for our clients.
With that I will turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating net income for the second quarter was $222 million or $0.75 a share on a fully diluted basis which is the same operating income level as in 2012 but then it represented only $0.71 per share.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was $273 million or $0.93 per share.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 93.8% or 3 points higher than the same quarter last year while our accident year combined ratio was 101.8% higher by 3.8 points.
These increases were due to higher natural catastrophe losses in the quarter which included flooding in Europe Argentina and Canada and tornadoes and hailstorms in the United States.
As we previously announced for the quarter our natural catastrophe losses totaled $134 million or 9.3 loss ratio points which was split approximately $76 million and $58 million between our Insurance and Reinsurance segments respectively.
By comparison net losses from natural catastrophes in the same quarter of 2012 totaled $61 million or 4.2 loss ratio points.
Prior year reserve development in the quarter was a net favorable $119 million or 8 loss ratio points compared to $101 million or 7 loss ratio points for Q2 2012.
This reflects favorable development of $49 million and $70 million in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments respectively.
As you are aware the second quarter is a significant reserve valuation quarter for us and as a result we have reacted appropriately to any development indications identified during our in-depth review.
Positive movements came from specialty insurance lines as well as casualty reinsurance and to a lesser extent property reinsurance lines partially offset by some strengthening in insurance international professional and certain discontinued lines of business.
Our operating expenses were marginally higher than the prior year quarter and in the first quarter of 2013 largely due to added headcount from an expansion in the underlying business partially offset by ongoing efficiency efforts.
As we have indicated in the past we continue to expect that overall operating expense levels for 2013 will be modestly higher than 2012 but at levels which will show continued improvement in overall operating leverage.
Turning to our investment portfolio.
As a result of increasing interest rates in our key currency jurisdictions late in the quarter our Investment Portfolio had a negative mark-to-market of $669 million for the quarter which resulted in a negative total return of 1.6% in the quarter.
Unrealized net gains in the portfolio was $686 million at the end of the second quarter.
Net investment income on the P&amp;C portfolio in the quarter was $162 million compared to $188 million in the same quarter last year due primarily to lower reinvestment rates over the last 12 months.
The P&amp;C gross book yield at the end of June was 2.7%.
We estimate that approximately $3.3 billion of P&amp;C assets with an average gross book yield of 2.9% will mature and pay down over the next 12 months compared to the average new money rate in Q2 on our P&amp;C portfolio of 1.6%.
As a result net investment income remains under pressure although current new money yields are generally up 30 to 50 basis points over what we achieved in Q2 which will help alleviate some of that gap if they are sustained.
As Mike mentioned our net income from investment affiliates was a very strong $74 million up $57 million in the prior year quarter.
As you know these results can be volatile but this quarter we saw good returns in all 3 investment affiliate classes alternatives private investments and our investment manager affiliates.
As a reminder we report these items on either a 1 or 3-month lag basis.
Our portfolio composition has not changed significantly.
Our P&amp;C fixed income duration increased by 0.3 years to 3.7 years.
This increase was largely caused by the impact of higher rates late in the quarter on our Agency MBS portfolio.
We also added a small amount of duration at the end of the quarter to take advantage of the back up in rates that occurred.
Another notable action was the sale of almost 1/3 of our legacy Non-Agency RMBS portfolio in May which resulted in $17 million of realized gains.
With respect to capital management we continue to execute on our share buyback program and during the second quarter we purchased 4.8 million shares for $150 million at an average price of $30.97 per share leaving $575 million available for purchase under our previously announced $850 million share buyback program.
While for the year-to-date we have seen a significant increase in our share price we continue to view these buybacks as an efficient capital management tool.
As we announced earlier in the quarter we continue to focus on talent development with the addition of Phil Jacobs to our finance leadership team.
I've known Phil for over 25 years and he brings with him a wealth of experience from companies including Barclays and AIG and we look forward to him joining us next month.
I'll now turn it over to Greg to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Steve and good evening.
Tonight I'll cover the results for the segment provide some comments on our semiannual reserve review give an update on talent and finish with remarks on current market conditions.
Beginning with the results the Insurance segment combined ratio for the quarter was 99.6% 0.5 points worse than the same quarter last year driven largely by CATs and partially offset by slight improvements in our accident year loss ratio.
On an accident quarter basis excluding CATs our combined ratio of 97% improved by 1.5 points compared to prior year driven largely by improved operating leverage.
Our year-to-date accident year combined ratio ex-CAT of 95.2% reflects a 6.4 point improvement over the first half of 2012.
The accident quarter loss ratio ex-CAT was 65.5% for the quarter or just 0.3 points better than prior year quarter.
While I'm unsatisfied with the 2.3 point deterioration in our accident quarter ex-CAT loss ratio relative to our first quarter results as I've said in the past we believe it best to look at results over a period longer than 1 quarter given we are in a large corporate risk business with inherent volatility.
We remain confident about our progress given our year-to-date accident year loss ratio ex-CAT was 64.4% a 4.1 point improvement over the same period in 2012.
This improvement was driven by better loss and experience in our international property book where underwriting actions have contributed to a full year without a large non-CAT loss in our Marine business.
We also benefited from reduced loss ratio within several of our lines reflecting implementation of various underwriting actions.
Briefly on CAT losses in the quarter.
As Steve mentioned although the segment incurred $76 million we performed well relative to market losses as several of our underwriting actions such as tighter flood supplements and the use of facultative reinsurance reduced our overall loss exposure as intended.
Insurance gross written premiums grew by $154 million or 11.7% in the quarter after adjusting for foreign exchange movement.
We continue to achieve growth in both our mature and new businesses.
Our international property North American Construction and U.S.
risk management business experienced the largest percentage growth with the U.S.
risk management business benefiting from the addition of several key new clients this quarter.
Meaningful rate increases across nearly all of our 22 businesses also contributed to the growth.
And during the quarter we renewed our core professional property and casualty treaties notably converting the professional treaty to a quota share from an excessive loss.
On all 3 placements we were able to achieve an improved economic result for XL.
Shifting to loss reserves.
We completed our reserve review in the second quarter based on experience of the first quarter of 2013.
Overall this resulted in a prior year reserve lease of $48 million compared to $43 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Releases in our aerospace Bermuda Professional and North American Excess Casualty books were partially offset by strength in our International Professional portfolio and a flat result for our U.S.
Professional portfolio which has been a strong contributor start with a positive PYD.
Within the U.S.
Professional business we are seeing a security -- that as securities class action lawsuit continue to slow regulatory investigations and M&amp;A-related losses have picked up.
These types of claims tend to incur with a higher frequency have a lower severity and develop at a faster pace.
Being one of the lead primary carriers in the U.S.
professional market XL has been working with clients to structure programs to appropriately ensure these increasing risks since the end of last year.
Even with this recent shift we continue to be very pleased with the stellar performance of this portfolio.
The adverse development in our international professional book is related to our small solicitors business.
Loss frequency has increased over the last few years and with market competition heating up some of it with unrated insurance carriers we simply are not able to obtain the necessary rate increases to make this book profitable.
We are in the process of reducing this book by 75% from a peak volume of $80 million effectively returning only those accounts -- retaining only those accounts that we can underwrite at or above our target return.
Moving onto talent.
We continue to strengthen our teams throughout the segment.
In addition to Andy Pinkes who joined as Global Head of Claims in May we recruited Luiz [indiscernible] to lead our International Professional Group.
Luiz starts in September.
And we added Renato Rodrígues as country manager in Brazil supporting our expansion strategy in Latin America.
We began underwriting our new crisis management business this quarter after successfully adding 13 new hires to the team.
In addition to adding talent from outside the firm we continue to develop talent from within promoting Kadidja Sinz to lead our Continental Europe Distribution and Network team.
Finally turning to recent market conditions.
The second quarter was a further continuation of what we've been seeing for the past several quarters with positive pricing trends outpacing claim trends in most of our businesses and an overall segment rate increase of 3%.
Once again nearly all businesses achieved positive rate in the quarter on top of rate achieved in the second quarter of 2012.
In the second quarter our global professional book showed the most strength with rate increases of over 4% and more than 5% in our U.S.
professional portfolio.
Our North American P&amp;C businesses had another solid quarter with rate increases of 4% led by our U.S.
risk management and excess casualty businesses.
Our International P&amp;C business which has a lower volume in the second quarter and our specialty business both had rate increases of 1% impacted by the competitive market conditions in our primary casualty and aviation businesses respectively.
While rate increases are broad-based and 1.5 points over loss trend on a year-to-date basis we have seen a minor slowing in short-tail lines particularly in North America.
Long-tail rates were generally stable to accelerating this quarter as the economic reality of low investment returns continues to be a positive factor.
Attaining price change over loss trends is only one important component of our portfolio management strategy.
Optimizing mix and developing appropriate underwriting actions are equally important activities in achieving our return objectives.
Analyzing most of our businesses on a quarterly basis yields small data sets and as a result we do expect some volatility in our results from quarter-to-quarter.
That said our 2013 half year results continue to reflect the improvements that have been made in our underwriting over the past 2 years and we remain confident in reaching our longer-term goals of combined ratio of 90% or better.
From where we stand it's clearly obtainable given our determination to maintain our underwriting diligence.
And now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance results.
Thanks Greg and good evening.
The Reinsurance segment had a solid quarter of underwriting results with a combined ratio of 79.7% producing an underwriting profit of $87 million.
These results were impacted by prior year reserve releases of $70 million and catastrophe losses in the quarter of $58 million net of reinstatement premiums.
The headline industry event in the quarter were the European floods which generated $44 million of this CAT activity a number well within our expectations for an industry event of this magnitude.
Excluding the impact of these items our combined ratio was 82% which compares favorably to the 83.2% in the second quarter of 2012 on the same basis.
During the quarter $25 million of the prior year releases were from short-tail lines $45 million were from long-tail lines and of these $35 million were from North American lines where we performed our semiannual major reserve review.
We remain very cautious on recent underwriting years and the majority of releases from North American long-tail lines were from the 2006 and prior underwriting years.
On a year-to-date basis the segment has produced a combined ratio of 77.3% virtually the same result as the 77.4% in 2012.
Excluding the impact of CAT losses and prior year releases the 6 months combined of 80.9% compares favorably to the 85.9% in 2012.
With respect to top line.
Gross written premiums in the quarter were $472 million a 4.4% increase from the second quarter of 2012.
There were 2 sources of growth during the quarter.
First $9 million in growth from the property CAT line was driven by increased reinstatement premium and select new business opportunities.
In addition our other category grew by over $25 million.
This included $17 million of new business opportunities in our Bermuda specialty account portfolio and $4 million of adjustments from business attaching in prior periods.
Turning to market conditions.
The mid-year CAT renewals in the U.S.
have generated considerable commentary around the industry.
With abundant capital supplies from both traditional and nontraditional sources chasing the business particularly the Florida-domicile specialist companies the pricing pressure was significant.
On a risk-adjusted basis pricing was off 15% to 20%.
You will be aware we have a consistent and long-standing method of measuring rate adequacy.
Going into this renewal this portfolio had a very solid adequacy level and notwithstanding the price reductions still measures acceptably on our scale.
Therefore we actually grew our book slightly with our Florida-generated direct CAT premium increasing by $3 million.
Prior to the renewal season we targeted a limited number of clients to grow and were successful in doing so.
In addition we have traditionally found rate adequacy levels to be more attractive at the higher end of these programs and the greatest pressure on pricing was at these higher attachment levels.
We chose to rebalance the portfolio slightly with more capacity deployed at lower attachment levels as the rate adequacy differential tightened.
So all in we modestly grew our aggregates and our premium based on targeted client expansion and rebalancing the book.
While we would have preferred a less competitive renewal we are satisfied we have a balanced solidly price portfolio in the region.
On the long-tail side our position remains cautious as we continue to navigate through an improving but still competitive primary market and the reinsurance market that seems intense on forfeiting the gains derived from primary pricing by granting improved terms and conditions particularly on proportional placements.
So overall we had an excellent quarter on a calendar year basis and an accident year result that was heavily impacted by the European flood and to a lesser degree the flood losses in Canada and the U.S.
tornadoes.
We firmly believe we will continue to lever one of the best underwriting teams in the world into attractive returns to our shareholders in challenging market conditions.
With that I will turn things back to David for Q&amp;A.
Shirley can you please open the lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Mike I know you mentioned that you can't comment on the Canadian situation.
I'm not asking you specifically about that one but I'm wondering if you could tell us what a typical limit is for a large property placement for the company and what you typically retain if there is a number that is typical for you? Jay first I really appreciate the sensitive way you've formulated your question.
We have given that some thought and Greg has some information for you.
Sure.
Jay on our North American rail liability portfolio it's underwritten in our E&amp;S and our Excess Casualty businesses.
We've got experienced rail underwriters in both those organizations and they adhere to strict risk aggregation limits to control our exposures.
To your direct question our average line on short line railroads across the 2 portfolios is $32 million gross and $19 million net.
That's really all I can give you at this point.
Our next question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> For the underlying combined ratio in the Insurance segment it's clear that that moved up from the first quarter.
I'm wondering if there are any large non-CAT losses in there versus perhaps an absence in the first quarter? It's Greg Jay.
There's nothing -- let me give you a little color.
The movement of the loss ratio which is the main piece the expense part of it is about 1.2% it's a lot of little moving pieces back-and-forth generally comp-driven related to as Pete noted about of growth in our talent.
On the loss ratio side we've had slightly higher lost dollars from modest losses.
Nothing in the large loss category but from modest losses and we've got an earn-out going on of some previous underwriting action which is a benefit but the main driver is higher accident year loss ratio picks across a few lines of business.
These changes are mostly based on updated views flowing from our kind of semiannual reserve review and they reflect 2 quarters of impact.
In rough numbers there's a 2% deterioration in the quarter and 1% deterioration on a 2013 year-to-date basis.
Research Division</strong> So it essentially reflects increased conservatism on most recent accident years? Yes Jay that's a good way to think about it.
It's reacting to more data but I don't think about it quite so much as 1 quarter going higher.
What I really think about is that probably the first year -- in the first quarter some of it was too optimistic and with more information we have a more balanced view.
I think that's the more appropriate way to look at it.
So I'm very comfortable with where these loss ratios are.
They continue to indicate progress over where we stood last year and we believe we can continue to expand margins.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Next question is on the unrealized investment gains.
The AOCI in the quarter was -- it's half of what it was 3 months ago obviously reflecting the rise in rates.
I'm just wondering does that affect your view on excess capital position at all? Jay it's Pete.
The short answer would be no.
So when we think about our capital our excess capital as we do with a lot of things that we've talked about we look at that on an economic capital basis much more than an accounting basis.
We've talked about in the past about also looking at rating agency capital right? And when we look at that stuff we've always viewed these positive marks as potentially temporary right so we've never taken the benefit for them right and so they get cut in half we don't -- there's no real adjustment to make when they come down either.
Research Division</strong> So just accounting not economic.
Right.
Yes.
The next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> The first question is on the Reinsurance segment just a little bit surprised that property CAT premiums are higher.
Would it be fair to assume that because you guys went lower down in the risks -- I mean lower down in the TARs that the dollar sort of premiums were higher so that's skewing the year over result in property CAT for Florida? There's 2 components of the $9 million increase in property tax.
$7 million was from reinstatement premiums.
We obviously had elevated CAT activity in the quarter.
And as I mentioned we did increase our lines in Florida.
But remember as I think we've mentioned in prior quarters we don't depend heavily on Florida as a source of our CAT business.
So we started with $33 million and ended with roughly $36.5 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair.
The second question was on the status of maybe a sale of the Life Reinsurance segment.
If you've seen another life property that's been recently sold and interest rates are higher.
So any update on that would be helpful? This is Mike.
As we continue to work along the marketplace in some ways you could say it's more favorable but at this point for our particular book of business there's nothing to announce at all.
This is Pete the only thing I'd add is spread narrowing are more beneficial than just risk fees [ph] going the right direction as well.
Our next question comes from Mike Zaremski with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In regards to the insurance-linked securities venture with Stone Point do you guys envision packaging non-property catastrophe risks into the fund such as casualty and maybe you could elaborate on when you expect the business to be written and/or the geographies? Yes.
I think you can expect that some of the preliminary focus will be on some of the lines that we've seen more traditionally associated with these activities but we do not have a limited vision for that business.
We believe that there's a lot of opportunity for innovation in marrying our great underwriting talent and additional capital and we think that our shareholders can get a good reward from that process.
In terms of timing you'll see the real focus is getting the business up and operational and involved in the 1 1 renewal cycle coming this year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Separate question on ceding levels.
In the past XL has talked about getting operating leverage.
Would potentially keeping more primary insurance and ceding less given the favorable reinsurance market conditions be a strategy? Well no.
Mike as I touched upon in my comments we're seeing what Jamie alluded to which is we're reaping the benefit of the enhanced structures that are available.
Just to give you a little color around -- a little more color on what I was referring to in my comments.
We renewed our property per risk our property CAT our Casualty and our Professional treaties.
On the property side it's a pretty easy story.
The volume of premium going in and out has not changed year-over-year.
It's really a case of buying lower down rounding out some coverage lower down and having more exposures as we grow going into the treaty.
So you get a pick up there.
Clearly that's an economic pickup.
You won't get that gain if there is no CAT losses over the next treaty year.
On the Casualty North American quota share and the Professional quota share we are going to cede -- it is a lot of moving parts in here but just under $100 million more premium and an enhanced ceding commission on the North American Casualty side.
And for the Professional side we're converting from an excess of loss to a quota share.
So on the margin that's a little bit more than the current run rate but we just are picking up on what we're seeing on the reinsurance marketplace as Jamie alluded to earlier.
Our next question comes from Joshua Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up during an earlier question you said that you might have been too optimistic about your first quarter loss picks I'm wondering just how -- is there favorable development on current accident year in the second quarter numbers? Exactly.
Again as the year unfolds and you start to see the real loss activity you adjust your pick for the year to reflect the trends you're seeing.
So more data gives us more information.
But again what I'm emphasizing is that this has been evolving over the 6 months not just in the last 3 months.
And it was immature to react to in the first quarter and we do our deep dive in the second.
So what you're seeing is the impact of all that.
The good news about it though is again as I look at it the overall book continues to improve compared to where it was last year.
And while the trajectory may not be at the same rate as we saw in the first quarter we're very pleased with the progress and think it continues.
Research Division</strong> Does that mean there's unfavorable development in the tail end of 2012 coming through? Again we're reacting to loss patterns as they emerge we're not talking about unfavorable development on the book.
This hasn't been a -- losses that have somehow evolved unfavorably.
Yes.
Some of it if I could try -- the deterioration that we saw in some of these lines of business in a number of accident years say '09 '12 and that in some instance informs your view going forward.
And so in learning about the 6-month reserve development of the prior year that impacts your view of how optimistic or not you want to be on the accident year going forward in '13.
So it's not -- it's an interaction of those 2 pieces is the main driver of the information we learned during the quarter of what pushed us out.
Research Division</strong> So as we're trying to think about the rate increases that you're getting in excess of loss cost trend into future quarters the question I am trying to figure out is does this recent development cause you to be more conservative in how you think your future quarters loss picks will be or did you -- or I'm saying did you nip a few things in the bud that were irritants and now the progress will continue when we think about the future? Well I think it was more as you said it in the last half of your sentence than the first.
And in particular in the second quarter you're going to get not only the effect of what we're picking for the rest of the year based on this additional information but you are going to get a little bit of a negative catch-up effect as we apply it to the first quarter as well.
So the way I would think about it is that the first quarter probably looked better than it was and because of the catch-up the second quarter looks slightly worse than it is.
But in total again -- and you have to remember when we're doing this we're dealing with large accounts with high volatility and fairly small data sets so we have to have a very long view and that's why we always emphasize looking at this on a 1 quarter is not how we think and not the right way to do it and not how our mechanics work.
Looking at it over time it is the right way.
And that's why as we look at it over time we're very pleased with the continuing progress.
Research Division</strong> And unrelated the rising interest rates does that give you a potential opportunity to revisit the potential sale of the life reinsurance business? Josh it's Pete.
I mean we're always looking at that.
So I wouldn't say it gives us a chance to revisit it we're constantly looking at that would be my first comment.
The second one as I said a little earlier the risk-free rates move up of the rates are probably meaningful than a drop in the spread which we have not seen yet.
But that would be a bigger driver towards what we would see a more value-driven sale.
So we look at it all the time and 2 the move up is really not going to be a driver.
And I would only offer 1 other point of emphasis and that is that we remain focused on it in an economic way I mean we're focused not on all the different accounting elements we're focused on the economics of it and we have a business that's in a run-on -- runoff that is performing according to expectations.
We don't feel any sense of pressure on this we just realized that if there were a better owner we'd be happy to work something out but at this point we're the best owner.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions here.
First Pete I'm just curious the decline in investment income this quarter seemed a little more than I had expected.
Was any of that due to the sale of the RMBS securities just having a higher investment yield? Is that something we may see going forward also when you sell off some blocks like that? So certainly when we sell off those blocks which would have been higher-yielding blocks you would see a potential drop.
But those are not huge amounts relative to our asset portfolio.
And to be honest the net investment income that came in for the quarter was pretty much exactly what at least we thought it was going to be so there was nothing unusual going on.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then Greg quick question.
On the professional liability business was the decline in quarter-to-quarter all related to business you said that you're going to be running off? Well I'm sorry say that again...
Research Division</strong> The gross written premium was down in Professional Liability's year-over-year.
Was that related to some of the business you said you're going to get out of.
Yes that international source that's the main driver it's a little bit lower as you execute on restructuring and repricing some of the U.S.
Professional book that will always result in a little bit of breakage but the main driver is the beginning of that process absolutely.
Research Division</strong> And then on the quota share just quickly was there any unwritten premium that went in with that that would have had an impact on the net written premium? No it's a risk-attaching quota share.
So there's nothing it's not a straight quote share of the whole book just to add a little more color it's a session on just our larger limit policy.
So not only is it not a straight quota share of the whole thing but it's also a risk-attaching basis.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And therefore we shouldn't expect it to much have of an impact on your policy acquisition ratio? That's correct.
Our next question comes from Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow-up on Josh's question earlier on the pick going a little higher.
So that -- have you given some color on which lines this is occurring in? Is it the international professional liability book or what lines of business are you changing the picks on? So we're picking it up in 4 key places.
One is indeed the international solicitors.
The other as I touched upon in my comments the U.S.
professional liability for non clash we continue to be -- as you know we reserve our clash -- our professional liability book in the clash and non clash component as we talked about in our 10-Q.
And so this is the non clash piece that reflects some of this changing activity small on our property book of business related to energy and the last piece is on our international marine cargo book were the 4 places.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just again to clarify it was an extra 200 basis points so really spread in the second quarter but we should think of that as kind of a 6-month 100 basis points per quarter is that correct? Yes.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just the rhythm of the way you go back in and look at reserves means we won't revisit this until the end of the year.
So this will stay with us for the back half of the year as well? On long-tail lines that's correct.
On short-tail lines we do pick up activity quarter-to-quarter each quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the way I'm thinking about it is just that the picks are going higher okay I guess for the long-tail books the picks will be higher for the next couple of quarters and then we'll see what the world brings.
So we should be taking kind of the new accident year loss ratio and trending it forward for 2 more quarters I think to be conservative right? The 64 4 yes.
Our next question comes from Meyer Shields with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Was there any reserves [indiscernible] for the Costa Concordia loss in the second quarter? I'm sorry that was for the Costa Concordia loss? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So overall for the company the answer is no.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there any update on -- specifically on Professional Liability claim cost inflation that you can share? I'm sorry claim cost inflation? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No we haven't seen -- no in terms of -- we've just -- as I mentioned it's been -- the severity actually has been lower it's the frequency that's been up higher than we would've thought.
So no we haven't seen anything particularly there disturbing.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a little bit more color on the Stone Point arrangement? I'm just trying to understand how is that structured and is it -- would you be putting business into that that you're currently writing or is that -- is the profile of the business that you plan whether you would like to write in there different in some characteristic or quality than what you're writing currently on your own balance sheet? Well I'm going to ask Pete to give some of the detail in just a second but I just want to emphasize this is such an exciting development for us.
In the final analysis we were one of the pioneers of side TARs and other forms of applying our underwriting to additional capital providers and we've watched the latest flurry of activity with real interest.
We know a lot about it we've thought a lot about it and we had a view that for -- with the kinds of profits we were already delivering to our shareholders that we had to come up with just the right way to enter it that we didn't have to rush in and do anything silly.
And as a result we focused on the fact that if we want to create something that could last over time to be substantial we would have to have a partner that really understood the elements of stewardship of other people's money of all of the various complexities that go with it and that really understood what was going on in the insurance marketplaces so that we can have a realistic partnership one that we thought could endure.
And in Stone Point someone we've worked with on many ventures over many years we found really we think the ideal partnership.
And again as I have said on an overall way of looking at it's about marrying our underwriting expertise and making sure in this rapidly evolving entry of additional forms of capital that we are able to serve our clients with innovation that we're able to continue to see our underwriters being able to reward our shareholders with their performance.
We see it as a neat combination so I just wanted to make sure to give a little more background but Pete talk about the various initial activities.
Just a couple of comments.
As we said in the release it's 75% XL 25% Stone Point.
The initial plans would be that one of the funds the activities would be in the insurance-linked securities space.
There will be a collateralized reinsurance vehicle also put in place.
We're also talking about some other things that would be unique to XL.
One of the things that we're really pleased with teaming up with Stone Point is that we think having that asset management expertise and the real deep reinsurance property CAT expertise is going to enable us to have a broader width of product than maybe what you've seen -- we've seen out there.
And as Mike said earlier we view that pretty much as the beginning of this relationship it could go in a number of different ways and again the benefit of teaming up with Stone Point is you have a natural partner as this thing potentially morphs outside of property CAT reinsurance.
Research Division</strong> I mean would you expect that over time that your 75% stake would fall as other outside investors are recruited and join the program or do you expect to retain that level of ownership no matter how large it might grow? Right.
So Mike the plan is that we would keep the 75% because that's the investment in the top company right? So that's the -- that the asset management company is the one that we would own 75% they would own 25%.
The plan would be to raise third-party money in the funds underneath that asset management company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I see.
And in terms of the profile of the business that this entity would write I mean in terms of is it going to be more skewed towards high-layer property CAT is it -- at its inception or do you anticipate kind of pushing the innovation through there and trying to move outside of just kind of that starting point? It's Jamie.
I think that there'll be a variety of products introduced in the vehicle.
Some that have been traditionally associated with XL and others such as retrocessional business where we have not been considered historically a large player.
And in addition as Mike and Pete both mentioned ILS fund would also be involved.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one last one on the sequential loss ratio conversation.
Looks like your marine book shrank and it seems like you maybe took some actions there.
I mean if you back out the -- maybe underwriting actions that were associated with the premium declines there can you sort of talk about what the sequential change might have been overall? Well at least on the reinsurance side you're correct it has dropped substantially.
There's 2 particular specific reasons for that.
One is we used to have outlets in both North America and in the London market to write marine reinsurance.
We closed the U.S.
operation and have focused our attention on the London market.
And in addition we've simply reduced our overall marine activity because we've just felt for a long long time that we were better off deploying our NatCAT capacity particularly U.S.
exposed with our direct property CAT book and not the marine book.
Yes and on the insurance side the Marine premium flows into the specialty line and so -- but just for color it's down just a couple of million dollars.
Our next question comes from Ryan Byrnes with Janney Capital Markets.
Quickly first I noticed that the equity in the Life segment declined pretty substantially in the quarter.
I imagine that is mainly from bond marks but just wanted to see if there's anything in there that brought down the equity? The answer Ryan is that it's in essence from those bond marks.
I mean one way to think about it we do about -- we do a fair amount of disclosure at the bottom so that you can look at it both on a GAAP basis and on a regulatory basis but those marks clearly on a U.S.
GAAP basis drove the lion's share of it.
The only other thing that we did was we did dividend some money out of the Life operation that also drove that.
And what was the size of that? About $300 million.
Great.
And then just my second question is last quarter I guess in the Insurance segment you guys noted that kind of 17 out of your 22 insurance lines were getting rate in excess of the loss cost trend.
Just wanted to see where that stands now and maybe I guess as you guys look at the re-estimation of some of the lines as well just want to see how attractive that segment is? Yes it's 18 out of 22 and it's roughly 85% of the premium.
And the next question comes from Josh Stirling with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So Greg a question for you.
Everybody is trying to figure out where you are in your sort of bridge to getting to a below 90s combined so I thought first I'd just ask is your year-to-date sort of 96% all-in should we think about that as sort of a reasonable give or take number for where you think a normalized performance ought to be? And then second also for Greg can you help us with 3% pricing should we look at your growth initiatives as the primary drivers to get your combined ratio down to 90% or below from expense leverage and loss ratio mix or are there some big initiatives in re-underwriting that we should still be thinking about? Right.
So the 96 is a number that you can observe and it's a reasonable estimate for the book in its current state.
To get to the 90% we've got to move a number of letters.
Rate is one piece of it.
I talked about that.
Mix is the other big one is we're shifting away from businesses that are less profitable into more profitable businesses.
We've got about some underwriting actions identified as well.
And then Pete remarked upon it is operating leverage as well.
All 4 of those drivers are going to bring us towards that 90 I'm not going to try and break it down into numbers piece by piece but those are the 4 big drivers.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Jamie I wonder if I -- I was very interested to see your guys' growth in the whole account business.
I'm wondering if you could just give us some color on that sort of the opportunity and what sort of customer segments and underlying lines and maybe just some basics of is it proportional excess of loss and sort of what you think the risk return looks like? That book of business Josh is one that we've been playing in going back to the acquisition of Brockbank in the mid-90s.
It's a very opportunistic play.
They're basically whole -- you think about them as whole account quota shares from specific Lloyd's syndicates.
We typically -- and one of the reasons you may have seen the increase in our ceded premium on the reinsurance side is because we piggyback on the outwards reinsurance strategy of our clients.
In this particular case we wrote one large new whole account of a syndicate that we've known for quite some time.
It is not a specialist syndicate.
It's a broad syndicate that we've known for a long time and they write a variety of lines of business.
It's a book of business that we would not hesitate to shrink dramatically as we have in the past.
As I mentioned it's very very opportunistic in texture.
And our final question comes from Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Most are asked and answered.
But just on pricing I wanted to clarify something that's been talked about in previous calls and that's that I think you said in the commentary that the U.S.
lines kind of broadly speaking this is more reinsurance we're seeing a slowdown but is Europe still kind of catching up because it was slower to firm in the first place? Yes Randy that's definitely the case.
The North American property business has gotten a lot of rate over the last 12 to 18 months.
And we're still positive.
We're at 3 point -- we're just 4% in the second quarter.
So we're still -- it's just lower than it's been over the last couple of quarters.
And the international property while the volumes aren't as big in Q2 as they are in Q1 has picked up to 3.5%.
It's nothing I'm counting on I'm very -- our guys are driving towards more because we need more but it's certainly a positive sign and that's finally starting to pick up in kind of almost like a 12-month lag from where North America was.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So your European business is a little less sensitive to this kind of second derivative argument on pricing? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then my other question is a follow-up actually on the Costa Concordia question.
I just wanted to clarify something.
I've read a little bit about the mitigation effort for that being quite a bit more complicated.
So is it that you don't have -- you didn't have development in the quarter or you no longer have exposure to how those containment remediation costs might increase? So we didn't have -- and I'll turn it over to Susan if you want to make a comment.
We did not have development in the quarter both because of where we had our pick going in as well as some reinsurances that we had in place.
Susan you want to give some more color? Yes I would just add to that Pete that we didn't have any impact in the quarter.
And even as we look at potential further deterioration from the latest estimates that have come out of the P&amp;I club which are about the $1.17 billion if that were even to go to $1.5 billion we'd have potential deterioration of $5 million.
So it's not a material exposure for us even if there is further development on that loss.
At this time I'll turn the call back over to the speakers.
Great.
Listen we really appreciate the questions.
We know it's a hectic earnings season with a couple of other companies that have come out tonight.
We know that you have a lot on your minds.
We remain very pleased with the progress we've been making at XL.
We can see the underlying trends for our business is moving in the right way and we're going to be very driven as we've told you many times to execute execute and execute some more.
So we look forward to being with you again in another quarter's time and thank you for the attention tonight.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is Shirly and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group plc Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley and welcome to XL Group's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We post to our website several documents including our quarterly financial supplement.
On our call this evening you'll hear from Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who will offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer who'll review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Before they begin I’d like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they're made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
And with that I'll turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening.
Tonight we are pleased to share with you XL's third quarter 2013 results a quarter in which we grew our book value per share increase gross premiums written continued to see the benefits of an improving Insurance segment and had another solid Reinsurance result.
At the same time as we'll discuss this quarter and this year to date remind us that XL is a work in progress and tonight we have both work and progress to talk about.
The progress we have made is substantial.
We want to give you a thorough update on what we had seen year-to-date and why these results continue to bolster our confidence.
Equally we want to describe our current work and why we are confident that we will reach our goals of an attractive ROE driven by much improved combined ratio in our Insurance segment.
And we believe we are on our way there at a faster clip than this quarter might indicate.
So first a few thoughts on the quarter itself.
While I opened with a list of positives from the quarter and should add to that list a positive prior year development you would also have seen from our release that we experienced a degree of CAT and individual loss activity that contributed to a higher quarterly accident year loss ratio in both the Insurance and Reinsurance segments.
Given our diverse lines of business and the complex risk we write one or more businesses will be expected to from time to time produce unusual levels of loss as we saw in this quarter.
When this happens there are a few series of questions we ask.
Is this an unusual event or indicative of a trend? Do we have the right leaders in place? Are the underwriters taking the kinds of risk we want? And are they in line with that business' strategy and the group's strategy? In our review this quarter in the main we like the answers to these questions.
These losses do not change our views.
In fact it is helpful to provide some additional perspective.
This quarter reminds me a little bit of the fourth quarter of 2011 another quarter where we had collection of sizable losses that impacted our results.
In that quarter our reviews of the loss-making businesses indicated a number of needs for improvement that caused a huge amount of revised work.
Not so this time.
And in that quarter we reported a 108% combined ratio.
This quarter with a similar set of issues we made an underwriting profit.
Today is remarkably different and it is a direct result of the progress we are making.
So we like the underlying trend of where we are year-to-date.
We are on track.
So the specifics.
The Insurance segment's year-to-date accident year combined ratio ex-CAT of 96.1% and the loss ratio ex-CAT of 65.6% are the best results on the same basis since 2007.
Reinsurance generated a combined ratio of 80.1% ahead of the 80.5% at the same period last year.
And our year-to-date overall P&amp;C combined ratio of 92.2% is a 0.5 point better than at the same time a year ago.
Greg and Jamie will talk in more detail about these segment results in a moment.
Now about our continuing work.
Our efforts to remix our businesses our underwriting actions our investments and talents and technology and our drive for rate are the reasons for our greater resilience.
Starts with business mix.
It is a significant reason that we are now more resilient in such quarters.
To give you some indication of the benefits of this remixing of our businesses we are now able to rely on a far broader set of profitable and improving businesses.
For example more than 70% of our insurance businesses are now showing better loss ratios through 9 months than in the same period a year ago.
We believe that mix will continue to improve as we invest in higher return businesses and this will be accelerated by the capital allocation process embedded in our 2014 budgeting.
Another important driver of our improving performance is our relentless effort to have the right underwriting talent and give them the tool they need to succeed.
For example our global underwriting platforms and enhanced data systems will increasingly allow our teams to determine where the best and most profitable opportunities lie.
And we expect the operating leverage lift from these investments to continue to earn out over the immediate future.
Of course market conditions drive improvement as well.
And while we are not relying on rate to drive our loss ratio goals we are pleased that our rate achievement is exceeding loss cost trends.
Broadly the third quarter was very much in line with what we've been seeing: positive pricing trends outpacing claims trends in most of our businesses and an overall insurance rate increase of 3.4%.
Lastly we are very pleased that our progress continues to be noticed by external audiences including today's announcement that S&amp;P has upgraded our financial strength rating to A+ at the same time affirming our ERM opinion of strong.
Also this week our issuer credit rating was put on positive outlook by A.M.
Best.
So as I said at the beginning and as we have shared with you before as we keep working to meet our goals our progress is confirmed by our substantial year-to-year improvement.
With that I'll turn it over to Pete to detail our financial results.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating net income for the third quarter was $155 million or $0.53 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to $188 million in 2012 or $0.61 per share.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was $136 million or $0.47 per share.
Annualized operating return on ordinary shareholders' equity excluding unrealized gains and losses on investments were 6.8% for the quarter and 9.6% for the year-to-date.
And fully diluted tangible book value per ordinary share increased in the quarter by 1.6% to $32.06 at September 30.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 95% or 2.8 points higher than the same quarter last year while our accident year combined ratio was 100.1% higher by 5.4 points.
These increases were mostly due to higher natural catastrophe losses in the quarter.
These included a series of hailstorms in Germany in late 2013 for $59 million which is consistent with our pre-announcement Hurricane Ingrid in Mexico and flooding in Colorado and Toronto.
For the quarter our natural catastrophe losses totaled $85 million or 5.5 loss ratio points which was stood approximately $16 million and $69 million between our Insurance and Reinsurance segments respectively.
By comparison net losses from natural catastrophes in the same quarter of 2012 totaled $32 million or 2.4 loss ratio points.
Prior year reserve development in the quarter was a net favorable $79 million or 5.1 loss ratio points compared to $37 million and 2.5 loss ratio points for the same quarter in 2012.
This reflects favorable development of $3 million and $76 million in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments.
As we have outlined on previous earnings calls the third quarter is what we refer to as an actual versus expected quarter for our entire Insurance segment and our U.S.
Reinsurance business.
Our operating expenses were marginally higher than the prior year quarter and the second quarter of 2013 largely due to added headcount from a selected expansion in the Insurance segment business and increased infrastructure costs partially offset by ongoing efficiency efforts and lower variable compensation accruals.
As we've indicated in the past we continue to expect that overall operating expense levels for 2013 will be modestly higher than 2012 but at levels which show continued improvement in overall operating expense leverage.
Turning to investment performance.
Our investment portfolio delivered a positive total return of 1% in the quarter.
We had a positive mark-to-market of $113 million as spread narrowing was partially offset by small interest rate increases on our key currency jurisdictions.
Unrealized net gains in the portfolio were $800 million at the end of the third quarter.
Our P&amp;C fixed income duration decreased by 0.1 years to 3.6 years.
Net investment income on the P&amp;C portfolio in the quarter was $166 million matching the prior year quarter.
As a reminder there were a number of unusual items in the net investment income in the prior year quarter that drove it lower.
The P&amp;C gross book yield at the end of September was 2.7%.
We estimate that approximately $3.4 billion of P&amp;C assets with an average gross book yield of 3% will mature and pay down over the next 12 months compared to the average new money rate in Q3 on our P&amp;C portfolio of 2.1%.
The P&amp;C new money rate increased by 50 basis points this quarter compared to Q2 due to principally higher rates.
However net investment income remains under pressure but the recent increase in yields if sustained will help to offset the impact of these maturities and paydowns.
Our net income from investment affiliates was $15 million up $6 million in the prior year quarter.
Target returns and private investments were modest challenged by the volatile capital markets while we had a solid quarter from our investment managers including a partial sale of one of our stakes.
We also had positive returns from our other strategic affiliates.
As a reminder we report these items on either a 1- or 3-month lag basis.
During the quarter we have lowered our effective tax rate for the year 2 percentage points to approximately 10% on operating income.
This is based on the year-to-date and estimated distributions of profit and losses to jurisdictions within our global network of companies for the remainder of the year.
With respect to capital management we continue to execute on our share buyback program.
And during the third quarter we purchased 4.8 million shares for $150 million in an average price of $31.03 per share as we continue to view such purchases as an effective use of surplus capital.
At the end of the quarter $425 million remained available for purchase under our previously announced $850 million share buyback program.
I'll now turn it over to Greg to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete and good evening.
Tonight I'll cover the results for the segment give a brief update on talent and finish with some insight on our continued progress.
Beginning with the results.
On an accident quarter basis excluding CATs our combined ratio of 97.8% was 3.1 points higher than the prior year driven by the accident quarter ex-CAT loss ratio of 68% which is 5.4 points higher than prior year quarter.
This was driven by 2 large losses and some smaller losses impacting our aerospace and marine businesses though this activity was offset by improvements of 1.5 points in our operating leverage and a 0.5 point in acquisition expenses.
We look at the results over a longer horizon which we believe is the appropriate way to view our portfolio we see strong evidence of our progress.
Our year-to-date accident year ex-CAT combined ratio was 96.1% or 3.2 points better than the same period in 2012.
The loss ratio improved by nearly 1 point driven by better loss experienced at 70% of our businesses.
And as Mike mentioned 96.1% is the best 9-month accident year ex-CAT combined ratio for the segment in more than 5 years.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by $101 million or 9% in the quarter and by $424 million or 11% year-to-date.
Growth was particularly strong in North America where premiums grew 15% in the quarter and 23% year-to-date.
In the quarter our North American Construction Property Primary and Excess Casualty business experienced the largest percentage growth.
Our international P&amp;C and professional books each grew roughly 8% in the quarter and year-to-date.
Turning to talent.
We continue to strengthen our teams throughout the segment.
In this quarter we recruited Denise Balan to lead our crisis management team in the U.S.
We added Jeff Abramson to head up trade receivable insurance which is part of our Political Risk &amp; Trade Credit business.
And Thierry Daucourt joined as Chief Operating Officer for International P&amp;C just to name a few.
Over the past 2 years we've replaced 1/3 of our business leaders while adding 61 underwriters and we're now seeing this enhanced underwriting capability reflected in the profitable growth of a majority of our businesses.
Let's dig deeper on our progress.
The North American business group had a combined ratio of 87% on a year-to-date basis with all but one business improving by 5 points or more year-over-year.
North American Construction a new business just 3 years ago is now a profitable $200 million gross premium written business in 2013.
And several of the underwriting actions we have taken over the past 12 to 24 months terminating unprofitable programs increasing rates reducing line sizes and optimizing business mix continue to earn through.
Across this segment we are pulling on 4 levers to improve our combined ratio: mix of business underwriting actions operating leverage and rate.
In terms of business mix building a more profitable portfolio can be achieved in 2 dimensions.
First you can shift your gross portfolio to more profitable lines.
Our high and medium-return businesses grew $365 million or 12% year-to-date while the lower-margin businesses grew just $47 million or 6%.
The small growth in the lower-margin businesses is attributed to being in the middle of the re-underwriting process.
Effectively we are finishing the reduction of the underperforming parts of the book and are partway through growing the more profitable segments.
And we continually evaluate this mix including the build-out of new businesses which are growing 21% year-to-date.
The other dimension is ceded reinsurance.
And here we are benefiting from the improved terms and conditions that Jamie has noted in past quarters.
Ceding commissions on pro rata premiums continue to improve and year-to-date we ceded $81 million more premium on quota share placements.
Here we also benefit from decreasing excessive loss rates on short-tail lines.
Our underwriting talent attracts reinsurers who are looking to align themselves with the best underwriters and we see this continuing into 2014 and beyond.
Underwriting actions are part of any well-run underwriting operation.
We've delivered a roughly 1 point loss ratio improvement year-to-date in 2013 from a number of underwriting actions across the segment and we have identified and are executing on another set of actions for the fourth quarter and into 2014.
We continue to demonstrate improved operating leverage with a 2 point lower expense ratio year-to-date.
While this rate of improvement may slow as Mike noted we continue to have investments coming to fruition that will further improve our underwriting efficiency.
On rate year-to-date we've delivered rates 1.5 points above trend.
And while we see short-tail lines in North America slowing our diversified portfolio allows us to benefit from rate increases in medium and longer-tail lines in other geographies.
82% of our Insurance businesses achieved positive rate in the quarter 77% of our businesses achieved rate in excess of loss trends and 75% achieved rate-on-rate.
Our International P&amp;C books showed the most strength with rate increases of 6%.
Our North American P&amp;C businesses had another solid quarter with rate increases of 4%.
Global Professional had rate increases of 3% led by our continued push for rate in our U.S.
portfolio and our Specialty businesses were essentially flat in the quarter.
How these levers will drive our improvement will be influenced by market conditions but we see rate and operational leverage each contributing roughly 20% of the needed improvement and portfolio mix and underwriting actions each delivering approximately 30% of the lift.
Finally having just returned from large industry gatherings over the past month I can tell you that the excitement and support for XL for both our clients and brokers is as strong as ever and evident in our growth.
Of course you can verify our momentum with the market.
This momentum coupled with the continued improvement in our underwriting profits only increases our confidence in achieving our longer-term goal.
The urgency is there.
And with a team we have in place we are committed to achieving a combined ratio of 90% or better.
And now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance results.
Thank you Greg and good evening.
XL Re had a very good quarter from a calendar year perspective with a combined ratio of 85.4% producing an underwriting profit of $65 million.
This compares to a combined ratio of 86% in the third quarter of 2012.
Our result was positively impacted by $76 million of prior year reserve releases which compares to $35.7 million a year ago.
Excluding the impact of both prior year reserve releases and CAT losses the segment had a combined ratio of 86.8% which compares to the 88% achieved in the third quarter of 2012.
With respect to the reserve releases we benefited from a significant increase in releases from our international operations of $39 million compared to $19 million a year ago.
Overall we would again stress our prudent reserving philosophy.
Our releases were concentrated on short-tail lines with 70% coming from our property and marine portfolios.
Our accident year combined was 102.4% compared to 93.4% in the third quarter of 2012.
While disappointing this was specifically driven by catastrophe losses none of which were outsized given our market presence in the impacted geographies.
The most significant losses impacting the quarter were the German hailstorms for $42.6 million the floods in Mexico driven by Hurricane Ingrid for $10 million and further development of $8.8 million from the flooding in Calgary earlier this year all net of reinstatement premiums.
Turning to top line.
Gross written premiums in the quarter were $350 million a 16% reduction from the third quarter of last year.
The reductions were largely driven by reduced crop premiums from our North American operations.
You will recall 2012 was our last year of involvement in the Heartland Crop program.
And the year-on-year drop in written premium from this cancellation was $45 million which accounts for 2/3 of the overall reduction.
The remainder comes principally from a $21 million reduction in our Latin American portfolio due to competitive market conditions.
On a year-to-date basis the segment has generated an outstanding combined ratio of 80.1% just about identical to the 80.5% in 2012.
Excluding the impact of prior year releases and CAT losses our combined ratio was 83% which compares favorably to the 86.6% generated a year ago.
With respect to the top line our gross year-to-date premiums has reduced by 6.5% to $1.73 billion with Heartland representing almost 50% of the drop.
The remainder results from a combination of competitive market conditions and client retention themes we have discussed regularly in the past.
Turning to market conditions.
We spoke of our midyear renewals on last quarter's call and I would again describe them as satisfactory.
We have attended a number of industry conferences over the last 6 weeks and there's considerable speculation about the coming renewal season in the property CAT space with abundant capacity available from traditional and nontraditional sources and what appears to be a benign Atlantic hurricane season potentially having some downward pressure on U.S.
pricing.
With the level of catastrophe activity in Europe through the spring and summer we see no compelling reason for reductions in that market.
Going into renewals.
We are positioned well to deal with the market environment however it plays out.
We have a terrific book of business a world-class stable of underwriters and deep relationships with our customers and brokers.
For example 60% of the premiums in our U.S.
CAT portfolio comes from seeding companies we began doing business with in our first year of operations over 20 years ago.
It's a heavily syndicated market and while no one can say with certainty what year end will bring I am confident we will emerge with a very attractive portfolio of business.
On the long-tail side you'll notice in our financial supplement an increase in written premium this quarter over a year ago.
While market conditions remain very competitive in this area we did write a significant new account in North America for $7 million.
The rest of the increase was due to timing differences and the booking of premium and increase shares again in our North American business unit.
Nevertheless we remain broadly concerned about the apparent disconnect between an improving rate environment and the insurance sector and very competitive terms and conditions being offered in the Reinsurance market.
With that I'll return to David for Q&amp;A.
And Shirley can you please open the lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is the second quarter in a row where we've had some issues in the Insurance segment.
This quarter it was some attrition -- some elevated attritional losses last quarter was adjusting a loss pick.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of do we think we have those issues out of the way? Or is there anything else that causes you any concern on the horizon? Thanks Jay.
It's Greg.
As we discussed last quarter we increased the loss picks in a few businesses and therefore we had 2-quarter earned impact in the second quarter.
So we normalize for that change right? Our first and second quarter accident year ex-CAT loss ratios were virtually identical at 64.5%.
So for me the third quarter is the first quarter this year where we had some noise right? Let me discuss some of the drivers.
I noted that we had 2 losses above our large loss threshold of $10 million as well as loss activity in our aerospace and marine businesses right? In marine we have and continued to underwrite in the competitive market and I'm not surprised to see loss activity and this was essentially in our Holland cargo lines this quarter.
As Mike said we look at the leadership underwriting and strategy when we have a higher loss ratio quarter.
And in marine we've recently changed the dealership and have confidence in our underwriting go-forward strategy for the business.
On the aerospace side it's been a very strong performer for us over the past few years and this quarter is purely an aberration with regard to loss frequency.
The particular portfolio where the business came from is running in the low- to mid-50s.
This was just an unfortunate quarter tick-up in loss frequency.
We have not observed anything in the losses the underwriting and it challenges our ability to continue to make money in aerospace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So overall within Insurance you're still committed to that 90% normalized combined ratio probably not 2014 but maybe in '15? I won't commit to the time but absolutely committed to that goal.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then for Pete on investment income it actually ticked up on a linked quarter basis $148 million.
That was better than we thought.
Were there any onetimers in there? Or should we be thinking about that now as a run rate before we adjust for the higher yielding securities coming off the book? No there wasn't -- Jay it's Pete.
There wasn't anything in the quarter that at all moved that investment income around.
Very very much a runway.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the net income from investment affiliates $5 million this quarter down pretty significantly quarter-over-quarter as well as year-over-year.
What was the driver there? I wouldn't say that there's any specific driver.
You're going to get a lot of movement quarter-to-quarter-to-quarter.
I mean we look at this one it's a little similar to where we look at Insurance right? We look at this on a -- probably on a year basis annual basis.
And on that we're very happy with the returns that we've been seeing.
Research Division</strong> If you were to think about a normalized return level on that asset base what would it be and what would that imply on net income? Yes we would say -- let's call it 8%.
Research Division</strong> On an asset base of...
On the asset base of -- depending on which one you want.
So we have 2 or 3 different asset bases that we could use right? Do you want the old? Do you want the -- which one do want Jay? Research Division</strong> Well I'm looking at the investment affiliates so I guess it would be the sum of the alternative funds plus the private investment fund affiliates.
Right.
So we have in the affiliates right we've got about $1.4 billion invested in that.
That would include the strategic affiliates right? So if you back that out it's about $1.2 billion right? And we disclosed in the financial supplement and I know you haven't had a lot of time to go through it we disclosed what the return's on that.
And if you go back and look over the year I think you'd find it to be pretty healthy.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Yes first one for Jamie.
Jamie just curious how much of your 1:1 CAT renewals is Europe or international versus the U.S.? I don't have the precise breakdown Brian but I will tell you virtually 100% of the European CAT renewals are 1:1.
I mean it's a very heavily concentrated 1:1 business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's the one you said you should expect that pricing is going to be pretty stable maybe up a little bit given the CAT activity? Certainly the impacted program should be up.
I don't know what the overall market will do but my expectation is that will have an overall flat risk-adjusted.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I'm just curious on the increase in the pro rata on the insurance book.
What impact is that having on your combined ratio? Seeing it was 50 100 basis point in the expense ratio is there any way we can quantify that? And is it...
It would be roughly 50 basis points in '13 year-to-date on the expense ratio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then basically the same with respect to the other ratios? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just last one just curious you lost a fairly senior person recently.
It was announced in your North America business.
Do you expect any potential top line impact from that loss? No.
Your next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back and ask a few more questions following up on Jay's.
If you look at 2012 versus 2011 the company reported about 650 basis points of margin improvement on the Insurance business ex-CATs and x development.
So far 2 3 quarters if we look at it on a trailing 12-month basis your loss ratio is up by about 1.8% compared to the year-ago period.
You're continuing to get rate increases I assume and this is spread over 12 months.
Do you think that it's possible you're a little aggressive initially in booking 2012? So Josh let me walk you through the trailing 12-month figures that I have and maybe we need to true them up a bit.
When I look at -- I find that this longer time period is really necessary for us so I'm thrilled that you're bringing it up.
If you go back to the financial supplement the trailing 12 months ending September 30 I have an accident year ex-CAT combined ratio of 104.8% in 2010 100.8% in 2011 and 96.5% in 2013.
And look at the loss ratio I've got 74% 67.9% and 66.1%.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] obviously you're right.
That's right.
Yes yes.
So it's -- we like that trend that we see from '10 -- from '10 to '11 to '12 to '13.
But I can't forecast where it would be in '14 but I like the way that looks.
Research Division</strong> Well I mean you might have an idea.
I mean you've rewritten probably 50% of the business is going to be earning through in 2014.
Do you have some sense there? Right.
this is Mike.
We've made it a point and we're going to have to continue to make it a point not to forecast what's going to happen.
Generally in the first quarter next year we'll try to give you some view of how we're thinking about buybacks some view of expenses because we know those are harder for anyone else to figure out.
But I just -- but on terms of loss ratios and combined ratios we just don't forecast that.
But I will tell you the trends that Greg just described of essentially a 4-point improvement year-over-year 2 years in a row 4 points each year is the kind of progress we expect.
Whether that will be the exact amount of lift as you get closer to your target each point becomes a bit more of a scramble.
But we're awfully pleased with our progress the momentum it gives us.
Research Division</strong> Did you have a sense of what you think you're getting in terms of rate right now compared with loss costs? Yes as Greg mentioned a moment ago we're getting about 1 point to 1.5 point better in rate than we are observing in loss costs.
Research Division</strong> And that goes to reinsurance also? We don't measure things the same way.
We measure rate adequacy overall.
And clearly our rate adequacy level in the entire portfolio has come down principally because of downward pressure in the CAT market.
Research Division</strong> It's not your fault.
Your next question comes from Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Greg I wondered if I could follow up a bit more and get a bit more color on some of the reunderwriting actions you guys are doing.
I think one of the things you said in the intro remarks was that something like 30% of your businesses are still performing below target.
A couple of questions there are if these are newer businesses among the things you've been investing in or if they're older ones? And sort of what are some examples of the things you guys are doing today and the sort of year-end and into '14 in this businesses on the underwriting initiative side? And wondering when some of these things really started? Sure.
Josh let me step back and give you -- as I look at the portfolio today and factor in the rate and the underwriting actions you're asking about that we've completed and playing.
I view the portfolio in 3 parts: the business that's performing at target the business that's within 5% of target and the business more than 5% away from target.
Over the last 12 to 18 months we've moved the percentage of the book that's at target from 25% to 50%.
So I would say we're seeing the actions come through already.
Just that middle part is about the same at that business within 5% of target is at 30%.
And what's happening there of course is businesses are moving out of that into above target and coming up from well away from target.
And the businesses that are more than 5% from our target have shrunk from 40% to about 20%.
It's important to remember that in that book in the piece is our new businesses that are coming online because they're going to be expense drags for the first year as they get up online.
The underwriting actions we'd have to spend -- we have to spend half an hour going through all of them.
It's the actuarial team and the underwriting teams have them but the effect will fall in that category I talked about: there's pricing; there's tiering by industry by geography; there's in -- limit management; there's attachment and deductible management; and just a whole host of them that move across the book and drive that results.
So they're coming in already and they're going to keep coming because that's the relentless exercise you have to do to be an excellent underwriting operation.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I don't want to simplify the work of sort of real people who specialize in this but for all of our benefits would you characterize them sort of execution on a lot of sort of detailed fronts that all of which have to perform? Or are there still sort of major levers which you guys are pulling where we can look at this as perhaps sort of simpler to bank on going forward? Yes this is Mike.
The simple stuff was done a while ago.
I mean the reality is with the book improving at the rate it's improving we're down to a whole bunch of little decisions whether it has to do with limit strategy reinsurance strategy particular classes that we identify with some kind of a temperature that kind of thing.
And as a result we believe that we're down to a narrower box of business that we can really get at that granular level and just keep driving it out of our system.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well keep up -- we'll keep waiting for all the hard work to pay out.
I appreciate that and I understand the view at the same time when I look it year-over-year-over-year I'm very excited about the rate of progress.
Your next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> The first question is do you have a number for the higher losses in the primary Insurance segment that negatively impact the quarter? So Vinay so on the aerospace and marine piece it's roughly $14 million for marine $16 million for aerospace and that's the main chunks on those pieces.
The other 2 large losses as you know we don't talk about large losses because they'd be in our industry events that reflect a specific insurance.
Research Division</strong> Sure that's helpful.
The second question is on -- could you give us an update on the 4 lines of business last quarter where you trued up the losses please? Yes I can.
They're -- everything is unchanged both those ones that we trued up and the rest of the book other than this activity we talked about are unchanged from last quarter.
Research Division</strong> So just to or restate this this quarter was really noise from large loss activity and it's got nothing to do with what happened the last quarter correct? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And just a numbers question here.
The tax rate you released to 10% for year to date.
Should we expect the 10% also for the fourth quarter? Plus what's a normalized tax rate sort of looking into next year? So Vinay it's Pete.
The -- on the tax rates we went into this year planning about a 12% tax rate and as I said in my comments we took that down to 10% when we looked at where the taxes were.
Well the gains and losses were coming in in our jurisdiction by jurisdiction and that included looking to Q4.
I don't see anything different in Q4 versus what happened to date.
It is hard to tell because it will depend somewhat on loss activity.
But no I don't expect anything different.
So I would if I was trying to help you think through that I don't know why we've moved it from 10% but then again I don't think 10% is the run rate on a sort of beginning-of-the-year basis.
Your next question comes from Mike Zaremski with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First Mike in the prepared remarks you mentioned recent upgrades by the rating agencies.
Just curious if those upgrades would impact the rating agencies or XL's views of excess capital levels or maybe other things? Yes so let me -- why don't we cover 2 things really quick.
Number one our view of the capital levels required and then let me ask Greg and Jamie to both comment on the way in which this may trade some additional opportunities for us which were -- first of all you have to know that given all that we've been through since the time of these downgrades this is an incredibly gratifying day for us.
And we feel an enormous validation of the hard work of thousands of people around the world.
So I hope all the XL colleagues who are listening in right now are feeling especially proud of all the effort of these past years.
In terms of capital the fact is that the -- we derive our capital from an absolute level of buffer that we want to maintain and then we add to that absolute level an additional buffer if you will that is driven by what we would call qualitative factors.
Among the qualitative factors that we use to evaluate the right level of buffer to the buffer would be where our rating is.
And so having our rating improve will likely cause us to reduce somewhat that buffer to the buffer.
I wouldn't however start cashing checks from share repurchase increases.
We've been helpfully repurchasing shares throughout the year as Pete indicated and I don't think it's the kind of number that would have a meaningful impact on repurchases.
Of course we'll give more color on repurchase for '14 when we get there.
But it's a positive but it's not a huge number as we look at it initially.
The board of course makes that judgment ultimately based on our advice and we won't have a chance to discuss that with -- until we discuss the budget in December.
So that's how we look at the capital bit.
Jamie? Yes I mean think broadly it's certainly going to help us as we trade.
It's an endorsement of the strength of our balance sheet and all of our partners will recognize that.
I think specifically however it is certainly going to help us in long-tail lines where there are certain ceding companies that will not trade historically with reinsurers rated below certain levels.
And I think that will certainly add some opportunities for us.
On the Insurance side it's a little less rating-agency sensitive than on the Reinsurance side.
But it should help marginally on our international book.
That's where it would get the most attention to it under international T&amp;C [ph] book but it is on the mark.
And I would also Mike just to make sure we're clear S&amp;P actually increased the rating from an A to an A+ on the FSR rating.
A.M.
Best was a change in outlook to a positive outlook on the issuer credit rating.
So just to be clear we have an outlook change from A.M.
Best.
We have an actual rating change from S&amp;P.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Very helpful.
Lastly for Greg I believe the answer is no from your remarks so far.
But -- so would you say how much of the kind of higher attritional losses emanated from kind of the business lines you had previously classified in the past as challenged.
I know we don't use that term anymore.
None.
Your next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I guess first for Jamie I guess for our model can you talk about the Heartland premiums that were in the fourth quarter of 2012? I believe the year-to-date number for the fourth quarter was $60 million.
The vast majority of it was captured in the first 3 quarters of 2012 I believe $58 million part of the $60 million.
Jay this is Pete.
We can come back to separately if those numbers are not exactly right.
Research Division</strong> Yes check them out.
If they're not obviously you'll let me know.
But it sounds like you should have a big distorting factor in the fourth quarter.
I guess then maybe a -- excuse me? That would certainly will not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Question I guess for Mike.
As you look at the business now obviously your margin towards a higher ROE based on where you're heading based on where interest rates are where you see the market would you be disappointed if you don't see a double-digit ROE in 2015? Jay that's such a clever way to ask me to forecast.
But I may go out on a limb and say yes.
I would be disappointed.
Your next question comes from Mike Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So one question I had I guess was we've kind of talked about these large losses.
But maybe asking it this way excluding those items if you just look at like rate-driven margin expansion what did that look like in the third quarter? The rate-driven margin expansion for the Insurance segment would be about 1%.
That 1.5 point rate above trend times the loss ratio gives you about a 1% lift.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then as far as that crop business I mean do you expect to replace that premium with either other crop business or other Reinsurance business? Well we have.
I think we've mentioned Mike on previous calls we began a new relationship this year with an agency in California called Global Agriculture.
In the third quarter we booked $11.4 million of premium from them.
We would expect on an annualized basis that could be in the mid-30s.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Great.
And then I guess one question I think I don't know if I got this exactly right but on property CAT reinsurance it sounded like there's a bit of a disconnect there between kind of the reinsurance insurance markets and what trends are on the pricing side.
What -- if you see that first off do you expect to grow that business at 1 1 particularly in North America? Well we certainly have room to grow from a risk-management perspective.
You will have seen our limited profile in the Q up from the second quarter.
Whether we grow or not depends entirely on the trading environment at year-end.
I mean we are not top line driven.
We never have been.
We anticipate and ended up with a very attractive-looking portfolio but we'll grow it if the terms and conditions are right.
I don't know what more else to say.
It's a hugely syndicated market.
And we'll just have to see what the trading environment looks like at year-end.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And what -- is the trade-off more about kind of filling that space with -- filling your quota for that business or in the absolute return or the kind of blended return of the portfolio.
Because I guess you can imagine a scenario where pricing is not great margins are not great but from a risk-management and risk-adjusted perspective you still see value in writing that business? How do you think about that? I'd say a couple of things.
One is we've been very consistent with the way we measure rate adequacy which I mentioned a few questions ago.
Even with the reductions at midyear our U.S.
CAT portfolio is at about 100% rate adequacy.
So if we see business at those levels we'll certainly look to write it.
There are other geographies that are not as well rated and significant reductions there will probably cause us to reduce our position in those markets.
And finally we've never taken the view that we will write very inexpensive business in some geographies simply because it's there and it's the only business that you can write in those territories.
If it's really cheap we just pass on it.
Research Division</strong> Got it and then just last one I guess.
To the extent that that proportion of business falls down where would you most likely be predisposed to deploy that capital I guess within Reinsurance into Insurance and maybe for Mike and Pete back into buybacks? No it's really a question of opportunity.
As we look across the book one of the advantages we have is the many product lines we're in the many geographies we're in.
And we see a number of profitable opportunities across the globe that where we can grow in put money to work.
At the same time we do have return hurdles in mind and when those return hurdles can't be met by continuing to put money behind businesses we put it -- while we maintain the buffers I described we then turn it to share repurchases.
So that's kind of 3-step process has been as long as I've been here and we'll go through that entire process.
And then I should just be clear that could be opportunity in Reinsurance it could be an opportunity in Insurance.
It just depends on what we see out there.
Clearly right now if you were to bet on where it might go to work I would say it would be more likely these days to go to work in the Insurance book given broadly what we're seeing.
Your next question comes from Meyer Shields with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm struggling with how to ask this.
But can you help us understand what it is that you did not see that would have suggested that there was maybe a deeper problem with the attritional losses? Meyer you're either in a speaker phone or we couldn't hear that very well.
Could we do that one more time? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No I'm happy to.
I'm not sure it made sense the first time anyway.
Can you talk about what it was that you didn't see that had you seen it would have suggested that there's actually maybe a more fundamental problem in the attritional losses that you saw in the quarter? I mean that's the point I was making in the opening that Greg has reinforced.
We do have a process.
Any time we see this kind of -- an unusual level of loss activity we've gone through that process.
In our view in these cases there was nothing we couldn't have foreseen that we hadn't foreseen that would have changed this outcome.
It's a matter of being in this business and these particular clients at this particular point in time and has -- doesn't change our view of our mix of business.
So our business is going forward.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I can't remember if it was Greg but somebody said that there's 1.5 point gap between current rate increases and loss cost trends.
Are those current loss cost trends like what we're seeing right now or sort of anticipated long-term rates? They're over the long-term but they are -- the loss cost trends hold true this quarter.
That is a quarterly figure.
So it's -- we don't twist them around violently quarter-to-quarter but it's the most recent quarter.
Your next question comes from Paul Newsome with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could expand a little bit on the levers that you used when you mentioned in your remarks that you didn't need rate to get to your profit goals.
And if that's so just expand upon exactly what that -- if we didn't have rate tomorrow what would you do to get there? Well just to be clear Paul we keep doing what we're doing.
We don't count on rate.
The plan from the beginning didn't count on rate.
Obviously if you get a lot of rate it changes how things work and you get even more benefit from the actions you're taking.
But between our reunderwriting and between our remixing towards more profitable lines of business either because we're adding lines of business that we find to be lower combined ratio historically or because we are increasing or growing in lines of business that we have produced historical differences.
I'm going to give you 2 examples: crisis management we're building out a very nice business right now.
Right now it's a negative drag but we expect it to be a very substantial contributor to our 90-degree goal -- or 90% combined ratio goal.
At the same time we're growing very nicely and have been for a couple of years in North American property where we're achieving an excellent result.
So that's an example of a new line of activity and there's an example of an existing business we're putting more capital behind it in order to increase.
As we -- that causes a remixing of the books of business towards greater profitability and we are also going to see as I mentioned continuing lift from operational investments that are being harvested.
When you add those together none of those are dependent on rate.
They're about our own actions and completely within our own control.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I'm keeping the fate.
My second question is completely unrelated and should be a softball.
Any thoughts on this new accounting that we're coming down the pike from: the SP [ph] and the ISAP.
So Paul I'd say I understand the technical merit of some of the proposed changes that they're talking about particularly around the discounting reserves.
But I'm really concerned that these types of changes are going to have a pretty significant implementation cost and have the potential to add quite a bit of volatility and comparability as you start with our reported results.
The other thing I'd say is we've always been really supportive of the creation of a single global accounting standard.
And we're pretty disappointed that the global accounting policy makers couldn't come together here and come up with a single view.
And knowing that that single view is not coming about in the near term we don't see any reason to significantly change an approach that seems to be well understood by the users of the financial info.
Your next question comes from Ian Gutterman with BAM.
I guess my first is for Jamie on the Reinsurance accident year.
The 87 [ph] is obviously a little better year-over-year but it's few points worse than the first half.
I'm not quite sure which one to benchmark it against but was there anything unusual in this quarter versus the first half? Yes we had a couple large losses.
We had $2 million from the property loss from the Quebec train crash.
Like train crash we had a $6 million warehouse fire loss in France and $5 million loss from the Asiana air crash.
L.P.</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then to Greg I guess the large losses it's been sort of a frequent theme over the years right some quarters very good some quarters poor.
But it seems like your volatility in large losses is greater than what I would consider your peers'.
And I get some of that is a type of lines you write.
But is other things you could be proactive about to manage that respectively? Meaning do you need or have you reviewed whether you think your line sizes are too big or were you play in a syndicated? Or maybe you should buy more per risk reinsurance to manage it? Or are there things you can do and I mean there are obviously other things you can do.
I guess the equation is why have you chosen not to do those things? Well this is Mike.
Let me start this is much more about who we are and how we're designed.
When you look at a lot of our peers many of them have very large blocks of kind of low-volatility business and we don't have that.
We're all about volatility around here.
So that does make us a bit different.
At the same time there are a lot of things we can do and we have been doing them and that's exactly the news and I make such a big fuss over the difference between the fourth quarter of '11 and the impact of the same kind of activity today.
Then it was a 108 combined.
Today we still made an underwriting profit.
That is because we have been doing the very kinds of things that you just described.
You could ask "Are we there yet?" And until we're running pretty regularly these 90 combines the answer is no.
And so is there more we can do? We're doing those things.
And I think that they are showing their effectiveness by the fact that on this trailing 12-month basis we continue to see such a dramatic improvement in the performance of the book.
And I view it in -- so on the profit side when are you going to get the profit pool bigger? The split I use before of at target near target and away from target we need to get that to about 70 20 10 right? That will help create a bigger profit pool to buffer against this.
But as Mike noted we've grown our property premium in North America dramatically the past couple of years but we kept our CAT retentions flat in dollar terms and we bought a little bit lower down the risk cover.
We've reduced our excess cows in that line by about 15%.
We've reduced our professional net lines in some areas pretty measurably.
So we are doing those things.
It is a constant analysis of trying to balance how much profit I have in the portfolio and how much I'm willing to let anyone set a risk move against it.
That's very helpful color actually.
If can ask one more? The other way I looked at it Greg is if I take the average of the last 6 quarters excluding the tough Q1 of a year ago it's right around the 96 and even looking the last 3 quarters of last year versus the first 3 of this year are about the same.
So it seems like we're kind of stuck at this 96 and so how do we get from 96 to 90? I guess the presumption of the question is I'd thought there'd be a little bit more gradual improvement rather than sort of being in this 96 range for 6 straight quarters if I smear that out.
So I would say there is an unusually an unusually good quarter in Q3 '12 right which is driving this the quarter-over-quarter different where we had our lowest loss ratio in a few years.
So there's a little bit of that.
There's unusually good quarter that happened in the midst of that strength.
But I'd tell you I'd take it back to that trailing 12 months the '11 '12 '13 where we're 104 100.8 and 96.5 and that is what we -- that's what we're observing that we're seeing it move through.
I just don't -- I'm afraid I just don't spend a lot of time analyzing quarter-to-quarter.
Okay I guess what I was really doing is taking the 100 [ph] play of last year and stripping out the first quarter because that was a tough one and seeing if you do those back 3 quarters it's more like 1 point than 4 points.
And a good chunk of that seems to be expense ratio improvement which is fair which is a fair way to get there.
I don't care if you get there through loss or expense but...
Yes I mean look I got to be clear.
Again when we look at it and the way we look at it you can see why we're as excited as we are.
At the same time if you ask your question in a different way would we like the loss ratio to be improving more quickly? The answer is yes.
Do we think that the right actions are in place to cause that? We do and that is the source of our confidence.
So I appreciate what you're saying but that's the way we look at it.
Our final question comes from Amit Kumar with Macquarie Capital.
Just 2 quick questions.
Just going back to Ian's question the traditional losses in Q3 2012 was that number sort of 0? Is that what you were implying when you said -- I'm not talking about the crop losses but was that component 0? There was only one significant loss in the third quarter a year ago and it was modest Ian.
So the answer essentially is yes.
Okay.
Because I was trying to do an apples-to-apples comparison.
That's helpful.
I guess the only other question I have is a quick one is do you have any exposure to the Spanish surety bond issue? Yes it's Jamie here.
We have some in the Reinsurance segment.
We took $6.3 million in incurred losses in this quarter.
We have total up of about $11 million.
We've done an analysis to the portfolio and we believe if everything went to hell we have less than $20 million of additional exposure in the entire portfolio all accident years.
And the answer for Insurance is no.
And at this time I'll turn the call back over to the speakers for closing remarks.
Yes I just want to thank everybody for their thorough questioning.
As I said before while we remain a work in progress and we can see areas where we still need to do more work.
And in a sense even when you get there you work to stay there.
But the rate of progress we are very pleased by.
This business today we feel very complimented by the results over at S&amp;P and I know our people really feel good about that recognition.
And we are determined to drive it to the bottom line and we're looking forward to next quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please be advised that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley.
Welcome to XL Group's fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings conference call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We posted to our website several documents including our quarterly financial supplement.
On our call this evening you'll hear from Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who will offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer who'll review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Before they begin I'd like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only for the date on which they're made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening.
Tonight we are pleased to share with you XL's fourth quarter and full year 2013 results.
2013 was a good year for XL with many important metrics demonstrating our continuing year-over-year improvement.
As regards to fourth quarter itself our assessment is a bit more mixed.
While we like a lot of what occurred including the strong performance in many of our businesses we did see large loss activity in the fourth quarter as occurred in the third diminish the result.
More on the fourth quarter in a moment but overall we feel good about the year now in the books and very good about how we are positioned for 2014 and for the future.
I'll start with some highlights of the year.
Our operating return on equity ex unrealized gains and losses increased to 12.5% for the fourth quarter and to 10.2% for the full year.
Our overall P&amp;C combined ratio improved by close to 4 points versus 2012.
Total P&amp;C gross premiums written increased for the fourth straight year as we continue to implement our plans for each of our businesses.
For the fifth consecutive year we grew our tangible book value per share delivering increased value to our shareholders.
These are solid indicators of our progress.
From a segment perspective we also saw good practice.
For example Reinsurance delivered a very strong 81.4% combined ratio for the year and an underwriting profit for the eight consecutive year and suffice it to say in the midst of tough market conditions and international CAT activity in the quarter which Jamie will discuss more later in the call we are very proud of what our Reinsurance colleagues produced for the year.
In Insurance 2013 marks the first year since 2009 in which the Insurance segment delivered an underwriting profit.
The segment's total combined ratio of 97.1% is the best result in five years.
The segment's accident year combined ratio of 96.7% and the loss ratio of 65.9% are also the best performance in these metrics since 2007.
Now as I noted at the opening of my remarks there was a contrary note on the fourth quarter as you've seen in our release.
In the fourth quarter as in the third quarter we experienced mutual losses; in this quarter mainly in our North America property book that affected the Insurance action quarter combined and loss ratios.
As you know these metrics are the focus of much of our attention and the slowing of our progress here does temper on our overall assessment though only a bit.
It is tempered by the fact that the 96.7 insurance accident year ex combined ratio we delivered in the fourth quarter is no where we wanted or expected to be at this point.
But as we have reviewed the second half of the year we find this level of loss activity to be an aberration when viewed against our full year performance.
For example for the full year 2013 the combined ratio for our North American property book on the same accident year ex CAT basis was 74.3% and the combined ratio for North American P&amp;C was at 91% continuing their march to our overall target.
The fact is that the property group experienced one bad quarter and essentially a year's worth of large losses in the fourth quarter which capped on an otherwise strong year.
This isn't going to cause us to change our plans.
As we continue to remix our portfolio very much a work in progress we will be even better able to absorb losses like this as they might come and we can see where this balancing effort is already at play.
For example throughout the year we grew our highest margin insurance businesses by over 10% while reducing our lowest margin businesses by 4% further improving our mix.
And to continue the trend we've reported last quarter year-to-date 70% of insurance businesses had improved loss ratios versus the prior year on an accident year ex CAT basis.
Even in Reinsurance we are seeing the same effect.
While we had a degree of CAT losses in our international book in the quarter the Bermuda reinsurance business produced a combined ratio of 26.2%.
And when you look at it from the top of the house like we do the total mix of all of our insurance businesses is moving us in the direction we want with a total P&amp;C accident year ex CAT combined ratio of 92% for the 2013 year.
So already we are seeing the effect of a diversified portfolio and more books of business that are producing profit for the enterprise as a whole.
We expect benefits from this to only increase as our remixing produces a higher number of margin expanding and less correlated businesses.
This will reduce the impact of these outlier quarters.
Turning back to the financials for a moment and Pete will have more detail on this in his section we were helped by the strong performance of risk assets in both the fourth quarter and throughout the year leading to significant earnings from our investment affiliates.
In fact both the P&amp;C and Life investment portfolio strongly outperformed their benchmarks during the year helping to dampen the impact of rising interest rates.
As we continue to gain traction from New Ocean our joint venture with Stone Point Capital in the end we are consistently looking to our progress over time and from this perspective we saw a lot of what we like in 2013; a continuing success for Reinsurance the first underwriting profit for the Insurance segment in four years the achievement of a double-digit net ROE it is the direct accumulation of the various actions we have taken to build a solid and strengthening foundation.
It is because we are seeing profitable contributions from an increasing number of businesses and other sources it is because of our continued prudence in reserving and overall it is the product of the right and consistent behaviors we've been working towards over time we expect this progress to continue in 2014.
With that I'll turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating net income for the fourth quarter was $287 million or $1 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to $39 million in 2012 or $0.13 per share.
Operating net income for the full year was $943 million or $3.23 per share.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was $1 million or $1.05 per share for the quarter and $1.06 billion or $2.63 for the full year.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 93.3% 12.6 points lower than the same quarter last year while our accident year combined ratio for the quarter was 97.3% lower by 14.9 points.
These improvements were due to lower natural catastrophe losses and the impacts of our underwriting accidents that Greg and Jamie will discuss further.
For the quarter our natural catastrophe losses totaled $94 million or 6.3 loss ratio points which stood $24 million and $70 million between our Insurance and Reinsurance segments.
By comparison net losses from natural catastrophes in the same quarter of 2012 totaled $352 million or 23.3 loss ratio points due primarily to the impact of Storm Sandy.
For the full year natural catastrophe losses were $317 million compared to $464 million in 2012.
Prior year development in the quarter was a net favorable $61 million or 4 loss ratio points compared to $98 million or 6.4 loss ratio points for the same quarter in 2012.
This reflects favorable development of $40 million in Insurance and $21 million in Reinsurance resulting from our fourth quarter detailed ground-up reserve review.
Greg and Jamie will cover this in more detail in their comments.
Our operating expenses for the quarter were higher than Q4 2012 largely due to added headcount from expansion in the Insurance segment during the year and lower variable compensation in the prior year quarter due to Storm Sandy partially offset by ongoing efficiency efforts.
Overall fourth quarter expenses were comparable with the third quarter of 2013.
Our Insurance operating expense ratio in the quarter was up from the prior year quarter due to the timing of distribution of expenses between corporate and segment initiatives as well as a change in the buying of proportion of reinsurance in the Insurance segment.
Our purchase of increased quota share reinsurance particularly in the U.S.
professional business line lowered net written and earned premium in the quarter resulting in approximately 0.5 percentage point increase in the insurance operating expense ratio in the quarter more offset by the inverse impact on the acquisition expense ratio.
Consistent with our previous disclosures full year operating expenses for 2013 were 3.3% higher than the prior year allowing us to improve the company's overall operating expense leverage while continuing our investments in strategic and infrastructure projects.
Our operating tax expense was $4.9 million for the fourth quarter and $77.2 million for the full year.
Our full year 2013 tax rate on operating income was approximately 7.6%.
This was lower than the 10% tax rate through the first nine months of 2013 as we continue to benefit from the distribution of profits and losses across our global platform in particular lower levels of catastrophe losses in jurisdictions with lower tax rates.
Turning to investment performance our investment portfolio delivered a positive total return of 0.6% in the quarter and 0.8% for the year as credit spread tightening equities and alternative fund gains more than offset the negative effects of higher risk-free rates.
We had a negative mark-to-market of $47 million in Q4 and $685 million for the full year 2013.
Unrealized net gains in the portfolio were $741 million at the end of the fourth quarter.
Our P&amp;C fixed income duration remained unchanged at 3.6 years and remained short our neutral duration.
Net investment income on the P&amp;C portfolio in the quarter was $169 million matching the prior year quarter.
P&amp;C net investment income in the prior year quarter was reduced primarily by accelerated premium amortization on our Agency MBS holdings due to lower government rates in an environment of ongoing quantitative leasing at that time.
Prepayments on our mortgage holdings continue to create some net investment income volatility.
We experienced slower prepayments in our agency mortgage portfolio in Q4 2013 which increased net investment income as the book yields on that portfolio is greater than current new money rates.
The P&amp;C gross book yield at the end of December was 2.7%.
We estimate that approximately $3.2 billion of P&amp;C assets with an average gross book yield of 2.8% will mature and pay down over the next 12 months.
This compares to our average new money rate on our P&amp;C portfolio in Q4 of 2%.
We expect net investment income to remain under pressure of the increases in government bond yields that we saw in the second half of 2013 it's the same throughout 2014 we'll have to offset the impact of maturities and paydowns.
Net income from investment affiliates in Q4 was $78 million up $46 million from the prior year quarter.
The returns for alternative funds which we all know as the hedge fund portfolio were very strong in the quarter at $49 million with strong results of $23 million in the quarter from our investment manager affiliates augmented the increase.
Net income from investment affiliates for the full year was $272 million in 2013 compared to $87 million in 2012.
The overall rate of return on our alternatives portfolio including the non-equity portion was 12.2% in the year.
While we do not view this as a long-term run rate these types of non-correlated returns represent an important part of our overall investment strategy and continues the growth in book value.
Net realized gains on investments were $12 million in the quarter and $88 million for the full year.
This compared to net realized gains of $11 million in Q4 2012 and net realized gains of $14 million for the full year 2012.
These figures include a total OTTI charge in 2013 of $16 million down from $81 million in 2012.
With respect to capital management during the quarter we issued $300 million of 2.3% five-year senior notes and $300 million of 5.25% 30-year senior notes.
The net proceeds from the sale of these notes were intended to be used for the repayment at maturity of the outstanding $600 million 5.25% senior notes due in September 2014.
We continue to execute on our share buyback program and during the fourth quarter we purchased 4.9 million shares for $150 million at an average price of $30.85 per share.
For the full year the company repurchased 22.5 million shares for $673 million at an average price of $29.86.
This amount included the $98 million repurchased in January 2013 that was delayed from 2012 because of Storm Sandy.
At the end of the quarter $275 million remained available for purchase under our previously announced $850 million share buyback program.
We continue to view such purchases as an effective use of surplus capital.
I'll now turn it over to Greg to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete.
Good evening.
Today I'll cover the fourth quarter and full year results for the segment provide insight on our continued progress and finish with an update on pricing.
Beginning with the results our calendar quarter combined ratio of 96.7% was nearly 10 points better than the fourth quarter of 2012 which was adversely impacted by Storm Sandy.
On an accident quarter basis excluding CATs our combined ratio of 98.2% was 1.7 points higher than the prior year driven entirely by our expense ratio which Pete detailed in his comments.
The accident quarter ex CAT ratio of 66.7% was essentially flat relative to the prior year quarter and better by 1.3 points relative to the third quarter of this year.
Adverse large loss experience of almost $80 million in our North American property and global energy books offset the favorable experience we saw in the remainder of the portfolio.
To offer perspective the North America property business experienced its worst quarter since the first quarter of 2011 and its second worst quarter in over seven years.
In fact a number of these property losses emerged very late in December and led to our worst month since 2001.
Despite this quarterly outcome the team still delivered a full year accident year loss ratio of 54% its best since 2009.
When you exclude the two property books the fourth quarter accident quarter ex CAT loss actually improved by more than 7 points compared to prior year and 3 points for the full year reflecting several of the underwriting actions we have taken over past 12 to 24 months.
As Pete noted the segment released 40 million of prior year reserves.
The primary driver's a positive movement from our aerospace and excess casualty portfolios as well as prior year catastrophes partially offset by strengthening in our U.S.
professional portfolio.
Insurance gross premiums written were down by $68 million or 5% in the quarter driven almost entirely by our previously advised underwriting decision to non-renew our small solicitor schemes in the UK and Ireland.
Turing to full year results which we view as the best way to measure our progress we demonstrated continued improvement with an accident year ex CAT combined ratio of 96.7% or 1.8 points better than 2012 our best result in more than five years.
All metrics include the expense ratio by 0.8 points the loss ratio by 0.7 points and the acquisition ratio by 0.4 points.
For the year gross premiums written were up by $356 million or 7%.
Growth was particularly strong in North America where premiums grew 17% for the year with Construction Property Primary and Excess Casualty businesses experiencing the largest growth.
We shrunk our Lloyd's middle market programs solicitors and aerospace writings for the year.
These businesses all faced difficult market conditions and we had no hesitation to shrink our top line or target pricing that couldn't be achieved.
Shifting to progress we continue pulling on four levers to improve our combined ratio; mix of business underwriting actions operating leverage and rate.
In terms of business mix we made measurable progress in shifting our portfolio to more profitable lines.
As Mike noted during 2013 we grew our high and medium return businesses by 10% and reduced our lowest return businesses by 4%.
And we continue to successfully build out new businesses.
In 2013 our North America construction team delivered $200 million of gross premiums and producing underwriting profit in their third year of operation.
And we have more new businesses in flight as crisis management political risk and surety grew 32% to $100 million of gross premiums written this year.
Regards to underwriting actions we delivered roughly 1 point of loss ratio improvement in 2013 from a number of initiatives across the segment and we continuously identify and execute on new actions as we view our portfolio.
For example in response to difficult loss experience in our international property and casualty middle market property book we reduced long sizes for additional treaty and specialty reinsurance and of course pushed increased rate on accounts as needed.
With treaty reinsurance fully in place and half the portfolio remain in the first quarter these improvements will be felt quickly.
We continue to demonstrate improved operating leverage with nearly 4 points of operating expense ratio improvement in 2013 as net interim premium grew by 9% whereas expenses grew by less than 4%.
Improvements on our operating as well as ongoing investments in infrastructure are beginning to bear fruit that will further improve our gross operating leverage.
Combined with reduced acquisition cost we believe we will see further improvement in our total expense ratio.
On rate we once again achieved rate increases that exceeded trend in the quarter and a full year price increase was 3.1% versus 2.7% in 2012.
While we see some slowing particularly in North America and short tail lines our diversified portfolio allows us the benefit from rate increases in medium and longer tail lines in all geographies.
In the fourth quarter all of our businesses in our international P&amp;C operation have positive rate in excess of loss trend as well as rate on rate.
Our North American and professional businesses both had rate increases over 3% offset by our specialty business which was down 2% driven entirely by a very competitive aviation renewal.
For the segment 75% of our portfolio achieved positive rate in the quarter.
In closing 2013 was another step forward for the insurance segment with our best full year underwriting profits since 2007.
While this validates the actions we've been taking over the past two years there is no mistake that we have much to do in 2014.
Given our talented team and determination we believe we are positioned to make even more progress towards our ultimate goal combined ratio of 90% or better.
Now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance.
Thank you Greg.
Good evening.
I'd like to cover two principal issues tonight; a review of our fourth quarter and full year results and also some comments on our recent renewal season and market conditions.
As Mike mentioned 2013 marked our eighth consecutive year of underwriting profits with the segment producing an outstanding combined ratio of 81.4% which compares to the 86.9% combined in 2012.
This result was impacted by catastrophe losses of $198 million and prior year reserve releases of about $188 million compared to 2012 where we had CAT losses of $241 million and reserve releases of $176 million.
Excluding the impact of both CAT losses and prior year releases we had a combined ratio of 80.6% compared to 83.1% in 2012.
Our year-to-date gross written premium were down 5.7% to $1.9 billion as we continue to manage our way through very competitive trading conditions.
With respect to the fourth quarter we had a combined ratio of 85.1% producing an underwriting profit of $66.2 million.
This compares favorably to the combined of 104.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012 though that particular quarter was obviously heavily impacted by Storm Sandy.
During the quarter we had the benefit of prior year releases of $21 million and CAT losses of $71 million net of reinstatement premiums.
The major contributors to the CAT activity in the quarter were typhoons (indiscernible) and Haiyan and deterioration from storms Manuel and Ingrid in Mexico and the German hailstorms from prior quarters this year.
Excluding the impact of prior year releases and CAT losses the segment produced a combined ratio of 73.6% which compared to 72.9% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Turning to top line in the quarter; gross written premiums were $165 million a 4.4% increase over the fourth quarter last year.
The increase came from our North American crop facility increased renewal on timing issues on our U.S.
A&amp;H book and new international casualty business.
With respect to the prior year releases you will note the magnitude of the releases are significantly below last year; $21 million compared to the $55 million a year ago.
Virtually all of this reduction $30.6 million was due to deterioration in the quarter from the Tramel One surety loss in Spain.
You will recall this loss was mentioned in our last earnings call during Q&amp;A with the phrase I used was if everything went to hell we would have less than $20 million of additional exposure beyond the $11 million we posted through the third quarter.
I was obviously wrong.
The deterioration exceeded our expectations in this quarter and resulted from several factors including more clarity around the potential numbers of claimants from our ceding companies and refinement of the potential impact of statutory interest on the underlying settlements.
Given the ruling from the Spanish Supreme Court on this matter was not rendered until late in the third quarter perhaps it's not surprising that our initial assessment was wrong.
Nevertheless I am embarrassed by the error.
We always seek to give you what we know and be as candid as we can on these calls.
I think you will note our track record in this regard has been pretty good but in this case I got it wrong.
Turning to market conditions.
You have no doubt heard on a number of earnings calls this quarter how competitive the recent renewal season was.
Given the substantial amount of capacity in the CAT market prices not surprisingly adjusted down 15% to 20% on the U.S.
business and 5% to 15% in the international market though loss impacted geographies such as Germany and Canada had more stable trading conditions.
In addition to price we saw terms and conditions loosen.
There was pressure on hourly causes reinstatement provisions increased use of multiyear contracts expanded geographic scope and more replacements with aggregate features although the market did successfully resist some of these coverage expansions.
Given these challenges I'm more than pleased with the steadfast result of our underwriting teams and the resulting portfolio.
We continue to monitor rate adequacy on this portfolio in the same fashion we have for over a decade.
And the profile of the book indicates we expect to generate a very satisfactory return.
In addition we spent a good deal of time developing strategies for our individual trading partners prior to the renewal season.
There is no question the market operates less and less on a pure syndication basis and we see some catastrophe placements akin to the vertical marketing environment we've seen in the aviation market for years.
That is preferred reinsurers with long relationships and lead capacity get better signings and in some cases differential pricing on individual placements.
Our status as a first tier market in this environment was confirmed during the CAT renewal season.
While not a perfect barometer our signings relative to authorizations actually improved on the Bermuda CAT book from 87% a year ago to 89% in this renewal season.
While the strength of relationships is something universally claimed by reinsurers as a core advantage there is no doubt in my mind our performance during this renewals validated XL re-status with our producers and customer base.
With respect to long tail and specialty markets the theme remains the same I've been reporting for quite some time.
Other than pockets of the market and select opportunities the environment is extremely competitive and pressure remains on both reinsurance pricing and terms and conditions.
This is particularly true with commission structures on proportionate placements.
We continue to navigate our way cautiously through this phase of the market and our trading with long-standing clients with proven track records.
Finally I would like to highlight one operational note.
You would recall we announced the hiring of Chris McKeown as the CEO of our joint venture with Stone Point New Ocean Capital Management.
Chris was up and running deploying capital burning renewals launched two funds and attracted two significant new investors for the funds.
We are very pleased with the reception this venture has received from the market and look forward to its continued build out and development.
With that I will turn it back to David for Q&amp;A.
Shirley please open the lines for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Michael Zaremski with Crédit Suisse.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Thanks.
First question on the operating expense ratio kicking up this quarter.
It sounds like you guys are confident there'll be improvement next year but why is that given market conditions appear to be more competitive and top line growth is apparently slowing a bit? Yes.
This is Mike.
Thanks for the question.
I'm going to start off and turn it over to Peter.
First of all even with the uptick in the year which Pete likely had both the timing aspects and also aspects related to our reinsurance placements and the like in the end what we forecast for the year came in at the low end of the range that we forecasted here.
So I'm very pleased with the way we control expenses and continue to gain operating leverage.
We continue to expect to be able to achieve both in these lines that we've been remixing towards and I continue to be confident that that will outstrip our expenses.
But this is the time of year when we try to give you some perspective on how we look at expenses for the coming year.
With that I'll turn it over to Pete.
Yes Mike as you well know there's two basic factors into that ratio; the premiums earned and then what the actual expenses are.
And I'll let Greg and Jamie go through premiums.
Well obviously we don't forecast premium activity.
When I think about losses – when I think about expenses I'd say our expectation for next year would be sort of normal expense growth that you would expect and then a little bit more for some of the new business initiatives that both Greg and Jamie had in mind.
As I think about it sort of in total I'd have a mid single digit number in mind.
I mean certainly – again depending on our premium growth we would expect that you would see some continuing benefit of operating leverage there.
Yes Mike it's Greg.
Look I'm not going to forecast premium growth I'd just point to what I've said in the past that a number of our businesses whether it's in programs we talked about the solicitor scheme which is a block of business that all renews in October 1 the same date our primary casualty our large property I can go on they are very lumpy businesses.
To do it quarter-to-quarter growth I know this quarter was down flat when you adjust for that solicitor's program.
It is very lumpy and you're not going to have smooth gross.
I'd point you back to the year where we did a pretty good job of growing into that upper single digits in the year 10% over the past couple of years.
That's helpful.
I guess lastly on some of the large non-CAT losses I think you guys said it was mainly North America primarily in December.
Anything there you think – you'd like to quantify for us or name? Well we don't talk about specific insurance so I won't get into that.
I quantified in the remarks the $80 million delta year-over-year.
We had three losses that were over 10 million and then – kind of what I would call midsized the collection of midsized losses contributing as well.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
You may ask your question.
Yes.
Thank you.
I guess if you look at 2013 looking at your buybacks and dividends it seems to be a little less than your operating earnings.
Can you talk about what that relationship might look like in 2014 especially with the stock pulling back and trading notably below book value? Yes so I'll start again and pass it to Pete but Jay I appreciate the question and the observation.
In total the year came in strong and with more than $1 billion on net income for the year obviously that was a bit more than the 575 we repurchased and the dividends combined.
And that is not our goal as you know.
Our goal in essence is to not have a buffering to our rating agency capital and our regulated capital growth.
So we are taking that in mind as we go before the Board in February and set the program for this year.
But I'll ask Pete to get a little more granular about that.
Sure.
I'll just cover (indiscernible) so when we do our share repurchase authorization.
Typically we do that every year.
We'll do that in the February Board meeting so you will likely see an announcement that comes out after that.
And I would say Jay as your comments are clearly not lost in us with our stock ticking down relative to build value.
Certainly with the progress that we're making in the business we feel really good about where this is going down the road and trading at 80% of full value doesn't feel very good.
And the only thing I would add would be and consistent with what we said in some other prior years is we think about buybacks.
You look at the 575 it's sort of from the baseline.
You can never predict the future but our hopes will be that certainly (indiscernible) very well could see a number above that.
Great.
Thanks Pete.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
You may ask you question.
Thank you.
With regard to the underlying insurance combined ratio of 97 to 98 for the past three quarters I know that target is still 90% and I was just thinking perhaps you can give us an update in terms of when you think that might be feasible? This is Mike.
We've never forecasted a specific landing on that in terms of plan.
We note that we were making very significant progress.
I do think as I noted in my comments the last talk [ph] of this year didn't add the momentum we expected but when we went back with them – we do this on an extremely granular basis we basically said – but this is an average.
We are not going to change how we're handing this book given how we put those losses in the context of everything we are doing.
And we believe that as that kind of unusual activity normalizes which we fully expect it will we're going to see the benefits of the increasing profitability of the portfolio.
And as that starts to kick in I think the progress towards where we're going fundamentally reignites.
Greg you might want to add something.
Yes let me talk about the trajectory that we're on kind of some of the parts of the business I'm excited about and just reiterate the lever that we're pulling on.
As I look at where we've been the last two years I like the path we're on.
Over the last three years right we always try and steer you to the annual route and the quarter-by-quarter.
We've seen accident year ex CAT combined ratio improve from 112% in 2011 to 98.5% in 2012 to 96.7% last year so our best year since 2007.
And as I said in my remarks we produced our first calendar year underwriting profit since 2009 which is a testament to what we've been working on underneath as well as prudent reserving.
Is this where I'd like us to be? Absolutely not.
We are on the right path and with the right team.
We talked to you about where I'm excited.
I see strong momentum across North America in P&amp;C particularly our risk management excess casualty construction and property businesses.
As I noted in my remarks we continue to successfully build out crisis management political risk surety and also inland marine lines where both the industry and our leaders have demonstrated superior returns in past years.
Also during the year we brought in new leadership in our marine international and professional businesses two books that caused us somewhat earlier in '13.
And our specialty business had a stellar calendar year result in fact far better than the profitability goal for the year.
Finally I'd say as I discussed we are executing on our levers of improvement.
Rates are ahead of trends for the segment.
We continue to identify on the right actions to execute on those plans quickly and we're improving our mix both in the business and across the portfolio.
If I put those three together the trajectory where I'm excited and how we've been disciplined I'm sure we're going to be able to deliver improved results over time.
All right thank you for that.
And then on the reinsurance side with rates coming in I'm just trying to calibrate what we should expect the impact to be on the underlying combined ratio going forward? Well certainly rates were off Jay.
We don't forecast combined ratios.
Obviously the reinsurance book is much more volatile than an insurance book but I think it's fair to say with the CAT market coming off substantially as it did and the CAT portfolio representing now well north of 25% of our book of business it would not be unreasonable to expect an uptick.
Okay.
And then last one for Pete what's the best effective tax rate to use for modeling? So I would have preferred you probably worded that slightly differently.
So what we said in the past is that we've been looking at a 10% to 12% effective tax rate if you look at it over a number of years that's what you would see.
As I said in Q3 the first nine months had indicated that we were doing better than 12% and so the nine-month number that we use was 10.
And again as I said we had again things in the right place (indiscernible) with the effective tax went up for the same – opposite reasons.
I can't give you a number per se but the potential 12 range is pretty much where we've been coming at recently.
All right thank you.
Your next question comes from Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
You may ask your question.
Thanks.
I wanted to get some color on the professional lines both in the Insurance segment – especially in the Insurance segment but also Reinsurance.
Specifically grossed in that looks like you guys are buying a whole lot more Reinsurance can you talk about why that is the trends you're seeing? You had some issues there in the second quarter where you took your picks higher maybe you can update us on the progress as well? I'm going to turn it to Greg but I just want to emphasize.
I saw the unsolicited offer by one of our leading reinsurers as in incredible validation of the talent of our team and I was pleased with the transaction.
I think it lowers risk and it certainly have a very important point in time and I really expect in the end that both we and our reinsurers will benefit from this transaction.
But Greg would you please… Sure Mike.
Let me review kind of the – if I can get at your question Greg some of the underlying dynamics of that book how we kind of got the decision to purchase a quota share and how we look at the portfolio going forward.
So as a reminder our Hartford team has built a well diversified portfolio over the last decade and the recognized market leader for public D&amp;O.
That seems known for solving the more difficult risks often in the primary layer through a combination of coverage structure and price.
In the past few years we've seen security class action lawsuits continue to slow but regulatory investigations and M&amp;A related losses have picked up.
These types of claims tend to occur with a higher frequency and a lower severity and develop at a faster pace.
As you noted Greg we've been watching this closely and you are right we did increase our loss ratio for 2013 during the second quarter and we also discussed the corrective actions we have been taking as well as significant rate changes that are put in place starting at the end of 2012.
Over the past few years we've protected that book with a per risk excess to loss with a sizable retention.
This protection just wasn't responding to loss activity we've been experiencing and this led us to consider other reinsurance protections.
At the same time if you were looking at that efficacy of that purchase as Mike noted one of our long time reinsurers approached us on an unsolicited basis and offered attractive quota share terms.
This allowed us to place the 50% quota share of our Hartford professional line on an enforced new and renewal basis.
The treaty is diversified across the panel of top reinsurers and almost all of them have reinsured this portfolio in the past either with the same firm or the same individual underwriter at a different firm.
Looking forward we remain very bullish about this book for 2014 and beyond and anticipate a return to sub 90% combined ratio for the calendar year matching our 2013 accident year performance.
It is rewarding that our view of the possibility is shared by our reinsurers and we believe this will be a mutually profitable relationship.
As always we remain fully committed to achieving our targeted underlying margins on a gross basis and are not changing our underlying appetite or integrity due to treaty reinsurance arrangements.
In summary given the terms and conditions available in our reinsurance market and occupancy activity we observed in 2013 – shares a prudent approach to protect our 2014 underwriting year.
Okay great.
Very thorough I can see exactly what you did.
Just from an accounting perspective going forward how should we be thinking about that? I don't know if it's a question for Peter or somebody else just premiums and then other parts line as the quota share comes through just so we can get our models correct? Sure.
This is Peter.
Certainly our premiums ceded in that line of business are going to go up materially net premiums written and our net premiums earning would go down materially not on the same time.
For example in this quarter we only had just under $30 million of and a much bigger number of written.
When you get down and look at the ratios that reduction in the net premiums earned will impact for example our insurance operating expense ratio right.
There is no offset dollars but there is a big offset in the denominator.
So the numerator stays the same the expenses and the denominator changes materially the premium.
On the commissions and brokerage on the acquisition expense ratio you have an offset in the dollars.
So the commission the ceding commission that we receive from the reinsurers goes against that line.
And so it's to an extent that the ceding commission is above our acquisition cost ratio you will see in essence a negative acquisition cost for that business more than offsetting the reduction in the premium range.
Great.
And last this is a go-forward contract only right a quota share for current business being written this doesn't cover previous accident years at all? It doesn't cover previous accidents it covered the book at November 1 but not back to '12 and prior accident years.
Okay perfect.
Thanks for the color guys.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
You may ask your question.
Thank you.
Good evening everyone.
When you look at your overall business you went through a bunch of changes looking at businesses that you thought were under earning or potential unattractive if you look back on 2013 what percentage of your businesses are earning an attractive return on equity what percentage aren't? And can you give us some guidance on what that goal is today on allocated capital? The allocated capital will be a little bit more difficult.
Let me tell you what I think about where we're headed.
This is from my perspective when you try to look at where the book – what part of our book is in the performing versus improvement if you will you got to step back and it's more than just last 12 months of performance right.
We look at our longer time of results then we blend it in with the future concepts that we can deliver in the future.
As I look at it from a far one thing to note is we're not talking about whole businesses here we're talking about sub portfolios that reached the business.
And so as I aggregate those out and look and blend that historical with the future of forward-looking we're looking at roughly 20% of our portfolio needing to improve returns to a more acceptable level as we come out of '13 into '14.
And that's based on normalized loss adjusted basis? That is a very substantial change from where we started in '10.
I would agree.
But those businesses that you're talking about are not because of one-off losses and unusual.
That's on a run rate basis you're saying? Yes we're looking through those.
When you get these – you have to make a lot of decisions about whether can recur whether we should buy down or that should change your strategy.
Now we've been through all those assessments and we're comfortable with where we are.
But that's really about is when we look at the business side on an ongoing basis and the trends we see on them.
And as you might guess when we have something that's underperforming that's where a lot of love [ph] goes.
That's where you tend to see leadership changes and we're very driven to get it right.
We'll never be where all of them – well maybe we'll have that from time to time but generally speaking there will always be something that's a little down.
It's a cyclical business and there's a bunch of sub cycles that we're dealing with.
But I'd have to tell you that as we enter '14 this is a confident bunch and one that is very committed to take the actions necessary to continue to expand our margins.
How should I think of the allocated capital involved versus the unallocated capital? I'm sorry Josh.
We were having a hard time following the question.
Could you repeat? Sorry.
So I assume that your ROE on applied capital is higher than we were actually achieving because there's plenty of capital in the business that isn't being allocated.
That would be a correct assumption I would think yes? The bottom line is we look at it both ways.
So we're well aware of what the required capital is in our business and then we also look on a total allocation of capital and we run it through our models internal model basis.
And then we do go back too and allocate all the capital because in the end it's a total return for the business.
So we look at it on all three of those basis not just the one view you're describing.
Well I'm just saying that if you could get your – the rating agencies on board and get your capital to where you think it ought to be how much better would your returns be today than they are? Well (indiscernible) has been mentioned there to look at it.
I do believe that – let me give you three pieces.
This is a great question and a gift to our focus on improving the ROE which we are well aware is kind of the next generation of jump for us.
The core of improving our ROE is improving these operating results.
That is the heart of the matter.
That's why we put so much focus on giving you all this color commentary around accident year ex CAT results.
So that is the heart of the matter for this business.
That's the thing we're most focused on.
At the same time you're right in observing that we have because we haven't been delivering at the level we would like.
On the operating side we have been carrying more capital because we believe that until we get – than we should be.
And so we are driven to start seeing that kind of buffer come down over time as the business results go up.
So those are two pieces you can think of as a motion and you've already heard Pete say that when we think about that in capital repurchase terms we're talking about what we bought back last year as something of a minimum.
We don't want to forerun our Board.
We talked about it in several ways but that's how we think about it.
And then there's a third piece that you have to keep in mind is as we said before when you get the P&amp;C businesses continuing to move on the trajectory they are moving over time the life block becomes a bigger and bigger driver on the ROE because – you can do the math on what's it returning right now given its capital and earnings and it's very clear that that's a drive right now relative to where the book is headed.
And that it's magnified over time as the P&amp;C operations improve.
So those are the three blocks that we're thinking about and then we have nice additional potential benefits from the nice block of affiliated investments that we built and everything else.
So that's how we're thinking about it.
We continue to believe we can drive the ROE to consistently better levers and those are the levers we're thinking now.
Josh the only thing I would add is that that majority is allocated in that calculation.
That's a very good answer I appreciate it.
And just one suggestion to you and Mr.
Radulski there.
I think you guys could benefit from giving us eight quarters of information on severe non-CAT losses if we had the numbers.
I know you give us the delta but I think it would be a benefit to your disclosure.
Yes I appreciate that.
We will look at that hard because I really do think – he gets the benefit of looking over long periods of time and that's why we're able to make judgments about whether to react or not react or how severely to react to what we see and that's why you're hearing probably – and maybe I hear you saying that you find us a little more common.
He might be (indiscernible) Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Meyer Shields with KBW.
You may ask your question.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Thanks.
Good afternoon.
I guess I want to go back to the severe non-CAT losses and I can understand how an analysis would suggest that there's been a flaw in the underwriting but having ascertained whether the rates are appropriate or the frequency of severe losses? So I'll start on that.
I'm going to guess that Greg will want to add some more color.
But we do a number of exercises to try to satisfy our expected losses in different buckets size of loss.
And then we add that altogether and so roughly in a given year based on history and we have long data sets in books.
We can analyze what's the rough expected number of each kinds of losses relative to the rates we've been charging because that's the moving target an improving one over the last few years as you know in property but that is slowing as everybody has commented on.
And then we kind of engineer what we think with all those pieces in motion we would forecast for the next year.
And obviously you see because we're dealing with specific losses and generally speaking large lines out there.
Then you go back and you see how do you feel about the pattern that emerges.
Right now I'm really pretty pleased with what I see and the discipline of these underwriters in several respects.
First of all beginning several years ago and I realized I'm going to turn to Greg because I'm about to steal his thunder but we really changed a lot of our limit strategy we changed reinsurance.
We just made so many changes that got us out of some of the really spiky losses that we were seeing.
And so in that regard I'm very pleased with where the portfolio stands.
Then to go back when you have a spiky quarter like this you try to put it in your longer term context to try and understand.
And when we went through the numbers in-depth on a quarterly basis and interesting in this case a month ago just cause it turned out that one month really packed the wallet you just saw this – it just stood out so prominently over time that you realize you could buy down this spike that you'll be doing a good service to your shareholders because you would have to buy it down with giveaway expected profit from our point of view.
So instead rather expect the normal and react only if future quarters change our view of what's normal.
I'd note a couple of other things and turn it over to Greg because I know Greg will want to get into the detail on this but – it's already a dead end to the earnings season and unlike say the third quarter I mean it was clearly a noisy fourth quarter in terms of additional losses we saw by reinsurers we've seen it come in in our other markets and that's another indicator that we would take heart from.
But Greg I'm sorry… That's all right Mike.
A little bit about where we've been the actions Mike referred to in our international book we've been putting out is in the combination of '12 and '13 right.
So there is international limits on CAT are lower.
We've been executing on a strategy and we were very successful may not be the best review but we're very efficient at removing our poor performing lower tier business.
At the same time in our international we've been generating some new business in less volatile industries like healthcare and real estate.
So that's one piece of our international.
On North America we just had some really good results and I'm very pleased with where we've been.
We've been reducing sub limits along the way.
In fact on one of the losses we had it had reduced our share by 50% because we're worried about the business interruption exposure and so we're proactively getting after the book.
I touched a little bit on the international middle market property.
In terms of specifically on the frequency in the two big large property books which is in our North America property and our international property our large plan frequency was in line with what we expect.
It was just the severity as we've already talked about a few times.
It was higher on a few of the claims that really drove a lot of this action.
I don't see anything in the culmination of all the activity we've been at and the frequency being or find what we'd expect that makes us thinking of anything other than a strong book in our property.
One last thought rate adequacy; in North America I think we're near or at rate adequacy.
Clearly on the international book and we've talked about this on numerous times in the past we've got some more work to do to get that book closer to full rate adequacy.
This is Mike.
And I know we're timing this topic hard and I appreciate that not all of you may be as deeply interested in it as we are but obviously we view these calls as our job is to represent to you as best as we can and as accurate as we can what we are feeling about the book and where we see it going.
That's the job we have.
And so we thought a lot about this because we know it could stick up and be a subject to questions and we were afraid that that could in essence misinformed because we know enough about this book to not believe that's where it's headed.
Does it mean we know the future we could be wrong but we don't think this is a lesson of the strength of the book that's emerging and that's why we're spending so much time on it.
Let me give you one more thought about that.
We had emphasized several times that our goal is to get to 90 combined and we've also emphasized that we'll do that as a fully developed target.
And one of the reasons that we emphasize that so much is in our prudent approach when we are studying reserves.
When you get a bunch of large losses right at the end of the quarter you're getting your earliest perspective on those losses.
Can you book prudently in accordance with your earliest view? But I would point that even in property a short tier line over the last three years we've released $100 million in PYD.
So that prudence has a benefit that comes to the firm over time.
And while that may not happen in the future we are in a business and lots of things can happen.
That approach of the business we think holds up well for our shareholders even if it doesn't always express the accident year in the way we really believe it's performing – to perform.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay that was very helpful.
As a quick follow-up Greg you mentioned that there was some adverse development in U.S.
professional liability and I was hoping you could sort of ballpark for us or talk about what's going on there? Sure absolutely.
For the year in our Hartford or U.S.
based professional book for the full year we had adverse about $110 million.
It's across multiple accident years but it's focused primarily on the 2009 to 2011 accident years.
It's generally speaking a reduction and the need for reserves to be held against large events.
I'll take to you about the offset by an increase in the higher frequency loss – the very losses I referred.
And as a trend we observe both in our second quarter and fourth quarter reserve units.
For perspective on that the 2009 2011 accident year for that book had 2.1 billion of net earned premiums so these are small loss ratio changes affectively representing that shift.
We're seeing lower events that we're able to reduce the portion of the reserves that we allocate there but we're increasing on those kind of higher frequency lower severity claims.
And from me anyway because -- and something we've been on for about 18 months now.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay thanks very much.
Thanks.
The next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
You may ask you question.
Yes.
Thanks.
A couple of quick questions here.
First Mike and Greg you mentioned that pricing up about 3.1% in excess of trend what is trend running and I'm just curious Mike what are your thoughts on kind of the outlook for lost trends your going for at professional liability because you kind of talked about that? So for the segment and the way we look at tends here on the short tier lines you look at trend as zero because we will pick up that exposure trend increase in the base that writes the premium.
So we would blend out across the segment.
We're just under 2% or 1.8% trend for the segment in '13.
From where I sit at the moment I don't see us with any significant change in that moving over time.
You asked about professional I'm just trying to fit the number here and it looks like it's about a little over 2% for our global professional business.
This is Mike.
There's no seismic change out there on what's going on in right now.
Remember that we're not a terribly large writer of guaranteed customer comp so that's one of the ones that you see out there with a lot of noise because of what's going on in the health care system.
We do see the big Supreme Court cases that everybody's waiting on and class action and stuff like that which will be a positive on the trend although quickly point out that I don't care what the Supreme Court decides on that in the end I don't see managements and boards getting less accountable over time.
I see it as more accountability whatever the mechanism is.
So I in the end can't pick out any trend that I'm profoundly worried about as we sit here right now.
Those can emerge you never know but nothing sticks out.
And as a result the blended rate that we're getting I'm very pleased by it.
And then when I break it down and look at the different books of business and their difference performance I get even more optimistic.
For example the rate in this last quarter was pulled down some by what we saw in terms of our specialty book of business and which was actually below – a downward rate pressure on that block mainly related to what's going on in aerospace kind of environment there.
But when I look at the combined ratio that that business is delivering it's terrific on an all-in basis on a calendar year basis it's just terrific.
And you know our competitors and our clients can see that because we're dealing with a lot of that being priced centered out of life there's an awful lot of transparency to that performance.
So we're going to expect some downward pressure there but we are in a very good position to deal with that.
So when I kind of break it down and then I say well that's a 3.1 versus 1.9 on a rate versus trend but I have that negative impact on a good chunk of our block good performance we're getting the rate that we need it.
We're under pressure.
There might be some – for the pressure all day long and I'm willing to shed business from (indiscernible).
I like the way the book kind of adds up as a whole.
Great.
And then just one quick one for Pete.
I mean you guys are talking about how the Life business has continued to be a drag here.
Any updates and thoughts on kind of what the market is – potentially do something with the Life business? There's nothing to share at this time.
We have said continuously that that's not a business we seem to be in.
It's in runoff and we're open to ideas and when ideas come in then believe me we… Okay.
Any good ideas lately? You're always wondering what's going to come in the door.
All right thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Newsome with Sandler O'Neill.
You may ask you question.
A lot of M&amp;A and M&amp;A type question but I'd like to be kind of big picture.
I personally think we're going to see sort of a natural increase in M&amp;A given the market softening but you folks have obviously been asked and talked with this stuff and I want to ask how would XL handle when someone approaches management with any sort of offer.
I'm interested in sort of the procedures does the Board get involved early in the process or is it later? How do you look at hurdle rates for M&amp;A and has that changed any time recently? I'll start with the second question first because it's the easiest one.
There's been no change in how we view it the hurdle rates for acquisitions we might make.
We're looking for things that – when we evaluate ideas and we see ideas flowing increasingly across the business we tend to focus on things that will either build out a geography or a product or something like that in terms of how we're building this more diversified book of business.
So I'm really – we haven't changed in our attitude towards what kinds of returns we would expect or what kind of strategic advantage we'd expect to gain.
We have tendered over time but we've always said this is not a rule but rather kind of a guideline in our mind.
We tendered towards things that would be on the smaller side because we don't want our culture disrupted.
We think we have a fantastic and strengthening underwriting culture and we're only interested in adding things that are consistent with that or that are small enough that it gets us by our culture and made like us and doesn't change how we operate.
And what hurdle rate we would entertain it's not going to improve the business.
We tend not to be interested.
So it's pretty straightforward.
In terms of how we would react as things come toward us look a couple of notes.
We choose to operate in an extremely transparent way with our Board and that's the way we would react to anything that happened in the ecosystem that we thought they should know about.
I would tell you that I generally agree with your observation that the preconditions for M&amp;A are higher all the time.
I think that you've missed what I think will be one of the biggest drivers whenever and that is what I think are going to be the increased demands of the regulators and the less efficient use of capital that will create and I think that will also be another cause of increased potential to M&amp;A.
But in the end the way this management will respond to things that come at it whether ideas for us or people who might have other visions for our future is the way you would expect us to look at it.
What is in the long-term interest of our shareholders and how do we achieve the best result for our shareholders.
And I can assure you that there's nobody at this table and I'm referring to the management table that's I'm sitting at that will analyze that from a personal point of view or even from shareholders point of view.
Kind of what I expected.
And separately – I apologize this is definitely a question someone wanted me to ask which was in the life insurance book is there some structural issues in terms of where the book arrived that makes it more or less challenging to spin it off? Is has been sort of easily carved out of your rest of the book or is it on the same paper intertwines sort of from a legal entity perspective with the rest of the book and I probably should have known this already but – so I apologize if it's a stupid question but it's my question.
Hi Paul.
It's Pete.
It's definitely not a stupid question.
Let me put that into two segments.
The first one is the nature of the business which we've spoken about on prior calls where the bulk of the asset to liabilities is in the premium annuity blocks that is written in Europe most of it is written in the UK.
There's a fair amount of it as well written in Ireland.
That is a reinsurance block not a primary block that is a much more typical transaction than most of them not all of the ones that you have seen so far around the world.
That's the first part of that answer.
The second part of your question on the legal entities it would be difficult to do a legal entity sale that would remove us from the primary responsibility of those policies.
Okay so any transaction that would happen would likely have some reinsurance element assigned to it.
Got it interesting.
Thank you.
That was interesting and appreciate it.
Great quarter.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
For the professional liability reinsurance treaty could you remind us about the size of the treaty? You said there's a 50% quota share on that correct? Yes that's correct 50%.
Right and what is the size – what are the dollars or the premium that you'll be saving because of that? Vinay this is Pete.
We've never disclosed – since we've told the percentage right we've never disclosed specifically to that – what that book of business is.
And so I gave you the number for the treaty you would certainly have the number for that book on a direct basis but we just never disclose that.
Okay.
Just curious if we should take down our net premiums on the next quarter substantially and it maybe by about $300 million to $400 million or is that too high a number? Vinay I don't quite know how to answer that.
That's a pretty narrow range.
We just don't forecast the premium.
That rate is not out of the ballpark but I can't get more scientific than that.
Sure fair enough.
The second question just a follow-up on the large property losses so fourth quarter was about 80 million third quarter was about 30 million so we add these two up there's about a 110 million.
So is it the right way to look at the 20 30 numbers 30 accurate and the combined ratio was 96.7.
So take away 2.5 points from large CAT losses and is that the right way to look at it? And Mike has this changed your view to excel the ability to get to a 90% combined ratio by '15? I'll start with your last question no.
Greg.
Vinay those are deltas year-over-year.
I'd say 2012 was a very good year 2013 was not as strong in property and so I still think it's somewhere in between those two numbers and similarly happened what you have in 2.5 points but it's a very subjective thing.
You got to go back and look over time.
As you go back over time you see – that is the outcome on the property book.
You're going to have very very good years and you're going to have some tougher years so it's hard to give you – it's not a straight line business like a small commercial or a homeowners' book but you frame the delta from one year to the next.
I'd like to think we're a lot closer to a 12 but being prudent… Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Amit Kumar of Macquarie Research.
You may ask you question.
Hi.
Very quickly one follow-up on the 110 million development was that for the quarter or was that for 2013? And do you have the number for 2/4/2013? I'm talking about the professional book which you mentioned? Yes that 110 was for the full year.
The majority of it was in the fourth quarter.
What had transpired in the second quarter was still the level of reduction that we took in the large event portion of the reserves was offset almost identically with the increase in the attritional.
So this is the quarter where we – after we got another six months.
We took a full hard look at it in our semiannual reserve review that we've changed the attrition loss ratio reserves much more than the class release.
Got it that's helpful.
And then I guess the only other question would be was there any adjustment to NV1 and NV2? Hi it's Jamie.
Let's cover Littleton in 2011 was driven by the deterioration in one large program.
We had our full limits reserved up so none there.
On the 2010 again one program had a $500 million increase in the round up loss.
We had a $7 million line on that program.
The impact from the quarter was $2 million.
Got it.
Thanks for the answers and congrats on the results.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ron Bobman with Capital Returns.
You may ask you question.
Yes I feel as a shareholder I shouldn't be last in line but I think I'll discuss that with Mr.
Radulski at some other time.
I have two questions.
This solicitor's reinsure that is fond of your D&amp;O book also now employs a large professional liability team also that came from another Hartford company and I was wondering so we don't face the same fate did you get additional protections that the same fate with that other professional liability team doesn't happen to ours? We were so focused on your beat down on Radulski.
I'm sorry Ron can you help us with that last bit.
Sure.
So this solicited reinsurer that is fond of our D&amp;O book and that KPU and he's reinsuring that he isn't taking I guess a lead position or the only position in reinsuring the professional labiality D&amp;O book for you also hired a whole team of people from other Hartford-based company a few years ago.
And so I was just wondering so we don't face a similar fate I'm curious whether you got any sort of supplemental protections that the [XL D&amp;O team doesn't make its way to this reinsurer? Let me speak solely to what our relationship is with the team at Hartford.
They've been with us… Our team at Hartford… Yes our team at Hartford Connecticut that writes our U.S.
public D&amp;O book they've been with us for over a decade.
We have a long-term relationship with them and in fact we have just renewed it for another – basically it's never green and we just reset the contract starting January 1 2014.
We are incredibly happy with them.
They are incredibly happy to be here and I'm not at all worried about the similar situation that all the other folks happening to us.
Okay thanks for that.
A question for Jamie just so I understand so this hell in the hand basket increase is the incremental 30 that you took in the Q4 of '13 is that the hell in the basket scenario or candidly does the 30 not relate to that worst-case target and things could get worst is my parting event? Obviously after last quarter I'm never going to give absolute.
I would say that there's a fair amount of complexity to the claim.
If there was to be further development I think it would be around the interest component of the claim.
Basically the interest rate charge is 4% from the date of judgment allotment of funds into the development project until they made a claim with the insurer.
If the settlement is within two years of that claim interest is 6% in that interim period.
If the settlement goes beyond two years the interest goes all the way up to 26%.
We've taken very conservative assumptions around the rapidity of the settlements from our clients but frankly as a reinsurer we have less control over that than our clients and we've obviously as always done a prudent job of making the judgment and putting the reserves up.
Sure.
Two related follow-ups.
What years do these relate to as far as I guess reinsurance treaty years? And then can you in any way extrapolate to what this new sort of industry's loss from this problem then? Thanks.
I think it was from the early 2003 2004 2005.
There aren't a large number of ceding companies involved in this and I've heard numbers of $1 billion.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good quarter and best of luck.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ryan Byrnes with Janney Montgomery Scott.
You may ask you question.
Great.
Thanks for taking my question.
I just had one question.
As we try to calculate the Life's drag on the ROE how should we try to allocate the affiliated returns and also alternative returns? This is Pete.
None of them would go towards that Life business.
They're all on the P&amp;C side.
Great.
That's all I had.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Josh Stirling with Sanford &amp; Bernstein.
You may ask you question.
Hi guys.
Thanks for fitting me in and you guys get a gold star for sticking through all the questions.
So two quick questions really big picture.
I think maybe they're either for Mike or Jamie.
There's a lot going on in reinsurance today.
You made some comments about rate still being adequate in property CAT.
You guys obviously have visibility to practically every market in the reinsurance business.
You've got your New Ocean Re in the third party side and you're doing long tail short tail property CAT and you're buying reinsurance.
So thinking about all the things that go into the mix I'm wondering I guess first if you have a sense of how long pricing pressure could continue before rates are no longer adequate for traditional reinsurers and if you could go past that point given that some of the new entrants have lower cost of capital? Second I'll give you my other question just so we can in the essence of time – your point on the casualty reinsurance deal you guys did sounds like Mike that could have been a great move.
But at the same time it sort of sounds like it's a sign of a competitive market if you're getting unsolicited bids for quota shares for your professional book.
The question would be are we seeing the pricing pressure that began in property CAT are we seeing that gravitate to other longer tail lines either because incumbent reinsurers are feeling pressure to drive the top line or whether actually you're seeing the new entrants the new capital sources decide to want to play in longer tail lines where they can get some stability don't have to take the risk in property CAT.
Thanks so much.
On the long tail question I think Greg's purchase of this business although it is with very strong reinsurer and so forth kind of validates what I've been saying for quite a long time and that is I believe the reinsurance market on long tail lines has been weaker than the insurance market for several years.
And I think that continues.
As far as the CAT market goes we look at it the same way we have for a long long time.
We use rate agency capital to denominator in the calculation.
We believe we're still at a fairly attractive rate adequacy levels on the U.S.
portfolio.
I do not expect the midyear renewals to endure the same sort of cuts that we had at 1/1.
My guess is if we see another round like that either it's June and July or 1/1 next year we will take appropriate actions because the hurdle rates will be less than ideal for us.
You'll recall we talked about reaction to the Japanese market over the years prior to the 2011 quake we've reduced our aggregates by 65% over the course of the prior 10 years.
So we're not afraid to reduce the book.
And my guess is if we have another 20% down in the U.S.
you'll see not only us but a lot of the major leads start to cut their books back as it will kind of walk over the edge I think.
This is Mike.
I would point to a couple of other thoughts as well.
The more I learned this last renewal season it actually made me a little more comfortable not a little more frightened and here's why? While there was a great deal in our frenzy of activity going on generally speaking it wasn't so much what the alternative capital guys were pricing at it was the frenzy among the existing players not to lose share in reaction to the projection of what those guys were going to do and they were a bit more disciplined than I think some are thinking.
Some are thinking that the alternative guys just came in and whacked the market.
No what happened was the traditional players were so focused on keeping those shares that they got engaged in their own little frenzy.
So I don't feel the alternative guys and I certainly know – I don't expect our alternative guys are going to be somehow irrational.
I think they have a different set of costs I understand.
They have two different appetites and they'll play that card.
But based on what I saw I'm a little more sequined than I think I've heard some of our competitors' comments and I particularly like the way that Jamie's team dealt with this.
They were very firm on the condition side they really focused their capital on reasonable treaties.
They said no when things got irrational.
And we've been cutting back on the long tail quite for a long time because of what Jamie has described in concentrating our capital where believe there's not only the return is the best but the relationships are the most longstanding and the most likely to endure.
So I understand why everybody 's hairs on fire given all the press reports but based on what I saw in terms of the performance of our own book and I like the way our guys are able to handle it and I think that's because we been effective and trust in partners for a very long time.
That's really helpful Mike Jamie.
Thank you guys.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Ian Gutterman with BAM.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Thanks for keeping the line open.
On the North America property can we get a little more color on the size of that book as a percent of your total insurance property book just to help understand what 80 million means and to put that into some context? Ian I'm going to ask Greg to do that.
But before we get to that I should point out one thing that hasn't been mentioned in the flurry of words on this.
Interestingly while the losses originate are assigned to our North American books many of the losses internationally make sure they were in international locations but rolled up to programs that were written in North America which is kind of interesting because the international book generally or the international portfolio of property risk is where we've seen weaker performance over the couple of quarters.
So it may have showed up in North America but where it originated isn't unfamiliar to us.
Sure.
On a net earned premium basis the global property book is about 12.5% the North American book is about 7%.
Got it.
And can you give us any sense of what 80 million is versus budget or – last year it was low but maybe a five-year average large loss number? Is there anything we can do relative? No this is not something we have practiced disclosure.
I did hear a request for more views over time and as we work through how to do that we'll see if we can find a way to give some color to that.
But I don't want to get too close because it could get into information that could help those we compete with.
So we'll try and think of a way to give you a little more color around that.
Understood.
I understand the challenge.
We're getting near the end (indiscernible)… Can I squeeze one last on professional lines the quota shares? I just want to understand better Pete the economics and how we'll see it play through.
And I know this has been asked but if I can push a little more.
So obviously you're going to have less dollars or premium.
That means you're giving away profitable loss dollars so that hurts income.
As you said it hurts the G&amp;A ratio so that hurts income.
You get help from income from the ceding commission.
Net-net how do we see the benefits to you play out in this? Is this neutral positive or negative to dollars of income? And if it's negative is it made up for in less capital? How are we going to actually see the benefit? Because my concern is if you just do it simplistically is this actually if you don't think it through all the way it seems like it actually hurts earnings not helps.
And intuitively it seems like it must help if it's a good deal.
Right so Ian this is Peter.
I'll start and then Greg can add more color.
So the easiest one is the capital release right.
I mean this is very clear a de-risking action.
As far as the underwriting results go that depends on what loss ratio you're going to pick and we're not going to get into specifics as to the size of the override but it was significant and it was significant enough that I'll be honest when we measured the trade economically it did not take us a really long time to evaluate that.
Understood.
When I try to model based on what I had heard I got it being – maybe it's not that great per dollars of income in the numerator.
So it would seem the impact comes more from increased share repurchase.
Is that a reasonable way to think about it? Well I hadn't talked about share repurchases so this is a one-year transition that we have.
So depending on how the economics play out we may or may not renew it.
I don't think that that would probably be the type of transaction that you would then do a share repurchase on the back of.
Got it.
I'll follow up later.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
At this time I'll turn the call back over to the speakers.
Listen we're going to jump through a bit here and we're always happy to stay and answer the questions.
This is important to us.
We know that through these calls we're communicating to many audience not just those who analyze us but also terribly important to our shareholders and of course our colleagues who are often on the line.
And paying attention to those colleagues I want to say this is a good way to end the year.
We're making good progress keep it up.
We're going to make good rational decisions and we're not going to overreact.
We think this is an improving book of business.
We've communicated effectively why it is that we have that confidence.
And while we remain a work in progress we feel very good entering 2014.
We appreciate your patience we appreciate your questions.
Dave and team will look forward to follow-ups as necessarily.
I know that Pete and I are headed to some conferences where we'll get other opportunities to emphasize these messages as well.
With that I think we're at the end.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group plc First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please be advised that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dave Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley.
And welcome to XL Group's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We posted to our website several documents including our quarterly financial supplement and a presentation titled Sale &amp; Retrocession of Life Reinsurance Business.
On our call this morning you'll hear from Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who will offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino Chief Financial Officer; followed by Greg Hendrick; and Jamie Veghte who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Others with us today include our Chief Investment Officer Sarah Street; and our Controller Steve Robb.
Before they begin I'd like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they're made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good morning and thank you for joining this call.
If you will permit I'd like to start with a quick personal note.
This is a call I have been looking forward to for six years.
We are very pleased on this call to be able to discuss the transaction we announced last night on our now largely exited Life Reinsurance businesses.
I'm truly excited by the culmination of an effort that we started working on immediately after I was hired in 2008.
Here is how we are going to approach this call.
We will get into the results from the quarter first so you will hear from me Pete Jamie and Greg in the usual fashion.
And then Pete and I will come back to discuss more fully the Life Re transaction as we want to them get into the details and give you plenty of time for your questions.
So with regard to the quarter XL had a very good start to 2014 the solid results across both our core business segments and from our investment affiliates.
In fact across many total P&amp;C metrics this was one of the best quarters since the end of 2008.
Our Insurance segment continued to improve and Reinsurance performed strongly in spite of the widely discussed tough market conditions.
Some of the results highlight.
Excluding the first quarter of 2013 which we have noted in many ways was an outlier in terms of outperformance.
Our total P&amp;C combined ratio of 89.7% our total underwriting profit of $145 million and our loss ratio of 58.9% are the best result since the fourth quarter of 2008.
And once again we produced double-digit ROE of 10.4% excluding unrealized gains on investments.
Contributing to the strong quarter was an Insurance segment underwriting profit of $45 million and an insurance accident year ex-cat combined ratio of 94.6%.
Meanwhile the 76.3% combined ratio for the Reinsurance segment is obviously a very strong result.
Now we do expect to see variations from quarter-to-quarter as we’ve discussed many times with you.
We are mindful and this was a relatively low cat quarter and we of course know from last year.
The strong starts do not necessarily project the same kind of performance across the entire year.
All of that said we like these results and we really like the way this quarter positions us for the rest of 2014.
With that I am going to turn it over to Pete for a quick rundown of the financials in the quarter.
Greg and Jamie will have the segment highlights and then Pete and I will return to get into the details of the Life transaction.
Pete? Thanks Mike and good morning.
Given all that we have to cover today I’ll make my remarks brief covering four items reserve development expenses investment results and capital management.
Prior year reserve development in the quarter was a net favorable $39 million or 2.7 loss ratio points compared to $31 million or 2.1 loss ratio points for the same quarter in 2013.
This reflects favorable development from short tail property and catastrophe lines in this A versus E quarter of $8 million and $31 million in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments.
Our semiannual full actuarial review will be reported on next quarter.
Our reserve related note we do intend to publish our global loss triangles next week.
Turning to expenses you may have notice that in prior years our first quarter expenses historically tended to be lower than the annualized run rate.
In the past that was largely due to the lag in spend for technology and other areas in the first quarter followed by a catch-up over the rest of the year.
We are doing a better job of more evenly distributing our spending this year so that while total expenses in Q1 2013 were 9% higher than Q1 a year ago that were virtually even with the most recent three quarters.
And as we’ve discussed on previous calls we expect our total full year 2014 operating expenses to be higher than 2013 by mid single digits on annualized basis.
Regarding investments our investment portfolio delivered solid total returns of 1.8% in the quarter P&amp;C portfolio was 1.5% and the life portfolio of 3.2%.
We had a positive mark-to-market of $302 million with $236 million and $66 million between P&amp;C and Life.
Unrealized net gains in the portfolio were $1 billion at the end of the first quarter of which $800 million is in the P&amp;C portfolio.
This excludes the $365 million related to our held to maturity assets in the Life portfolio.
And $162 million net investment income on the P&amp;C portfolio in the quarter was 7.1% below the same quarter last year due primarily again to lower reinvestment rates.
The P&amp;C gross book yield at the end of March remained pretty much unchanged at 2.7%.
We still have a gap between the yields and maturing assets and where we are reinvesting which will keep downward pressure on net investment income.
Our investment and operating affiliates all held in the P&amp;C portfolio continue to produce strong results.
Net income from investment affiliates was $60 million up $10 million from the prior year quarter.
We also had good earnings from our investment manager affiliates also held in the P&amp;C portfolio reflecting the strong fourth quarter of 2013 which produced healthy incentive fees for affiliate managers.
Now to capital management during the quarter we continue to buyback our ordinary shares as we view such purchases as an effective use of surplus capital.
Following the February Board of Directors meeting we announced an increase in our ordinary dividend by 14% to $0.16 per share per quarter and the authorization of a new $1 billion share buyback program.
This authorization includes the approximately $200 million remaining under the previous program.
In total during the first three months of 2014 we purchased and canceled 5.8 million ordinary shares at an average cost of $30.19 for $175 million.
I will now turn it over to Greg to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete and good morning.
Today I'll cover results for the segment give a brief update on talent provide some color on our continuing improvement and finish remarks on current market conditions.
Beginning with the results the Insurance segment produced a strong first quarter results with accident quarter ex-cat combined ratio of 94.6% roughly 1 point higher than prior year.
In fact the first quarter of 2013 and 2014 are the two best accident quarter ex-cat results since 2007.
The year-over-year change is expense ratio driven and the accident quarter ex-cat loss ratio was 63.5% just 0.3 points above the prior year.
As we all know and in fact the last two quarters of 2013 has showed there is inherent variability in our portfolio.
However the portfolio is in a best shape yet to absorb this volatility through our continuous work to reduce gross limits grow profitable and diversified businesses and optimize reinsurance protections.
Combined with our significantly improved talent we believe the first quarter results are more reflective of the improving underwriting trends in our Insurance portfolio than those from a year ago.
The underwriting expense ratio is 31% in the first quarter reflecting 0.7 point deterioration from the first quarter 2013 driven largely by certain non-recurring redundancy recruitment and professional fees.
More generally our confidence in the improving results allows us to spend as Pete noted evenly through the year.
To shift towards quarter share treaties in certain business will distort the comparisons of our acquisition ratio which improved by 2 points over the first quarter of last year and our operating expense ratio which deteriorated by 2.7 points.
For 2014 it is necessary to look at the total underwriting expense ratio when comparing the prior year.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by $55 million or 3.7% in the quarter when adjusted for foreign exchange movement and by over 5% on adjusted for large return premium on the multi-year account.
Growth was once again particularly strong in North America but premiums grew by more than 10% with construction excess casualty and property businesses contributing the largest growth.
New leadership in our International Financial Lines business also contributed along with growth in our cyber and crisis management portfolios.
Our momentum continues to build as illustrated by our recent RIMS convention experience.
We launched our new Global Kidnap and Ransom capability and have hundreds of millions of clients and brokers eager to discuss how XL can help solve their risk management needs.
Moving on to talent we continue to enhance our team throughout this segment.
We promoted Joe Tocco the Chief Executive our North American Property and Casualty Group and also announced Ken Riegler Head of Global Risk Management assume responsibility for North American Distribution.
In addition to Joe and Ken we also added new talent to our International Financial Lines marine and crisis management businesses and recognized existing talent with several promotions.
For the quarter we increased our underwriting force at 24 positions as we continue to build-out new and existing businesses.
Talent is one of the five wins Mike has discussed previously and we continue to pull out remaining four levers to improve our combined ratio.
In particular our mix continues to shift towards higher margin businesses.
In the first quarter well over half of our business performed better over 5 points of our target combined ratios.
This compares only third of the book at the end of 2012.
Growth in some of our newer business such as North America Construction and Cyber and improvement in several other businesses such as Environment and International Financial Lines are contributing to this momentum.
Further improvement is expected as 2013 and 2014 underwriting actions continue to earn growth.
On market conditions we continue to see some slowing in rate particularly in short tail and International Lines.
Despite of increase in competition the segment achieved an overall rate increase of 2.3% in line with Reinsurance.
In fact 85% of our portfolio achieved positively in the quarter compared to 75% in the fourth quarter of last year.
North American business continue to show the most strength with rate increases in the 5% range although on of our North American business had positive rate and rate on rate with only property which has been widely discussed in the industry decreasing by just over 1%.
Our International P&amp;C businesses achieved rate for the second straight year with rate increases over 2% for the quarter.
Our Global Professional and Specialty businesses had rate increase in the 1% to 2% range adversely impacted by the competitive aviation and U.S.
D&amp;O excess markets respectively.
In closing we are off to a solid start for the year as evidence by our first quarter results.
Although we benefit from another relatively quite catastrophe quarter we believe these results are testament to the work has done on over the past 24 months to grow our higher margin businesses and make the hard decisions around portfolio that simply are not performing.
Now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance.
Thank you Greg and good morning.
The Reinsurance segment got off to an excellent start in 2014 with the combined ratio of 76.3% and a resulting underwriting profit of $100 million for the quarter.
We have the benefit of very quiet quarter of catastrophe activity but we are pleased with the performance across the portfolio particularly in light of the competitive landscape.
Our reserve releases in the quarter were $30.5 million compared to $21 million a year ago.
On an accident year basis the portfolio generated a combined ratio of 83.5% which compares to the 79.9% produced in Q1 of 2013.
The deterioration in the accident year result resulted from the Malaysia Airlines loss where we have posted a $3.6 million loss net of reinstatement premiums a slight increase on our acquisition ratio and nonrecurring premium items in 2013 of $5 million.
As respect to our reserve releases our position on long tail business remains cautious particular with respect to releases in recent underwriting years a full 84% of this quarter’s release were from short tail lines.
Turning to topline gross written premiums in the quarter were $858 million a 5% reduction from the first quarter of 2013.
These reductions were largely driven by our international operations with North America flat and Bermuda showing a slight increase due to new Lloyd’s whole account business.
In the international portfolio our gross written premium was $445 million down from $520 million in the first quarter of 2013.
In Europe we faced difficult market conditions in property and dropped a very large motor quota share in the United Kingdom.
Latin America remains extremely challenging particularly in the Brazilian market and our gross written premium dropped by 40% to $20 million in the quarter.
So with respect to our top line and the market broadly trading conditions are highly competitive.
Since the end of the quarter the only significant renewal for XL at April one was in the Japanese market.
While pricing was down 10% to 15% and terms and conditions loosened we are satisfied we have a portfolio that should generate attractive returns.
In fact I would underscore that theme across our entire portfolio.
We haven’t seen trading conditions across the market as intensely competitive as this for quite a number of years.
There will be winners and losers.
We bring a number of assets to the table including a diversified portfolio across geography and class a stable of excellent trading partners developed over two decades a strong reserve position and a season team of underwriters who have generated excellent return to our shareholders over a number of years.
In short while we anticipate continued headwinds in the sector we enter it from a position of strength and anticipate continued strong performance.
So overall we are very pleased with our bottom line results in the first quarter and we continue to successfully navigate our way through very challenging market conditions.
With that I’ll turn it back to Mike.
Thank you Jim.
As I said at the outset of the call our news about our life reinsurance transaction is the culmination of six years of effort.
We are working on exerting the life re businesses when the market turned against us in 2008.
At that point we placed few businesses into runoff and have ever since continued to entertain arbitrators to exit the businesses.
Last night we announced that we a retroceding the vast majority of our life reinsurance reserves and we want to walk you through the transaction.
I want to acknowledge upfront that transaction is a bit complex.
And I think you will see that this complexity works substantially in favor of XL shareholders.
Before I get into too much detail let me focus on the fundamental purpose of this transaction.
We are a global property and casualty insurance and reinsurance underwriter that is what we do.
Having this block of life re businesses to tend to and the risk that were introduced inherently into our business by them distracts and detracts from our core mission.
Getting these risks off of our minds and substantially off of our books inherently improves the businesses that our shareholders own.
Now let me walk you through six aspects of this transaction.
First I’m going to walk you through what has changed in the environment and with XL that enables us to get to this announcement.
Second provide a brief description of the transaction itself.
Third I’ll walk you through the aspects of the counterparty and what attracted us to them.
Fourth I’ll give you description of the key protections for XL shareholders that are built in some transaction.
Fifth I'll turn to the right blocks that were not dealt with in this transaction and are retained by XL.
And then lastly I’ll describe the implications of this transaction for capital management going forward.
Then Pete will come back and add some additional detail.
So in terms of the first aspect what has changed? First it is observable there's a great deal of activity with respect to discontinued blocks of life insurance and reinsurance businesses.
And you’ve seen a number of deals already announced.
As I said ours is a bit more complicated than many of those and hence has taken a bit longer to put together given the unique structure of our reinsurance arrangements with our clients.
Second it has also taken longer for the market to get comfortable with European assets especially elongated European assets which is the central feature of the books we are dealing with in this transaction.
The final thing that has changed is the direct result of our own work the improvement in our own property and casualty performance.
Simply put as our P&amp;C ROEs have continued to climb the life block which represents something like 20-ish percent of our capital and its mid-single digit percent returns becomes a greater and in the future potentially a still greater drag on our results.
We and the investors deserve to have our improving team see results shine through.
So as I mentioned at the beginning that is the core purpose of the arrangement.
So we can focus on what we do best.
And before moving on to the next aspect there is a third but more minor point to be made.
It is obvious that our firm for variety of reasons carries a higher beta than many of our competitors.
It is observable in the market that life operations tend to attract a higher beta than those in P&amp;C operations.
And since our goal is to trade like our other well performing P&amp;C brethren anything that gives the market a reason to attach a higher beta to us is something we’d like to deal with.
Moving to the second aspect of this deal a description of the transaction itself.
The first thing to note is whether it’s a two-step transaction.
A retrocession of $4.4 billion of XL Life Reinsurance reserves into an entity that has been sold.
Said more simply we are selling to our counterparty of vehicles so that they can then reinsure our risks.
The risks that are included in this reinsurance arrangement are the overwhelming majority of our European facing reinsurance risk.
In the main there are two large blocks of Life Re business.
The single premium annuities that we have discussed with you many times and then a smaller block of European term life.
To put it all in perspective that is $4.4 billion of the total of $4.8 billion in reserves we held for life reinsurance.
That brings us to the third aspect I want to describe a description of GreyCastle our counterparts.
The most important thing to note is that the counterparty is a collection of family offices and University endowments.
While we had a number of interested parties to choose from from traditional reinsurers to private equity and also some new life reinsurance start-ups.
We view GreyCastle as exactly the kind of counterparty that should want these risks because their main focus is preserving capital.
We didn't want a counterparty that was going to do this as a leverage play or juice the assets.
We wanted someone that was going to run it off and take the ordinary benefits of the runoff.
So we feel we have exactly the right kind of counterparty.
That brings me to the fourth aspect I said I'd cover which is to walk through some of the obvious risk of the transaction and the way in which they are addressed.
While our retrocession is not novel what we're doing that we're doing it to an unrated vehicle is and I want to talk about that.
First of all and most importantly this is a funds withheld reinsurance transaction.
That means that we keep these assets on our books and in our accounts.
What we transfer to GreyCastle is the management of these assets and their economic benefits.
But should the counterparty not perform we are able easily because they're still in our accounts to recapture these assets under a variety of scenarios.
This protects XL shareholders.
So not letting these assets go is the ultimate protection in and of itself.
One other thing I should note and Pete will describe in a moment there is one minor inconvenience to holding these assets on our accounts and that is that there will be some accounting noise nothing more than noise as respect to net income.
Pete will get into the details of that in a second.
So I’m sure this leaves you to wonder about what conditions could cause the retrocession agreement to be recaptured by us as obviously this would defeat the purpose of ceding them to someone else.
There are essentially three main categories of failure that would lead to their recapture.
One if failure of GreyCastle to be in regulatory compliance; two a failure to satisfy collateral requirements and three a failure to comply with the contractually described capital requirements.
To give some perspective since they have already paid us $570 million none of these events are very attractive to GreyCastle as they would forsake the investment they have made.
And to give additional perspective we have modeled a variety of scenarios they could give rise to a recapture and they are extreme events.
They are for example beyond the consequences of the Lehman failure.
Even when we modeled European defaults and the doubling of the longevity assumptions GreyCastle would still be able to perform.
So you can see we do not expect to again control these assets and the good news is should these extreme events occur we will have been paid $570 million for the transaction and XL shareholders will be that much better off in those conditions.
We think this combination of funds was held in receiving the payment of $570 million gives us a terrific exit from the vast majority of the risks facing these blocks of business.
To bring up another worry you might have somehow that GreyCastle would look to manage these assets in a riskier way to get a better return.
The answer is they can.
We have investment guidelines agreed to with them that are essentially an extension of our own guidelines we used to manage the portfolios today and we have agreements in place to allow us to monitor the activities and to ensure their compliance.
And then lastly you might wonder is there enough capital.
Let me give you some perspective on the contractual capital requirements.
The answer is that we have defined the capital standard that GreyCastle has agreed to maintain and that is the equivalent of the AA capital standard based on an S&amp;P model.
And further we have already required these counterparties to set aside additional moneys that they would commit to further capitalization should it be needed.
That brings me to the fifth aspect that I said I would describe and that is what’s out of the deal and why did we keep it.
Here there is a simple answer.
The nature of the various blocks we are keeping are so different that we feel that it should be dealt with differently to and separately to acquire the best outcome.
Simply put the potentially best buyer for each block is different.
Since the transaction that we have now announced includes the vast majority of reserves and the vast majority of the risks.
We felt it was important to get this transaction done first.
So what’s left.
There will remain about $400 million of life reinsurance reserves on our books.
About $300 million in reserves are related to our U.S.
term life reinsurance businesses and $100 million in a block of income protection business.
There is also about $30 million in another block that were run up very quickly in areas that we’re talking about.
So you can see the relative magnitude $4.4 billion leaving and a residual of just $400 million in reserves left behind.
And these blocks while in -- being in loss recognition for some time now are behaving in a relatively benign way.
Just to be clear now that we’re done with this transaction of course we are open to dealing with these smaller blocks as well but we are also equally happy to run them off as a small part of XL that will not distract us from our overall objectives.
And that brings me to the sixth and final aspect that I said I would describe that is going forward to capital management.
While the transaction itself does not release capital and we have suggested to the market it would not in prior conversations.
It does make the firm less risky.
This allows us to lower the buffer to the buffer that we carry and that we have discussed with you many times.
This will result during the course of this year in us repurchasing an additional $300 million in share repurchases beyond the amount that we already contemplated for the year and that we have already described the magnitude of to you in our earlier calls.
So in sum I hope you can see why we are so happy with this transaction.
We’re getting a quality counterpart.
We have a transaction that protects XL shareholders and we are removing the vast majority of the remaining non-core elements of XL’s businesses.
This is a milestone for us in becoming a sharper and more focused and ultimately we believe more success for property and casualty insurers and reinsurers.
With that I will turn it over to Pete who can then get into some of the more specific details on the economics and then we will open it up to questions either on the quarter or on this transaction.
Thanks Mike.
I’ll take you through three additional items related to the transaction.
First a quick description of the structure and leading agency reactions; second a walk through our calculation of our book value loss due to a transaction and finally as Mike mentioned as a result of some of the protections we built in a discussion from an accounting perspective on how the transaction will impact the presentation of our results in the future.
Turning to Slide 5 which diagrams transaction structure.
It is important to understand that this is a two-part deal.
The subject wise businesses are first aggravated and then retroceded into XL Life Reinsurance Limited which is then sold to GreyCastle.
As you can see we are retailing $5.5 billion of assets on a funds withheld basis.
And this compares to the $4.4 billion of GAAP reserves currently held.
You may have seen the press releases last night from A.
M.
Best S&amp;P and Fitch all of whom have affirmed our ratings.
I think the best way to describe the book value charge of $585 million would be the start with what you are all most familiar with our financial supplement which at March 31 showed GAAP equity allocated to this business of $1.8 billion and by this business I mean the entire life segment.
Our debt amount approximately $1.2 billion is assigned to the business being sold today.
I will get back to the $600 million we now assigned to this transaction in a second.
Subtracting a small tax benefit in the $570 million in proceeds results in the book value loss of $585 million.
And as we’ve noted these numbers will changed from March 31 through the completion of the transaction mostly due to the mark-to-market value of the underlying investment portfolio.
Getting back to the $600 million now allocated for the business and I will make two observations here.
First our estimate of the GAAP capital required for the remaining businesses is approximately $250 million.
And second the excess of this required amount was $350 million mostly had to do with our method of funding to XXX reserves on our life term business in the United States.
Moving on to how our future reserves would be presented please turn to Slide 6.
First the obligations assumed by GreyCastle under the retrocession will be collateralized by invested assets that will continue to be legally owned by XL.
GreyCastle will direct the investment of these assets subject to a agreed upon investment guidelines and will receive all of the economics associated with the investments.
Because of this the retrocession contains an embedded derivative.
Accounting rules dictate that the movement in the value of the embedded derivative which transfers the economics to GreyCastle is recorded through XL’s net income.
However the changes in the fair value of the investments that are on our books that is economics we no longer have are not recorded through net income.
They are recorded in other comprehensive income which is a component of shareholders equity.
There will be mismatch as you will have that embedded derivative mark-to-market through net income and the offset which is the market value gain or loss on the investment portfolio not going through net income.
This will not impact comprehensive income operating income or book value.
The important point here is that there is no economic impact whatsoever but it does create fluctuations in net income going forward.
I will turn to David to go to Q&amp;A in a second.
But I would just like to add that we are all really pleased we’ve gotten to this point with the life business.
We’ve been pretty clear on our cause and other public communications.
So you will all understand that this really was an accomplishment to get this done and we think a big step in the right direction.
David? Shirley please open the lines for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
You may ask your question.
Thank you and good morning.
Lots to get through today.
I was wondering with the sale of the life reinsurance business taking into account the affect on earnings as well as book value and the increased share buyback what do you think the effect is on a run rate return on equity for XL overall? Jay so the effect at first would be quite small because of course the gap between current P&amp;C ROEs and the now transacted ROEs is not done.
Hello.
Sorry really technical difficulty there.
You cut out for like the last 10 seconds.
That was all.
Sorry about that.
So to start over the basic impact is very modest at first because the difference in the relative ROEs and P&amp;C today and the transacted business are not as big as we intend for them to be.
So the impact grows over time.
And of course the share repurchases has an additional benefit and those will occur over the course of the year.
So it’s starts off being pretty modest but it gets to some meaningful impact over the next couple of years and that’s what we are shooting for.
That’s why this was such an important time to get this done from our point of view Jay.
You really wanted to do it.
You didn’t want it to be a drag on the total return of the firm which we are positioned to create which we are starting to become.
So it was just starting to pinch.
It will pinch all the time.
All right.
So less of a -- the earnings dilution from the sale of life reinsurance business taking into account the impact of book value for share buybacks.
You shouldn’t see too much overall ROE erosion over the intermediate term?  Jay this is Pete.
the other thing -- you used the term erosion.
We don’t believe that there is any erosion in ROE.
We think that there is a very small as Mike said small pick up immediately/ That’s helpful.
Thank you.
And then Pete on the $250 million of capitals that is being held back to support the remaining businesses that seems rather large relative to the ongoing liabilities.
Why is that and how long do you think it could take for that additional $250 million to get released? So there are three pieces to the $250 million.
And they are very good ups between the two of the businesses that we are retaining the U.S.
term and the income protection.
And then also there is some amount there for the retrocession that is in places as a result of this transaction.
I will tell you that our regulatory capital that will be holding on those is a number substantially less than $250 million.
So that will not runoff and really if we -- we can talk a little bit later about the likelihood of any more transactions on the remaining businesses.
But some of those would cause that to runoff pretty quickly.
Okay.
And then last one quick one the effective tax rate going forward taking into account these transaction has been running around 11% overall on operating income.
Is that still reasonable run rate or will that change? That should not change.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
You may ask your question.
Thanks and good morning and congrats on the quarter.
Two quick question maybe a big question for Greg.
If you look at the AY ex-cat LR in insurance it was flattish year-over-year you were talking about competition and pricing.
How should we think about I guess the improvement on a full year basis for 2014 if you factor in the increasingly challenging pricing environment in insurance?  So let me give you the comparison for me.
We talk a lot about the second quarter and the first quarter last year kind of averaging those out with some of the things we talked about then.
It’s about point better first quarter this year versus the average first and second quarter result last year.
I’m not going to project the future.
This is a volatile business things can happen.
I feel very good about what we built into it.
We are a great matching trend and so we are good on that.
We are not losing ground there.
We’ve got our discipline on our underwriting actions and we are going to continue to deliver some improvement there.
And we’ve build out a new business and the spread of business looks strong.
So I think we are positioned well but I’m not going to forecast as for the rest of the year.
Okay.
I guess switching gears just going back to the discussion on capital management.
You mentioned it adds $300 million more than previously contemplated.
I think on the last call we had spend some time talking about buybacks versus operating earnings and how to sort of think about that metrics.
Could you just sort of refresh that discussion keeping this number? Should we add that to what we might have previously contemplated or should we apportion accordingly? Thanks.
Well a couple of things.
First of all what we said when we talked about share repurchases before was that you look at last year which was about $575 million as kind of a floor for what we might do in the coming year.
And of course as Pete has already mentioned in this call we did repurchase at a slightly higher rate than that would imply in the first quarter of $175 million.
I wouldn't read too much into that.
We think about a number of things when we are repurchasing.
We are looking at our internal models of where the buffer to the buffer stands because we're trying to make sure that doesn’t grow any more.
So that can affect what we might buyback in the quarter.
Similarly like any purchases or shares we are looking at the economics of the transaction at a given time as you would have in a reserve.
During this quarter there were -- there were times during the quarter when we were certainly trading below what we thought we ought to be trading and maybe we could argue we still are today.
So their economic aspects to what amount we might repurchase at any given time.
So rather than focusing on the $175 million I had focused on the guidance we’ve already given you.
Just as we don’t emphasize we want to focus on the guidance we’ve given you on expense.
When we say take last year and add plus or minus low mid single digits we mean take last year in entirety add lows kind of mid single digits and then develop that floor.
That would be how we would do it.
In this case we would say take the $575 million you can round it to $600 million if you want divide it by 4 that’s about where should expect the quarter.
If conditions allow we might buyback more but that’s kind of how we are thinking about.
And then to that I would add $300 million.
That’s the real simple way of thinking about it.
Got it.
That’s really helpful.
I will stop here.
Thanks for the answers and good luck for the future.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
So first just wanted to clarify the $250 million debt remains in capital that I hear you say that would take a long-term to runoff and so we shouldn’t be expecting that to be soon? Vinay so what I said was the three buckets that I allocated to the one that would get would disappear the quickest would be if we did a transaction in one of the remaining businesses.
Okay.
And then as far as the one point I guess I will make is this is an allocation of GAAP equity right.
It’s not the regulatory capital right.
It is just an allocation of equity.
So I would encourage you not to spend too much time focusing on the allocation.
The total GAAP equity enterprise is not changing.
So fair enough.
So when you got rid off that piece I mean I don’t think that would free up any capital would it?  I’m sorry I couldn’t quite understand it.
So even you got rid of the last piece of your Life Reinsurance business that you have in your books that would not really free up meaningful capital because you are getting diversification benefits to go ahead.
Yeah.
As we’ve talked about diversification benefits in the past if we continue to exit remaining businesses it would be same thing that Mike has talked about before right.
I mean there is a qualitative benefit they are getting out of these businesses.
It’s less quantitative than more qualitative.
Sure.
That’s helpful.
And just the numbers question on the life reinsurance business.
So just looking at the presentation it seems that you are retaining about a $1 million worth of quarterly income and the rest is being seated away correct? I mean is that right? Approximately correct.
Okay.
The vast majority of the profits of the business where and why is being sold.
Fair enough.
Fair enough.
And then finally on the primary insurance business I just had a two sided question on that.
This quarter we had about a one-point benefit year-over-year.
Do you think that’s enough to get to your combined ratio target and the second point on that is the topline growth was about five points of this quarter? The expenses are growing mid single digits.
Help me understand how we have expense ratio leverage in that environment? Thanks.
Sure.
Let me start with - it's Greg.
Let me start with the second part.
The first quarter had some lumpiness to it.
I mentioned that return of premium.
We are projecting that we will get back in line with the growth that we were trying to get to for this year.
And we will control those expenses as we go through the year if we do not see that growth materializes.
It’s clearly a delicate balance.
We are not out there pushing underwriters into the market and trying to have them chase premiums if the margins aren’t there and so we are watching that incredibly closely month-by-month head-by-head.
And so we will be on top of that.
In terms of the target if I go back to the first part I heard you the one point of improvement relative to the average of the first two quarters of ’13 we’ve been pretty evoke and when I was going towards our targets when I heard Vinay it’s another step in the right direction.
But we are still not there.
We are still pushing hard for our 90% combined ratio target and I have talked at length about all the underlying actions the portfolio construction the rate has slowed a little bit.
So it’s one not as strong tailwind but we are well on our way to getting towards that overall month.
And this is Mike.
Maybe I could add a couple of thoughts.
One from my perspective on top of the house I do expect continuing operating leverage to be gained.
And if the market were to some how turn even more competitive than it showed itself to be in the first quarter it’s a way to do so.
We would always make the judgment to if we couldn’t get into different segments in different places around the world if we couldn’t get appropriate we would be willing to slow down rate of growth that’s not a problem.
But I am not holding Greg to account for a specific set of expenditures.
I am holding Jamie account for the ratio that he has committed to produce.
So if there anything turned down in what we can profitably put on the books we will manage down the expenses in order to gain the operating leverage that we have expected to achieve as a part of this year’s plan.
So I appreciate where you are coming from.
I don’t think that’s the way this is going to play because we are in so many different businesses and so many different geographies that tend to be -- it’s a profitable growth available to us.
But if we went up in that situation we will deliver the expansion leverage that we expect.
The second thing that I would point out I think this is really important data of what Greg has already said.
As you know this is about portfolio management in the round.
We are growing the more profitable businesses we are shrinking the less profitable businesses and that is producing an ability for our firm to manage these more difficult competitive conditions and still deliver improvement in the overall result.
So this is directionally in line with where we are headed.
But I think about the first quarter it demonstrates it.
While we are on an overall combined ratio about a point off of the very very good in first quarter last year let’s remember that’s mostly about the expense ratio which is because we spent more rapidly this year to even it out over the year rather than kind of the wait and see and then spend attitude that we’ve had in the past.
That’s the reflection of our confidence in where we’re going.
So if it’s just that difference that pulls up above that the loss ratios are in line with that very exceptional quarter and we think on a more solid footing that’s why we are so excited.
This does in fact set us up directionally for the results we do intend to deliver.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
You may ask your question.
Yes.
Thank you.
A couple of questions.
I guess first is as you were putting this deal together were you out of the market from a buyback standpoint at any point during the quarter? No we weren’t.
We had put 10b5-1 plan in place before this deal clarified so that we could continue to transact in case something came of it.
Got it.
And then the second question is the assets that still remain from the life reinsurance business based on the market conditions you see out there today would you describe those as easier to sell than what you have already announced? So there is -- as we noted there is two main blocks there $300 million in U.S.
term life reinsurance and about a $100 million in income protection blocks.
And we don’t see much of a market for income protection blocks right now.
But I always at this point pause and I advertise it’s 1-800 Porrino if you are interested in it feel free to get Peter call.
On the U.S.
term re which is the $300 million the larger of the two blocks I do think there is good signals in the market but we have not been actively seeking to transact at this time because we wanted to get this larger and more complex arrangement behind us.
With that done again it’s 1-800 Porrino.
But as I said these books are performing in a fairly -- in a way that doesn’t worry we would be happy to just wind it up.
And maybe Pete you can try a little more color on that? Yes.
So Jay the other thing I would add in addition to the capital market is to -- just to give you a flavor of the books and what’s going on.
I mean they are both in loss recognition and they have both been in since 2005.
We take the income protection book since 2005 the total reserve changes -- the total reserve charges have been about $12 million right.
So clearly insignificant.
And then the large U.S.
term bucket again since 2005 $39 million over an 8-year period.
So again very comfortable running these off.
The other thing I guess that I would say as Mike talked about the U.S.
term business and the potential of a transaction.
And I am changing my phone number by the way.
But to give you perspective if an opportunity came to offload that business it’s hard to imagine that we would do the transaction where we would incur a loss of let’s say $50 million or more it just wouldn’t be worth it.
Got it.
That’s really good color.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Meyer Shields with KBW.
You may ask your question.
Thanks.
Two questions I'm going to focus on the P&amp;C side if I can.
One can you talk a little bit -- I guess this is a question for Pete about the section or the portion of the loss reserves that were not for short-tail lines what accident years and lines of business you are seeing those and what trends have been driving the releases? Yes.
So I am just going to have Susan cover that real quickly.
Right.
So in terms of the prior year development the quarter as you mentioned it was the 31 million and is slightly driven by short-tail lines.
In terms of by accident year within insurance that was primarily the 2012 accident year.
And in reinsurance it was spread across the 2004 to the 2012 accident years.
There was a modest amount of strengthening in 2013 that related to the German hailstorm losses the cat losses in 2013.
Okay.
Last quarter we talked a fair amount of an uptick in large losses.
How did the first quarter play out I know the general perception was that the weather was kind of bad? There was in insurance there was nothing remarkable to the positive or the negative about the quarter in terms of large losses.
Okay.
That was fine.
Thank you.
And back on the reserves questions remember Pete mentioned in his comments but Global Loss Triangles come out next week I am sure you all be waiting eagerly.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Dan Farrell with Sterne Agee.
You may ask your question.
Hi and good morning.
Just when looking at the capital that’s supporting the P&amp;C business it still looks like you’re going to be operating at a fairly conservative level.
I was wondering if you could comment as your earnings power improves in P&amp;C how if any does that impact your view of the capital buffer as we go forward that’s remaining? Yes that’s an excellent observation.
And clearly our earnings strengthening and I would also say us doing a better job as we have been working to do a better job in terms of managing the variability in earnings all the time.
As we continue to do a both better job on both of those I think the Board would agree with us that firm’s risk decline further and that we would take into account.
Now remember we go through kind of a three part analysis.
The first part of the analysis is how much capital is required for the primary buffer which is to the rating that we carry.
Then we look is are there opportunities to put it to work at a similarly profitable level for our shareholders are better.
And then third we look at what kind of buffer to the buffer should be carry and after we do all of that we say how much can be return to our shareholders through repurchases or dividend or whatever method.
And we look at other things at that time of course like where we are trading and all that kind of things.
So it’s a fairly complex.
You will note in there is can we put money to work.
We’ll always be looking for ways to grow the impact we make in the world at a profitable return to our shareholders.
But still at this time I would tell you that our -- when we do that we tend to come back to repurchases as the best use of money that’s left over.
But your insight is right as we have stronger and more robust earnings which we do expect to produce even in this environment and as we see our ability to through portfolio structure and reinsurance all the tools to better mange the variability of the book I think you are thinking about that way.
That is very helpful.
Then just a quick question on your reinsurance purchase.
You obviously purchased more reinsurance this quarter.
I am wondering just what’s your view going forward given the reinsurance market environment on the ability to maybe do some more reinsurance purchases to improve overall risk management shape the returns with the portfolio etcetera in the insurance business? Thanks.
If I could start with two introductory comments and then I will turn it over to Greg.
One introductory comment is we look at these kinds of transactions through the alliance and partnerships.
We believe everybody ought to know what they are doing and do the right thing and we are not looking to arbitrage the hot market is my point.
We don’t think that that’s the right way to do business but we want to understand what the other party gets out of it we want to know what we get out of it and then we will do the transaction.
But at the end the second introductory comment I will make is that you would have been in news as you’re asking that question to look at the faces of my colleagues.
Greg was smiling and Jamie was frowning just to be really quick.
Greg? I think there is some more room to Mike’s point.
This is a long-term trading.
We have been trading a lot of our reinsurance partners for many many years so this is not about chasing the hot money or putting to work new cares.
I’ll just use an example.
We’ve just recently wrapped up our May 1 property risk and property cat protections.
We gave a good hard look at what our portfolio look like to make sure that we had the right protection for XL based on our own internal capital mine and we went out and peer benchmark ourselves on our net risk position.
And we found that we could -- we’re able to achieve this renewal a little bit lower risk attention.
We purchased a little bit more limit on our international U.S.
cat.
We’ve got some expanded coverages and we’re able to add what’s called a risk area cover that helps protect us in the middle kind of middleing size losses that might accumulate over a year.
And we’re able to do that within a very very reasonable purchase relative to last year’s payments.
I think there is more to be had but to Mike’s starting point this is not about being egregious and taking advantage of our long-term partners.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Ian Gutterman with BAM.
You may ask your question.
Hi good morning.
I guess my first question is the 1-800 Porrino tagline give us 15 minutes and we will sell you a company? Ian the only thing I would say is this one took a hell of a lot more than 15 minutes.
At least it wasn’t 15 years so that’s good.
I would like to -- I guess the problem Pete is as soon as one thing gets wrapped up we focus on the next thing so but this one is hopefully a good thing.
When I look at -- obviously there has been a lot of focus on how much book value you’re going to lose in this transaction.
But when I look at another part of your business the operating affiliates business it seems the book value there is substantially understated.
And I was hoping you could give us some color on how to think about that.
I guess I just did a couple quick things using your 10-K and some statutory filings.
And the investment managers you had I'm just focused on the operating affiliates the investment manager operating affiliates were on the books at $62 million at year end and they earned $78 million last year.
And I understand that might be over earning some maybe.
But the point is if you’re earning more than book value it’s got to be worth a lot more than book value if we put a PE on earnings.
And the strategic affiliates it looks like ASI alone is maybe $150 million to $200 million of book value and I look at the publicly traded peers in the Florida homeowners market are trading at north of 2 times book.
So if I add those two together it seems that arguably the operating affiliates are understated per book value by the same $578 million or maybe even more that the life reinsurance took a loss on.
Am I in the right ballpark? Is there any other information you can give us to help us maybe give you some more credit for the value of those businesses? Well Ian as always a very thoughtful observation and the amount of homework you do shocks me sometimes.
I think you know our numbers at least as well as we do sometimes.
So your points are exactly accurate right.
So I am trying to add a little bit of color but I don’t have much more than what you said because again you went through that in a fair amount of detail.
But again as we break out sort of our investment affiliates as you know we’ve got three categories the fund investment that we equity account for our investment manager affiliates and the insurance affiliates as you laid out.
The fund affiliates these are carried at the net asset value so really fair value and what’s on our balance sheet are probably pretty close.
For the investment manager affiliates and this is the top one but I’m trying to walk through it and then give you one specific piece of data.
For the investment manager affiliates we carry those at the end of this quarter with $89 million and just everybody knows what that mean it’s what we paid for our current stakes plus our share in the earnings over the years net of the distributions that we’ve received.
And according to the equity accounting we do not write up any of these even if we think that the fair value exceeds the current carrying value right.
So that’s the accounting side of it.
From the business side of it this is a business we really like we’ve been in a long time.
And asset management is a business characterized by strong cash flows and high return on capital.
That’s been our experience with our affiliate holdings.
So just from numbers around the earnings power that you mentioned the one year but I’ll go back and I give you a five year view.
The $220 million in operating earnings in this business right the investment management business over the last five years significant amount of money and again you compare that to what we’re holding it at right now the 89.
And again not apples and apples but it is indicative right.
Now the $220 million includes some meaningful liquidity event realizations and let’s call that sort of 25% have been capitalization event proceed as part of the $220 million but still significant amount of money.
And as we look at the business today I’d say it’s sort of a mix of established firms smaller companies in growth the mix of businesses that look more like asset management companies and may have liquidity events and others that maybe cash generative but less franchise value.
And I now will talk about one company specifically because it is public but it is hard to put some of the values on these stakes.
We are long-term strategic holders of these assets.
We’ve got a great track record and we’re very proud of it.
The example I would take you to is the one thing that you didn’t talk about is Polar Capital Holdings.
It’s publicly quoted in London we own 7 million shares.
We carry our stake at just under $16 million.
What it’s trading at these days the market value of the holding is $23 million above the $16 million.
So I can say that you can apply that ratio across the board but it does give you some sense.
Ian I think you’re exactly right.
And then on the insurance affiliates new companies America Strategic is by far the largest one that we have.
We record it at book value.
Our book value cost on that is something in the $160 million range.
And you all know the markets as well as I do.
I will disagree with anything you say but clearly that is a really well-known company in a market that’s getting good valuations right now.
And so it’s clearly is worth a multiple of what we carry it on.
So I’m sorry for the long-winded answer but it was a very good question.
That’s very helpful information.
Again I don't think you guys get enough credit for it.
The only other follow-up I have is you mentioned I forgot at the one part I did forget to ask was you did mention at the book value on the investment managers changes by the earnings minus the distributions and it seems that those distributions are I guess I would think of that as excess capital right.
So I think when we think of your capital we are used to thinking of maybe the insurance earnings.
But can you give us a sense of how to think about what dividend capacity out of those? I don't know if there is such a thing as normal distributions but you see what I am getting at right? Just how do we think about how much capital those things generate on an annual basis just from the distributions? I’m going to ask Sarah if you don’t mind Ian just give a little color on it.
Hi Ian.
Because asset management businesses are not heavily capital uses.
The actual distributions of the earnings that we would see every year is relatively high relative to the earnings that we actually booked through the P&amp;L.
Okay that is what I was guessing so that is basically why the book value doesn't change very much? Correct.
Correct.
And then it will also go down obviously from the sales.
But yes -- no we get god distributions in terms of dividends out of them every year.
Got it.
Great.
Very helpful answers.
Thanks guys.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
You may ask your question.
Thanks.
Can I get a little more color on the other reinsurance business that you wrote? It looks like that lifted a bit.
I see the footnote but is there a piece of that business that is growing faster than others and what sort of margin are you writing that business at? Thanks.
Yeah.
Mike there are several components in it but far in a way the largest of what we described as other would be whole account quarter shares out of select Lloyd’s syndicates.
And this particular quarter we wrote one new one which drove the entire increase in the other category of business.
The margins on it I think would be similar to a whole a quota share on a multi line commercial carrier i.e.
overtime certainly not as high as our property cat book but we’ve had very very steady returns on that business over a longer period of time.
Got it.
And I guess I mean you dovetailing off of that.
I mean how would the property GAAP book coming down a bit.
And I’m guessing just generally profitability in that book that you’re keeping is probably a little bit lower now versus where you thought it might be at the beginning of the year.
How should we think about the target 90 combined and what are -- maybe the answer is you’ve also got higher combined ratio businesses also receiving a bit so maybe the mix is not changing all that much.
But just trying to get some understanding for how we should about reinsurance as sort of a contributor toward that 90 goal? Thanks.
Well let’s be clear the 90 is really what Greg has been driving to.
If reinsurance was to run at a consistent 90 there will be about a 5 point deterioration of what it is running? No right but all-in I guess right.
And all in I mean it is part of the company that also plans to get to a 90 combined.
Well obviously there is competition all over the place.
The property cat business is still on a pro forma basis a very profitable business.
And frankly I still believe even with the pricing pressure on it it is still driving the vast majority of returns in the reinsurance market right now.
I’ll tell you one thing I'm very happy to be running a reinsurance business in the company like XL now where we have -- there are certainly challenges around running it and doing a platform business.
But we can focus on driving bottom-line profits wherever the margins are right now.
I'm not worried about expenses and so forth while Greg continues to improve his portfolio business.
I'd be much more concerned about the pricing environment if I was running a standalone medium-sized pure reinsurance company.
Got it.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Randy Binner with FBR.
You may ask your question.
Hey thanks for staying on.
Just a couple of follow-ups on the deal.
I guess the first question is pretty high-level and that is there is been a lot of talk here about $300 million of additional buybacks for 2014.
But I think it is safe to say that when 2015 comes around you kind of roll into a new set of expectations around leverage earnings and whatever you would do their to figure out what the incremental buyback would be in 2015 in addition to the $300 million in 2014.
Is that correct? Well we’ll look at ’15 as that year come upon us.
We have a hack of a lot of work to do throughout the next three quarters.
And we will see where we are when the smoke clears.
Right.
But just to clarify the $300 million is not all we get out of this I guess I would say is that it would be reevaluated every year.
I will say it differently from that.
We constantly evaluate the buffer to the buffer in light of all the factors that have already been discussed in this call including the fact that we no longer have this business and possibly maybe even exit some more we will see and unlikely side.
And also how do we do in terms of building more robust earnings and dealing with the variability.
We’ve been showing from quarter-to-quarter.
So we’ll take all that into account.
We’ll take a look at how XL is trading.
There is just a lot of variables that we’re going to think about as we go into it and we have developed something of a tradition that at the beginning of the year we give you some perspective on how we’re thinking about share repurchases.
We’ll do that at beginning of next year.
And of course we’ll try to give you as effective as we can some -- the other thing we really give that could even be remotely called guidance around how we are handling expenses because those are in our control.
All right.
Understood.
And then there has been a lot of interest on the call about maybe how you would get rid of the remaining run-off items.
But I guess my question is more towards what kind of yield like investment yield or return can we expect on that and the cash inflow? My expectation when modeling this out is that you can generate some positive income from those two pieces and so any color you can give on that would be helpful? Yeah.
This is Pete.
I would just say that we -- when we run our models we’ve done in pretty simply and you can look at what our new money rate is we are not assuming.
When we look at that economics of these deals we don’t assume that we are going to reinvest those at the ROE of the rest of the business right.
It isn’t that we need that capital in order to write that business right.
And so we are looking at a reasonably low yield with the cash proceeds that we get.
What is your new money yield right now? 1.9% I think that overall mix of the business for P&amp;C.
Okay.
So you reinvest cash proceeds at that -- at the book yield basically? I mean yes basically I’ll say that is true.
I mean we’re not doing anything different with those proceed.
I would say that they are more allocated to capital.
They’re no longer backing specific liabilities and so they would go at the capital and therefore they make it a higher percentage of some of our riskier investments but that is a level of detail we really don’t get into.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
At this time I’ll turn the call back over to the speakers for closing remark.
Yeah.
This is Mike.
Couple of things first of all again this was a day we really looked forward to around here and we’re very pleased to have this moment and I want to because I know I’ll have a lot of XL colleagues on the call as well.
I want to single out a couple of their colleagues who deserve special recognition for this coming to fruition.
On my staff of course the Pete and Kirstin Gould who is our Chief Counsel have been extraordinarily busy and involved in the transaction.
But representing them as on the point for the whole things has been Steve Robb and Arabella Ramage and they have just done outstanding work and I just want to single them out now.
Sometime the night I imagine the teams and people that have been involve with those will probably celebrate a moment in time then they will get back to work and bring it to an actual close.
What more than anything I want to thank all of our XL colleagues.
They have been doing great work day and day out to continue to improve the overall business which is a big part of why we chose to do this.
We are able to do this.
And that work continues.
It is hard work improving a P&amp;C business from where we started to where we are and to where we need to go.
And that’s the principle work that this firms engaged and we’re back to work everyday to achieve our objective on behalf of our shareholders.
So I thank everybody for their continued effort and particularly Steve and Arabella for their exceptional work in this particular exercise and we look forward to nearly delivery for our shareholder especially in light of the better firm we’ve now created.
Thank you very much.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group plc Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please be advised that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dave Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley.
And welcome to XL Group's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
And we posted to our website several documents including our press release and quarterly financial supplement.
On the call this evening Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who will offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino XL’s Chief Financial Officer will review our financial results followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we’ll open it up for questions.
Before they begin I'd like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they're made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening and thank you for joining the call.
XL had a good second quarter and we are pleased to see our broad-based progress continues to the first half of 2014.
This is particularly true given the headwinds in the market some of which will get into little bit later.
But overall we believe we are demonstrating that the levers we have our at our disposal can help to offset these market conditions and we can continue to produce solid results harvesting both our prior and ongoing work.
In the second quarter our results included – total P&amp;C combined ratio of 88.3% total underwriting profit of $168 million and a loss ratio of 57.6% all of which were better than the prior year quarter.
At the same time as you we feel our progress is better viewed over longer trends and from a year-to-date point of view nearly all of our core metrics are head of the first half of 2013 as well.
Given the market we like where we are.
One contrary metric is our operating expense ratio and we will spend some more time tonight going over our expenses in general.
As we want to make sure that we are clearly on our expectations of what we’ll develop for the full year.
We also experience the one-off benefit in the quarter of some size and we want to make sure that is clear as well.
Pete will get into both of these topics during his comments.
Focusing on the insurance segment we’re pleased with the way the year is developing specifically insurance underwriting profit in the quarter was $63 million well ahead of the $5 million reported in Q2 of 2013.
Overall we feel we are demonstrating our ability to absorb large losses including in unusual number of large losses that have already taken place in the first half of this year while continuing to expand margins.
We’re not out of our goal yet of course but we like the trends particularly the calendar quarter loss ratio which was the best result in 5.5 years.
We can see that an increasing majority of our insurance businesses our demonstrating expected performance inline with the market in their particular books.
That’s a much different place than were just a year or two ago.
Looking at reinsurance here as well nearly all of our core metrics are ahead of the prior year quarter as are the year-to-date figures against the first half of last year.
Jamie will spend some more time discussing marketing conditions in his remarks but I’ll just say that we are really proud of the performance for reinsurance colleagues.
We are all seeing nearly daily reports regarding the turmoil in the reinsurance market and a continuing lowering of expectations of rate while expectations are raised for terms and condition on the part of the plans.
You will note that our gross premium written is right about where we’re at the same time first half of last year.
This means that with the tough discussions on rate and renewals firms with the distinctive offerings and historic relationships will continue to be better positioned.
At the same time we do expect to feel the impact of the market it is in escapable and we will continue to manage our book to what we feel is the right level of rate for our business and let the chips fall where they may.
But we are awfully proud of the way our book has performed to date in this difficult marketplace.
Before turning to Pete I just want to make one more comment regarding the life reinsurance business.
As planned and without surprises the transaction closed in the second quarter.
As you recall because the transaction is a sale and retrocession on a funds withheld basis.
There are some complex accounting implications we want to make sure you fully aware off.
While we discuss this to some extent last quarter the details are now in the numbers.
We are happy to discuss this during Q&amp;A or as a follow up to this call.
But in sum we continued to be very pleased both with the transaction and with our counter-parties and are particularly appreciative of our ability to spend our time on the core businesses in this challenging period.
Again through two quarters it has been a very solid start to the year.
With that I will turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
On net loss attributable to ordinary shareholders was $279 million or loss of a $1.03 per share including the impact of the life reinsurance transaction.
Operating net income for the second quarter was $280 million were $1.02 per share on a fully diluted compared to $222 million in 2013 or $0.75 per share.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 88.3% or 5.5 points better than the same quarter last year while our accident year combined ratio was 94.2% better by 7.6 points.
This improvement is largely driven by lower levels of catastrophe losses this quarter at $35 million were 2.4 loss ratio points compared to $134 million or 9.3 loss ratio points in the second quarter of 2013.
As we’ve outlined on previous earnings calls the second is a significant reserve valuation quarter for us.
And as a result we’ve reacted appropriately to any development indications identified during our in-depth review.
Prior year reserve development in the quarter was a net favorable $84 million or 5.8 loss ratio points compared to a $119 million or 8 loss ratio points for the same quarter in 2013.
This reflects favorable development of $37 million in the insurance segment and $47 million in the reinsurance segment.
Our operating expenses were higher than the prior year quarter due to the normal underlying expense growth as well as the impact of improved underwriting results on our variable compensation metrics and foreign exchange.
As we’ve indicated in the past we continue to expect that overall operating expense levels for 2014 will be modestly higher than 2013 approximately a mid single-digit increase excluding foreign exchange in variable compensation.
As a reminder the increased use of reinsurance will impact the reported operating expense ratio.
As noted by Mike we completed the sale &amp; retrocession of our European life reinsurance operations on May 30 to GreyCastle Holdings for $570 million in cash which resulted in an after tax U.S.
GAAP net loss of approximately $620 million.
The change in the reported loss from the estimate provided as of March 31 relates to the mark-to-market and FX impacts on the underlying asset portfolio and exposures between the time of signing and closing which we indicated would be the case at the time we announced the transaction.
The prospected accounting and disclosure requirements will add some complexity to our financial statements.
Now we hope the example we provided last quarter as well as our summary consolidated financial data included in our press release will help in understanding those impacts.
The way we think about this is that following the May 30 closing of the transaction and reflect no net underwriting results related to the retroceded business.
The investment income and change in market value of the asset portfolio backing the seated liabilities is offset by an embedded derivative expense passing those economics onto GreyCastle with the resulting net impact on operating income and comprehensive income being zero.
In the summarize income statement data included in the earnings release we have combined the various components further to show the net income contribution from the life retrocession agreements of $6.5 million for the month of June and it related will offsetting change in accumulated other comprehensive income of $6.5 million to try and make this point clear.
It will across before the details to rather Form 10-Q explaining how the results of this business no longer impact the underlying performance of the company.
Turning to the investment portfolio the life retrocession transaction restricted on the funds withheld basis with the risks and rewards of the $5.7 billion of related funds withheld assets having been transfer to GreyCastle.
Investment performance and net investment income generated by the life funds withheld assets since May 30 peaks with the derivative instrument created as part of the life retrocession agreement.
Given that GreyCastle is now direct trading on those assets presumably to investment guidelines we’ve agreed with them and all of the related economics exploded them.
And we’ll be excluding these assets from our investment commentary in this and future quarters.
To clarify the XL managed assets now include P&amp;C operations.
The assets related to the outstanding structured product transactions and the remaining life assets.
However with that point made these funds withheld assets due continue to sit on our books so we added new schedule throughout the financial supplement will be disclose a high level summary of the life funds withheld assets by sector credit rating currency and duration.
Because we’re 11 of the financial supplement details net investment income generated during the quarter and separates the life funds withheld assets for informational purposes.
The asset details on schedules 2 through 10 now exclude the life funds withheld assets.
Further to be above and focusing solely on the assets and which we do return the economics I’m sorry we do retain the economics.
The investment portfolio return 1.9% for the quarter driven primarily by decreasing government rates in our major jurisdictions coupled with spread narrowing.
Unrealized net gains in the portfolio were $1.2 billion at the end of the second quarter.
The duration of our fixed income portfolio excluding the funds withheld assets but including the remaining life assets was 3.6 years.
To give you a basis for comparison the P&amp;C component of the XL fixed income portfolio is essentially unchanged at 3.4 years.
We still remain short duration relative to our benchmark.
At $214 million net investment income on a portfolio excluding life funds withheld assets was $19 million below the same quarter last year.
This variance was due to the life transaction with the investment income life funds withheld assets for the month of June it’s now being separately reported.
The gross book yield for the portfolio excluding the life funds withheld assets at the end of June was 2.7%.
We still other GAAP between the yields on maturing assets and where we are reinvesting which will keep downward pressure on net investment income.
We estimate that approximately $3.1 billion of XL assets excluding any funds withheld assets with an average gross book yield of 2.9% well mature in pay down over the next 12 months compared to the average new money rate in Q2 on the portfolio of 1.7%.
Our investment in operating affiliates continued to produce strong results.
Net income from investment affiliates was $18 million driven by structured credit strategies and emerging market funds down $29 million from an exceptional prior year quarter.
The overall second quarter return on our alternative portfolio including the non-equity portion of 1.5%.
We also had good earnings from our investment manager affiliates of $13 million.
Net realized gains were $92 million in the quarter driven primarily by sales of equities this compared to net realized gains of $36 million in the second quarter of 2013.
Our tax rate on net income is distorted somewhat due to the Life transaction on which we recorded a tax benefit of 6.7% of the pre-tax loss on sale.
Taxes on operating income an income for the quarter were approximately 12%.
As Mike mentioned in his opening remarks an additional contributor to income in the quarter was a one of commutation of one of our remaining structured product transactions that resulted in a $28 million reduction in interest expense.
And with respect to capital management we continue to execute on our share buyback program and during the second quarter we purchased $5.5 million shares for $175 million at an average price of $31.96 per share leaving approximately $718 million remaining available for purchase under our previously announced share buyback program.
As we noted in our first quarter call our intention as a result of the elimination of the risks associated with the transferred life business is that our share buybacks for the year will be increased by as much as $300 million.
We continue to view these buybacks as good use of capital for our shareholders and an efficient overall capital management tool.
I will now turn it over to Greg to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete and good evening.
Tonight I'll cover the results for the segment provide some comments on our semi-annual reserve review.
Give a brief update on talent and finished remarks on current market conditions.
Beginning with the results the Insurance segment produced a second quarter calendar year combined ratio of 93.8% or 5.8% bearing the same quarter last year driven largely by lower cat activity.
This marks our sixth consecutive quarter of profitability.
On an accident quarter basis excluding cat our combined ratio of 96% improved by one full point.
This year-over-year improvement was driven primarily by the accident quarter ex-cat loss ratio to 64.7% which was 0.8 points better than prior year.
As we have previously discussed our underlying portfolio continues to improve through our focus on expanding underwriting margins and reducing volatility we believe this is evident in the fact that we have been better able to absorb large loss activity this quarter without adversely impacting results.
Quite simply our underwriting actions and improved reinsurance volume are yielding results.
The underwriting expense ratio was 31.3% in the second quarter reflecting a 0.2 point improvement in the second quarter of last year.
As mentioned last quarter the shift towards quarter share treaties in certain business will distort the comparison of our acquisition ratio which improved by 3.1 points over the second quarter of last year in our operating expense ratio was deteriorated by 2.9 points.
For 2014 this necessary look at the total underwriting expense ratio when comparing results to prior year.
Let me give some contexts to increased sessions.
For the quarter our exceeded premiums written increased from $423 million to $622 million.
This was driven predominately by an increased use of quarter share reinsurance.
Given as increased utilization as our reinsurance the first half of 2014 saw a ratio of exceeded premium to gross premium increase from 25% to 33% with our July 1 renewals complete we expect roughly distortion rate for the remainder of 2014.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by $125 million rate or 8.5 % in the quarter when adjusted for foreign exchange movement.
All of our business groups had solid growth in the quarter.
North American Property and Casualty premiums grew by over 7% with construction and excess casualty contributing the largest growth.
large single limit multi-year account in our primary casualty book.
And our specialty group was up over 9% reflecting strong growth in both of our political risk and crisis management businesses.
While markets are increasingly competitive for many of our business we continue to see increased commission flow will remain a market of choice when clients are looking for help in solving their risk management needs.
Shifting to loss reserves as Pete noted we completed our semi-annual reserve review in the quarter.
Overall this resolved in a prior year reserve release of $37 million compared to $48 million in the second quarter last year.
Releases in our aero space and marine books along with the favorable settlement in our discontinued pharmaceutical book were partially offset by straightening in our environmental and Lloyd’s middle market portfolios.
Our professional reserves which experiences some strengthening in the fourth quarter of 2014 were unchanged as continued favorable class action loss activity was offset by unfavorable development of regulatory and M&amp;A related claims.
We will also establish a separate North American Cyber &amp; Technology Risk Business that would be led by John Coletti and realigned our Select Professional business under Alex Blanco On market conditions we saw slowing in rate across more lines of business as the overall rate increases for the segment was 1% in the second quarter and 1.5% on a year-to-date basis.
I’ve see this now slipped below loss trend several lines as markets particularly the shorter tail lines continue to deteriorate.
That said half of our premium volume did achieve pricing in excess of loss trend in the second quarter.
For the year 16 of our 23 businesses are still showing positive rate increase.
North American business is delivered 2% increase in the second quarter driven by a 4% reduction in property but nearly all other businesses have positive rate into 3% to 7% range that by excess casualty and environmental.
Our international property and casualty in global professional businesses achieved rate in 1% to 2% range.
Adversely impacted by property and high excess D&amp;O business respectively.
Our Specialty business were most severally impacted with an overall rate increase of nearly two points reflecting the competitive aviation market which we expect to move upward given recent loss activity.
In closing we had a strong calendar year quarter in the first half of 2014 was almost profitable since 2007.
And we benefit from another relatively quite catastrophe quarter our accident year results excluding cat reinforce the need for further improvement as we continue to grow our higher margin business and take necessary underwriting actions to achieve our desired level profitability.
And now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance.
Thanks Gregg and good evening the reinsurance segment had an excellent quarter of underwriting results for the combined ratio of 75.7% producing underwriting profit of $105 million.
These results were impacted by prior reserve release of $47 million and catastrophe losses from the quarter of $20 million net of reinstatement premiums principally from the European hailstorms Ela in June excluding the impact of cat losses and prior year releases our combined ratio was 82% exactly the same as our 2013 Q2 result on this basis as respects the reserve releases XL Re-America went through their normal semi annual reserve review in the second quarter and contributed $21 million of the releases.
We leased $17 million of casualty reserves this quarter from the U.S.
and international business groups but continue to be very cautious on recent underwriting years.
Finally we had $18 million of deterioration on 2013 cat losses the hailstorms in Germany and windstorm Christian which dampened the overall release.
On a year-to-date basis the segment has produced a combined ratio of 76% compared to the 77.3% in 2013.
Excluding the impact of cat losses in prior year releases the six month combined of 82.8% compared to the 80.9% in 2013.
For the year we’ve had the benefit of $78 million of reserve releases down slightly from the $91 million achieved in 2013.
With respect to top line gross written premiums of the quarter were $493 million a 4.5% increase from the second quarter of 2013.
The increases came from our North America and international business groups and resulted from timing differences additional crop premium in the U.S.
increased Aviation premiums based on one new treaty and increased premium estimates on treaties written in prior years in Latin America.
On a year-to-date basis gross written premiums of $1.35 billion down 2% from 2013 levels and reflective of competitive headwinds across the market.
Turning to market conditions you have no doubt heard considerable commentary on the mid-year cat renewals in the U.S.
and a very competitive environment across the reinsurance market.
There is no question there is enormous appetite out there for virtually all classes of business.
The mid-year renewals were indeed competitive with risk adjusted pricing down 15% to 20% on U.S.
cat renewals.
In addition terms and conditions continue to come under pressure including increased multiyear placements expansion of terrorism coverage and broadened hourly causes we were pleased to see the market resists some of the more aggressive coverage and placing placement strategies with several programs being repriced and remarketed to enable full placement.
While not necessarily clear proof that the market has hit bottom there are number of markets showing encouraging results in this environment.
On the international side we also saw a downward pricing pressure at mid-year renewals.
Our Australian and U.K.
business showed price reductions up 10% to 20%.
Overall the cat market well under pressure remains on an actual and modeled basis a very profitable component of our global portfolio.
We did increase our spend on retrocessional protections at mid-year.
A significant capacity and attractive product options were available.
While we remain in a market that does not depend on retrocessions for its gross capacity needs we have increased our average capacity on European win and bought down our retention for U.S.
win in quake to attach at lower industry loss levels.
These hedges included both straight and indemnity and indexed products.
In addition we remain concerned at the level of competition on proportional placements in both short and long-term markets.
We continue to see intense pressure on terms and conditions particularly with ceding commissions were buyers are routinely seeking multiple points of improvement in their placements.
Of these instances we have reduced or withdrawn our capacity particularly on long-tail business for our top line has reduced by 10% on a year-to-date basis.
So overall we had excellent quarter on a calendar year and accident year basis.
Our reserve position remains strong we are stead fast in our disciplined approach to very challenging market conditions and are confident our team of deeply experienced underwriters will continue to deliver solid results to our shareholders.
With that I’ll turn the things back to David for Q&amp;A.
And surely can you please open the lines for questions.
Thank you we will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
You may ask your question.
Hi good evening.
The first question is on the primary insurance.
And looking at the accident year loss ratio and combined ratio ex-cat for the first six months of this year versus first six months of last year and those numbers seem to be relatively flat.
I would've thought that there would have been some improvement given the re-underwriting of the business mix.
So if you could help us understand the future trajectory and why it hasn't happened a little sooner that would be helpful.
Thank you.
Sure Vinay its Greg.
I think the biggest explanation for us to drill hole a bit down some of the large losses that I referred to in my opening remarks.
On the property line of business we look at large losses has been losses larger than $10 million and so I am thrilled that you’re using a longer data points in just the quarter.
And so the first half of the year in this year we’ve observed $62 million of those losses in the six months.
In the first half of last year that number was just actually was zero.
And so there is about three points of large loss in the first half of this year relative to the zero it’s masking the underlying improvement.
In fact if I look when I just give you a little more color.
If you look back in the second half of last year we observed 4.7% of large losses in that half six month period.
So we go 1.6% better on large losses just first six months to the last six months.
In our loss ratio is improved 3.3% from 67.4% to 64.1%.
To trying to give you even a little more context went back to the first half of 2011 which was the last six months it looks exactly closing dollars to this six months.
We had 4.2% of large losses and our accident year ex-cat loss ratio net six month period was 74%.
So we’re full 10 points better with only half of point of that coming from improved half of that by a large loss activity.
So we think there is a lot of good things to go underneath with built a book its better able to observe this loss activity.
So we don’t see has been anything other than reinforcing point they were on the right path.
So was this quarter's loss higher than average? Or was it plus the average?  Yes on the property counted this quarter’s loss was higher.
In the last 18 quarters we’ve had three that have been $50 million of greater in this $10 million and above then we’ve had nine would have been zero.
So it’s a quite a wide – we have quite a wide distribution there and this was much higher than our normal expectation.
Sure.
And for this quarter how many points in the combined ratio do you think it was? Higher than average? Excuse me a second Vinay.
Sure.
While you look for that number can we just go on to the reinsurance side? So I was pleasantly surprised that the combined ratio was flat year-over-year product accident year ex-cat basis.
So if you could explain that to us given what we are hearing about pricing on the reinsurance? Well we don’t have a consistent portfolio of business today.
As you know we’ve been pretty adjusted at remixing the business and selecting risk.
So we’re confident we are going to able to perform well year-over-year.
Yes Vinay it’s Greg again roughly speaking about three points to four points above average.
Sure.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
I'll give you some comfort that you're not alone.
Everyone's having these large losses.
And so I always certainly respect that.
But the question I have sort of relates to it.
It may just be serendipity but if I go back five or 10 years ago we were never talking about one-off quarters with large losses.
Has the XL book or the industry's underwriting or the amount – or wave of people buying reinsurance do you think anything's changed in the last decade that's giving us this problem? I mean it's not just you guys.
Everybody has it.
And we've been listening about it for about three years now with some quarters that are blessed that we don't have them but many of them do.
Do you have any thoughts on this?  Josh this is Mike I’ll start off and ask Greg or Jamie to add in I would start with – and so certainly in my time in XL this has been a regular conversation.
So I can’t give you the 10 year perspective I can tell you when they have happened as Greg mentioned those three in the last ten five years as recorded that really had really excessive large losses we have commented on them.
What was so pleasing to me about this quarter is that we were able to produce an overall loss ratio for the first half of the year that we think is really a solid result and that we could do that well experiencing one of those quarters as a testament to the improved overall behavior of the XL book of that said I do note that many companies out there and we noticed this from a reinsurance perspective or holding more of their increasing their attentions and holding more of their risk in that.
And so I think that introduces additional volatility into their book and I notice several of my peers commented in their calls as that they still think that the economic trade of the greater volatility is better than the cost of reinsurance that maybe their view but certainly we find that is always we managed our attritional book well then we are we should be better able to absorb of these we’re still producing good result which was exactly the effect we had this growth.
So I am feeling pretty good about what this quarter demonstrates about the performance of our book so I do note that industry wide we have seen a lot of commentary around large losses in this particular quarter.
Greg?  Joshua I would say if XL specific 10 years ago we were not as big property player as we’re today.
So that’s part of the reason you wouldn’t have heard it from within the XL story.
And to Mike’s point we’re actually heading the opposite direction we’re working hard to buy the right reinsurance to make sure reduce our volatility we lowered our risk retention at this prior past renewal May 1 and we also bought a risk aggregate cover that will stop the pain of losses in kind of mid-range loss than if we encourage many of them over 12 month period.
So we’re actually taking the opposite approach of taking more of that risk we’re going to try and for at least the foreseeable future by down a little lower.
Okay.
And on – you gave some color on the operating expense numbers.
Can we get some numbers to that so we can sort of forecast forward on the moving parts? And in terms of how much I guess dollar volume or percentage volume these reinsurance buys were affecting a buy and except they're one-off in nature? Sure George this is Pete.
The FX impact was approximately $6 million an impact on variable compensation was approximately $12 million when you renewal those two and then do the math on the year-to-year or the quarter-to-quarter change it comes about 5%.
Okay.
Thank you very much appreciate it.
Hey Josh before moving on it just thought one of the thing back when the interest rates permitted a number of us including excel worked hard to shift our books to more short tail participation because we were very edgy about casualty rates that could be another reason that you are seeing more spikiness and because more folks are trying to do write short-tail alliance.
The same time in more recent as you know on the last year so we have actually seen some positive rate in the casualty lines making them better performer.
So this is a shift back going on but I just want I’m sure that one of the thing I remembered a lot of the conference calls focused on that back three years or four years ago.
I appreciate all the wisdom.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Kai Pan with Morgan Stanly.
You may ask your question.
Yes good evening.
Thank you for taking my call.
And first question is again it's on the insurance side for the combined ratio.
Hello can you hear me? Hello? Shirley next in the queue Thanks.
The next question comes from Kai Pan with Morgan Stanly.
Since your line is open.
One moment please.
Hello can you hear me? One moment please when we clear this with Shirley.
Our next question comes from Kai Pan.
Your line is open.
One moment please.
Hello.
Go ahead Kai.
This is Kai with Morgan Stanley.
Can you hear me? Yes we can.
Oh thank you so much.
I'm sorry; I was already asking my question.
And so my first question is really on the insurance combined ratio.
And if you look back you're making some – a lot of improvements.
But if you look at the average for the first half that's still the full load – fully loaded combined ratio is still around 95%.
If you want to achieve your 10% ROE I believe you've got to get this segment into the low 90% probably in the 90% to 92%.
I just wonder how could you do that in a now more competitively pricing environment? Could you – I mean Greg talk about the business mix? Could you give a little more context to that?   Sure I mean as we’ve said before there a number of areas that we’ve been working to improve that we think can keep us able to continue to improve the book even as these headwinds increased.
First I would note that well rate has been deteriorating element it doesn’t mean its across the board we’re seeing pockets of solid rate still and as Greg said more than half of our premium and more and even more than half of our businesses are still in a positive rate relative to trend environment.
So that’s good for the – for that right at the same time between remixing into more profitable businesses between the new businesses that are now up and running and contributing our ability to lower some of our operating expenses over time through investments that we’re harvesting.
And we believe we can continue to expand our operating margins and continuing to nor they combine.
And well – when you think about the explanation Greg just gave about the degree of large losses that we experienced well at the same time improving our last ratio by a point nearly eight tenths of a point in the period over the prior period.
I feel really good about that I think that demonstrates for getting the job done and as these large losses normalize it will even more apparent.
Greg?  Mike touched on mix – it’s our relentless search for underwriting actions as well we’ve been delivering on that quarter-after-quarter and there is meaningful impact and therein – we’ve talked about in the past but or pushing the better analytics in particularly around some of the kind edge predictive model.
We’ll also yield further improvements there is all of the things that Mike touched on plus it’s kind of core things you have been talking about for a while.
Okay.
That's great.
Then on the expense side you forecasted this year the operating expense that's going to be mid-single-digits.
I just wonder is that – do you expect that one the dollar amount to flatten out in coming years that your expense ratio could trend lower to leverage on growing top line or these ratio will maintain the same going forward?  This is Mike that really depends on were the top line goes our objective is to improve the ratio overtime to that end we’ve been investing in new business new ways of operating our business more lower cost mainly through harvesting investments and technology but we’re determined to try and keep that ratio either inline or improving and whether the top line goes will guidance us to what our objectives will be I do think though it is wise for us to continue to investment both in the technology that can yield improvements overtime and in the new teams and new businesses that are enabling us to grow and change our mix of business that’s been at the heart of why we’re continuing to see improvements in our core metrics and I think we should continue to try and make such investments.
That’s great.
And just last quick question is do you have any exposure to recent airline losses? And what's your outlook for the pricing in the aviation markets? Sure Kai its Greg.
As you know we don’t speak specifically about individual clients given some of the confidentially issues.
So let me speak about what wee see in the aggregate since the beginning of the year.
So it’s not just for the recent post into the early third quarter activity there’s been five big incidents that we know we think best guess since very early days so this is all uncertain.
But we expect the market loss to be somewhere between $1 billion and $1.5 billion of insured loss.
We looked across all those pieces none of them are going to reach $10 million on an individual basis and we’re going to looking at roughly 1.5% market share of loss which is well below our premium market share.
So we’re pleased with our book has performed very early day basis with some of these losses literally continue to emerge as we speak.
Yes on the reinsurance side March 8 as when we can be specific about loss information on the March 8 loss based on the market reserve of $100 million for the whole and 350 for the liability would expect about $5 million gross and $4 million net for the reinsurance segment.
On the most recent mask a market reserve I don’t believe has been said yet but it’s been talked between 450 and 500 we would expect anywhere between 3.5 million to 5 million XL-Re with the lower end achieved gets the whole loss goes into the aviation war market which is what we would expect.
Kai its Greg again.
As far as with the aviation insurance market will do there’s been some other commentary and clearly I agreed the war the specialist war market will move up dramatically and pricing we would expect to see that by clearly in the more general airline market but this has been our market that’s been very competitive for a while.
So it’s a little too early without any renewals right in front of me to look out to point out which right it’s going to move.
Thank you so much for all the answers.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Randy Binner with FBR.
You may ask your question.
Thank you.
I have a couple of questions as it relates to the life runoff sale and potential impacts to ROE.
So the first is with the proceeds of $570 million I think that's showing up in cash on the balance sheet.
Is the plan to get that deployed near-term into the investment portfolio? Hi Randy it’s Peter.
So the $570 million approximately $300 million will be targeted as we talked about for share repurchases or the reminder of that would enter into the general investment portfolio.
As I mentioned on the last quarter call we would expect that to be basically the same risk and interest rates as we’re seeing on total portfolio with the one caveat that’s since we’ll be back in specific liabilities you could see some more risk weighted assets in that but not enough that would materially move the needle.
Okay.
And then I guess the follow-up then is so we see $175 million in buyback in each of the first two quarters and so the $300 million you mentioned was on top of whatever the plan was before.
So I guess it feels like that run rate needs to go higher to get to that $300 million higher buyback goal for the back half of the year.
I mean are we thinking – am I thinking of that right that that's going to be a number kind of up in the 200's each quarter in the back part of the year?  Right so Randy this is Pete again.
Your observation is perfectly accurate as we talked about on the last quarter we were under 10b5-1 plan for the second quarter of the year and so that was all put emotion before the sale of the life business and so.
To do the extra $300 million we know that we would have to do more than the run rate of 175 per quarter for the rest of the year.
Okay that's perfect.
And the last one then is I'll try in the buffer to the buffer topic but I believe that that was in place to defend against an externality from having the life runoff which is now gone.
So what's the latest there? When would that potentially narrow to further facilitate capital return? This is Mike Randy.
The 300 that is in addition these impart an effort to narrow that as a result of what we viewed as the life component of the risk.
It is certainly not our goal to grow that buffer reduced to that repurchase action is desire to less net.
I don’t think we would very often run the company without any buffer to the buffer.
But I do think that that your observation if you wouldn’t want to grow and that we should take out this related portion is correct.
All right.
Thank you.
Randy this is Pete.
Just one other thing on when you’re looking at the cash.
Don’t forget that we have a maturity of $600 million of debt coming due on September 15 in this year and so.
So that might be the answering the question you’re asking as well.
I understood.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
You may ask your question.
Yes.
Thank you.
You had mentioned that the overhead expenses within both insurance and reinsurance were partly inflated due to compensation issues.
Should we expect that essentially to continue? We look at kind of the Q2 run rate – is that a reasonable number to look at going forward for that line?  Yeah this is Mike that is probably reasonable it really depends and how the rough sheet points plays out we have worked hard to create shareholder alliance compensation systems that reflect our results as we have been delivering that these solid results of those programs we will have as we did in this quarter some increase because our people will share in the benefits our shareholders enjoy from this kind of performance.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question come from Mike Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
You may ask your question.
Inc.</strong>  Yes hi Just had a couple ones.
First Pete can you confirm is it 28.7 – profit associated with the structured product is that in both net and operating or just in net income?   It’s in both operating and net.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Appreciate that.
And then on the professional liability reinsurance business I just noticed that you seem to have ceded a bit more this quarter than a year ago.
I was just trying to understand kind of what gave rise to that? I think you mean the reinsurance seeded out the insurance segment? Inc.</strong> Well I imagine you are paying ceding commissions out of the reinsurance? Oh I'm sorry yes yes.
Yes we saw this is to be insurance the professional insurance yeah.
Yeah Mike its Greg that’s the continuing impact of core share we talked about in the fourth quarter of last year with a large seeding commission relative to our cost.
So we are able to benefit from that over-ride.
It’s just the play through we book quarter-by-quarter we don’t book the whole written premium when we incept that quarter share – on quarter share reinsurance purchase we book it as we write it in each quarter.
So it just the flow out of that previously discussed transaction.
Inc.</strong>  Got it got it.
Thanks.
And then I guess on the underlying in the Reinsurance business at which point should we expect to see or should we expect to see the underlying follow sort of – or be impacted by pricing on a property cat side? Because it looks like premiums there declined a bit.
The commentary about pricing that we've had already.
At what point should we expect to see the underlying loss ratio in that business sort of follow those trends? I mean that will be depend on whether we have cat of answer not but I can tell you based on the price movements across the portfolio over the last 12 months our modeled loss ratio would have gone up about 4 to 4.5 points.
Inc.</strong>  Got it.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Meyer Shields with KBW.
You may ask your question.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Thanks.
One quick numbers question and then the bigger picture.
Were there any impacts associated with the life reinsurance transaction on corporate expenses in the quarter?  Hey Meyer this is Pete now.
There were no impact.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then this is a bigger question probably for Greg; I'm not sure.
We are seeing interest rates sort of drain down pretty steadily over the course of the year.
Why isn't that having more of an impact on overall pricing?  So Meyer just – I would say in some way that is when you look at which lines of business are getting rate over trend it tends to be in our longer tail lines of business I referred to at my opening remarks in North America Texas casualty environmental.
So whether that’s a direct influence of investment low investment yields coming into our lines of business.
I can’t speak for every competitor but certainly we do see that longer tail rates holding up better than shorter tail lines.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
Meyer this is Mike McGavick I would add I think that’s a great question.
We had this kind of smoothly raising rate environment for a fairly brief period of time if I know means under the pricing decreases of the prior handful of years and if you step back and think about the business model the fact that those prices have not remained more resilient it’s somewhat surprising even with the additional capital that’s been focused on narrow places in the reinsurance marketplace.
So we its still relatively logical but we mean to be able to compete effectively in all cycles and this is just another hard one.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
You may ask your question.
LLC.</strong> Hi good evening.
Congratulations on the quarter and thanks for fitting me in.
So I had a couple of sort of big picture questions.
First for Jamie.
So 15% 20% down broadly in property cat.
And you guys mentioned specific pressure on ceding commissions and other reinsurance lines.
I was sort of wondering I've never heard anybody calculate a number but it would be really great to get some form of – or some view of like an all-in measure of changing per pricing per unit of risk for your other reinsurance lines so we could kind of all have a yardstick to know what the pressure is that – it sort of sounds like it's still more focused on property cat.
But as it broadens and figure out how material that really is?  So I would spend a little bit of time on that one Josh but if you are asking what the impact on expected margins are on the proportional business that I mentioned the pressure on commissions that would really depend on what line of business you’re talking about right.
Because even with interest rates low the investment income component of casually proportional business is a lot different than property.
And that we are also largely also depend on how much capital to supporting the various costs of business.
So I would need to spend a little bit of time and may perhaps need some more specific guidance from you on which classes of business.
LLC.</strong> Oh I'm not trying to be difficult.
I guess I just – I'm just assuming you guys must have some internal way of talking about pricing pressure across other lines where there just isn't the same approach.
And you might – you can train us to ask the right questions so we can get the useful answer.
But if you need to reflect on that that's fine.
Well I can tell you that we use pricing methodology on cat and non-cat that is called rate adequacy level.
And the denominator in that calculation is rating agency capital and 100% rate adequacy depends on the line of business but broadly 100% rate adequacy is about 20% on that.
The overall rate adequacy in the portfolio is in the low-90s right now.
LLC.</strong> So if you were to just from a really big picture simplistic way of saying how much deterioration are you seeing in the broader lines outside of property cat? Or is this still really a property cat phenomenon? It’s more on property that the impact on the property tax portfolio is more profound but frankly the rate adequacy level before we saw pricing pressure on property cat was much higher than our non-cat portfolio.
The U.S.
cat portfolio before we saw a lot of pricing pressure was well over 100%.
LLC.</strong> Right okay.
Great.
Well thank you guys for the time.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ian Gutterman with Balyasny.
You may ask your question.
Hi thanks.
Most of my questions have been asked.
I guess I want to maybe re-ask one from earlier just because I'm still a little unclear.
On the trend in ceding Greg in your business I think you said in your comments that the cession rate for this Q would be reflective of the second half? And I guess I just wanted to dive into that a little bit more.
Because when I look at Q4 of last year and Q1 of this year with the professionalized treaty in effect you see that close to 30% of your business and this quarter went up to 40%.
And I guess I'm wondering why it should stay at 40%? Sort of what changed versus last two quarters.
I thought we already had those treaties in place.
Yes So Ian so I quoted the six months number which was 25% to 33% all right there is a lot of individual moving parts in some time in the converted one quarter share and that is a loss.
So in this quarter we drag out we recorded our excess of loss reinsurance as return and seeded return all on the quarter when is incense.
But I think that 30% to 33% rate that you just is the right way to look at it for our run rate.
And in the quarter for last year it was just a professional fees that we incepted to spend some other changes along the way here that make that Q1 Q2 more reflective of the overall run rate.
Got it got it.
Okay.
Because it looked like – just flipping back between this quarter supplement and last quarter is that it wasn't just professional let's say cessions picked up significantly in both casualty and property versus Q1?  That’s correct.
Yes on the property piece that’s more of – some of our ability to reduced volatility on our global business particularly where were at lead and then what shows up as faculty of our capital reinsurance seeded to our common shares.
We decide in some risks we like we like the client we love the engineer and we’re able to provider than the other risk services but we don’t like the net pricing end of the day.
And so we’ve reduced our net share nearby having a bigger growth share being see it out.
Another casualty piece we think we were able to achieve some more efficiency by combining three programs in one and seeding more business into that one single quarter share North America.
Got it.
And within that casualties piece specifically would a run rate for that also be sort of blended in the first two quarters? Or was Q2 more of the run rate now that there is these new – you've combined those treaties? On specifically casualty I want to get back to you because I haven’t done the math on that piece of it.
So let me come back to you.
Fair enough.
And then my last part on that topic is should we expect benefit to the expense ratio going forward? I'm assuming you've probably got positive overrides on the nonprofessional things you reengineered? But as I said in the top right we’ve got that benefit on the acquisition ratio side and it’s the operating expense ratio side.
We’re hopeful to achieving gains there but as Mike noted and I would reiterate our investment in talent and technology has been the meaningful impact of why we turn things around and we’re continue to invest in that so it won’t be straight linear I guess with the over-riders and apply that but we are still continue to invest in our people and our technology.
Fair enough fair enough.
And if I can just ask one quick one on pricing.
Just – is there any – obviously you gave a lot of color on sort of my type of business.
But is there any sort of difference in competitive pressures whether it's large account versus midmarket account? Whether it's London versus Bermuda versus US? Sure absolutely.
So that the one if you just start with this International versus U.S.
international is just more competitive than the U.S.
marketplace.
And certainly as I talked about in the past we see a very big difference between in any given risks that’s syndicated whether the primary layer and then excess structure above it.
We see rate being achieved on the primary layer and then being back on the excess layer.
In terms of and in that excess basis it just a lot of compensation right now with a lot of capital path.
There isn’t anything I see Bermuda London instead of the where your capital source of set that they are equally competitive.
Got it.
I think that’s all I have.
Thanks for the answers.
And our next question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
You can ask your question.
Thank you.
I want to discuss the concept of operating net income.
That's new I believe for XL.
And one thing that I believe you are backing out is the $19 million of investment income to support the life retrocession agreement.
That was about $0.09 a share correct? That be about right it was $19 million so just this to be clarify the $19 million was one month’s work of net investment income for the life funds with hell block of business.
And since the deal closed on May 31 that would be what was separately in there.
Right.
So you are backing that out of operating net income.
Correct? Yes.
Now – so that was one month's worth of investment income.
That would be expected to persist right? Yes absolutely.
Okay.
So it's in net income.
It's a recurring net investment income item but you are backing it out of operating? Do I have that right? It’s being backed out through AOCI so it’s yes it’s out of operating income right because it is no longer part of the ongoing economics to excel.
Right so its in the top line but it get taken out but that derivative the promise I talked about that last time it’s the derivative is in a different place and geographies and things like unrealized game are loss.
Okay.
So just from a modeling standpoint that's helpful.
So can you talk about the recurring investment income from the P&amp;C business? Was there anything else in there that was unusual or one-time? Or should we use that – I believe it was $213 million as a run rate? Yes I think Jay the consistent what I just said I would probably referred you to that $214 million that you mention that and this is in the schedule 11 that I mentioned earlier and then was – and there would be two quarters growth of the net investment income on the life funds with all the assets.
So for and got a little careful broad numbers like this but the $214 million the takeaway two months work at the 19 so takeaway 38 that sort of from reward stroke will give some reasonable run rate now you need to change that for maturities coming out of the portfolio what I talked about the $3.1 billion coming out over the next year.
Then really wasn’t anything material in this quarter that would have move that net investment income versus an expected one now.
Okay.
So the starting point is essentially $176 million and there is the benefit of new cash flow but the offsetting – partially offsetting impact of reinvesting existing casual lower rates? Exactly.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Small with JPMorgan.
You may ask your question.
Yes.
Thanks for taking the question.
I have a question on the expense ratio.
You mentioned earlier that you continue – you plan to continue investing.
And I guess I'm just trying to figure out how much more investing do you have? And when do you think we should start to see the positive operating leverage coming out of the expense ratio? And I guess at this point what are you still investing in? Is it more talent? Is it technology? Because I would have thought by this point the level of investment spending might be coming down.
Thanks.
Hey David it’s Pete.
So let’s split it most of the new what we call it investment dollars or the new spend is on the – I am trying to remix the book of business.
So it is mostly on the people side and entirely on the underwriting side of the business.
The investments that we made in technology those are not going up.
As a matter of fact they’re flat but over the next couple of years we would expect that those would start to go down a little bit so that we talk the investments and the reason why the underlying is even mid single digit is because we are still investing in the business.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Brian Meredith.
You may ask your question.
Yes thanks.
So Mike this one's for you.
You talk about uses of excess capital as far as growing your business I guess organically and through share buyback.
Where does M&amp;A fit into that particularly given that we are heading into this softening market? And I guess if you're going to do any M&amp;A you probably want to do it fairly soon? I’ve always discussed the how we approach capital management as the several part exercise and the first thing we do of course we look to what we are required the hold by meeting our rating agency and increasingly our regulatory requirements.
Then we talk about a buffer that’s appropriate to the risk profile the firm the risk profile of firm have been declining.
So I think our effective management and as a result we have been talking about decreasing the buffer to some degree but we then say if there money is in excess of that.
First could we put it to work in a way that would improve our shareholders position that’s the first thing we think about that includes the opportunities for growth as we’ve been talking about where we can find profitable opportunities to which to grow the business.
And that would include examination of opportunities to buy as well as our daily effort to add teams into increase the underwriting potential to firm.
So we consider that along the journey and when we are done with that if we can put it into work in a way that we think is better for the shareholders we attempt to return into the shareholders that’s how we think about the process.
So we’ve always said that identifying opportunities to create a better firm is one of our first thought process is after we determined how much capital is required for the firm.
And we continue to do so as you know in the six now plus years but this management team has been assembled we’ve only made one very small acquisition in the reinsurance the ag space but that doesn’t mean we haven’t continue to examine opportunities and if ever see anything where we think it will really improve the firm we would act on that.
Great thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
At this time I’ll turn the call back over to the speakers for closing remarks.
This is Mike I just want to thank everybody for the time and attention.
I know there is a number of companies that are come up tonight and you have very busy – be very busy long into the evening.
So we appreciate there with spend sometime with us.
I reiterate where I started we’re very pleased with the way the year as started out.
We feel like the things we’ve been doing to improving the book are showing themselves and in particularly in the period where we’ve had unusual number of large losses to still produce the kind of quality of result we did for the first half of the year it’s truly heartening.
And I think it reflects on the efforts we’ve made de-risk the book and to be better able to observe our volatility.
We don’t think the job is done well we think we can continue to build the better firm and we are driven produced to everyday.
Thank you for your attention.
I hope you have a good evening.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group Plc Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please be advised that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley.
Welcome to XL Group's third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We posted to our website several documents including our press release and quarterly financial supplement.
And first we apologize for the technical glitch that resulted in our release coming out later than usual and we will work to avoid that recurring.
Now on our call tonight you're going to hear from Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who’ll offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer who'll review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Before they begin I'd like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only for the date on which they're made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
And with that I'll turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening and thank you for joining out call.
Tonight we are pleased to discuss the third quarter in which we produced solid across the board results and continued a strong year for XL.
Total P&amp;C underwriting profit for the quarter was $144 million $67 million greater than the prior year quarter.
This was driven by better year-over-year P&amp;C combined ratio of 90.1% and a loss ratio of 59.1% which is really six points better than the third quarter of 2013.
From a year-to-date view the majority of our core metrics including gross written premium our calendar combined ratio and loss ratio are also all better than the same period a year ago.
While we like the majority of the industry benefited from a relatively quiet CAT quarter the primary driver of these results were the continuing improvement of our businesses and the cementing of our re-underwriting and remixing actions.
For example our Insurance segment produced $54 million in underwriting profit in the quarter and an accident ex-CAT combined ratio of 94.8% which is $42 million and three points better respectively than the prior year quarter.
Greg will get further into the reinsurance results but as our work continues I’ll say that we are pleased with the progress across the segment.
Our business leaders are taking the necessary action to achieve their targets and to fight in a tough rate environment.
Even when that retranslates into maintaining discipline on pricing they are not chasing the markets down in search of top-line.
Reinsurance contributed another strong quarter with an underwriting profit of $90 million and a combined ratio of 79.2%.
These results were $25 million and six points better than the prior year quarter on lower gross written premium which goes to show the quality of our reinsurance book and the talent of our underwriters.
Jamie will have more on this segment and the reinsurance market but I don’t think I’ll be skewing this under or surprising you when I say that the tough conversations on price terms and conditions in the reinsurance markets continue.
But here too we like our disciplined approach in when it means opting not to renew a line or being unwilling to follow terms refined unacceptable for the market and for our business.
And while we see the market remaining competitive for the foreseeable future we are confident in our unique ways to continue our improvement and find our advantage.
As we’ve discussed rate is only one lever we can pull our underwriting actions are a constant for us and we continue to examine and reexamine our progress even when we like we are seeing there is more we can do same with remixing this too is a work in progress.
And in this next phase of competition we see expense management and the ability to gain leverage from the prior strategic investments we’ve made as being increasingly important.
Back to reinsurance for just a moment.
We made a recent announcement of course that Jamie Veghte will be retiring at the end of this year.
This will make this the last earnings call in which he will participate.
Now there has been a lot said about Jamie and the great results that he has produced over time and many of the people on this call have sent their kind regards which all I know are appreciated.
But I just want to say the obvious.
There is no one who touch his excel whether a client or colleague a shareholder or just a friend of the company that doesn’t know how important Jamie has been to all of us and each of us on this call and certainly knew personally are going to deeply miss working with Jamie.
The good news is we made that announcement in order to make sure that Jamie got a good farewell circuit in this tough renewal season.
I think it’s been crucial to our team that we have a nice stable reinsurance renewal season and then Jamie has his plan will leave his direct employment role at the end of the year.
But I want to just extend our heartfelt thanks and congratulations to Jamie for the extraordinary run he has with us at XL and all he does as a friend.
With that Pete? Thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating income for the third quarter was $187 million or $0.70 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to $155 million in 2013 or $0.53 per share.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was $72 million or $0.27 per share on a fully diluted basis.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders excluding the impact of life purchase arrangement was $223 million for the quarter or $0.83 per share on a fully diluted basis.
I am going to come back to a discussion about the life transactions’ impact on net income at the end of my remarks because while we have explained this in theory before it is now present in the full quarter’s numbers for the first time and I want to make sure that everything is clear.
But first to our financial results.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio of 90.1% for the quarter was an improvement of 4.9 points versus the same quarter last year while our accident year combined ratio was 92.5% better by 7.6 points.
This improvement in our accident year combined ratio was driven by improvements in both our catastrophe loss experience and our underlying ex-catastrophe experience in both insurance and reinsurance including a reinstatement adjustment in reinsurance.
This adjustment relates to reinstatement premiums associated with prior year non-catastrophe case reserves and our international reinsurance business that have not yet been recorded.
The net of tax impact of the adjustment was approximately $20 million the majority of which relates to cash reserves from previous years.
This represents approximately three points of the reinsurance loss ratio and one point for our overall loss ratio.
As we’ve outlined on previous calls the third quarter is what we refer to as an actual versus expected quarter for our entire insurance segment in our US reinsurance business.
Prior year reserve development in the quarter was a net favorable $35 million or 2.4 loss ratio points compared to $79 million or 5.1 loss ratio points for the same quarter in 2013.
This reflects favorable development of $20 million and $15 million in the insurance and reinsurance segments.
Jamie will discuss prior year development for reinsurance in a few minutes.
As we’ve indicated in the past we continue to expect that overall operating expense levels unadjusted for foreign exchange and performance-based compensation for 2014 will be modestly higher than 2013 at mid single-digit growth levels.
Excluding the negative impact of these two items on the quarter our operating expenses grew by approximately 4% in the quarter compared to last year.
We continue to be highly focused on balancing cost efficiency with continued investments in both infrastructure and insurance underwriting teams.
Our increased use of reinsurance cede will continue to impact the reported operating expense ratio as ceding commissions which cover all expenses are reported on the acquisition expense line.
Turning to the XL investment portfolio and similar to our second quarter focusing only on the assets which XL does retain the economics the investment portfolio returned 0.5% for the quarter and 4.3% year-to-date.
Unrealized net gains in the retained portfolio were $1.03 billion at the end of the third quarter.
The duration of our fixed income portfolio increased by 0.2 years to 3.8 years which still remains short duration relative to our benchmark.
At $170 million net investment income on the portfolio excluding the life funds withheld assets was $68 million below the same quarter last year primarily due to the life transaction which contributed $56 million of this reduction.
The gross book yield of the portfolio at the end of September was 2.7%.
We still have a gap between the yields on maturing assets and where we are reinvesting which will keep downward pressure on net investment income.
We estimate that approximately $3 billion of assets with an average gross book yield of 2.9% will mature and pay down over the next 12 months compared to the average new money rate in Q3 on the portfolio of 1.9%.
Our investment and operating affiliates continue to produce strong results for the XL portfolio.
Net income from investment affiliates in was $25 million up $20 million from the prior year quarter with solid performance across the majority of our strategies particularly private investments.
We also had good earnings from our investment manager affiliates of $16 million.
Net realized gains were $10 million in the quarter driven primarily by sales of equities.
This compares to net realized losses of $2 million in third quarter of 2013.
When combined with the negative movement in unrealized gains and losses of $119 million and – gains of $5 million we ended the quarter with a negative mark-to-market of $104 million on our portfolio excluding the life funds withheld assets.
On a tax related note you may have heard that the Irish government announced to intend to abolish the so-called double Irish tax strategy by treating companies incorporated in Ireland as tax resident of Ireland.
This change if it goes through will have no impact on XL because all of our companies incorporate in Ireland are already Irish tax residents.
And a positive side-effect of this review is that the Irish government also announced it is fully committed to its current 12.5% corporate tax rate.
With respect to capital management during the quarter we repaid at maturity our $600 million 5.25% senior notes which you will recall we have pre-funded with five year and third year debt issued in November of 2013.
We continue to execute on our share buyback program at the higher level noted during our core following the life transaction.
During the third quarter we purchased 8.2 million shares for $275 million at an average price of $33.35 per share for a total $625 million year-to-date.
That leaves $443 million available for purchase under our previously announced share buyback program.
We continue to view these buybacks as an efficient capital management too.
Now back to the life purchase session discussion.
As we discussed in our April and July calls regarding the life reinsurance transaction we completed in May our net income numbers will be impacted by the mark-to-market movement of the derivatives that transfers the economics of the assets backing that transaction.
This quarter is a good illustration of how we previously indicated accounting implications would occur so let me walk you through what is happening.
First please remember that the vast majority of our life funds withheld assets are invested in European assets and while our US interest rates generally increase during the third quarter European interest rates generally declined resulting an unrealized gains arising on that portion of the portfolio.
The increase in unrealized gains resulted in a derivative loss that lowered our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders but that derivative movement is offset by investment income realized gains and losses and the change in the unrealized position of our portfolio and does impact our net book value operating income or comprehensive income.
We show that relationship in the summary consolidated financial data included with the press release.
And I’ll now turn it over to Greg to discuss our insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete and good evening.
Today I'll cover the results for the segment provide insight on our continued progress and finish with the remarks on current market conditions.
Starting with the results the third quarter marked our seventh consecutive quarter of profitability with the segment producing a calendar year combined ratio of 94.7% compared to 98.8% in the same quarter last year.
This year-over-year improvement was driven primarily by the accident quarter ex CAT loss ratio of 64% which was four points better than prior year.
And the same loss ratio improved by 1.5 points on a year-to-date basis.
We believe our continued improvement in performance is evident the fact that we have once again been able to absorb medium and large loss activity in the quarter with a lower impact in our results relative to prior year.
Remainder of the calendar year improvement results from a 1.7 point increase in favorable prior year development driven by releases in short-term lines and was partially offset by CAT losses that were 0.4 worse than the prior year quarter.
The underwriting expense ratio is 30.9% in the third quarter reflecting a deterioration of 1.1 points from the third quarter last year mainly due to continued investment in certain businesses.
As mentioned previously the actions we have taken to shift towards quota share in a number of our businesses has restored the comparison of our acquisition and expense ratio to prior year.
These quota shares have increased in commission income improving our acquisition ratio by three points would have lowered net earned premiums partly contributing to a 4.1 point higher operating expense ratio.
It is worth noting that for the three main businesses where we increased our quota share usage we have seen an improvement of over 4% in our underwriting expense ratio.
Overall we continue to focus on improving operating leverage and actions are underway to ensure the total underwriting expense ratio reflects this ongoing improvement.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by $57 million or 4.5% in the quarter when adjusted for foreign exchange movement.
North America property and casualty premiums grew by 13% with construction and excess casualty contributing the largest growth.
Our specialty group was up over 11% reflecting strong growth from new teams in both our marine and crisis management businesses.
Professional lines were flat for the quarter with growth in our cyber and design books offset by the timing of a large renewal in our international financial lines book.
And our international P&amp;C business was down almost 9% resulting from underwriting changes due to underperformance in our energy and Lloyd's middle market books.
While markets are increasingly competitive for many of our businesses we continue to see increased submission for and a higher default ratio as we continue to have positive momentum in the large commercial marketplace.
Shifting to our ongoing progress using results for the trailing 12 months we experienced a 1.3 point improvement in our accident year ex CAT loss ratio relative to the prior 12 months period despite experiencing a higher level of large losses in the more recent 12 months.
This improvement is a result of our focus on an improved mix of business and the underwriting actions that we have taken.
Our mix of business continues to improve as we shift our portfolio to more profitable lines.
On a year-to-date basis nearly 60% of our gross premium is better than or within 5% of our target combined ratio.
And our underwriting actions continue to contribute as we have delivered roughly two loss ratio points of improvement over the past two years and have identified additional actions for the fourth quarter and into 2015.
And our talent continues to get stronger as well.
This quarter we appointed Dave Schmitz to lead our Global Property Risk Engineering team.
We added Michael LaRocca as its Chief Underwriting Officer in its North America Property business and Anthony Vidovich as General Counsel for our Claims operation.
In addition to these new appointments we also strengthened our crisis management team in Asia increased our financial lines and surety capabilities in Latin America and expanded our trade receivable insurance team with appointments in London Baltimore and New York.
For the quarter we increased our underwriting force by another 17 positions as we continue to invest in our businesses.
Turning to market conditions we saw a continued slowing in rate across more lines of business as the overall rate increase for the segment was flat in the quarter and positive by 1% on a year-to-date basis.
That said two-thirds of our businesses are still showing positive rate for the year.
In the quarter our international property and casualty and global professional businesses achieved rate in the 1% range adversely impacted by property and high excess D&amp;O business respectively.
Our North American businesses were flat in the third quarter driven by a 4% reduction in property offset by a 7% increase in our environmental business.
And our specialty business continues to be most severely impacted with an overall rate decrease of 2.5 points largely reflecting a competitive aviation marketplace.
As fourth quarter renewals begin our aviation business is now driving positive rate movement due to recent market loss activity.
Finally while we once again benefited from a relatively quiet catastrophe quarter we are pleased with the continued improvements we see in our accident year results excluding CAT.
But we are not satisfied.
There is still room for further improvement and we remain confident with our ongoing growth in higher margin businesses and our continuous underwriting actions across all businesses will allow us to achieve our profitability targets.
On a personal note I am honored to turn the call over one last time to my friend and colleague of 25 years.
Jamie? Thanks Greg and good evening.
The reinsurance segment had an excellent quarter of underwriting results with a combined ratio of 79.2% and a resulting underwriting profit of $90 million.
This compares to a combined ratio of 85.4% in the third quarter of 2013.
Excluding the impact of prior year releases our combined ratio in the quarter was 82.7%.
This result compares favorably with the 102.4% achieved in Q3 of 2013 a quarter that was significantly impacted by catastrophe activity most notably the German hailstorms that contributed $43 million of third quarter losses last year.
With respect to the reserve releases you will note the $15 million derived in this quarter was substantially below what we enjoyed in the third quarter of 2013.
We had the development of a large marine energy claim YME Energy which contributed $11 million.
This compares to a favorable development of $12 million on cost to Concordia reflected in Q3 last year due to the trigger of retrocessional recovery.
In addition in 2013 we had reserve reductions on prior year CAT losses of $25 million a full $17 million larger than the release from this source in the third quarter of this year.
Broadly we remain very comfortable with our reserve position and due to the reduction in our release that’s principally a series of one-offs.
Turning to top-line.
Gross written premiums in the quarter were $276 million a 21% reduction from the $350 million written in the third quarter of 2013.
The main drivers of this reduction were from our North American business unit there we had $44 million of share reductions and cancellations largely in casualty treaty as well as $24 million of timing differences and premium adjustments.
Our international operations included reductions of $25 million primarily from our Latin American operations due to the cancellations and reduced shares.
This was largely offset by the impact of premium adjustments including an additional reinstatement premiums from prior year non-catastrophe losses.
Our Bermuda business unit was generally in line with last year.
On a year-to-date basis the segment has generated a combined ratio of 77.1% which compares favorably to the 80.1% achieved in 2013.
Excluding the impact of prior year releases our combined ratio was 84.3% which compares favorably to the 92.9% generated a year ago with the improvement driven by a lower level of catastrophe activity this year.
With respect to top-line our year-to-date gross written premium is $1.6 billion 5.9% below 2000 year-to-date.
For the full year our Bermuda operation was up 4% with the major reductions coming from North America and international operations which were driven by competitive market conditions cancellations share reductions and client retention.
Things we have discussed regularly over the course of the last few years.
Operationally we have pointed continued progress with Chris McKeown and his team at New Ocean Capital Management.
Chris continues to build out his infrastructure with the hiring of a Chief Operating Officer this quarter and he is attracting third-party capital including the signing of a distribution agreement with a global financial institution.
Finally a brief word on market conditions.
Other than the mid-year CAT renewals which were clearly very competitive the third quarter is fairly quiet from a renewal perspective.
I commented at length in our second quarter call on the CAT market so I’d like to look towards the year end renewals.
As Mike mentioned I am nearing the end of my term at XL but look forward to one last renewal season.
I’ve always viewed predicting year end trading condition as a bit of a full variant.
This is a heavily syndicated market and forecasting its behavior with precision is extremely challenging.
Nevertheless I look forward to this renewal for two reasons.
First the emphasis of the recent Monte Carlo and Baden Conferences pointed toward a reasonably orderly renewal season would perhaps left pressure on rates than we’ve seen over the recent renewals.
A major theme was the desire of many clients to consolidate their reinsurance pattern over the tighter group of major trading partners.
Given our global footprint multi-line capabilities and long-term relationships we are ideally situated for such an environment.
In addition I have supreme confidence in our underwriting team’s ability to navigate its way through the harshest of trading conditions.
Their track record over a long period of time is proof of this and I am really looking forward to working closely with them at this yearend.
I have no doubt they will perform superbly whatever trading conditions we face.
With that I’ll turn it to David for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Jamie and Shirley can you please open the line for questions?  Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Kai pan with Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley.
You may ask your question.
Thank you and good evening.
First question regarding to the insurance underwriting the 300 basis point improvements year-over-year and how much of that is sort of contributable to lower level of large non-CAT losses which was present in the prior quarter? And also going forward if the current pricing environment persists or even getting more competitive what’s your confidence of – or to show continued improvements in the insurance segment? Sure thanks Kai.
It’s Greg.
On the first part and if we look at the short tail non-CAT large losses they were roughly the same dollar amount one loss for about just over $20 million in each of the third quarter of last year and the third quarter of this year.
Moreover we look at losses we tranche them up in the affidavit levels.
So we use our short tail large being $10 million or greater.
As I said in my remarks we had some medium as well where we are little bit heavier this quarter than last quarter but in the aggregate the non-CAT losses quarter-over-quarter are roughly the same.
So the improvement is really coming from the other views of the book and better profitability embedded across the remainder of the portfolio.
In terms of your second question the current pricing environment no doubt about it we’ve talked about long about the four levers we pull on underwriting actions rate mix of business reinsurance efficiency and so no doubt.
The rate is becoming a little more difficult.
It’s not a tailwind or at back as I noted there is still little bit of positive left in the book but on an aggregate basis but not much and I just as an aside observed what I observed in the past which is for short tail lines we are seeing rates go down a little more longer tail lines rates are going up slightly.
Whenever you are in excess market so you have a layered syndication excess price is going down and primary pricing is going up.
So those dynamics remain the same.
We still have those levers and we are working them on.
I noted that the underwriting actions we have a point each year over the last three years in the hard work of getting better of how we underwrite each of our portfolios.
We are mixing our business better and better each time.
We are investing in people to grow those higher margin businesses as fast as we prudently can.
So I am still confident we are on the right path.
No doubt about the rate as that the headwind will make the timing of that a little bit longer than we would have hoped originally.
Thanks for that.
Then the second question on expense ratio it looks like you keep building the teams here adding some team positions and at the same time the market environment is becoming more competitive.
I just wonder what the rational in this environment to try to grow your team and what’s the outlook for the expense ratio going forward? Hi Kai this is Mike.
I’ll start off and Pete and Greg may want to throw in.
The bottom-line is there are still places in our product suite where we are very pleased with our profitability and want to take more of it into the book.
That’s a key part to the remixing in which we are engaged and that is achieved by adding people and teams across key positions around the world.
Greg mentioned specifically for example expanding our presence in crisis management in Asia during the course of the quarter or expanding our financial lines and surety operations than Latin America.
Those are both very positive businesses for us and any expense we are undertaking there should be repaid very handsomely very quickly in terms of the improvement in profitability through the remixing of the book.
So I would continue to make those kinds of investments all the time.
You heard Pete say in his commentary that expenses on quarter-over-quarter were up 4%.
That’s actually on the lower end of the range we’ve been forecasting for the year and that’s because we’ve already taken note of the fact that things are getting more difficult out there and are already beginning where we are not gaining profitable business as Greg has described to pool in some of our activity.
So we are already at it we are not saying that’s a coming thing.
We are already managing to the more difficult environment or experiencing.
And finally of course we are coming to budget season right now and I am quite sure it won’t come as a surprise to my colleagues who are listening.
We have sent out a message as people are working through their budgeting pricing that this is the time in the market we are going to be extraordinarily conscious of every penny we spend.
And we are going to have to start harvesting some of the investments we have made to deliver a more efficient platform.
Just given where these markets are going that’s what we are going to have to do.
I know that’s kind of straight out of the soft cycle playbook but we don’t quite think of it that way.
This could be forever we don’t know.
We have to be prepared to continue to drive toward the goals we’ve set for ourselves and the expense lever becomes more important and frankly so does remixing as we get into this more difficult pricing environment.
So I am very pleased with the approach of the team the attitude of the team the things we are already starting to do and what I believe we can do into the future.
Thanks so much for all the answers.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
You may ask your question.
Thanks.
Just one question I guess Jamie in the reinsurance segment can you talk a little bit more of the year-over-year on the underlying whatever it’s the severe loss math or something in that region just trying to figure out if you want to adjust for differences year-over-year or normalize – what was the margin trend in that book? Thanks.
Well I am assuming you mean normalized by excluding prior year releases and CAT losses… Yes so that was five yes? The improvement went from 55.8 to 48.9.
The major components of it were the reinstatement premium adjustments that Pete alluded in his opening remarks about three points lower level of non-CAT large losses about 0.5 and then better attrition loss ratio in our property proportional and risk XL book.
Got it.
Okay and that makes out the difference.
Okay thank you.
And then would it be possible maybe to talk through Greg maybe a little bit more on the impact of the shift towards pro rata on the expense ratio in the insurance segment? Just trying to make sure something we got some headcount increases but also this dynamic.
Just trying to understand how we should be thinking about that and if the current mix of business is the right baseline to start from? Thanks.
Sure the pro rata treaties are predominantly in our professional and casualty protections.
We are still seeing some of the change we have made during the course of this year play through.
So there could be a little more shift but the overall session ratio that we’ve been observing should – you’ve been observing the last couple of quarters should hold steady for the insurance segment.
At the moment it’s always – you are always evaluating this and using all the levers you have to pull to see if you can improve your book either on the frontline on the gross basis on whether you can do that on a net basis as well.
At the moment I don’t foresee anything that major shift coming.
We’ve been hard at this work to get more efficient on reinsurance over the last 12 18 months.
So we will see the rest of that play through.
That helps a little bit where it is professional and casualty the biggest areas and then we are getting out of rate of session that we should see hold pretty steady.
Got it.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
You may ask you question.
Good afternoon and Jamie congratulations on the announcement of your retirement.
Thank you Jay.
The thing I just want to – not for much longer can you give us a perspective on whether that year-to-date premium volume slight decline is a better indicator what you view as the run rate of growth in the reinsurance business? Yes I think so.
That’s a very good point.
As I’ve said to you all over the years reinsurance by nature is a lumpy activity and that we are not in a daily trading business.
We have three or four very large renewal days each year and so you can show anomalies in quarter-to-quarter increases or drops in your top-line.
So I think you are absolutely correct to look on an year-to-date basis would suggest – I think the 5.6% decline year-on-year and I think that’s reflective of both the market conditions that Mike referenced and our underwriting philosophy.
And then separately for Greg the underlying insurance segment combined ratio has been oscillating right around that mid 90% 95% range year-to-date.
What’s your level of confidence that that could continue to improve over the next year or so? Yes as I said earlier Jay I am confident we can continue to improve that number.
We talked earlier about the rate being not to help it had been being a bit of a neutral.
I think I said headwind it’s actually still slightly positive but not keeping up with trend.
We still got those other activities that we can pull on.
The underwriting actions the mix of the portfolio the analytics of bringing the bear and so we have a lot of other areas to work at.
I think if we look at the progression we’ve been on from a 104 in 2011 to 98.5 in 2012.
The 96.7 in 2013 and to 94.8 in nine months this year.
Now we are on the right path it’s just going to probably be a little slower as we go here both because of where the market is and it always the last few yards of a hardest ones to dig out so.
It’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
You may ask you question.
Hi good evening.
Thank you thanks for taking the call.
So Greg congratulations on a good quarter.
Actually something you said in your prepared remarks I wonder maybe I either missed out or just was a little bit surprised.
So maybe if you could clarify a bit something you said was something on the lines of – I think 60% of your premium is better or worse than – is better I guess than 5% below target or above.
But I think that would imply something like 40% of your businesses is more than 5% worse than its target.
And I just thought maybe you could if that is right sort of walk us through what challenges – what businesses those are what challenges those businesses are still facing and what the plans are? Or if I am wrong maybe you can set me straight thank you.
Sure Josh no you heard right Josh.
We have a process as you look from the top down and how much capital you allocate to each business each one is different target combined ratio and indeed 60% of our book on a premium basis is in that category of either better than what we are targeting as our combine ratio to make our return or within five combined ratio points of that target.
So either they are close.
The remaining 40% I am not going to drill every business.
We did that a few years ago.
You are always going to have a certain percent of the book in that category.
Somewhere in that 10% to 20% range.
You are not ever going to go through any period up or down in the cycle to not going to have something struggling.
But we are working through if I think of one that we talked about during the call our marine book we brought in Lea Merrick about 18 months ago and embarked on a strategy to improve the performance of that book from where it’s been.
We’ve identified cargo as an area where we struggle being too European-centric we are pulling back the right things there.
We’ve added new teams hence this ties this investment conversation we’ve been having why we believe to get it more global book and as those teams get up and running and that business comes online we should be in a better performing basis.
So there is not a whole business in any of that 40%.
It’s now chunks of certain portfolios that we manage that are in that grouping.
Also the last piece I’d add is all the business that we are building out crisis management political risk business surety.
in marine all of those are in growth mode and so they are in their first three years so by definition all four of those are going to be in that bucket of not yet performing on target.
Well that’s interesting.
So that’s not just sort of I mean I don’t want to use the word challenge businesses but I mean so it’s not just underperforming businesses some of them are just immature.
That’s absolutely right.
Is that your conclusion? And so overall over the next couple of years you guys have looked for that number presumably to decline now and that drags most of your improvement? Absolutely.
Okay.
Cool if I can just think one more and Mike really big picture.
You guys let a news around sort of the alternative capital space here.
You mentioned the soft market playbook somebody else talked about New Ocean or Jamie did I think I apologize.
The question is when you think about the various approaches to using alternative capital whether it’s figuring out and people to partner with sort of create captive reinsurers and things like that or just sort of being a more aggressive buyer of reinsurance in the open market how are you guys thinking about the relative pros and cons and sort of the different approaches that you can see people all across the board is starting to take? Thank you.
Yes thanks for the question.
Couple of things.
Number one I’ve been of the view for sometime and I know there are other sorts this is well uncomfortable this is positive in fact very positive.
And in putting in simple simple term I always want to be in a space that is more attractive to capital them less and certainly seeing these new forms of capital coming into our sector while have short-term difficulties in the long run this is good news and this provides us more capital to solve more of the world’s problems and that’s our job.
So I really like it.
Exactly how to apply it is the great question it comes in a number of ways one is you notice we are ceding more than we were in the past.
We are doing it not only because of what’s going on in the reinsurance marketplace and because of what alternative capital is already doing in that marketplace but also because we have re-thought how to create greater stability in terms of our earnings all the time.
So we have been doing I think a better job and a more strategic job of buying reinsurance that’s partly influenced by what’s going on in the pricing environment partly influenced what’s going on in search of capital.
So that is one place where we are conscious.
The second thing that we consider all the time is whether or not in every case it has to be XL’s capital that goes to the client’s solution.
We haven’t done anything dramatic in this space but we spend a lot of time thinking about it because in the end if our underwriting powers can determine a solution for a client that is made better by using capital other than our own we should do it.
We have to be open to that because ultimately if you are solving the clients’ problem that’s where we are in business and that’s where we are well paid for our activities.
So we are looking at a variety of models for how to achieve that.
One we’ve already shown the market through New Ocean.
But I can assure you there has been a long range of people coming by with ideas we have had a few that originated here as well and as things evolve of course we will announce them.
I do want to note though there has been one change in how that market is behaving that I think is very important.
And I think this speaks to the importance and centrality of underwriting in what will come.
When this started out this was all about those who gather assets and they were calling all the shots.
They were designing basically fit for purpose things for themselves and not really for solving clients’ problems so much.
My view is different.
As we’ve seen conversations evolve especially last month six months or so the people coming to us are no longer saying hey we’ve got a big bunch of assets and we are good at this.
You just go off and don’t lose too much money on that underwriting stuff and we’ll make a bunch of money which was kind of how the first conversations went.
To where now we are realizing we have to be able to gather together pools of risk in an effective way and then match that to a solid asset gathering strategy.
That’s a more balanced partnership a more reasonable and sustainable way to solve clients’ problems and we happen to be pretty good around here at creating profitable portfolios of the kinds of risks with characteristics that match well for the goals and the characteristics of some of these asset managers.
So I am very optimistic that by being thoughtful about how to go forward and being the kind of underwriter we are that the world is coming that one that plays right into the hands of a global carrier with a complex risk profile and the selfless attitude about how do cite client problems and not just how to throw their own balance sheet around.
So I like the world that’s coming and I think we are poised for.
But that’s kind of how I see that all playing out.
It’s going to show up in lots of ways across the entire place and every one of us has to be open to and thoughtful about how we can creative and enable that capital to come in and solve client problems.
One last thought sorry.
And we shouldn’t just focus on the problems we are solving today.
Every time there is a difference between economic loss and insured loss we should track subtract a little b it for retention to make sure the risks are aligned and then we can say the rest of it is a problem insurance could be solving why aren’t we.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
You may ask you question.
Hi good evening.
So the improvement in the primary insurance combined ratio just curious how much more is left in terms of the re-underwriting of the business because you’ve been at it for a while and where would you say you are in the process of remixing the business right now? So Vinay on the first part the underwriting actions is a continuous and never ending process.
You are always working through your book to sort through and find how you can improve it and underwrite it better.
That’s what I call of additional underwriting site so you are guiding the book by industry by geography whether it’s in the actuarial pricing side or whether it’s in the predictive.
We are bringing all three to bear on that problem to get better and better.
We are – on the second part where are we in that remixing we are more – so we are there more than further close to where we want to be but the new business that’s coming online still have a long way to come up to get up on plan there.
Some of them are already in this – they are six months one year 18 months period.
So really it takes three years for those books to get up and going and so I’d say in the activities of the core book were there but in those particularly those new businesses we believe are really going to have a lot of lift we’ve got more runway to go.
Okay that’s helpful.
And on the reinsurance side I mean we’ve seen margins there hold up pretty well relative to last year are we seeing prices sort of coming down.
Would remixing of that book so for example I think this quarter some casualty quota share treaties were not renewed.
So do you think that the remixing of portfolio will have to maintain margins near term next year? Vinay we have always been of the view that remixing the portfolio based on market conditions is a core part of our strategy and competency.
I would point out that property CAT in 2005 was about 11% of our global portfolio today it’s about 30% that’s because we like the CAT business.
We made a lot of money out of it but we’ve seen tricking margins in other parts of our portfolio.
So we go forward with the same attitude.
We are completely unafraid to shift the mix of business based on the margins out there.
Vinay – kind of touching into all of this conversation I think it’s important to remember that while we have been at it as we said a while now all of the books here in – when we look at insurance we are talking about 22 different specific books and activity with different leaders.
All of them got to their attention whether the underwriting is at a different point in time it didn’t all happen at the same time.
For some of them that are on the second route does have improvements.
For some of them that are still in the first year of experiencing improvements my point is that even those initial underwriting reactions or re-underwriting actions are not completely exhausted in terms of being run through the book.
At the same time we are extremely cautious of the pace at which we take credit for them which I assure you is the right way to do it as a prudent reserve but I can also tell you that our underwriters often throw fits about the gap between their action and its recognition.
So when you ask have you seen all the benefit from what we’ve been up to the answer my book is not even close and remixing is a constant.
I think Jamie said it well and it’s something we are not getting better out in reinsurance not just in insurance – not just reinsurance which is there has to be a core competency.
We have to be constantly having the capital flow to where the opportunities are and when we can get into the businesses that have more flexible designs of operations so that we don’t have as much fixed cost to drag which is what you are doing when you are growing out specialty lines.
I really think you are seeing some great benefit.
I just want to kind of pound on it again because this has been a theme throughout the line and well we are great to see the progress but are you going to stall out here? And our answer is based on everything we are up to and what we are seeing no.
And I would just – just like what’s happened this year two of our three quarters are under 95.
I got to go back a long ways and certainly a long ways back before me to get to where those were the kinds of numbers we were regularly delivering and delivering with a fair amount of consistency.
So I am really pleased with where we are.
Sure that’s helpful and so just to follow-up on that the expense ratio sort of coming down with the growth in the top-line with one of the levers I thought that was supposed to have the combined ratio.
So with growth slowing down and expenses growing at north of 9% just wanted to follow\-up.
I mean I think you said that expenses are going to be more important.
How should we look at sort of the disconnect between right now at least the top-line versus the expenses? Well first-line expenses remember you got to correct for FX and for the comp volatility which tracks the improvement in results.
So when you normalize for that as I observed earlier as Pete emphasized in his remarks you are talking about 4% increase quarter-over-quarter.
The second thing I would point out and I think this is crucial expenses are a lever that when you pool them if you do it right especially if you have everything investments you made they fall right to the bottom-line.
So the fact that we are starting to adjust already on expenses in light of what we are seeing as they coming slowdown is exactly where we ought to be.
Third some of what slowing down is some intentional continuation of your first point the underwriting actions.
When you had that slowdown for example in our – forgive me on energy for example as Greg mentioned in his remarks we made some very specific re-underwriting and I already booked to take risk at the table to lock away from premiums and we did it very aggressively.
That wasn’t in our original plan as a result we have to adjust expenses to match to that but that’s still the right action to take even if you sacrificed a bit of top-line because it will pay off in the long run.
So again I think we are being in the right kind of steward and we’ll get another chance to talk about expenses when we announce next year’s plan which will be one of the few times where we give something approaching guidance which is right to give some explicit view of expense and we will be able to give you a clear picture of how we’ll play next year given all these conditions at that time.
But given that we went from saying it can be kind of mid-digit single-digit this year ex forgetting FX and forgetting what were the comp that’s volatility that we can forecast given that we already said we’d be kind of mid to upper mid single-digits we kind of said five to six at the beginning of the year now we’ve pulled it back down to four because of what we are seeing I think we are handling this about right.
All right thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
You may ask you question.
Great thank you very much.
I just wanted to follow-up on the top-line being lower in the reinsurance segment I appreciate the commentary on first it’d be lumpy in the year-to-date result being better.
But I guess I’d like to ask if anything is changing in those markets in particular notwithstanding the higher level of comments from Mike and alternative impacts for XL but is alternative capital coming into that area? That’s the first question.
The second is is there any impact from a slowdown in the macro economy particularly in places like Latin America that might be affecting that line more so now than in the past? Let’s talk about the alternative capital first.
The impact to-date has been obviously in the property CAT area.
There has been expanding discussions about other lines of business principally short tail lines of business although I do believe that there is some problem solving going on to address long tail lines as well.
So the direct impact on the marketplace to-date has recently been in property CAT but my expectation over time is that you will see alternative sources of capital taking on risk at other parts of the marketplace.
In terms of macroeconomic conditions flowing things down.
I suppose there is an argument that that slows down for example increased insurance penetration and the development of the middle-class and so forth in emerging markets I hadn’t really thought about it that closely and linking it to our own top-line.
We have just now particularly in Latin America extremely challenging trading conditions for a long long time and we are just re-underwriting that book of business until we get it right.
Okay so those are more concepts anything you felt like you felt in the top-line for reinsurance this particular quarter.
Is that a fair takeaway both with alternative and emerging economies? Yes.
Okay thank you.
And then another one on the aviation book you mentioned that you were seeing better rate because of the loss activity.
I think it’s the worst year on record for aviation losses.
Can you give us a sense of what kind of rate you are getting there and the other clarification or detailed question was have the losses emerged out in the reported results for the third quarter or is that still being sorted out? Randy it’s Greg So on the first part on the aviation book a little color.
It’s always very difficult for us to get very precise industry numbers on a lot of these specialty lines.
But as we look at that aviation market as a whole we think we are around about 5% market share player by premium.
And as best we can tell on the losses we’ve recorded relative to what we think the industry loss is we are about 1% to 1.5% share of loss.
So we’ve done a very good job of underwriting around those losses this year..
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ian Gutterman from Balyasny.
You may ask you question.
Hi thanks Peter I just have a few numbers questions I am just struck on to reconcile the release to the net income as you can everything that up right.
I guess first on the life business that’s retained am I getting it right that there is about $6 million of operating income? And if so is that a reasonable run rate or might that not be a higher or lower going forward? Ian it’s Pete.
$6 million is the number that was recorded in income for the quarter around the retail business.
I’d say within a few million that would be a reasonable number to expect in the future.
Okay great.
On investment income ex – or ex the fund withheld there are two different sports that’s in the supplement and there are different numbers on Page 4 it’s a $153 million – I am sorry Page 8 it’s a $153 million and Page 4 it’s $170 million what’s the difference? Let me take a look that if I’m guessing it would be on the structured we had this structured business that we record out separately both the income and expenses.
So let me take a look at the pages and confirm that by the time of your last question come in.
Got it.
Okay and the $20 million reinstatement that you talked about can you explain that again it went a little too fast for me is that basically prior period development comes into your earned premium or is it something else? So anyhow I am happy to – Jamie and I just are discussing who is going to go and talk about it.
So if you look at – I apologize – so if you look at sort of the go back to the reinstatement premiums and we are very familiar with the property CAT business right this is not property CAT much of the adjustment was for all the claims short tail lines of business.
We haven’t received an indication of closure from these.
We hadn’t recorded reinstatement premiums most of them in the property risk area.
And with that a detailed analysis of the older claims and we did released the case reserves but also felt that these older claim reserves were released or paid the related premiums should be accrued.
So that’s what we did.
It was about $20 million net.
I gave you the materiality to the overall results.
We don’t see that as significant either and the trends in the combined ratios are an income.
Okay just to clarify I am still little confused.
So it’s basically $20 million to premium and $20 million earnings or is it some offset somewhere? No there is a little bit of tax offset in there.
Right okay.
And this refers to prior year’s losses then? And you just then take a reinstatement at the time? Yes.
Got it okay.
And then my last one is do you have I was able to reconcile everything to net income but I can’t get the operating income right I am guessing it’s taxes.
Do you have the tax rate or the operating tax rate or the operating tax dollars? Yes the operating tax rate for the quarter was approximately 12%.
Okay then I am going to try it with you later.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Newsome…  Okay and then Ian just going back we’d confirm that it was the structured product.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Newsome with Sandler O'Neill.
You may ask your question.
Thank you.
Congratulations on the quarter and obviously congratulations to Mr.
Veghte.
I want to ask kind of a big picture question.
We – XL has been I think much more focused on hiring to expand product lines as opposed to acquiring.
We are getting into a softer cycle I think that tends to change the outlook.
I’d like to know a few things that that’s happening.
Anyhow XL is currently balancing the hire versus buy trade-offs just given today’s environment? Paul it’s Mike.
I think that we’ve obviously established a bias.
We’ve been adding teams and individuals to grow our premium for a while and we found it a very successful strategy.
We have identified businesses that we think we would be good at that are complementary to our core skills and that would our core strategy of serving as the company the world turns to complex needs.
So we still see that strategy is unchanged.
The question really goes to if acquisition would help in a strategy would you do it? Well if that would accelerate our strategy sure.
We’ve made only one small acquisitions in my six years here I think in my time at – we also made one small acquisition in those five years.
So in a 11.5 years I think I have done two small things.
We look at a lot of things but generally speaking when we do get involved we don’t come up to winner because we do it on an economic basis not just some kind of strategic calculation.
And I think in the end we are so proud of our culture and our approach that we are very cautious about how we would approach those kinds of questions.
So do we look sure do we think that the market conditions generally point toward greater M&amp;A.
hell I am on the record on that I’ve been asked that on panels and I’ve been saying for a couple of years I think market conditions increasingly point to M&amp;A as a more likely activity in the next period of time.
And I think every day that gets a little more likely.
But for us it’s a matter of strategy if something accelerated the – our drive to our goals we’d be intrigued by it.
If it doesn’t serve what we are doing we are not.
Always appreciate your thoughts.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
You may ask your question.
Yes thank you very much for taking the question late.
Most of my questions have been answered I just want to refresh something about investment funds and look your outlook.
You said in the past that some of your funds get marked on a one month basis others on a three months basis is that still correct? Yes Josh it’s Pete.
That is still correct.
So thinking about your outlook I’ve seen some of your competitors who are shrinking their equity risk performance some of them are increasing.
Do you have an outlook as a company right now and in terms of – I was a little surprised that the point it’s a little better this quarter I guess given what we see in the strong performance from many of your competitors if you have any thoughts on that? So as far as the change in strategies no we really haven’t changed the strategy and our alternative investment and as far as go forward Sarah if you want to take that? Yes we have more – this is Sarah we have more hedge fund buyers form many of our payers who are more private equity and you have seen some big write-ups in private equity.
So that might be the differentiator.
Sarah I think that answers it perfectly.
And so no change of allocation going forward though? No no.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
You may ask your question.
Yes thank you.
So just one other question I had.
You have obviously changed your retention strategy on your insurance business but it looks like on the reinsurance business you’ve done very little from a ceded standpoint.
I am wondering given the changes in the market have you considered opportunities on that side? Yes Jay.
And I think I mentioned in the second quarter call we actually increased our spend on our CAT program.
I think we are always looking at opportunities to buy reinsurance I think actually Greg probably has more opportunity the retrocession market is a narrower trading market but yes the answer is we are constantly looking at opportunities.
Okay I forgot about that 2Q.
That’s right thank you.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Meyer Shields with KBW.
You may ask your question.
Okay great.
Thanks for fitting the end.
Mike sort of big picture question.
Has the timeline that you imagine or that you expect let’s say for achieving 10% ROE been impacted at all by interest rate declines year-to-date? Well I mean there is no question that the entire sector and the entire insurance business model is been impacted by these interest rates and it’s challenged everyone.
How the year will finish out it’s hard to tell it just depends on part on – there is just a lot of variables that we just don’t know.
So we’ve been kind of hovering around that 10% ROE line.
Made it last year whether we do or not this year it’s little hard for me to forecast and I wouldn’t do such even if I could.
But there is no question that the interest rates make it more difficult.
When our reinvestment rate is something like 1.9% this is a very tough environment and it just makes it obvious why it is so important for us to keep driving the levers.
I thought this is a very good call.
I just want to comment the questions because we are talking about the right thing.
The core to the story at XL for the last period of time and then rate of improvement and likelihood of continuation improvement and getting out insurance combined in line and where does the reinsurance go getting the strategic pressures.
It’s been holding up nicely on the strategic pressures on the reinsurance it’s difficult but it’s fine.
On insurance we are seeking continued expansion in margins.
There may be some slowdown because of the headwinds and pricing but that’s already been matched to the idea that interest rates aren’t going to suddenly become our friend.
So well it’s made more difficult.
It is how we have designed the plan and it’s certainly going to be on our minds next year as well given all that we are seeing in terms of the interest rates that we are taking for next year in our budgets.
So I am optimistic only because we are on the right thing and we are accepting that as a given rather than saying somehow we don’t meet our hurdles until that turns around we are saying we got to deliver it even if the rate environment is difficult and even if the interest rate environment is difficult.
So I hope that’s helpful.
But that’s how we look at it.
No it is.
I appreciate it and then Greg if I can go really quickly would you talk about the immature businesses not being at return targets.
Should we look at that as an expense ratio issue or does that felt in loss ratio as well? It’s mostly in the expense ratio Meyer.
It’s little bit in the loss ratio because as Mike noted earlier we tend to be pretty conservative about how we look at things early on until we can get established track record of loss but by and large that’s just getting your book up to size and covering all the expenses and the investments you made just set the business up in year one.
Okay fantastic.
Thanks so much all.
Thank you.
At this time I'll turn the call back over to Mike McGavick for closing remarks.
Well I guess I made them in essence.
But I really did think this was a call that’s focused on the right issues.
And the good news from my point of view is where we stand to have two of our three quarters this year below 95 ex CAT action here combined and our insurance operations is a good feeling and have this third quarter be the second of those it’s a great feeling.
I think Jamie’s troops continue to do a very good job in very difficult conditions and I think we are thinking about the business in the right context which is where all starts from.
You have to have the right problem to solve in order to solve the problem and I think we’ve got the right problems solved in our minds and are working with real diligence around it.
I am also very proud of the expense story.
Because we’ve been reacting in an appropriate way even when those are always difficult things to do and we have – I think I am pleased with where I see the planning process so far.
So I have actually enjoyed this conversation because it felt like the business we are actually running and I appreciate that spirit.
I do want to add one thought though.
I didn’t want to do in this personal of way at the beginning because I knew Jamie had some work to do tonight.
But six years ago I got here and Jamie was already here and if Jamie hadn’t been in the engine room of this business for these last six years while we finished all of these – and been dealing with all of these incredible problems from the time that we solved SCA to all the other things we’ve done we wouldn’t be on this call.
And I think the people who represent XL in the market or comment on XL in the market really owe Jamie a huge debt of thanks.
Now I feel it that way.
So thank you very much and again we do want to apologize that the press release on the path for most of you got a little slowdown but in the end I hope you’ve gotten this call useful.
Good night.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group Plc Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please be advised this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley.
And welcome to XL Group's fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings conference call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We posted to our website several documents including our press release and quarterly financial supplement.
Please note that we have now new information to provide you regarding our proposed acquisition of Catlin Group.
Public information regarding that transaction including the offer announcement press release and investor presentation is posted on our corporate website and to our transaction specific website xl.transactionannouncement.com.
As noted in the offer announcement U.K.
Takeover Code does not apply to Catlin as it is a premium domicile company.
However due to provisions with respect to the U.K.
Takeover Code and Catlin’s bylaws the parties have agreed to certain matters regarding an application of the U.K.
Takeover Code to the potential transaction.
As you may have encountered with other M&amp;A transaction this put significant constraints on the party’s statements which we hope you can understand.
On our call this evening Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who’ll offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer who'll review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and John Welch our Acting Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements including those with respect to XL and a proposed transaction of Catlin.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations all of which involve risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 8-K the factors identified in the investor presentation as well as other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they're made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening and thank you for joining our call.
As you are all well aware it’s been a noteworthy few weeks for us and with more news just last week regarding further consolidation a really interesting time for the market as well.
I'm sure you will have some further questions regarding the Catlin acquisition during Q&amp;A.
And I will just say here at the top of the call that well our planning for the integration with Catlin continues and is on track.
We have no further information on this subject to provide at the time.
As David has noted the focus of this call is XL's fourth quarter and full year 2014 results.
2014 was a strong year for the company continued the harder and progress we have been delivering and positioning us incredibly well for our exciting next chapter.
Starting with our P&amp;C results our combined ratio of 88.2% was our strongest performance in more than 15 years and a significant improvement from the 92.5% achieved in 2013.
Our P&amp;C loss ratio improved 5 points from 2013 to 57%.
It is a particular note that even in this difficult market our gross premiums written grew 5% year-over-year to $7.8 billion.
We achieved the total underwriting profit of $676 million a 50% increase over the prior year and for the second year in a row we achieved a double-digit ROE 11.2% for the full year excluding unrealized gains and losses on investments.
Results in the quarter itself were equally as positive.
Our ROE in the quarter was 13.7% on the same basis the quarter combined ratio of 84.5% and loss ratio of 52.3% were also among the best quarterly results in the last 15 years.
Underwriting profit in the quarter was $219 million which was a 116% increase over Q4 2013.
Now of course like most of the industry we were helped by an extremely low catastrophe year.
But that does not diminish our -- at all our overall sense of the enormous progress achieved since we put this current strategy in place.
For example we all know that in the last few years this end of the year call has been filled not only with our share of cat losses but other large loss activity that has brought down our full year results.
Now we know that both positive and negative for duty will have its -- also always have its place in this business but we believe are better balanced better underwritten and better position book as you will hear from Pete and Greg is shining through.
From a segment perspective we are proud of what our underwriters achieved in the year while a tough Reinsurance market conditions persist our Reinsurance segment contributed an underwriting profit of $451 million for the year and a 73.3% combined ratio.
Year-over-year gross written premium did decreased but we continue to be disciplined and feel that the results speak for themselves in terms of our willingness to chase -- to not chase terms that fall outside of our approach.
John Welch our acting Head of Reinsurance will have more to say on the segments results in a moment.
Turning to Insurance Greg has at least one more call with us as Head of the Insurance segment and so we won’t overly seeing his presence just yet.
But looking at the full year one maybe does get a sense of the great progress he and his Insurance colleagues have made.
The Insurance segments combined ratio of 94.4% loss ratio of 63.2% and underwriting profit of $225 million are all the best results in these metrics since 2007.
We have more work to do but we like the progress particular the continued improvement of the ex-cat accident year combined ratio which was 95.2% in the year or a 0.5% better than the same result in 2013.
Lastly and especially for our XL colleagues listening to the call I want to make particular note of our innovation drive and we have -- how we have grown our impact on the market through this focus.
According to at least one public tally we issued 31 new product announcements in 2014.
That's a 35% year-over-year increase in new product announcements compared to 2013.
And one of them our North America Construction team's Public/Private Partnership Coverage recently received an innovation award for business insurance.
We have great momentum in creatively addressing risks.
This vital work must continue to accelerate.
In sum we are very pleased with these results and with the progress we have made during these past few years.
The continuing strength of Reinsurance the tangible improvement in Insurance the second year of achieving a double-digit ROE and some of the best financial results we have achieved in 15 years.
We’ve worked hard to get to this point.
We expect this progress to continue and couldn’t be more excited about what is on the horizon.
With that I will turn it to Pete.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating net income for the fourth quarter was $294 million or a $1.12 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to $287 million or $1 per share in 2013.
Operating net income for the full year was approximately a $1 billion or $3.68 per share.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders for the quarter was $140 million or $0.53 per share on a fully diluted basis and $188 million or $0.69 per share for the full year.
As we’ve previously discussed our net income is impacted by the mark-to-market movement of the derivative that transfers the economics of the assets backing our life Reinsurance transaction.
But that derivative movement is completely offset by investment income realized gains and losses and the change in the unrealized position of our portfolio and does not impact our net book value operating income or comprehensive income.
We continue to show that relationship in the summary consolidated financial data included with the press release.
As European interest rates have continued to fall we have recorded a derivative loss offset by a book value gain associated with an increase in the market value of the underlying assets.
Our property and casualty combined ratio for the quarter of 84.5% was 8.8 points lower than the same quarter last year and the full year’s 88.2% was 4.3 points lower than the prior year.
Our accident year combined ratio for the quarter of 91.4% was lower by 5.9 points while the full year’s 92.6% was lower by 4.7 points.
This improvement was largely driven by lower levels of catastrophe losses and the impacts from our underwriting actions that Greg and John will discuss further.
For the quarter our natural catastrophe losses totaled $32 million which was split $18 million and $14 million between our Insurance and Reinsurance segment.
By comparison net losses from natural catastrophes in the same quarter of 2013 totaled $94 million.
For the full year 2014 natural catastrophe losses were $113 million compared to $317 million in 2013.
Prior year reserve development in the quarter was a net favorable $97 million compared to $61 million for the same quarter in 2013.
This reflects favorable development of $35 million and $62 million in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments resulting from our fourth quarter detailed ground-up reserve review.
For all of 2014 development was a net favorable $255 million or 4.5 loss ratio points a slight decrease compared to $290 million or 4.9 loss ratio points for 2013.
Consistent with previous indications excluding the impact of foreign exchange and performance-based compensation operating expenses for the year were 4.5% higher than in 2013.
During the quarter operating expenses were up 13.3% compared to the same quarter last year.
However this was almost entirely due to the impact of our favorable results on our various compensation plans.
We continue to focus on balancing cost efficiency with continued investments in our infrastructure underwriting teams and strategic opportunities.
As is been the case throughout the year our increased use of Reinsurance will continue to impact the reported operating expense ratio as ceding commissions which cover all expenses are generally reported on the acquisition expense line.
For 2015 excluding the impact of the Catlin transaction we estimate that our operating expenses will grow by a percentage in the low single digits.
Turning to investment performance at a $172 million net investment income on the portfolio was $68 million below the same quarter last year primarily due to the Life transaction.
The gross book yield in the portfolio at the end of December was 2.7%.
When compared with the average Q4 new money rate of 1.7% we expect that net investment income will continue to remain under pressure as we've approximately $3 billion of assets with book yields of 3% rolling off over the next 12 months.
Net income from investment fund and investment manager affiliates was $21 million for the quarter down $56 million from an exceptional prior year quarter.
The XL property and casualty investment portfolio returned 1% for the quarter and 4.8% for the year.
The mark-to-market for the quarter was $94 million including net realized gains of $13 million driven primarily by sales of equities.
This compares to net realized gains of $12 million in Q4 2013.
Unrealized net gains in the portfolio were $1.1 billion of the end of the fourth quarter.
The duration of our fixed income portfolio remained at 3.8 years.
Effective tax rate on net income available to ordinary shareholders for the full year was 34% and for the fourth quarter was 21.5%.
These rates are higher than prior year due to the impact of the loss recognized on the life reinsurance transaction and subsequent net loss on the related derivative both of which have little or no tax benefit.
On an operating basis our effective tax rate for the full year was 12% and for the fourth quarter was 10%.
With respect to capital management during the fourth quarter we purchased 5.2 million shares for $175 million at an average price of $33.82 per share.
For the year we purchased and consolidated total of 24.7 million shares for $800 million at an average price of $32.40 per share leaving $267.6 million available for purchase under our previously announced share buyback program.
While we continue to see share buyback as a valuable capital management tool we pulled our purchases at the end of November and in the completion of our proposed acquisition of Catlin Group.
I will now turn it over to Greg to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete and good evening.
Today I will cover results for the segment provide some color on our progress during the year and finish with remarks on current market conditions.
Starting with the results 2014 was Insurance’s segment most profitable years since 2007 generating nearly $100 million more underwriting profit than last year.
The accident year combined ratio was 96.9% compared to 99.4% in 2013.
And this year-over-year improvement was driven primarily by the accident ex-CAT cat loss ratio of 63.9% which was 2 full points better than prior year.
The fourth quarter marked our eighth consecutive quarter of profitability with the segment producing a calendar quarter combined ratio of 93.8% compared to 96.7% in the same quarter last year and an accident quarter ex-cat loss ratio of 63.5% which is 2 points better than prior year.
The results also benefited from another quarter of favorable CAT activity which contributed 0.5 point to the improvement.
This is mostly offset by slightly lower prior year development even though we recognized $35 million of prior year releases.
The underwriting expense ratio was 31.9% in the fourth quarter reflecting a deterioration of 0.4 points from prior year mainly due to an increase in variable compensation.
Excluding variable pay the underwriting expense ratio actually improved by more than 2 points in the quarter versus prior year and by 0.4 points on a full year basis.
As mentioned previously the actions we've taken to shift towards quarter should increase the number of our businesses and to store the comparisons of our acquisition and operating expense ratio to prior year.
This quarter shares have increased ceding commission income reducing our acquisition ratio by 2.6 points in the quarter but net earned premiums probably contributing to a 3 point higher operating expense ratio.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by $432 million or 8% for the full year and $195 million or 15% in the quarter when adjusted for foreign exchange movement.
While approximate one third of the growth in the quarter was driven by a few large transactions and timing the general trajectory reflects the continued build-out in many of our businesses.
Roughly half of our growth was led by our North American Construction Global Risk Management Marine International Financial Lines businesses.
In addition to these lines we also have material growth in our E&amp;S Cyber Political Risk and Crisis Management teams.
With the exception of our international Onshore Energy and Lloyd’s middle market books which we shrank as a result of underwriting changes due to underperformance.
Only the Surety business was down materially relative to prior year quarter and this book was up nearly 50% for the full year.
While markets are increasingly competitive for many of our businesses we continue to see increased submission flow and a higher growth ratio reflecting our positive momentum in a large commercial marketplace.
Shifting to ongoing progress as mentioned earlier we experienced a two-point improvement in our accident year ex-CAT loss ratio relative to 2013 despite experiencing a 25% increase in large short-tail losses in 2014.
Our ability to improve our overall accident year ex-CAT loss ratio while absorbing increased large losses is evidence of the improving profitability of our underlying book.
This improvement is a result of our ongoing focus on an improved mix of business and continued execution of underwriting actions.
For the full year nearly 60% of our gross premium is better than or within five points of our target combined ratio.
Of the remaining 40% roughly half is in line that we continue to build out such as Crisis Management Political Risk International Financial Lines.
As these businesses are still in growth mode there is an expense drag which impacts the return while the businesses get to scale.
With regards to remaining 20% or so it’s no longer that entire business is below target.
Rather it’s certain portfolios within these businesses that we continue to focus our re-underwriting efforts.
In addition our rigorous process of identifying implementing and measuring our underwriting action again yielded a one-point improvement in our segment loss ratio during 2014.
Regarding talent this quarter we appointed Greg Bangs to lead our Global Crime business.
Donna Nadeau was promoted Chief Underwriting Officer in North America.
And we added June Dwyer to our distribution network team.
In addition to these deployments we continued the expansion of our underwriting talent.
We strengthened our Cyber business.
International Financial lines expanded its merger and acquisition business.
Aerospace expanded its capability in China.
And we continue to make investments in Brazil with the addition of several new team members across multiple businesses.
For the year we increased our underwriting workforce by nearly 10% as we continue to build our businesses around the world.
Turning to market conditions we saw a continued slowing in rate across more lines of business as the overall rate change to the segment was down only 1% in the fourth quarter and up 0.5% on a year-to-date basis.
That said two-thirds of our businesses ended the year with positive rate.
In the fourth quarter our international P&amp;C business achieved rate in excess of 1% with only our Lloyd's middle-market businesses in red figures.
Our North American and Professional businesses were both down just under 1% driven by 5% reduction in North American property and continued softening in U.S.
excess D&amp;O.
Our specialty business continue to be more severely impacted with an overall rate decrease of two points largely reflecting continued competitive conditions for Marine and Offshore Energy as well as disappointing Aviation market which was broadly flat.
Finally while we once again benefited from a relatively quiet catastrophe quarter and year 2014 was a solid year.
We continue to remix our businesses growing higher margin businesses capitalized on reinsurance efficiency and as Mike noted boosted our innovation efforts paying in 2015 despite pricing headwinds we're as well positioned as we've ever been for continued success.
And now to John to discuss reinsurance results.
Thanks Greg and good evening.
I’d like to cover two principal issues tonight review of our Q4 and full-year results and also some comments on recent renewal season and market conditions.
With respect to the fourth quarter we had a combined ratio of 61.2% producing and an underwriting profit of $156 million.
This compares favorably to the combined ratio of 85.1% and an underwriting profit of $66 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
During the quarter we had the benefit of prior year releases of $62 million and catastrophe losses of $14 million net of reinstatement premiums.
The major contributors to the CAT activity in the quarter were development on September floods in India and Hurricane Odile.
Q4 2013 included a prior year release of $21 million and catastrophe losses of $71 million net of reinstatement premiums.
With respect to the year-over-year movement in favorable PYD it is worth noting that Q4 reflects the semiannual reserve review for XL Re America and that Q4 2013 reflected an unusual strengthening of $31 million for Spanish surety losses.
Excluding the impact of prior year releases and CAT losses the segment produced a combined ratio of 73% which compares to the 73.6% in Q4 of 2013.
Turning to topline in the quarter gross written premiums were $158 million or 3.9% decrease over Q4 2013.
The decrease was primarily driven by non-renewal activity in our U.S.
casualty treaty book and FX impacts partially offset by growth in international casualty treaty property facultative U.S.
property treaty and crop.
For 2014 the segment produced an outstanding combined ratio of 73.3% and an underwriting profit of $451 million which compares the 81.4% combined ratio and underwriting profit of $325 million in 2013.
This result was impacted by catastrophe losses of $45 million in prior year reserve releases of $155 million compared to 2013 where we had CAT losses of $198 million and reserve releases of $188 million.
Excluding the impact of both CAT losses and prior year releases we had a combined ratio of 79.8% compared to 80.6% in 2013.
Our year-to-date gross written premium was down 5.7% to $1.8 billion as we continue to manage our way through very competitive trading conditions.
Turning to market conditions given another light year for cap loss activity and continued growth in reinsurance capacity for these risks we experienced another competitive January 1 renewal season.
Rates adjusted down 7.5% to 15% on the U.S.
CAT book and we’re down 6% to 15% for the international CAT book.
In addition to price we saw terms and conditions loosen to some degree.
Specifically there was pressure on hourly clauses and reinstatement provisions.
Within the U.S.
CAT book this pressure resulted in some incremental increases in coverage and the amount was minor across the book and is captured in the risk-adjusted rate decreases.
Outside the U.S.
the vast majority of renewals saw no loosening with respect to these terms.
From a structural perspective there was increased interest in multiyear contracts expanded geographic scope and placements with aggregate features.
With respect to long tail and specialty markets the environment is extremely competitive and pressure remains on both reinsurance pricing and terms and conditions.
This continues to be true commission structures on proportional placements.
In addition we saw slight deterioration loss ratios for long tail lines as rate increases fell short of loss trend.
We continue to navigate our way cautiously through this phase of the market and our trading with long-standing clients with proven track records.
Despite the difficult market conditions our underwriting teams maintain their discipline and did an excellent job retaining profitable business and finding new opportunities.
Our long-standing trading relationships allowed us to write a January 1 portfolio that was largely in line with our expectations from both the mix and profitability perspective.
With that I will turn it back to David for Q&amp;A.
And Shirley you can open the line for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
You may ask your question.
Yeah evening.
A couple of questions here for you.
The first one you talked about continuing to make infrastructure investments in the organization.
Wonder if you could elaborate what are those investments right now? And does the proposed acquisition cost you took kind of slow down on any of those at this point? This is Mike Brian.
First of all we still do have some technology platform stuff that we’re building out.
We have one underlying platform around our financial close systems that we call enterprise enablement EE and that is well underway.
And I think that most of the functionality wraps up in the next year.
And that one will be useful whether there is an integration or not.
The second with respect to underwriters we have been building out a global underwriting platform for certain of our businesses that have common processes.
That's one where there could -- the integration could have an impact on how we choose to proceed on those and those issues are not yet resolved.
So there could be changes in some of what's forecasted depending on choices that are made by the integration teams in the next weeks and months.
Great.
Thanks.
And then the second question Mike I am just curious how are you right now mitigating any kind of distraction with the new organization is with respect to this pending acquisition? Well we've all bought really huge whips.
I mean look the reality is this is a very difficult time for our colleagues at XL and for our hope to be colleagues at Catlin.
It’s distracting it’s confusing this is people's livelihoods and we take that very very seriously.
At the same time we know very well that our colleagues know that we made a commitment to our Board about the plan for 2015 and we continue to work to deliver it.
And if there is one thing that I've never had any doubt about it it’s about the work I think and the intelligence of our colleagues.
They both see the importance of the commitments they make and they carry those into the marketplace.
And I think when going to their intelligence a little bit it's hard not to observe that.
If you have a two companies coming together you’re probably going to want to make sure you put your best foot forward.
And that includes staying focused and delivering.
So people are in the sense really showing us that they have the ability to perform under difficult circumstances that's an important credential that they are advertising to us into their future colleagues.
So as I travel around and meet with our colleagues you have that underlying sensibilities but you also have the real sense of commitment and the devotion to going forward with the firm and that works together I think to keep everybody focused.
I would add one more thing too having these other transactions recently announced kind of both affirms our strategy very clearly that was a nice thing.
But I think it also causes all of our colleagues to say ghee you know there's something really exciting going on right where I work right now and rest of the market seems to be in some turmoil too.
So all of a sudden I think you're more focused on what you can do to help your existing employer and the future employer that’s been created.
So I think that all works together to create a group of very focused and dedicated people.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
Good evening everyone.
I was hoping there might be a possibility of getting a little more granular on the operating expenses which are obviously elevated compared to a year ago but not so much compared to last quarter.
What's comp related what’s infrastructure related and what would we think would probably go away in the future? I am going to start and then pass it over to Pete.
And I promise Pete I won’t give the whole answer.
The most important thing I'd say is as the year ended we want to kind of spot on to what we said we would do for the year.
And we said that ex-FX and comp related movements that we would be right around mid-single digits I think we came out almost spot on 5.
So I feel very good that as we try very hard to do that we did what we said we would do.
But I think that -- and that of course always did include these other strategic investments.
As I said earlier it's too early to tell exactly how those wall shake out.
But when I step back you heard Greg referenced the fact that there continues to be an expense drag on building out those newer lines of business that we think are embodied the important remixing of lowering our overall combined and loss ratios.
And that's one of the expense tracks that we think we can cheer right away through our combination with Catlin.
Just as I've talked before about the fact that similarly when it comes to the expense of their this is Catlin’s building out of a global platform that we can rationalize a lot of expense there.
So it's not just in the sort of what you're spending on tech categories that we can get synergies those are meaningful.
It is also more about the fundamental nature of the strategies of the two companies and how they fit together.
Sure.
So Josh just -- and yes Mike you did leave me a piece so thank you for that.
Of the expenses in the quarter so I would think about call it ballpark $40 million compared to last year would have been the variable compensation increase okay so just to give you a magnitude there.
And then on your question about the strategic expenses I think the best way I could take you through the numbers a little bit.
And we said this before if you look at our corporate expense line and again this is not how we manage the expenses a couple we manage them in total.
But if you look at the corporate expense line we said in the past that approximately a third to 40% of that number is what we call the strategic initiatives and the rest would be an allocation of corporate that we don't allocate to the businesses.
As you look at that 33% to 40% number Mike talked about a couple of those initiatives that in place -- that are in place and the one that he mentioned on EE as he said that one we are hoping to start to -- we are delivering we’ve already started delivering the benefits of that.
We will continue that through 2015.
And at that point in time we would expect that the spending on that would go down pretty significantly.
Okay.
That’s a great answer.
And one question for Mike.
If you look out you said on the call and you said in the press release these are some of the best results we’ve seen excel in 15 years and that’s true.
Interest rates are low here.
One argument would be that because interests are low everyone is buttoned up and is playing bowl and that’s created a very healthy environment for PMC.
The other argument would be that these are trough results and when interest rates go up you will see ROEs rise for XL and the industry.
Where do these results fit in the view of where you think results will be for X on the industry two three years from now in a mortgage rate normal environment? That’s a really interesting question.
And I am sure as heck I knew the answer.
But I will give you a couple of perspectives.
Number one several years ago when Greg and others and we're all working on the strategy we could see that this interest rate environment was going to be persistent.
We have in-house committee of various disciplines that does interest rate forecasting and they have been consistently along with the rest of world saying this is not some temporary phenomenon this is going to take a long time to resolve.
And so we made a very aggressive decision back then that we were going to focus on that in essence the action in your loss ratio and everything else too but really really focus on delivering a great underwriting results as the driver of results.
And our progress has of course had to come from that because we’ve been mixing toward a lower investment return for a long time and it continues.
So I think much of the market has adopted that same discipline to various degrees.
At the same time especially with what's going on in the reinsurance sector we see a tremendous amount of capital being brought to bear.
So that has a countervailing effect on discipline out there because especially just imagine you talk some group and they are giving you a billion of capital put to work.
You want to put it to work somehow.
And so they're trying to outwit the market outwitting a market we would submit is always a very very difficult thing especially if you don’t have the kinds of long-term relationships and capabilities that a firm like XL and others bring to bear.
So as I look at it I do think obviously when we get to the inflection point and assuming we do start to see some rise in interest rates and the contribution thereby to the earnings I think you’re coming off of such a disciplined period.
I do not expect that all of the sudden everyone will go crazy.
If fact far from it I think discipline and underwriting is going to run on because that’s how people are used to working now and they're getting a lot of reward for working that way.
And I don't expect it will suddenly change on a dime because somehow there's some interest-rate based cash flow coming on.
So I'm hopeful that this discipline will be retained and there will be something we can build on.
As proud as we are of these results we’re completely mindful that only in these last couple of years that we’re beating our cost of capital.
This is a solid return and in the spectrum of things going on a really positive development but by no means is where we think ourselves or the industry should be performing especially as interest rates normalize.
So I would hope that discipline will last beyond what required in the first place.
Thank you for the extended answer.
And good luck on the integration or hopefully the closing of the deal with Catlin.
Thank you very much Josh.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Cliff Gallant with Nomura.
You may ask your question.
Great.
Thank you.
And Mike condolences to Seahawks I assume you would run the bowl.
This would have been a great question.
I was so happy that they decided not to hold the Super Bowl this year.
Two questions.
One you mentioned some pretty good growth in your cyber markets and you are adding to the team there.
Just wondering when you go into a new market like how is it that you can -- seems like it will be easy to grow but there is a lot of risk you’re taking on and how do you limit the risk how do you know what you're getting into? I’m going to ask Greg to expand but the simple answer is low limits and a broad dispersion of clients.
That would be the whole answer.
No we’ve been added for -- this will be the fourth year in existence and the third second -- two and a half years are really going in a much bigger way at it.
Mike is absolutely right we keep our limits very low both on a gross basis normal maximum there is $10 million and we buy quota share protection take that down to $5 million so very small limits.
As you probably know it’s also -- I’m proud of the work the team does.
I'm proud of the both the underwriting they do and the services they provide their clients but it is a fairly scaled down product.
There isn’t broad disruption there.
There isn’t broad physical damage.
It’s effectively a breach and how they get our clients customers back up on their credit agreement and back restored to health.
So from that perspective we also stay away from in general kind of the big-box retailers and some of the other larger exposures in that space.
So it’s a combination of low limits good spread good expertise to help clients and a big good broad industry distribution.
Okay.
Thank you.
One other question I had is we -- and thank you for the discussion over January 1 renewals but notably the talk with Catlin was happening over the renewal period.
To what degree do you think that affected? How your renewals without much of an impact on what your volumes will look like this year? My view is no but I ask John to elaborate.
That is the correct answer.
We saw no impact of the leak with the announcement.
Okay.
Listening to your overview of where pricing was it although it sounded it would be reasonable of us to expect that your Reinsurance volumes this year will be down.
It sounded something like 5% to 10% or so? We don't actually and never have gotten into specifics of the renewal season in terms of the size of portfolio or how we allocated our capital.
But I can say that the pricing environment was difficult.
But we've always got a couple of things going on as well.
So how exactly that will shakeout by the time all the renewals finish out.
But too early to tell but I'm feeling that the group did a very nice job of handling some really difficult conditions.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Josh Stirling with Bernstein.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Good evening.
Thanks for taking the call.
So Mike you made difficult for us as we all want to ask some forward-looking questions but you don’t want to talk about the deal? So I’m going to try to stay big picture.
I’m thinking about your future capital leverage your capital levers and operating leverage and reinsurance strategies and I’m trying to build my model for the next few years and I’m wondering if you give us some bit more conceptual sense that how you think is likely to change? Even if only directionally we really love to get a better handle of what kind of strategy you think you are going to pursue on out of reinsurance spend? And then big picture if there are actually meaningful opportunities for basically capital leverage from either diversification or sort of the capital benefit from using Lloyd's unique platform? Yeah.
You’ve really excited the number of the things we're looking at very hard.
I can’t help you too much with the models at this stage because we’re still building ours but I would give you a few thoughts in terms of detail now as opposed to headlines.
I give you a few thoughts one you observe correctly that Lloyd is a very efficient platform.
I think there are -- it sufficient in terms of capital it’s difficult in terms of expense so it's a double-edged sword.
And you can find that amongst the mix of businesses we have that there are things that would be better or worse in that environment and our view of the way they have been -- I'd say it simply Catlin has always needed to and been more efficient that its capital use and we’ve admired that in them.
And when we see how Lloyd's used and think about our products we're looking for the right mix to take advantage of that capital framework and the right mix to move away from that expense very much.
So there is all kinds of really interesting optimization exercises going on.
You can say the same thing from a diversification point of view.
Sometimes its product specification but sometimes its geographic diversification and we’re going to have a much bigger spread of geographic dispersion through which to work with and a whole set of different legal entity structures which also have efficiency that can be gained as those are optimized.
So I think what you're hearing is we have a whole bunch of new tools available the way the whole thing comes together.
And I think I know that both teams are entering their work very mindful of what they can do to make sure that the very most efficient platform comes out the backend.
And I can only tell you that from a personal point of view as I’ve -- as we get deeper into the detail I get more excited about the possibilities.
There are many of these things that had no bearing on how we price the deal or the kinds of returns that we have promised the marketplace.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And just I think it’s a question for Pete its very numbers question and I apologies if you have addressed this earlier and I somehow missed it.
But I wondered if you could walk us through some of the math behind this quarter's paid to incurred ratio and you guys disclose this to your credit but it’s an awfully higher number and you’re growing in the numbers way above one.
I’m wondering if there is something unique going on with your seeding strategy or remixing or something that’s leading it not have to fund the same level of reserves as you have in the past or whether maybe this is just like some one-time this is due to some one-time factors that benefited the quarter? So Josh this is Pete.
Let me address that.
So there were two drivers for the high paid to incurred in the current quarter.
So you're exactly right your analysis is spot on.
One was an exceptionally low level of incurred losses in the Reinsurance segment as John talked about.
And the second was a higher level of paid losses in the Insurance segment.
And so what we give you in the financial supplement is the total but if you broke them out you would see those individual segments and we’re happy to provide that if you like it.
The low-level of incurred losses in Reinsurance reflects a lack of both the attritional and lodge natural peril catastrophe losses in 2014 as well as the favorable PYD that we booked in the quarter.
And on the Insurance side the high level of paid losses they reflects really more than a one quarter's worth of paid losses that we use.
We process more of our cash receipts near the month end and we talked about the finance infrastructure projects Mike mentioned it.
As this comes online right as we’ve been taking about this this is now coming online and it’s improved our ability to process elements of our close closer to the period end.
So in realty there is more than three months in that -- in this quarter paid losses and those two comprise the entire difference taking those two out its right about 100%.
Got it.
Thank you thanks for the clarification.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Newsome with Sandler O'Neill.
You may ask your question.
Good evening and congratulations on the quarter.
I wanted to ask about currency and we’ve seen a lot of companies with some pretty big currency impacts on their book value.
Did I miss it or didn’t look like there was much of an impact for you folks? No there wasn’t that much.
I mean if you look at what our exposed currency we manage our currencies conservatively.
We have a natural hedge on our legal -- this is Pete.
We have a natural hedge on our legal entities that would be denominated in other currencies.
We’ve got a very strict rule on how much risk we will take on those balance sheets right.
And so at the end the only currencies that we expect to flow through would be the retained earnings at the legal entities that would be in currencies denominated in other than U.S.
dollars.
And for us it just was not that big of a transaction.
So we do have an active hedge program where we have a mandatory amount of VaR that we’ll allow.
Interesting.
I have a certainly different question.
In some of the European countries the interest rates have gotten extremely low and in some cases the government rates are actually negative.
I think most companies I would imagine you are the same since we tried to back liabilities in those current -- those currencies in those areas in assets that are in the same country.
What do you do now that in some areas there is essentially no return on the available assets? All right.
So Paul this is Pete.
I’ll take it again because it’s a continuation of the comment about natural hedge that we have.
And so yes indeed when we are in locations where the reserves are in a currency we are likely to have the assets in those same currencies.
And clearly investing in euro and Swiss franc asset today is challenging given that there are negative yields going out six years on the bonds and 12 years on the Swiss francs.
Given our ALM matching approach we invest in those portfolios quite a while ago and we expected reinvestment amounts over the next 12 months is only about $380 million.
So we don't see this as a huge headwind in the near-term.
So far we've mostly avoided buying bonds of negative yields.
We've been able to invest incorporates covered bonds and other high-quality ABS as well as European government agency paper all of which pay a credit spread.
So it generates some positive yield.
But it will be an increasing -- increasingly different difficult challenge if this negative yield environment is sustained.
Right so at 12/31 the average book yield of our yield portfolio was 1.7% and the average market yield of our benchmark in euros is probably 0.4%.
And so over time you would expect those two numbers to converge.
But as I talked about we will maintain our current matching philosophy.
We are not in the business of taking unhedged FX Risk.
We’ll maintain our overall investment strategy discipline not stretch the yield.
The last thing I’d say is as a result of the life transaction we are in a different place where we are a lot less sensitive than we used to be right given the sale of our European block of business there.
Yeah Paul I would just add a couple of thought.
First I’d underscore the last point Pete made that transaction continues to really look like one of the really good achievements of the year and this is another case of why.
The second thing I would observe is in a variety of the international forums that I've been in particularly with my banking friends lately the impact of interest rates on insurance business models is getting more and more attention than the central banking system.
And I'm hopeful that they will start to take into account that impact as well as the other stimulative impact that they see and come to more balanced solutions over time.
Great.
Thanks and condolences on the Super Bowl.
Thanks.
That’s too.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Randy Binner with FBR.
You may ask your question.
Hey good evening.
Thank you I have a couple this is -- just first one is just following up on what Brian Meredith was asking on and as far as the workforce is concerned I think Mike touched on it.
But I think I am going to ask it more exclusively and that is with your transaction and the other large merger out there.
It seems to me that there might be excess supply of labor in a lot of your key markets.
And so is that something that when you are doing your ongoing talent searches that you are feeling now already in the market? Well.
I think right now it wouldn’t be fair to judge the marketplace right now on some snapshot basis because with our two workforces working toward coming together I don't think this is going to be a -- we are not going to have a unaffected view of how the labor markets working.
We will not have as many people.
I think that reaching out to us as we’ve had recently until the dust settles somewhat because they know that there is uncertainty.
I think the larger point to me is that there I think that while there is always going to be a really meaningful competition for talent in our sector because great underwriters and underwriting leadership great actuarial talent these folks are hard to find.
And when you find them you try to get them in your organization and keep them as long as you can.
And so I don't think that piece of it will change even if there was dramatically more integration across the sector because the really great talent really isn’t in oversupply.
The second thing I would say though is it does I think change the mentality of the workforce going through integration.
If you thought your situation was the only difficult situation around.
And therefore it became tempting to go to some other organization and feel safer I don't think that mentality is going to be very much in play right now.
It’s going to be difficult to go somewhere where you're safe from all of this because I think it's going to take a while to play out.
And again I don't want to overstate it but I think it makes our people very mindful of the great opportunity we are creating at XL and [Cal] [ph].
And I think when those two firm -- when these two firms come together it's just going to be a real powerhouse in the large complex risk space.
And in a world where risk solutions are becoming more and more complex where risk mutates more rapidly being a part of the firm that is doing the really creative hard work of making sure our clients are well protected I can’t imagine a place I'd rather be as an underwriter and that's exactly what we are trying to create.
And so I just think I can only comment kind of the -- on the impact of our own colleagues.
But I think they are going to really want to be a part of it and I’m going to be excited.
I know Steven is to create as many opportunities for that kind of wonderful opportunity as we can.
All right.
Great.
Thanks.
And just one other follow-up and this is from what I think Paul Newsome was just talking about.
We ended up getting the book yield and the new money yield on your European or foreign book.
But can you just provide the similar percentages for the overall book or I guess the domestic book however you would communicate it? We’ve done well.
You’ve got Pete reaching for a file.
So he is looking for a number.
No.
I think it’s in the -- yeah it was -- I covered in the script.
Let me just go back and cover it again.
So we had 3% -- and so we had that new money rate of 1.7% and our average book yield was 2.7%.
2.7%.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Meyer Shields with KBW.
You may ask your question.
Thanks.
Good evening.
One basic question.
Just wanted to make sure I understand it.
When you’ve got dramatic foreign exchange changes does that itself produce some of the reserve development that you reported in the quarter or are those two categories completely distinct? No.
Meyer could you repeat the question? I couldn’t hear it.
Yeah.
Let me try again I am sorry I am having phone call for awhile.
When -- I don’t know the euro weakens dramatically against the dollar? Does that translate -- does that produce reserve development when your euro liabilities now require few dollars to fund them? No.
It would not.
So the FX movements will go to the currency translation line and that would not be reported as part of the prior year development.
Okay.
So Meyer so if you look at our income statement and you saw the FX in the income statement that would be large portion of it would be the re-denomination of those liabilities.
Okay.
No.
That’s perfect.
I just want to make sure that I understood that.
We haven’t talked about Berkshire Hathaway in awhile? But now that’s company Berkshire Hathaway specialty has gotten sort of settled? Are they are more relevant competitive for us than they were a year ago than anything to concern you? No.
I’ve -- we have expected anything that that crowd puts its line to we expect them to do well.
We certainly notice them a bit more.
But I can’t say that that they have a history of being really disciplined underwriters.
So I don’t think there is anything other than another competitor on one hand that’s going to grow and influence overtime but at the same time what I expect will be a continuing consolidation of other players.
So it’s kind of one hand on the other hand but in the end I don’t -- I haven’t seen any real distortion in the marketplace because of their presence.
Okay.
Fantastic.
Thanks very much guys.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Ryan Byrnes with Janney Capital.
You may ask your question.
Great.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Good evening everybody.
Just wanted to touch I think Greg’s comment earlier on the Insurance segment.
I think you guys stated that there were -- large losses were 25% higher than last year and obviously last year there was a lot of volatility in the underlying loss ratio but we didn’t see it this year? So I was just wondering if you could help us give us a little bit more color on what kind of impact it did had this year on a percentage basis and see what the -- why those losses persisted and can you get Reinsurance coverage more favorably heading into next year? Sure Ryan.
It’s Greg Hendrick.
So from a dollar perspective when we look at large losses we are looking at over $10 million for property and energy.
Last year we had at the end of the accident year so the end of the 12 months as reported we had $110 million or about 2.6 plus ratio points.
So ’14 we had $132 million or 3.3 points.
So 0.7 higher loss ratio impact from large losses but we still improved our accident year cat by 2 points.
That’s quite simple.
All that hard work I have been talking about of re-mixing re-underwriting and really gaining a much more profit underlying portfolio there isn’t any one two or three things I’ve point you on the one that I’ve reiterated in the past.
So for us when I look at the losses I don’t see anything that could give me trouble about what we underwrote how we underwrote it the line size and so I feel like we are -- there is great amount of volatility.
If I gave you the last five years in terms of count we have had 27 267 at the end of the 12-month accident year period.
So quite a bumpy up and down that is part of the volatility we might turn -- talked about earlier.
On reinsurance we did put in place an arrogant risk protection at May 1.
That has -- we have contributed number of these losses against there got deductible so from here for the remainder of that treaty period we will have a lot less volatility where we had experienced more loss in the first part of next year.
As far as May 1 goes we will see when we get there about the Reinsurance purchasing.
As things are at the moment we don’t expect any problems with our reinsurance treaty renewals.
Great.
That’s great color.
Thank you.
And then my last question is were there any one-time Catlin expenses in the fourth quarter and I guess should we anticipate any go-forward? Hey Ryan.
It’s Pete.
There was diminish amount is approximately $2 million of Catlin expenses in the quarter and really I think we are unable to give you much guidance for what we are going to see in the future I apologies.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ian Gutterman from Balyasny.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Thank you.
Pete I have -- I notice something about your Reinsurance segment in Q4 last year as I didn’t notice this until today? But sequentially the accident year was about 10 points better than the first three quarters and the same thing happened last year and the same thing in 2012 before that that never happened.
Is there some seasonality in Q4 in your Reinsurance accident year or are you doing true-ups on your pick and that’s been to your benefits in the past two years or is there some reason in Q4s a lot better than the rest of the year? So yes I will let John talk about that.
There was some seasonality there.
Sure.
Okay.
But essentially the process is to take a look at the accident year in the fourth quarter and revert to actual reported activity.
And so what you're seeing in the last few years is the actual CAT activity running much better than expected.
I’d called attritional CAT activity running much better than expected and then that's brought into the actuarial methods and essentially there's a release across the year for that activity.
Got it.
Okay.
So for that -- so I shouldn’t necessarily build that it for next year unless a sense of being like a CAT year again? Right.
And just to give you a sense for the fourth quarter the impact of that activity was about 8.2 points.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then on the incentive comp was there a bigger impact on Reinsurance proportionally than insurance? It looked like there was a bigger increase in the Reinsurance expense ratio year-over-year than the Insurance increase? Yeah.
Proportionally there would be.
I mean the way we work our incentive comp is highly aligned to localized results and clearly the Reinsurance results were genuinely outstanding.
Got it.
Okay.
And then my last one on the Insurance segment on pricing.
As you've grown I assume to some extent the new business carries a new business country with it a are you able to -- on renewal essentially get it back to sort of a necessary long-term price or you still in the process of that and how much is that impacted by the overall pressure on rates? I guess I wonder is there sort of another mix benefits to rates beyond just sort of the headline number as you renew new business? Let me start then I’m going to pass it to Greg.
This is Mike.
The one thing I observed is when you set up a new team you often get what I would call honeymoon pricing at the start.
The market is excited to have that team with your firm and they have a lot of relationships that they are leveraging and you can get some surprising good pricing at the outset of the new team being stood up.
So the penalty as it were is less than you might think.
Okay.
Ordinary new business activity.
But Greg you want to comment on the rest of it.
Sure.
Yeah.
I’d say a couple of things.
One is I think I have touched upon in the past.
Quite often it’s the case that this is not new business to the underwriters at XL.
Either we’ve seen it in prior durations at XL or the underwriters have seen it in their prior lines and other operations.
So these aren’t particularly in their large commercial space.
These aren’t brand new unknown risk to us that we are trying to price for you as opposed to what you are trying to underwrite new home or new car on your small business.
The second one is the interesting piece of data.
I have heard others comment on this on their call.
We’ve made a great effort over the last three years to build up our ability to capture rate adequacy in the Insurance segment.
And without fail as we’ve build this process and strengthen it new business prices are better than renewal business.
I’ve heard others comment on that conundrum because in your question I get the same inference which is it must be worse and it just -- the data doesn’t seem do it.
Now that maybe that you don’t know as much about the new business as you do the renewal but I just want to give that point of data to you that there is a stronger price adequacy based on our pricing tools for new versus renewal.
The last thing is I don’t think you should be modeling any kind of return on renewals going forward.
There is so many moving parts in an insurance book.
You are constantly in a good year.
We’re at 85% to 87% retention ratio.
So we’re refilling 13% 15% 20% of the book anyway.
So you’re constantly having new and there’s just too many moving parts to tell you that you are going to get an improvement for that one when the current new business renews.
Got it.
Makes sense.
Thank you for that helpful answer.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Dan Farrell with Sterne Agee.
You may ask you question.
Hi and good evening.
Just a question on growth and insurance I know you said that there were some large accounts added to the growth.
But I was hoping you could give us little more detail within the segments.
What types of lines are driving casualty growth? What types of lines are driving other insurance growth? Sure Dan.
So let me break it down into three parts.
Your first one is the large or timing that I referred to in my comments.
Couple of those are in the Global Risk Management business or U.S.
Risk Management business where we have big gross written premiums where we’re writing a policy over insurance captive and they’re retaining a large part of the risk.
So we’re proud to be successful there in a couple of instances in the quarter.
Our North American Construction team has had some strong growth as well.
There was some premium associated with the retrospective Worker's Comp.
which is not a big part of our insurance book but we do have some of it.
There’s a little bit there.
And the rest of it was a companion that I won’t bore you with a miscellaneous kind of timings and accruals and true-ups that goes on in the normal course of business with insurance.
In terms of the second piece which is we’re growing in businesses I touched on Construction.
Crisis Management had a great quarter as well.
International Financial Lines is another area where we grew strongly.
And if I turn over to geography Brazil we had a really strong quarter in Brazil across a number of different lines of business that is really paying off in our investments down there.
So those are the pieces of the growth year-over-year.
Okay great.
And then just another sort of numbers question on reinsurance purchase in that gross I realize it’s hard for you to comment on what’s going to happen forward with your purchase.
But if we look at the quarterly seasonality you obviously did a lot of purchase in 2Q and then the retention jumps back up in 3Q and 4Q.
Is that the right seasonality on a quarterly basis to think about as it just happened to be? What products are you reinsuring in that particular given quarter? We should have a less seasonality on a normal -- as we reach normal run rate.
This is standalone XL commentary now.
Standalone run rate for reinsurance suited those jumps up and down or when we had certain quota shares renewing in the professional and we’ve talked a bit about this one in July to join for our casualty.
And so what you see there is the effect of the changes that hit the books then and changes that suited -- I’m sorry net to gross retention ratio.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And at this time I will turn the call back over to the speakers for closing remarks.
This is Mike.
I guess three quick things number one our colleagues who often check in on these calls.
I just want to say that we in the leadership group and certainly the board as well are deeply appreciative of the hard work that produces extraordinary results.
And it’s really an exciting time for the firm and exciting time going forward.
We know very well that's an anxious time as well.
And I promise you we are working very very hard to get answers to people as quickly as we can and we will keep at it.
Second to the analyst community I just want to observe that this transaction clearly was surprising to some people and some side as a whole new strategy and other things.
And I just want to thank the community for the open-mindedness you’ve shown to this transaction.
I think it has a lot to say for it and there is a lot we can’t yet say about it.
That’s been frustrating for everyone but I’ve appreciated the open-minded approach that’s been taken.
And third addressed to my beloved Seahawks I love them even more.
They handled the loss with class was pretty cool.
Anyway thank you very much for your time.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is Kelley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group Plc First Quarter Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please be advised that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kelley.
And welcome to XL Group's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's Web site at www.xlgroup.com.
And we posted to our Web site several documents including our press release and quarterly financial supplement.
Please note that public information regarding our proposed acquisition with Catlin Group may be found on our corporate Web site and our transaction specific Web site xl.transactionannouncement.com.
As noted in the offer announcement the UK Takeover Code does not apply to Catlin as it is a Bermuda domicile company.
However due to provisions with respect to the UK Takeover Code and Catlin’s bylaws the parties have agreed to certain matters regarding the application of the UK Takeover Code to the potential transaction.
As we disclosed in previous communication this puts significant constraints around the party’s statements which we hope you can understand and we have Jason Eisenstadt of Goldman Sachs with us this evening as the city code monitor.
On the call this evening Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who’ll offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer who'll review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations and John Welch our Interim Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
And then we'll open it up for questions.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements including those with respect to XL and the proposed transaction of Catlin.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations all of which involve risk and uncertainty and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K as well as other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they're made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response with new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening and thank you for attending tonight’s call.
Obviously the big event we want to talk about is the pending completion of our acquisition of Catlin and as I am sure you are aware our anticipated close date was is as soon as this Friday May 1st.
It is true that at this point we have received all of the necessary regulatory approvals and the approval of Catlin shareholders.
Our last step in fact was sanctioning order by the Spring Court of Bermuda which we received just today.
And while the 1st is so very near it is not yet occurred so all we can share about the transaction remain limited to what we have otherwise publicly disclosed as per the UK City Code on Takeovers.
Tonight therefore the call will focus on XL’s first quarter results and is our intention to hold the transaction focus conference call currently scheduled for May 28th.
On that call on May 28th we intent to give you a sense of the post call integration process share with you our impressions of the first month of combined operations and provide you with some information to support your modeling of XL Catlin as head into the second half of the year and beyond.
As we will still be only in our infancy as a combine company it won’t be everything you want but I think we can at least get to the point where you get the detail that you need to start understanding the company we’re creating.
The only other note I’d offer on integration planning is to say we are very pleased with how the planning process is proceeding we set ourselves an aggressive timeline and have asked much of our colleagues and from our regulators in the past month and they have responded to me and often even exceeded our expectations.
And so to all of the XL and Catlin colleagues listening thank you and soon we’ll be on to the really exciting work of putting into action all of the plans that we have made.
Now as to our first quarter result.
We have said that despite all the Catlin-related activity we would remain focused on delivering XL's 15 plan.
Q2 we are enormously proud of how our XL colleague have responded to the solid start to the year made clear by these results.
P&amp;C combine ratio for the quarter was 88.9% better than the 89.7% of a year ago.
The lost ratio and underwriting profit for the quarter of 58.3% and $148 million were also slight improvement on those metrics from the same quarter a year ago.
Gross written premiums were 2.48 billion for the first quarter versus 2.43 billion of a year ago.
For the businesses both the insurance and re-insurance segments had strong starts for the year and insurance combine ratio of 94.1% was 1.3 points better than the first quarter of 2014 or even more importantly the accident year ex-CAT combined ratio continue to move in the right direction.
93.2% in this quarter versus 94.6% a year ago.
In this his last call of the head of insurance operations pending of course the transaction to close Greg will get into more of the insurance segment results in a few minutes.
In reinsurance while the familiar refrain of being a tough market continued we remain confident in our teams discipline to underwriting in these conditions.
This was again demonstrated in the segment combined ratio of 74.7% an improvement from the 76.3% in the prior year albeit added by a relatively light CAT quarter.
John Welch will provide additional detail in his reinsurance report.
A few final notes before turning it to Pete for additional comments on the financials of the quarter.
First as you would have seen on Monday we released our global lost triangles which we believe illustrate the continued prudence of our reserving approach.
Second you can also now find our 2014 letters to shareholders posted on the Investor Relations section of xlgroup.com.
And third we are very excited about the recent announcement of XL Innovate the XL sponsored venture capital fund we recently launched.
The idea which led to XL Innovates launch is pretty simple.
We want to be able to identify and move swiftly to create model solutions around the new and evolving risk challenges facing the globe.
And once we have created such novel solutions we want to have the flexibility to marry them to the right sources of capital and to bring them to market in a variety of potential forms.
As a result here the scope and the potential for what we think we can accomplish is both broad and very very excited.
In this I'm really pleased that we will be able to have Tom Hutton who has deep insurance and technology expertise to lead the effort of course Tom is a past director of XL as well.
So it’s great to be partnering with him again.
Most recently Tom helped create New Energy Risks new energy and technology and consulting company that partnered with XL uniquely last year to launch an innovative field sell insurance product.
That’s the kind of effort we're seeking to replicate through XL Innovate across a variety of different sectors and risks and as just one more example to how we're pushing to drive for innovation at XL and we think by extension across the industry.
With that I'll turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating net income for the first quarter was $194 million or $0.75 per share on a fully diluted bases compare to $239 million in 2014 or $0.85 per share.
We've excluded $25 million in Catlin deal related transaction cost from operating earnings which I will discuss a little later.
Our net income attributable to ordinary sales for the quarter was $36 million or $0.14 per share on a fully diluted basis as we have previously noted our net income numbers are impacted by the mark-to-market movement of the derivatives that trends to the economics of the asset packing our second quarter 2014 life reinsurance transaction.
However that derivative movement is completely offset by investment income realized gains and losses and a change in the unrealized position of our portfolio and does not impact our net book value operating income or comprehensive income.
We continue to show that relationship in the summary consolidated financial data included with the press release.
The continued declines in UK and EU interest rate have caused an increase in the value of those assets with an offsetting derivative loss.
Our property and cash combined ratio for the quarter was 88.9% or 0.8 points better in the same quarter last year.
Our accident year combine ratio for the quarter was 92.5% the same as the first quarter of 2014.
Greg and John will discuss our underwriting results in further detail.
For the quarter our natural catastrophes losses totaled $15 million or 1.1 loss ratio points by comparison net losses from natural catastrophes in the same quarter of 2014 totaled $17 million or 1.2 loss ratio point.
Prior year reserved enrollment in the quarter was a net favorable $48 million or 3.7 loss ratio points compare to $39 million in 2.7 lost ratio points for the same quarter in 2014.
This reflects favorable development of 6 million and $42 million in the insurance and reinsurance segments.
Our semiannual full actuarial review will be included in our results next quarter.
As I mentioned we incurred approximately $25 of transaction cost related to the Catlin acquisition.
These are predominantly made up of legal and due diligence fees relating to the transaction totaling approximately 10 million which are included in operating expenses combined with the cost of bridge financing facility of approximately $15 million which is recorded in interest expense.
We continue to expect this transaction to close in the second quarter and therefore we would expect to incur additional deal specific cost in that period.
Excluding this cost operating expenses have decreased 8.7% from the fourth quarter of 2014 due primarily to the impacted variable compensation in last year's fourth quarter number.
Compared to the first quarter in 2014 our operating expenses excluding this cost have increased by approximately 1.5%.
Turning to investment performance the XL investment portfolio returned 1.3% for the quarter including a positive mark-to-market of $95 million.
Included in the quarterly mark-to-market when net realized gains of $5 million this compares to net realized gains of $19 million in the first quarter of 2014.
At $158 million net investment income on the portfolio was $75 million below the same quarter last year primarily due to the Life transaction but also the impact of reinvestment yields and to a lesser extent foreign exchange on the P&amp;C portfolio.
The gross book yield in the portfolio at the end of March was 2.6%.
During the quarter our average new money rate was 1.3% this was negatively impacted by the purchase of short-dated treasuries as we started to build liquidity to fund the pending Catlin acquisition.
Adjusting for these purchases and more reflective of our ongoing investment activities that new money yield was 1.5%.
Given current yield net investment income will continue to remain under pressure as we've approximately $2.9 billion of access with book yield of 2.8% rolling off over the next 12 months.
Unrealized net gains in the portfolio were $1.2 billion at the end of the fourth quarter.
The duration of our fixed income portfolio at the end of the quarter was 3.7 years slightly shorter than the previous quarter.
Net income from investment fund and investment manager operating affiliates was $39 million for the quarter down $21 million from the prior year quarter as incentive fees from our investment manager affiliates were not as strong as they have been in the previous year when they had an exceptional quarterly performance.
The investment funds particularly the alternatives portfolio continued to perform well generating $35 million in earnings.
On April 01st 2015 we completed the previously announced sale of all of XL shares in American Strategic Insurance to the [Progress] Corporation.
On March 31 2015 the company's carrying value was $223 million.
XL received approximately $560 million in proceeds from the transaction and will record a gain of approximately $337 million in the second quarter.
With respect to capital management in connection with the proposed acquisition of Catlin on March 30 2015 we issued $500 million of 4.45% 10 year subordinate notes and $500 million of 5.5% 30 year subordinate notes.
These notes were designed to meet Solvency II capital standards for loss absorbency.
To the best of our knowledge this was the first Solvency II debt financing conducted in the U.S.
fixed income market and we’re very pleased with the results.
The net proceeds from the sale of these notes together with cash and cash equivalents from other sources have been deposited in ESCROW to discharge the cash consideration payable to Catlin shareholders in respect with the acquisition.
According XL cancelled the 1.6 billion pound bridge facility effective as of April 08 2015 to avoid future bridge costs.
At December 31 2014 $268 million remained available for purchase under our share buyback program.
We suspended active share buybacks during the first quarter to the close of our proposed acquisition of Catlin.
We will discuss capital management in our May 20th quarter call that Mike referred to.
I will now turn it over to Greg to discuss our insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete and good evening.
Tonight I’ll cover the results of the segment provide some color on our progress during the quarter and finish with remarks on current market conditions.
Beginning with the results the first quarter marked our 9th consecutive quarter profitability.
With the segment produced in calendar quarter combined ratio of 94.1% compared to 95.4% in the same quarter last year.
Insurance segment produced a strong accident quarter ex-CAT combined ratio of 93.2% compared to 94.6% in the first quarter of 2014.
This is our best result on this basis since 2007.
This year-over-year improvement was driven primarily by 1 point improvement in the underwriting expense ratio as well as an accident quarter ex-CAT loss ratio of 63.2% which was 0.3 points better than prior year.
The results also benefited from another quarter of favorable CAT activity which contributed 0.2 points to the improvement and this was mostly offset by slightly lower prior year development.
The underwriting expense ratio was 30% in the first quarter reflecting an improvement of 1 full point in the first quarter of last year.
This improvement was largely result of the actions we've taken to shift towards quarter share trades in a number of our businesses improving our acquisition ratio to 8.4% in the first quarter compared to 10.6% in the first quarter of 2014.
As we've discussed previously our operating expense ratio increased by 1.2% partially driven by the quarter share usage.
We have been actively managing our stocking levels as we've completed the build-out phase for many of our businesses.
Our headcount increased by just 1% during the first quarter of the year down from 2.5% increase in the first quarter of last year.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by 169 million or 10.8% in the quarter when adjusted for foreign exchange movement.
All of this has contributed this growth led by North American Property and Casualty our gross premiums were up 16% driven by new business and higher renewal retention in construction Global Risk Management and E&amp;S.
Specialty was up 15% reflecting higher new business in Marine and Offshore Energy and strong retention in crisis management.
International Property and Casualty gross premiums were up 8% to the continued growth in international middle markets an increased new business and primary casualty partially offset by lower premium in property.
And professional is up 6% mostly due to higher new business in our international financial lines business and continued growth in our cyber book.
Underpaying this growth we continue to see an increase in submissions across the segment and quote a higher percent of these submissions reflecting our positive momentum in the large commercial marketplace.
Shifting to ongoing progress as mentioned earlier we experience a 1.4 improvement in our accident year ex-CAT combined ratio relative to the first quarter of 2014 despite competitive market conditions which I’ll talk about in a moment.
We continue to focus on an improved mix of business and ongoing execution of underwriting actions both of which contributed during the quarter.
In addition our measured use of proportionally insurance to strong [seating] commissions our efforts to create operating leverage through efficiencies and rigorous expense management and the increase in the scale of our newer businesses have all contributed to the 1 point improvement in our underwriting expense per share.
While we continue to pull this leverage and have delivered continued improvement over the past few years we strongly believe that the XL Catlin transaction will allow us to pull these levels even harder and accelerate our progress towards top quintile performance.
Turning to market conditions we saw continuation of our reported during the second half of 2014.
First quarter pricing is flat and slightly negative across most lines of business as the overall rate change for the segment was minus 0.2%.
As the momentum has clearly continue to slow 13 of our 23 businesses have price decreases compare to only 6 in the first quarter of last year and overall pricings are now lagging trend by just under 2 points.
In the first quarter our professional businesses achieved rate increases just over 1% driven by our Cyber and miscellaneous professional businesses.
Our international P&amp;C were flat with slight increases in cash [indiscernible] markets offset by slight decreases in property.
Our North American specialty business continue to be most severely impacted with an overall rate decrease of one to two points larger reflecting continued competitive conditions in property and aviation lines respectively.
Finally while we once again benefitted from a relatively quiet catastrophe quarter we delivered another solid quarter of underlying profitability and more importantly we continued our ongoing trajectory of underwriting improvement.
Had a great run over the past three years steady improvement resulted from a hard work of a great group of colleagues and while this moment is a little bitter-sweet for me and I turn over the reins to Paul [indiscernible] I feel strong as this segment is well positioned for continued success.
Combine their leadership with a high caliber of the combined XL Catlin Insurance team the segment is poised to delivered continued improvement in our results.
Now the John will discuss reinsurance results.
Thank you Greg and good evening.
The Reinsurance segment got off to another excellent start in 2015 with the combined ratio of 74.7% and resulting underwriting profit of 90 million for the quarter.
This compares with the combine ratio of 76.3% and the underwriting profit of 100 million for the first quarter of 2014.
We had the benefit of the light quarter of catastrophe activity and continued favorable reserve runoff.
Considering the competitive landscape we are pleased with how the portfolio performed in the first quarter.
Our reserve releases in the quarter were 42 million or 11.9 points compared with 30 million or 7.2 points a year ago.
The current quarter release was entirely driven by favorable run-off in short tail lines of business.
The year-over-year improvement was produced by the property catastrophe line.
Excluding prior year development portfolio generated a combine ratio of 86.6% which compares to the 83.5% produced in the first quarter of 2014.
The accident quarter loss ratio rose 1.7 points to 54.7% for the quarter.
The primary drivers of the loss ratio increase were one-time premium reductions and prior underwriting years and underlying rate deterioration with a partial offset due to an improved mix of business.
There was no impact from catastrophe losses for the first quarter in the current or prior year.
Turning top-line gross written premium for the quarter was 826 million down from 858 million in the first quarter of 2014.
The impact of FX on gross written premium year-over-year was a reduction of 54 million or 6.2%.
Excluding the impact of FX the 2.5% growth in the quarter was primarily driven by the specialty crop insurance book and a few new opportunities in U.S.
casualty treaty for which we are the lead reinsurer.
The net earn premium experienced a year-over-year reduction of 63 million or 15% 18 million or 4.4 points related to the impact of FX with the remainder driven by the decline in net premium during 2014.
This decline was driven by the property catastrophe and casualty lines.
Turning to market conditions we experienced deteriorating rate adequacy across all lines and regions during the first quarter.
The largest magnitude of deterioration was experience in the property catastrophe book followed by other short tail lines and finally casualty.
Since the end of the quarter the only significantly renewal for XL at April 1 was in the Japanese market.
Japanese renewals were competitive with Cat-ex oil rate of 10% to 15% and upward seeding commission pressure on proportional treatises.
There were some isolated pockets of increase demand from some large buyers.
In conclusion it was successful quarters from a profitability perspective.
Prior year reserve continue to run off favorably and benefited from light quarter for catastrophe.
Market conditions continue to be challenging however we have found some pockets of opportunity and are pleased with the portfolio written to date.
With that I will turn it back to David.
Kelley can you please the open the lines for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instruction] The first question will come from the line of Mr.
Josh Stirling of Bernstein.
Sir your line is now open.
So Mike I think I and everybody who reads [Bloodberg] enjoyed your comments about M&amp;A in the shareholders letter.
You made some comments about companies historically sometime becoming road kill and I thought -- I know we can't ask you about details on the deal.
So I won't try to do that but big picture as you look back over your history in the industry when you think about challenged deals that often didn’t work or were really difficult for the companies to digest.
When you look back what are some of the pit falls that you think M&amp;A presents and then how would you guys tried to design this acquisition and probably -- even more important you are approach to integration to try to think through and prevent some of these promise in the merging? So I'm glancing over at our takeover council as I answer.
So that he can hit me directly between the eyes more easily.
I do think Josh that you’ve asked an important question that I can answer.
Couple of thoughts first of all we did as a part of our work with our risk management committee and with the full board.
We actually did an analysis of all of the deals that have gone before not just in our space but in other space.
And went through what we thought were their causes of failure in various transaction to try and understand how if we did any transaction much this specific one we're talking about; how we would approach it.
So we had a general rule book of what can happen in transactions and what can be done to mitigate that.
So we went into this knowing that for our sectors specifically and generally there are an awful lot of failures in M&amp;A and I can give you a handful of the things that were very much on our mind as we thought about them.
Number one many of them failed because of the way they are entered into.
In other words the initial pricing terms and conditions of the agreement and the approach to bringing the companies together.
So lot of it's about how you get into in the first place.
The second thing is so many failures can be related to culture were the companies truly comparable where the leaderships of the company approaching these integrations in the right way.
Third category of failures is when there is not sufficient emphasis on the economics of the transaction but just some kind of focused on strategy and our belief that if you get strategy right everything else will follow.
I think I mentioned in my letter that we particularly don’t buy into that notion we believe it has to answer both on the strategy level as well as on the financial level.
And finally a fifth category of failure is when you sort of loose control on the integration when in essence the things that you believe will happen whether synergies or retention of key people or business proved to be wrong.
And therefore as you go along you cannot create the economic or strategic outcome that you believed was worth the deal in the first place.
So those are some of the big ticket -- there are a good dozen of these if I remember the list.
But those were some of the big ticket items that we were very focused on.
And here I will only comment on things that we have previously discussed.
But as previously discuss we have the advances because we weren’t already in the deals frenzy that has subsequently evolved we had the advantage of a very long period of run up in which really amounting about 18 months in which Steven and I and later the broader leadership teams and we and later teams of people through due diligence across the companies could confirm to our satisfaction that in fact the cultures were compatible highly compatible in fact.
That in fact the economics and not just the strategy made sense; that in fact we believe we could pull people along to the common vision and there is just been nothing that has taken place since that has changed any of our view that we are starting with a very advantaged hand as we enter what becomes now the real integrations.
As we entered what becomes now the real integration.
As we've mentioned before we've had a teams of literally dozens upon dozens -- hundreds of people from the company focused on the integration activities in accordance with the law while at the same time the vast majority of colleagues from both XL and Catlin have focused on delivering a quarter first quarter which as you can see from the numbers we've managed to do.
So I suppose only one last though and then if you have a follow-up I will see if someone can answer.
But the other thought I would add is this quarter continues to show that this wasn't something we felt we needed to do our own book of business is performing very well and I can tell you Greg and I look each other from time-to-time say man it's going to so well and yet at the same time we believe that respecting the strategic imperatives about which I’ve talked so much and is in the letter as well these five big things and they need to respond to the write off change in the sector.
We continue to believe that the combined company XL-Catlin once it if closed will even be more effective that positioning our ability to solve client needs and thereby return of an appropriate return for our shareholders.
So I hope that’s helpful but this was done fully aware of the various pitfalls in fact with fair amount of analysis around them and in a deep believe that we had done all we could to mitigate against those in both the run up and now in our preparation to jump in the next deal together should it close in fact on Friday.
Mike thank you.
I think that was really thoughtful and complete.
I guess my only follow-up would be when you think about -- you may have talked a lot of about culture of the firm being compatible but it is a combination you got into the XL Catlin is new trade name.
How does an XL underwriter begin to look at the world differently? How does the Catlin underwriter begin to look at the world differently? And how should we think about you guys long-term.
I mean is this XL but plus [indiscernible] company or Catlin starts to look more like Bermuda company or you both look more like a specialty company? I was just trying to maybe get a sense of what you think the longer vision is? And how from an underwriting perspective particular the world changes? Unfortunately now you really are in the perspective questions.
So I can’t talk about how XL Catlin will compete because it doesn't exist yet.
But you can presume very strongly based on your intuitive logic is that we didn't spend all this money to then go and somehow make it just one or the other that would be too limited.
It's really about how they bring as we've said many times the best of both forward.
I do think though there is an implicit element to your question but I can answer that.
That Pete reminds was certainly important to how we’re comfortable with this transaction.
And that is -- it is clear to me that one of the other big failure risks is the inability to be decisive and one of the things I would have formulated your question differently but I’ll anticipate that others would want to know this and believe me we’re not going to spend a lot more time on this topic.
So you actually kind of got away with one.
But the bottom-line is I've been hired twice to clean up the mess of under executed transactions before.
I could argue that the [indiscernible] of transaction here wasn't complete and that we completed it.
And I’d know for sure that when I got to Safeco one of the big problems was that they bought American stakes and they never fully made the tough decisions to integrate the companies to really bring forward the best of best they acted like they could just go on as they were before.
You can't do that and you have to be decisive and willing to be decisive and make tough choices as to both organizations in order to create truly world class going forward competitor.
And I can say that I watched some of that work and cleaned up some of that work when I was at C&amp;A as well.
So I can just tell you we’re being decisive you’ve seen the rollout of choices amongst competitive competent people of our various leadership jobs all the down several levels now that have been in the press and we’re going to approach saying we’re absolutely determined and will not be thwarted it our ability to bring the best forward and to deliver on the economics we promised to the marketplace.
The next question will come from the line of Cliff Gallant of Nomura.
Sir your line is now open.
You touched on share repurchases and how that you might revisit that question in a few weeks.
But I am just wondering how you feel about the capital position of the company today as you head into the merger? And from your perspective Pete do you think it is capacity for buyback and what would your thinking be around that? There is a couple of things that are obvious because we have not been buying back shares during this period of time and because we had the successful sale of our ownership of ASI clearly capital is building it the company.
At the same time we've said very clearly that we will talk about capital management as a part of giving you the information necessary to model us into the future and that is referred to the May 28th call and until then we are not going to get into those questions.
As a follow-up then just on the quarter’s results then when I look at the insurance progress and you guys continue to have great progress on the underlying combined ratio.
And then even 1.4 points this quarter I didn’t notice all that from the -- in the second half of last year was more like 3 points a quarter and I am curious are we getting to the point now where you would have expected that the rate of improvement would have slowed that a lot of the low hanging fruit was sort of -- have been taking care of? Not at all I would say we would believe there is a lot less [environment] and it turned over to Greg but the one win that was still somewhat contributing then and is not now of course is rate I mean that’s why you're seeing some shift in what’s going on between this year and last year but that doesn’t -- [Rob] as something we’re doing to make progress.
Right we’re still making progress Cliff part of it is on mix we continue to mix in -- most of the new businesses are kind of higher margin than we’ve had in the past.
We continue to be very rigorous as I mentioned in my comments on the underwriting actions that yielded over half a point in the quarter this year.
So we have a couple of other levers to pull on.
It does get -- the quarter-over-quarter rate of improvement does get little bit harder as you get to the end but we still feel we’ve got a lot of room to go is what we’ve got in hand.
The other thing I would remind you of is is in first quarter of the year this is really an [A versus E] quarter PYD doesn’t get looked at hard until you get to the second and fourth quarter which also would add to the accelerating phenomena of some of these benefits in prior years.
Thank you.
The next question will come from the line of Mr.
Brian Meredith of UBS.
Sir your line is now open.
A couple of questions here for you the first one just looking at field reinsurance during the quarter anything different that happened there looked like bought some more retro on the property cap book any positioning actually for the Catlin acquisition as you kind of look through the summer months? This is Greg I’ll start with the -- on the insurance segment we’ve been running quarter-to-quarter around about 66% to 72% net-written to gross-written retention ratio and it was 66% I believe this quarter.
There is a bit of noise in that number we wrote a couple of sizeable and meaningful transactions on our global risk management which is the -- where we ensure Fortune 1000 companies they retain a significant amount of it so large amount [indiscernible] and sometimes to call insurers.
There is a little bit of noise there there is also a true up on one of our quarter shares from prior year.
So we don’t anticipate that run rate in the first quarter to do what you would see underneath the insurance segment.
Brian on the reinsurance side what happens in the first quarter as we book the majority of our crop premium is sales closing for especially crops are essentially December through February that led to about two point bump in the ceded written premium or the gross written premium relationship.
But that’s about probably 80% of the premium we’ll book for the year for that business.
So I think for the next three quarters we’ll just revert back to a more normal historical ratio of ceded to gross.
Anything specific on property [Cato] that particularly look like a sometime pretty significantly year-over-year? No not really.
The only thing I’d add to what’s been said is that that none of it has anything to do with [excel] calendar; obviously given that the transaction hasn’t close we’ve had to maintain entirely separate reinsurance purchases strategies and won’t get through to work on the benefit said that we have described and we think to our benefits there but we won’t start being able to bring those to life until the company are actually bought together.
And just one quick number question for Pete Pete what is the impact of FX on the investment income for the P&amp;C in the quarter? It was about $3 million.
Thank you.
The next question will come from the line of Mr.
Meyer Shields of KBW.
Your line is now open.
I was hoping that we could talk a little bit more about the mix shift in the insurance segment and whether the -- I guess year-over-year progress is likely to accelerate from what we saw in the first quarter? We may to same progress we’ve talked about on a number of calls where kind of in that 70% to 75% were we are at or within five points of our target combined ratio.
That’s been fairly steady improvement along the way.
I don’t see anything that would cause me to think that progress will continue through the rest of the year I am not going to forecast where we think it's going to get to but it's just continuing work and continuing remixing of the business.
And I don’t know whether Mike you answer this before but could you apply any reinsurance for less than the full year 2015 during the first quarter in anticipation of the calendar? No we really couldn’t approach the world that way I mean the reality is until its close it isn’t close and we had to do everything as though we were continuing to operate independently or as through for some reason it might not close.
Obviously as we get into these final days we are feeling very good about it but that’s not the same as being done.
So we did everything to deny to hey what if it didn’t happen you have to operate like it would.
The next question will come from the line of Mr.
Josh Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
Sir your line is now open.
I guess for John and Mike it's not surprising I suppose you said that most or actually all lines of business and reinsurance show pricing deterioration.
And we had a point obviously where we're not sure there is much of inflation on the claim side but clearly negative is been good on the pricing.
Not to take guidance -- I mean directionally is there a way for you guys to improve your margin reinsurance here or to the -- or it's about time to non-renew business in order to minimize that situation? Actually where we certainly went to a process last year trying to change and accomplishing changing the mix of business.
When we look at the economic returns we would say casualty would have the worst economic returns at this point for our portfolio and so essentially we pull back faster last year on that than the other lines.
Going into this year those lines have been somewhat stable it will be hard I think -- we've had some new opportunities the crop business was one of them to attempt to offset some of that loss business as the margins deteriorate.
But it will be difficult as we go through the year to foresee finding new business that will offset some of that lost business where the margins aren’t acceptable any more.
Do you think we should expect you to get smaller? Well the way I looked at the premium in the first quarter is if you back out the crop business the FX one time premium adjustments.
We are essentially flat year-over-year that’s not what we aspire to but I think we be happy if that’s the outcome.
And on tax the taxes it's hard predict any given quarter and one quarter is not a full year make.
Can you give us some thoughts on the second quarter maybe? And relatively you don’t want to take that line of questions looking at same thing should help us understand tax over the long term for XL has a larger more global company? Sure Josh its Pete I'm going to answer half of your question directly and the other we'll cover on the call on the 28th.
So what you would need to do in taxes -- it is a complicated quarter with the continuing noise in the life transaction impact in the net income.
If you looked at on an operating basis you would have saw our tax rate would have been just about exactly 13% which is pretty consistent with what we've been saying in the past we've sort of talking in the 12% range or so.
I don’t see anything that would change that as a standalone company Catlin has a lower tax rate than we do.
But at this point I really can't comment on what the likely tax rate of the combined entity would be.
That’s as good as I’m going to get I guess so I'll take it.
Thank you guys good luck.
The next question will come from the line of Mr.
Amit Kumar of Macquarie.
Sir your line is now open.
Just one quick follow if you go back to Q2 2014 we spend some time talking about large losses and at that time you had purchased a large risk aggregate cover.
Can you remind us if there is anything remaining on that or has that been fully utilized? And how should we think about that piece going forward? Through the end of the first quarter we have utilized recovered from a portion of that covers still has limit left in it.
It runs through May 1st of this year we're in the process of considering what to do with it that renewal and it's still some days ago.
So I don’t have any answer for what we will do going forward not to least what will be wrapped up within store -- we were not going to talk about our XL Catlin.
But there is limit left the first quarter was not anything abnormal in large loss activity.
Got it that’s all I had.
Thanks for the answers and good luck for the future.
The next question will come from the line of Mr.
Ian Gutterman of Balyasny.
Sir your line is now open.
First I'm going to ask that maybe it is a little bit in the grey area but I think the way I’ll ask it you’d way the ask that you can answer it.
As of Monday is there anything that prevents you from buying back stock if you choose to I'm not asking if you will or you won’t; but is there anything that presences you from starting to buy back stock at Monday if you wanted to? No.
Second lot of my other ones has been answered here.
The crop you talked about I think a fair amount of that’s in California is there any reason to be concerned about the drought? While it certainly something we monitor the crops that tend to be the most exposed to drought tend to be rogue crops which is not the target of the portfolio.
The portfolio is targeted towards almonds and citrus and grapes which do have the necessary irrigation to have a good year.
We’ve had a few good years in a row here.
We think given the target crops the draught shouldn't be an issue for us over the next 12 months we’ll say I think as we look at what develops over the next three years to five years if it can become a concern at that point.
This is Pete just to confirm.
Yes indeed it is the vast majority is California.
And then just my last and this is asked a little bit; but just to get a little more detail.
The drop in the investment income sequentially are you short from where the run was I think about 10 million maybe little bit more that’s focusing just on the P&amp;C part I guess 12 million from last quarter.
You said 3 was FX there is about 9 that seems like a lot to explain by just holding cash for Catlin plus the normal maturities versus new money.
Is there anything else in there or is this new run rate? The one I made when I backed up just couple of things.
Sure it's Pete.
And some of this goes into a new run rate and some of it is one off.
There was a one off distribution last quarter and all the numbers I am going to give you are right all around $3 million.
And so we actually capped at slightly more than 12 more or like 14 million over drought.
So there was a one-off distribution last quarter I guess about 3 million in addition to building cash for Catlin acquisition we also sold some of our higher yielding assets the two of them together I would say that was about 3 million and then the last one was just a general reduction in yields from reinvesting maturing bonds.
And so when you add those four up that’s a pretty much get to the money I think you were looking for.
The next question will come from the line of Mr.
Ryan Tunis of Credit Suisse.
Sir your line is now open.
My first question is just on the operating expenses XL Catlin.
They are up 1.6% year-over-year.
I think you guys have said you think you can do low single-digits and if I recall correctly I think in the back half of last year when we had more of the difficult comps with the higher variable compensation level.
Am I right to think that as the year goes on it should actually be easier to grow organic over operating expenses less or am I not thinking about that right on the variable expense side? First off and after this quarter we’re not going to be able to measure them anymore on the same basis.
But you are right that in the last quarter of last year we had a significant amount of variable compensation which drove that up which is why we had large decrease this quarter sequentially.
The one thing I would is that we benefited from foreign exchange in this quarter in the expenses.
So if you would have normalized to that it would have been more in the 5% range.
And so if you would have thought about that going for the next couple of quarters and then having a decline in the fourth quarter that’s where you would get to the low single-digit for the full year.
Just to be clear everything you saw this quarter though still makes you feel good about that low single-digit guidance you gave in the fourth quarter? Absolutely it's completely in line.
Just one more I guess is more general question in insurance right property I know is an area you guys have been trying to grow in.
We’ve heard competitors talk about how that’s a difficult line in terms of rate.
I am just curious maybe you could talk about the competitive environment there and any of the challenges turn to grow that line? Sure Ryan its Greg Hendrick.
It is definitely the more competitive as in general the most competitive area we see in the insurance marketplace.
Property in North America was down about 5 points and internationally down about 2 points.
Particularly North America in North America we’re coming off pricing levels which are generating sufficient margins for us.
So there has definitely been more capacity put to work.
It's definitely a lot harder and more difficult marketplace but it's one I think we can navigate well and these aren't run away rate reductions that we’re seeing on the insurance side.
This is Mike; I would add couple of things.
I was down there I just got back last night from [Rem’s] which is always very good place to get handle on what’s going on in the market and I can just tell you that the combination of the underwriting team we've assembled in the property space and the respected commands in the sector combined with the additional we’re able to make around risk management and through our GAAP's offering and the various mitigation program; we’re still able to make some headway in that sector.
We are not that bigger market share and that team and that offering are so compelling that we continue to see opportunities coming our way that still need our hurdles.
If we were a larger player perhaps I’d be more worried about our continuing ability to write but we certainly saw examples when I was down in [Rem’s] of places where we still have [indiscernible] to pick up some attractive business.
That’s my first point the second point on the question you asked Pete on expenses I just had one more thought I think it's really important not only are we well positioned because of the momentum in improving our broker business that we come into this period with but I’d much rather be in the position of executing upon a transaction in the midst of it as well because it simply gives you obviously more to work with and more levers to pull.
So I like both elements of our positioning should the deal in fact close on time.
Thank you.
The next question will come from the line of Mr.
Jay Cohen of Bank of America.
Sir your line is now open.
On your acquisition expenses and you reinsurance business I guess I would have expected that number to be rising over the past several years just given higher ceding commissions yet that number really haven’t budged is this a business mix issue why is it been so stable? Jay it really is at least for this quarter Jamie is not here to answer for the other years but for this quarter it’s a business mix issue the crop business in particular the proportion of CAT business that all helps the proportional business as commissions have reason exactly as you describe has been more difficult to write.
So as we’ve contracted over the years it's been disproportionately on proportional business side.
And so that’s how we’ve manage to control the commission rise.
And my other questions were answered so thanks I’ll talk to you at the end of the month.
Thank you.
At this time we do not have question from the queue.
Speakers you may proceed.
We appreciate the way in which the questions were approached today.
Obviously it's an uncomfortable thing to that there are important items you can’t talk about and I can’t tell you how eager I am to get to the 28th and to Friday to the days beyond to get this hopefully up and running.
I do think it's appropriate to take one minutes and couple of thank you.
First of all John Welch thank you very much for your Internship presuming it all goes through when Greg will slide back over so thank you.
Second to Sarah Street Sarah has been announced to chosen to take a reduced responsibility and to enjoy little more free time which she certainly has earned through the rather remarkable efforts to restructure our portfolio both during and after the financial crisis and providing what is simply an exemplary leader to the wonderful group of investment professionals that we have and I am thrilled that she will continue to work in the strategy and the XL innovate areas where I think she has enormous contributions to make.
But we should pause and I think it's appropriate in this venue to note in front of the shareholders the remarkable work Sarah has done over these years and finally to Greg well it's going to be thrilling to see what he does with the excitement that is structural shifts going on in the reinsurance world; it cannot be passed up the opportunity to again -- in front of our analysts and shareholders to thank Greg for the absolutely stellar leadership he has provided to the turnaround of our insurance businesses and I know very well both of them would immediately reflect to their colleagues for all that they have done but I want to make sure leadership matters and these two are really extraordinary at leadership.
So thanks to you both and thanks for the call you guys.
We’ll look forward to the 28th.
Thank you.
And that conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group PLC second quarter 2015 earnings call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley and welcome to our call.
Our call today is being simultaneously webcast at www.xlcatlin.com and www.xltgroup.com.
We have posted to our website several documents including our press release and quarterly financial supplement.
On our call this morning is Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who will offer opening remarks Pete Porinno XL's Chief Financial Officer who will review our financial results followed by Paul Brand our Chief Underwriting Officer and Chair of our Insurance Leadership Team and Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Also with us is Kelly Lyles our Chief Regional Officer and the Deputy Chair of our Insurance Leadership Team.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations all of which involve risk and uncertainty and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our most recent reports on forms 10-Q and 10-K as well as other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as the date of which they are made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Thank you each for joining our call.
Today we're very pleased to discuss our second quarter 2015 results.
The first results period for the combined operation of XL Catlin.
And although the quarter includes only two months of joint operation in that short time we're already seeing the many positive indicators supporting the rationale for our joining forces and for the quality of are integration work.
I'll give some of the highlights of the quarter and Pete Porinno will have further details on the numbers and then for the first time since the close of the transaction Paul Brand will discuss the insurance operations while Greg Hendrick will handle reinsurance.
In terms of the quarter as you have seen from the release issued last night our results included an operating ROE of 10% excluding unrealized gains and losses a P&amp;C combined ratio of 89.9% an underwriting profit of $209 million gross written premium of just over $3 billion and operating earnings of $0.84 per share.
Impacts to these results in the quarter included higher levels of cat in medium to large losses as you've already heard broadly from the market as well as $28 million in integration costs.
Overall these are solid results and we like our positions.
We're particularly pleased with these results we're delivered during a quarter that was messy for the industry and when we're fully into our integration work.
I also think these results bespeak progress toward a goal we've had for a long time of an increased ability to better absorb volatility.
As I have said we had a few large cats and higher than expected levels of losses and nonetheless the overall result is quite solid.
Now this could be luck.
We're in the fortuity business but this is something we've been striving to deliver for a long time and we have believed that the combination with Catlin would create an even more resilient and better spread book of business.
This could also be a result of that progress.
We will see.
Before turning it to Pete I also want to give you a quick update on the three areas related to the ongoing integration our current thinking regarding top line second our expectations for expenses and then third capital management.
First as to the top line.
As we all know the market faces plenty of headwinds.
We intend to maintain our discipline and the continuing guidance to all of our underwriters is that as much as we intend to grow our primary focus is and will always be on the bottom line.
The simple truth is for us bringing the two firms together is not the difficult thing.
The difficult thing for us and for everyone else in the market for that matter is the market itself.
And yet in the quarter we actually grew our top line and can only identify less than 1% of the business that was lost as a result of the deal.
That is far better than we had modeled going in.
Second regarding expenses we remain on track to achieve our synergy target of $250 million by year-end 2017 on a run rate basis and the ratio of cost to savings remains the same.
Roughly $1.25 in expenses for every $1 we can achieve in synergies.
That said we're in fact a bit ahead of this schedule in getting to our goal.
In addition we're also on track to gain the non-operating expense savings from areas like reinsurance purchasing claims adjustment expenses and investment management fees as discussed with you on our previous call.
And then third turning to capital management.
Since restarting share buybacks following the May 1 close of the deal we have followed the rate previously shared with you of a bit more than $50 million per month.
Here again we like being in a position to resume our capital management program and to continue to create additional value through buybacks.
Lastly I just want to emphasize once how pleased we're with the overall progress we have made on our integration.
Integration work is by its nature very hard and there are many changes that our people around the world are adapting to.
Yet they are anticipating and solving issues that arise and the market reaction remains well beyond our hopes.
A great example of what we've already achieved would be come from their quarterly results review that we recently held with all of the key leaders of our underwriting divisions regions and major functions.
My expectations for the meeting were very high because I believe these two cultures are innately aligned.
However I can tell you that for many of the people in that room they're meeting together for the first time.
To see the camaraderie and to see the command that people already had of the numbers and operations under their responsibilities was simply astonishing.
I know everyone in that room left heartened at the likelihood of success for what we're bringing together.
I was simply blown away by what I participated in.
This speaks well to the distinctive cultural we each had and to the unique way it will now fit together.
We're not claiming victory and we're not done by any means.
Our focus on speed to close the deal and I'm bringing these two companies together as quickly as possible has put us in a fantastic position to build on especially in a market that is experiencing a high level of subsequent M&amp;A and turmoil.
With that I'll turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Mike.
Our consolidated results for the quarter reflect the addition of the Catlin Group for only the months of May and June and reported prior year figures include only legacy XL results.
Most of our prepared remarks will be on that basis.
As promised we have included segment information for the first six months of 2014 in our financial supplement which combines XL and Catlin to help you with your analysis.
This table is in response to many of your requests.
Please note that the presentation does not represent pro forma financial information in compliance with GAAP and the combined June 30 2014 information has not been audited.
Operating net income for the second quarter was $246 million or $0.84 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to $280 million in 2014 or $1.02 per share.
As we indicated during our May call we exclude direct transaction costs from operating income while including integration costs.
During the second quarter we excluded $37 million in Catlin deal related transaction costs from operating income and included $28 million in integration costs.
Both of these are recorded in corporate expenses.
On net income attributable to ordinary shareholders for the quarter was $915 million or $3.11 per share on a fully diluted basis which included the gain of $340 million on the sale of our operating affiliate ARX Holdings which closed on April 1.
Additionally as we have previously noted and I'm sure by now you are expert in this matter our net income numbers are also impacted by the mark to market movement of the derivatives that trends through the economics of the assets backing our second quarter 2014 Life reinsurance transaction and which have no impact on net book value or operating income.
We recorded a derivative gain offset by a book value loss in the quarter due to the increasing interest rates on the underlying assets.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 89.9% or 1.6 points higher than the same quarter last year.
Our accident and combined ratio for the quarter was 95.2% 1 point higher than the second quarter of 2014.
Natural catastrophe losses this quarter was $60 million or 2.9 loss ratio points.
By comparison net losses from natural catastrophes in the same quarter of 2014 totaled $35 million or 2.4 loss ratio points.
As we've outlined on previous calls the second quarter has been and continues to be the significant reserve valuation quarter.
As a result we have reacted appropriately to any development indications identified during our in-depth review.
Prior year reserved development in the quarter was a net variable of $109 million or 5.3 loss ratio points compared to a net favorable $84 million and 5.8 loss ratio points for the same quarter in 2014.
This reflects favorable development of $38 million and $71 million in the insurance and reinsurance segments.
We completed the GAAP purchase accounting process and made fair value adjustments to the required balance sheet.
These adjustments will earn into income over the next number of quarters.
Overall the impact is relatively small.
However certain line items can be distorted in each quarter.
For example we advertised the fair value adjustment from deferred acquisition cost to value business acquired into acquisition expense thereby increasing that ratio slightly particularly in the reinsurance segment.
This is offset by the amortization of the fair value adjustment to reserves which decreases loss ratios slightly particularly in the insurance segments.
To the extent that these are meaningful they will be noted by Paul and Greg.
Operating expenses have increased materially in the quarter as a result of the consolidation of the Catlin Group.
Overall however the run rate operating expenses of the company are significantly lower than the baseline levels we discussed with you in May.
If you recall we indicated that we intend to measure our synergy levels against the run rate cost baseline on a combined 2014 expense level from the two companies increased by low-single digits for XL and a slightly higher rate for Catlin.
During the second quarter our expenses excluding deal and integration costs were approximately 3% lower than the two companies' combined costs in the prior year.
We expect the integration costs to increase significantly over the next two quarters then begin to decline through 2016 and 2017.
Our operating tax rate has declined slightly from approximately 13% to approximately 11%.
This relates to the actual and projected profits of the company by jurisdiction as well as the slightly lower overall historic rate that legacy Catlin experienced.
On a net income basis the tax rate really jumps around given the impact of items that don't impact operating incomes such as the Life derivative and the sale of ARX Holdings.
Turning to the investment portfolio.
Net investment income excluding the Life fund's withheld assets was $176 million or $37 million below the same quarter last year primarily due to the Life transaction having taken place mid-quarter last year along with the impact of lower investment deals.
These were partially offset by the addition of two months of investment income on the legacy Catlin portfolio.
The gross book yield of the portfolio at the end of June was 2.4%.
During the quarter our average new money rate was 1.2%.
Given current yields net investment income will continue to remain under pressure as we have approximately $4.1 billion of assets with book yields 2.4% rolling off over the next 12 months.
Net income from the investments fund and investment manager of operating affiliates was $40 million for the quarter up $9 million from the prior year quarter driven by higher earnings from our private investment fun affiliates.
Net income from other operating affiliates was down from the sale of ARX Holdings on April 1.
Net realized gains on portfolio assets were $4 million down $77 million from the prior year.
We had large gains on sale of equities in the same part of last year.
Our unrealized gain position declined by $319 million for the quarter driven primarily by rate increases in all our major jurisdictions.
Unrealized net gains were $871 million at the end of the quarter.
All together the total return on investments was a negative 0.5% for the quarter.
In general we anticipate a transition to a rising rate environment and while we expect this to be handled sensitively by the central banks we assume this will be accompanied by bouts of volatility in the market.
In light of this view we have not yet extended the ratio on our newly combined portfolio.
However the ratio on the overall portfolio decreased by 0.2 years to 3.5 years at the end of the quarter due to the inclusion of the legacy Catlin assets.
This kind of an environment can provide opportunities for a long-term investor like XL Catlin but it will likely create a little more volatility in both net investment income and book value as we navigate our way through this.
We've integrated the legacy Catlin assets into the combined portfolio.
There has been no fundamental change in our investment policy or approach as a result of the Catlin acquisition although the combined entity is expected to benefit from expanded capabilities including internal fixed income portfolio management.
Now with respect to capital management we resumed active share buybacks during the second quarter after the close of our acquisition of Catlin.
During the second quarter we purchased 2.9 million shares for $110 million at an average price of $37.57 per share leaving $158 million available for purchase under our previously announced share buyback program.
We continue to view these buybacks as an effective capital management tool and have continued purchasing at similar levels in July in line with the philosophy we laid out in May.
I will now turn it over to Paul to discuss our insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete.
Let me start by saying that both Kelly and I are really excited to be leading such a talented team of insurance professionals and that we look forward to sharing our continued progress over the coming quarters.
Today I will cover the results for the segment provide an update on our integration and finish with remarks on current market conditions.
First the results.
The second quarter marked our tenth consecutive quarter of profitability for the segment producing a calendar year calendar quarter combined ratio of 97% compared to 93.8% in the same quarter last year and a first soft combined ratio of 95.8% versus 94.6% during the first half of 2014.
Increased cat activity largely due to the eight ball Sydney hailstorm compared to a low cat quarter in quarter two 2014 accounts for 2.7 of the 3.2 point quarter two deterioration.
Lower prior year development as a percentage of net earned premiums account for another percentage point deterioration.
This was partially offset by an improvement in our operating expense ratio reflecting changes in our expense structure as a result of the transaction.
On an accident quarter ex cap basis the combined ratio was 95.4% compared to 96% in quarter two 2014.
While this results reflects some improvements year-over-year it is slightly higher with the 93.2% reported in quarter one primarily due to some medium-sized losses that occurred in the quarter.
For the first half we reported an accident year ex cat combined ratio of 94.5% compared to 95.3% to 2014 further demonstrating the resilience of our growing book of business as we were able to resolve these losses without jeopardizing profitability.
For quarter two reported an acquisition ratio of 12.9% which was three percentage points higher than quarter two 2014.
This is because the legacy Catlin business included a larger share of wholesale specialty business largely from the lowest platform where the acquisition costs are higher than the legacy XL business.
This is offset by lower loss ratios reflected in our quarter two net accident year ex cat loss ratio of 61.9% which was 2.8 percentage points lower than quarter two 2014.
Insurance based premiums written in quarter two increased by 37% or $600 million year-over-year driven largely from the Catlin acquisition.
This growth occurred in all four of our underwriting divisions with the biggest growth in our energy property and construction specialty divisions.
When we look at a full quarter for both legacy organizations and normalize for foreign exchange and other items our actual year-over-year growth is roughly 2% in quarter two and 4% year-to-date.
We're clearly pleased with the business is growing despite the challenges of an integration and whilst the rate of growth has slowed when compared to recent quarters in my view this is for more indicative of market conditions than anything else.
Shifting to progress and integration.
Let me just share a few highlights from the insurance segment perspective.
First off the market response to the deal has been very favorable.
We're seeing increased dialogue with our brokers giving our greater market prominence and these brokers have been providing support to our one plus one equals two or more mantra.
As a result we tend to tracking ball with historical trends and new business is trending up despite market conditions which I will discuss shortly.
Second our leadership teams are now fully in place across the insurance segment as we carefully selected the best talent from both legacy organizations with minimal disruptions.
Plus we successfully executed our legal day one plans we're now hard at work executing our longer-term plans including the realization of synergies which Mike mentioned earlier and we will share more on our progress in future quarters.
Turning to market conditions we saw even stronger headwinds in quarter two than we reported during the past three quarters.
Pricing was negative across most lines of business as the overall rate change for this segment was down 3% in the quarter and 2% year-to-date.
Our casualty and professional businesses were down 1% with only our Cyber and North American Environmental businesses achieving material rate.
Our Specialty business was down 3% largely reflecting continued competitive conditions in the aviation lines and our energy property and construction business were most severely impacted with pricing down in the mid-single digits.
That by reductions to the energy book driven largely by the recent fall in oil prices.
Given the reality of the markets we continue to focus on an improved mix of business and our ongoing execution of underwriting actions measured use of reinsurance and effort to create operating leverage through efficiencies and rigorous expense management.
These leaders have delivered continued improvements over the past few years and as XL Catlin we will have ability to pull these levers even harder.
In summary we delivered another solid quarter of underwriting profitability despite the internal focus required to complete the acquisition.
With much of this now behind us both Kelly and I look forward to picking up where Greg left off continuing our trajectory of underwriting improvement towards top quintile performance.
Now to Greg to discuss reinsurance results.
Thanks Paul.
Today I will discuss the results for quarter and provide a few comments on current market conditions.
Beginning with the results the reinsurance segment got off to a great start in our inaugural quarter as XL Catlin with a calendar quarter combined ratio of 74.5% and resulted underwriting profit of $166 million.
This compares with the combined ratio of 75.7% and underwriting profit of $105 million for XL's second quarter of 2014.
We had the benefit of another quiet quarter of catastrophe losses and continued favorable reserve runoff.
The large increase in underwriting profit is a result of our new scale as XL Catlin.
Concerning the competitive landscape we're pleased with how the portfolio performed this quarter.
Excluding prior year development the portfolio generated an accident quarter combined ratio of 85.3% which compares to the 86.7% produced by XL in the second quarter of 2014.
The accident quarter loss ratio decreased 7 points to 50% for the quarter.
The primary drivers of loss ratio decrease included 4.8 points related to lower catastrophe activity and 2.3 points due to favorable attritional loss experience.
Offset improve loss ratio was an expense ratio of 35.3% up 5 points of expense compared to the second quarter of last year.
This increase is a result of purchase accounting adjustments Pete noted earlier which contributed 3.3 points with the remaining increase due to a change in business mix as a result of the Catlin acquisition.
Our reserve releases in the quarter were $71 million compared with $47 million a year ago which benefited a combined ratio by 11 points in both years.
The current quarter release was driven primary by favorable runoff in North American and European casualty lines of business as well as favorable prior year catastrophe losses.
Turning to top line gross written premium for the quarter was $782 million up from $493 million in the second quarter of 2014 driven by the Catlin acquisition.
Looking at the full quarter for the combined XL Catlin gross written premium fell 11% relative to the second quarter of last year.
Most importantly just 0.5% or $6 million is part of the 11% drop resulted from aggregational concerns from the XL Catlin combination.
This drop was more than offset by increased participations with a number of our core clients.
Over 60% of this quarter's drop results from the accounting treatment of multi-year premiums written by legacy Catlin.
This treatment increased the prior year premium while decreasing the 2015 premium.
The remainder of the drop is driven by our underwriting discipline in the face of competitive market conditions and the timing of certain treaties.
Turning to market conditions we continue to experience deteriorating rates across most lines and regions during the second quarter and into the July 1 renewals.
In general global property catastrophe rates fell roughly 7.5% other excessive loss covers fell 5% and steam conditions on pro rod trees grew by 1% to 1.5%.
However we did see a slowing on the rate of a decreases on U.S.
property cat.
And in particular roughly $4 billion of increased demand in U.S.
primarily in Florida but due to a number of covers being repriced or unable to be completed at the initial firm order terms.
While this may not be a definitive floor we're encouraged by the pricing discipline emerging in both the traditional and I-loss markets over the last few months.
In summary from both a financial and market momentum perspective we're off to a great start.
Our second quarter financial results were strong and while marketing conditions continue to be challenging strong support from our clients and brokers allowed us to find profitable opportunities.
The integration of our two teams into XL Catlin has gone very well and our reinsurance operations are well-positioned for the rest of the year and into the January 1 renewal cycle.
I will now turn it back to David.
Shirley can you open the line for questions please? [Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Kai Pan with Morgan Stanley.
You may ask your question.
First question is on the expense ratio.
Just wonder how much is that the accounting adjustments impact overall for the company as well as how long will it last? Is that a few quarter phenomenon or is that ongoing? There is about a $15 million adjustment in the amortization expense that hits the commission and brokerage line for the quarter.
I think it would be safe to say that I would expect that to decline slowly over time until it expires in quarter five or six.
And then maybe this is a bigger picture is that wouldn't you guys now three months into integration do you see anything surprise you to either the upside and downside? Given now you have some experience with accounting now do you have a more detailed in term how do you plan to have the $250 million cost savings by 2017? What I mean is that do you have more granularity for example savings for 2015 and 2016? I will start with the more general bit and then turn it over to Pete.
I would say that I personally have experienced one negative surprise.
That is having been through a fair amount of large scale corporate activities that have involved job loss you start to think that somehow you'll get used to it.
You never do.
These things are painful.
We're dealing with people and families' plans and lives and we're hard at work at things that are very unpleasant.
I would say that I find it just amazing that it is every bit as painful now as it was the very first time I was ever a part of something like this.
The second thing though I would share two positive surprises.
One is we believed that because it was in the -- because these actions were taking place in the context of a merger that people would be more understanding that they'd be aware these things kind of go along with it.
And there it has been true.
Our colleagues have stayed very focused on their clients very focused on supporting one another even through difficult times and it's just a really remarkable thing to watch.
That has been a good thing to experience I think for all of us.
Finally I would tell you the most positive thing of all is while we thought that the market would really like a company in the shape of XL Catlin with a deep focus in specialty and deep flexibility around loyds and the globalism and all of the rest we intellectually knew what the arguments were but to actually see the reaction of our colleagues and to see the reactions most importantly of our clients and of our broker partners it has just been amazing.
They are excited by what we're building and that excitement has translated into the kind of top line support that we've been able to achieve despite what is a very difficult market.
Those things are exhilarating.
You realize that at least some of what you were thinking is coming true.
Whenever you are dealing with strategy and ideas you're truly exciting to see it translate to numbers.
And that's been a really gratifying part of this process.
In terms of synergies a couple of high-level comments.
Number one as I mentioned we're seeing it come together even faster.
This suggests that some of those costs that go with the achievement of synergies will take place at higher levels earlier than we originally would have modeled.
Of course that all attaches to the already higher promised $250 million in run rate savings by the end of 2017.
I think Pete already referenced that you'd see it climb and then decline.
Pete you might want to give a little more color.
Well on the two things on the synergies just exactly what Mike said.
I think we all feel more comfortable every passing month that goes by but I don't think we're at a place now where we would change the overall timing that we've talked about back in May 28.
I would say the integration cost again as Mike said are coming in quicker than we expected.
If I had to sort of ballpark it I would say for the next couple of quarters we probably expect them to go up by about 50% each quarter and then drop off after that.
Lastly then maybe for Paul.
Given the pricing commentary clearly is a more competitive marketplace now.
Do you see room for underlying loss with your improvements? Do you think the overall combined ratio improvements more coming from the expense side rather than from the loss ratio side? Thanks.
Absolutely we've got something we can deliver on expenses.
I think we could also do some stuff around reinsurance benefits get a bit more organized around that.
And then generally underwriting actions and tuning the portfolios and pulling the business properly together.
I think we've got quite a lot of tailwinds.
Mike referred to the support from brokers and clients that's tremendous.
That really does help.
The job is is making certain those more than offset the headwinds of rate decreases that's what we got to do.
Your next question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
You may ask your question.
In terms of level settings over the foreseeable future I think it would be helpful to get a perspective on what gross written premiums for property-casualty could be given we've got Catlin coming in.
I'm modeling around $11 billion of gross written premiums of P&amp;C in 2015 and just approaching $14 billion in 2016 taking into account the full year of Catlin.
Is that a decent starting point? Jay I'm sorry to be unhelpful but we have not given guidance on top line in that way.
We've always tried to talk about the things we can control which is why we're willing to give sort of more explicit guidance around how we view expenses at the end of the year each year.
We have given commentary around how we will treat capital markets assuming nothing changes in the terms of buybacks.
Those things we have control over so we can forecast them with a bit more accuracy.
What the markets are going to do and how the top line will perform is something you'll have to model based on your assumptions and we'll treat according to ours.
The one thing I would observe is as we have already said we have this mantra that one plus one should equal two or more.
Meaning that we're not accepting that bringing together two well-run organizations must lead to some kind of dissynergy at the top line.
We just don't accept that.
We think that with the greater balance sheet strength with the greater capabilities we should be up to grow not shrink.
The countervailing fact as I described in the call a couple of months ago is you've got tremendous headwinds in terms of pricing and we're a bottom line driven shop.
And how those two things feather together is what will decide the matter.
This quarter and the way each company functioned separately through the six months until the two months that we were together both indicate that there is a good bias to the idea that we can grow our business subject particularly in reinsurance today's market conditions.
Second we have from my point of view looking at new business and submissions the kinds of activity we're seeing which speaks to the support I've described from the brokers and others I really like our position.
But giving you an absolute forecast is just something we don't do.
With regard to the return profile with the company generating what I would characterize as a very solid 10% annualized ROE this quarter do you think that's a reasonable run rate here or perhaps something XL can build on? Again we have said our objective is to run double digit or better ROEs.
We had a strong year last year.
We've had a good start to this year.
We always look at it -- we encourage looking at it by looking through the unrealized gains and losses which we believe is important at a time when the unrealized are high.
We also think it's an important at a time when unrealized gains are shifting around and lowering.
I think you should always view on some kind of a constant basis to the core performance of the company.
We have said that we expect looking through all of the distortions that will go on we have said that with that basis in mind we have expected this transaction to be meaningfully accretive to our ROE.
We have no change of view.
Right.
And that's on book value ex AOCI not just on tangible right? Yes.
Your next question comes from Cliff Gallant with Nomura.
You may ask your question.
Just one question on the comment you made.
A number you gave Mike in your prepared remarks.
You talked about I think you said 1%.
You identified 1% of business that was lost due to the direct impact of the combination.
I'm just wondering how do you derive that number? Because I assume that there's always some turn in normal lost business that needs to be replaced but all the time.
Absolutely.
What I said was less than 1% actually.
I'm going to ask each Paul and Greg to comment on their own segment's experience.
What we mean by that at some level you are right.
There is some opaqueness to it but we're looking for the client that says to us you know you already were a significant part of my program from both the legacy Catlin and the legacy XL.
I can't stomach that much exposure to you combined.
I'm either going to cut you back or do something like that.
We're looking for direct effect of the transaction on a buyers decision-making.
I can tell you overwhelmingly the direct effect of this balance sheet is clients wanting more connection to us not less.
We even saw that I mentioned that in the meetings that we held with our brokers at RIMS and our partners at RIMS people were already offering us additional business.
Now whether it's priced to our standards is where we get into challenge.
And that's why we have found absolutely that it's market conditions that are challenging not what the transaction has done.
The transaction has done nothing but help us with the exception of as I said that less than 1% that has something that bothered them that caused them to either cut us back or some other such effect.
It's only if it's related to the transaction that we're going to put it in that bucket.
Paul? Yes I mean we've already carefully monitored risks.
We've insisted that eventually we can recapture data on every risk that renews with us saying essentially has our line been squeezed because of an addition of XL plus Catlin? Or has that happened absolutely correctly as we would expect? As I say again this is risk by risk.
We've got all the underwriters completing this data.
We monitor it on a monthly basis.
It's one of the first one of the key metrics that I wanted to institute in terms of measuring process and progress against that goal.
We've also been very clear I think with the market and with our client by what our ambitions are here.
There's no confusion there and there's no confusion internally about what we're trying to achieve.
I think if you put those things together the clarity of the message and monitoring and keeping the metric again that just really helps you drive for the right result.
Yes and in reinsurance Cliff it's the same.
We were able to code treaty by treaty client by client exactly what was lost due to any concern.
Over 0.5% was what the number was for reinsurance.
I think also we got like Paul just noted we were after the client and brokers very early on to make sure that could communicate deeply with them whenever they had concerns.
And quite often it ended up the conversation turning from I'm a little concerned to actually that makes a lot of sense and all things being equal if there's room you can have more.
Your next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
You may ask your question.
A couple of quick questions here for you.
The first one just on the peak app adjustments you mentioned you said what the impact was on the expenses were Pete.
I thought you said there was offsetting on the loss ratio? What was that and where was that? Yes that would've been pretty much the same percentage on the overall book.
As I said more of that was on the insurance side.
So that would've been about 0.8% on the insurance loss ratio for the quarter.
Mike I'm just curious to date you see reading the press reports of some people leaving Catlin.
I'm curious were any of the people that have departed unexpected? When did you -- would rather not have left? First of all let's put it all in context.
If you look at the first half of the year we're only running slightly above the same level of attrition the level of attrition that we experienced when we add the two firms together in the first six months of last year.
The fact that we're going through a major integration and are only seeing slightly more turnover speaks volumes.
I will say that is slightly higher when you reach the underwriting ranks and that we expected because you are bringing together teams of people.
Sometimes those people have history with each other.
There were hot spots that we identified well before the transaction closed.
In fact in some of our earliest meetings where we knew of people who had used to work together and didn't anymore for a variety of personal reasons and all of that kind of stuff.
If I step back and say are there people we've lost that we'd rather have not lost? Sure a handful.
If I were to step back and say are there teams we've lost that we would have rather have not lost or not expected? I'd say maybe one.
That was kind of five people.
Other than that no.
They were the anticipated hot spots.
They played out pretty much as we expected.
But are there a handful of levers that I wish were excited and had stayed? Sure.
This is a big integration.
But as against any of our metrics that we had in mind before going into this it's lower than we expected in that count.
In fact that just makes it a little harder because we have to get to our synergy goals.
And if they don't leave voluntarily sometimes it has to happen another way.
Your next question comes from Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
You may ask your question.
Just two quick follow-ups on Catlin.
Number one can you disclose if there was any reserve release benefit from Catlin or not? As you know we closed on May 1 and did a full review at that point in time.
The answer would be no there was no reserve release.
We did not expect one.
It will be part of the full reserve review that we do in the fourth quarter.
And I just quickly related to the discussion on what I guess Cliff was asking regarding aggregation and what was lost.
Excluding that if you look at the legacy book do you have some sense as to the percentage that was non-renewed which did not meet your return thresholds or is that number not available? Yes I would say on the reinsurance side as we went through it it was roughly about 7.5% to 10% offset clearly by new business and other things going on.
That would be both legacy books.
We're operating now as XL Catlin so I don't track what Catlin business we lost or what XL business we lost.
It's just what we lost in the aggregate for the quarter.
Overall for insurance on our retention ratio which is how we measure it year-on-year is broadly consistent in the mid-80s mark.
It varies a bit as you get into different business lines.
We're clearly lower retention in those most and negatively affected by pricing.
As I said in my prepared remarks very consistent retention levels year-on-year.
And if I could quickly sneak one more.
Can you broadly talk about obviously you've seen the Ace-Chubb deal.
How does that impact XL going forward? Or how do you view the changing scenario out there with all these acquisitions taking place around you? Thanks.
We have said for some time and it was certainly what prompted Stephen Catlin and I to begin talking about this in the first place is we see a broad set of industry conditions that are leading we believed would lead to a broad set of M&amp;A.
At the time that we announced the transaction that was something of an original thought.
It isn't anymore.
There's been quite a number of subsequent transactions.
The way to think about a couple of things.
One when you have something like Ace and Chubb come together I think of that as being one less larger competitor.
I think of their as being the same kind of work that we've been going through is about to be gone through by them.
Even when I see companies coming together who are more our sites I kind of have the same reactions.
It's one less competitor and another set of two organizations that are going to go through challenges.
That is just a marketplace that to my mind is pointing towards more companies like the one we're building.
The thing that we really appreciate and will try to maximize the value of is going first is good.
It gets you through the hoop faster.
We think we're turning out at least the early indications are we're pretty competent at managing this kind of thing and that is showing up.
Every day that we get further through the hoop and that others are finding their way through it with all the challenges that goes every bit of that I like.
The market is the market.
I think there's going to be more not less of this kind of activity.
I don't think we're at all done with this wave of M&amp;A because these underlying conditions have not changed and there is a lot of firms that have not yet reacted.
I think many may think they like their position.
I think they are going to find themselves more and more wishing to be part of something broader and deeper.
As those realizations come there will be less and less partners.
All of that argues for early not late and for us liking our position realizing with all humility that these are difficult things and they'll be difficult for the other guy.
They're difficult for us and that's just the way it is.
It's a convulsion of activity the market's growing through.
We just feel particularly well-positioned having started early.
Your next question comes from Dan Farrell with Piper Jaffray.
You may ask your question.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about how you think the balancing buyback and debt reduction as we head into 2016 and 2017 and likely ramping of cash flow in those years? What I'm getting at is you talked about a goal of wanting to get the debt and preferred down to the low 20s.
At the same time it doesn't seem like there would be a pressing need to get to that level given a lot of that preferred.
I'm just wondering how you would balance the two? I will start and Pete may have some additional color commentary.
This is Mike.
First of all our general approach to share repurchases remains the same as it has always been.
Many of you are long-time regulars so I'm not going to bore anybody but the basic concept is meet your highest required capital.
That's going to usually be asking at least in this day and age that could change.
Once we're done with that we have a buffer.
That buffer is generally equated to our largest most likely source of loss with a little cushion to that just for the normal vagaries of competition.
Once were there we look at how much we got and we say okay if we've got capital in excess of that what's it's best use? For every quarter saved the quarter of this transaction the answer was buy back shares.
So we bought back shares.
Obviously we used some of that excess capital in this transaction.
As we see again the Capitol building up and obviously by virtue of buybacks position of excess to those first two requirements we've initiated buybacks again at the level we've previously described and are quite comfortable with that.
Now the question with respect to mixing debt repurchase in the transaction when all got said and done we wound up a bit better on the leverage ratio than we had forecast going into the transaction.
We maintained a goal of being middle of the pack.
Middle of the pack is not a stagnant notion because with all of this M&amp;A you're going to see some of that number move around over time and probably move toward us a little bit.
But nonetheless its clear to us that over time the flexibility that is gained by some reduction in the debt is wise.
I think what you are going to see is a continued appreciation for the value of buybacks.
You are going to see a continued attention to how we could perhaps opportunistically think about the debt level but you're not going to see a sudden drive to get it down.
This is the same approach we used the last time that got us to our goal over a handful of years.
I have the same mindset here.
There's no urgent drive here.
We'll just look at how the flexibility it creates for us and keep it in balance with the share repurchases.
The only thing I would add to that is if you do look at our debt maturity schedule you will see the first debt coming due in 2018.
We talked about very modest repurchases of debt.
I think that would continue to be the right guidance there.
And then a quick question on how to think about components of expense management.
The corporate segment costs to be well controlled this quarter.
As we think about costs getting taken now if there is more coming out of corporate first and then some of the operating segment costs follow a little later or if there's no time to think about there? Thanks.
As you all know we manage our costs on a total basis irregardless of whether they are corporate or in the insurance or reinsurance segment.
That continues to that day.
Corporate expenses as a percent of our total expenses went down this quarter after taking out the integration costs and transaction costs.
I think it would probably make sense to you that you would expect to see that right? We continued the push on retaining every underwriter that makes sense for us to retain.
Clearly there's more pressure on some of the more functional areas.
I think you would see that reflected in what I said the corporate expenses being a lower percentage.
And corporate expenses also contain some of the larger strategic investments that we have made over time.
Some of those are rationalized during the course of the transaction.
Your next question comes from Ian Gutterman with Balyasny.
You may ask your question.
I guess to start first Greg you went a little fast for me.
I missed it.
Was the 11% decline number you talked about was that premium decline for the combined Catlin and XL reinsurance? What was that? If you took three months of 2014 XL Catlin together and three months of 2015.
So it's XL Catlin to XL Catlin.
That's what I thought.
In the press release I think it said down 3% ex Catlin.
Does that imply to be a total 11 that Catlin was down well more than 11? Yes.
That was where as I refer to in my remarks that was the impact of that multi-year accounting.
Can you give a sense of what Catlin only was then ex the multi-year? I cannot do that at the moment.
I will have to come back to you.
Okay got it.
What I'm getting at big picture is was there more pressure just based on -- not reception to the merger but just business mix and the market conditions on the Catlin reinsurance top line than XL or was it similar for things were kind of apples to apples? Absolutely similar to both.
The books have some nice diversification to them but they also have some overlap.
This is purely how you book a three-year reinsurance treaty pre the May 1 acquisition and post the May 1 acquisition.
Nothing to do with anything of a client or brokers view of the Catlin book.
Pete this is a request more than a question.
The last two pages with the first half 2014 performance was helpful.
Can we get that for second half of 2014 hopefully before the third quarter call? What I can tell you that you can't get this is Pete again is the third quarter.
One thing that we're limited to is only to release those periods at which Catlin had released it publicly.
They only released six months results and so we would not be able to do a nine-month number.
To be honest Ian we haven't concluded.
We'll want to talk to you and others and understand the value of that last two pages of the financial supplement.
Okay we can maybe discuss it offline.
But I think it would be helpful to have -- maybe if I can ask this? I assume I can't take the reported Catlin 2014 numbers subtract the first half Catlin you show and get to their second half because of accounting differences? Right.
You wouldn't be able to do that for one reason.
For example differences in corporate reporting.
The other would be former Catlin did not separate insurance and reinsurance.
Right.
We can follow-up on that offline.
And then the other one that I want to understand a little bit better is there invested assets invested income leverage is much lower than not just your P&amp;C book but I think your traditional P&amp;C book? Is there any color you can give on why the invested asset leverage is so low there? There are two things.
One's invested the leverage is lower because they wrote a shorter tail book of business than historical XL wrote.
The other question I think implied in that is the yield.
We talked about it before.
It was a very short duration asset book even shorter than what the liabilities would have indicated.
And then Mike I want to ask you sort of a bigger picture question I asked on another conference call about tangible book.
This is becoming obviously a bigger issue for folks with all the deals going on.
I want to get your thoughts on why tangible book's the most appropriate measure for XL because you seem to highlight that over reported book.
My premise of why I would disagree with that is first of all it seems every 8-K or proxy that comes out along the way the goodwill's moved up or down $100 million $200 million at a time.
It seems just a concept of tangibles is a bit fuzzy to begin with as far as what the right number is.
Isn't the better way to look at it obviously XL in its past has had some deals that did not work out and it wasn't that the market didn't know and so you took a goodwill write off five years later.
We knew because your ROE wasn't good on reported book.
If the Catlin deal works well we'll know because you earn an appropriate ROE in the total capital invested.
Not just the tangible capital invested.
Why isn't ROE on total book and growth in total book a better measure for the company's success than tangible? First of all of course you have all of those measures and you can judge as a shareholder which you are going to value the most.
We have found we think that the tangible book the tangible capital is the better measure of what we're controlling and doing and a lot of the rest of this is the usual vagaries of the accounting rules around transactions.
You can do it whatever way you want Ian and I'm sure you do.
I think the reality for us is that I think the tangible remains a better core measure of what decisions we're making with the capital available to us.
Other than enjoying reading the transcripts as this gets argued from company to company we look at it both ways.
When we do an acquisition we look at it both ways and when we look at our reported results we look at it both ways.
I don't think one is better than the other.
I think they serve two different purposes and you use them accordingly.
I have been enjoying reading the transcripts.
I will be happy to discuss it offline if you want.
Thanks.
This is just more of a commentary on Pete than the rest of us.
And Ian on your earlier question I've had a number of conversations with our finance group about how to report and a number of conversations with Pete.
This is a very difficult thing.
On one hand we're always devoted to doing all we can to help you understand what is really going on in the book of business.
On the other hand when we create reports that don't give us any insight if in managing the company it becomes very difficult to justify the expense especially at a time of extreme imposition on our finance department and others to try and get the work done and the insight we need to actually judge the business day to day.
I'm sure you appreciate the tension that's created and we're doing our best we can to create what we think is meaningful information for you to use within the legal constraints of how companies actually report it over time and we'll continue to.
But we're also mindful that we've got a finance department that is stretched and that will be stretched until the systems all come together over the next year or so.
We have to be mindful of that too.
And that's the direction I've given Pete is to balance it as carefully as possible.
Do what we can but let's not create a lot of stuff that in the end isn't useful as to us managing the business.
And your final question comes from Ryan Tunis with Credit Suisse.
You may ask your question.
Just one for Pete following up on Ian's question about the investment portfolio.
It sounds like the asset duration there is a little bit lighter than liability duration.
I was wondering if you could quantify what you think you could be running that duration at if it were matched? Along those lines Pete you also said that the pro forma portfolio will benefit from internal management.
I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit more about that if that pertains to mix or anything along those lines? Sure Ryan it's Pete.
If we match duration you'd probably be somewhere around 0.3 years maybe slightly more than that.
But I think that's a good ballpark.
And then as far as the question about the internally managed that really would be on the same assets that we have today.
It would be taking and it has been pro forma Catlin it has been doing it and we will be doing it at former XL.
We haven't transitioned it quite yet.
But it would be taking the more of the vanilla type of investments that are in the fixed income portfolio and managing those in house.
And I was hoping for maybe for some help on thinking about a run rate for large losses.
I'm not sure what you can give us there but is there a way to quantify what we can expect as a quarterly run rate? I know that was sort of an issue for Catlin.
Any help there? Appreciate it.
We've looked at that question time and time again and never being able to come up with something that we thought would be very useful.
We continue to have our own experience to show the kind of volatility we should expect in a book like this.
What we concentrate more on is making sure that our reinsurance strategies and our limit strategies are well meshed to create volatility the book can absorb.
That I think we're having success around.
But actually predicting a level across the various segments we have that have a propensity towards volatility the volatility is too little spread across too many places that wind up yielding something that we think is very predictable our useful.
Thank you.
I'm going to turn the call back over to the speakers.
Great.
This is Mike.
First of all thank you very much.
I know very well that given all of the noise that goes into the numbers at a time like this that you all are working even harder to try and understand this.
We know that that complexity will decline over time as the results become clearer and become measured against themselves instead of against pro forma numbers.
We look forward to working through this with you as well as we can.
We really do appreciate your for forbearance and thoughtfulness as we work through it.
At the same time and I know here I'm particularly conscious that we always have a lot of our colleagues on the phone as well we simply couldn't be prouder of what our colleagues are doing to get us through this transition in an effective way to make sure that we're fast and fair with our people and to make sure that our clients and brokers understand the strength of what we've created and why it is that we knowingly are going through something so complex to deliver something that we think is really special.
It's clear the early reports are clear to me and I think clear in the numbers and clear across the market that XL Catlin has been well received.
It's viewed as a thoughtful and well-structured transaction.
We're incredibly excited about what its potential is and we think we're starting to see some of that potential in this very quarter.
The real credit to that goes to the thousands of people on the ground dealing with clients and brokers and with each other's needs.
We're very grateful for their hard work every day.
Thanks everybody for the call and we'll look forward to the next report.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group Plc Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please be advised this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley.
Welcome to our conference call.
Our call today is being simultaneously webcast at www.xlcatlin.com and www.xlgroup.com.
We have posted to our website several documents including our press release and quarterly financial supplement.
On our call today Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO will offer opening remarks Pete Porinno XL's Chief Financial Officer will review our financial results followed by Paul Brand our Chief Underwriting Officer and Chair of our Insurance Leadership Team and Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we will open it up for questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that certain of the matters we will discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations all of which involve risk and uncertainty and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our most recent reports on forms 10-Q and 10-K as well as other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as the date of which they are made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement also new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I will turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening.
Thank you for joining our call.
We have been eager to have this discussion regarding our Q3 results as this is the quarter where the underlying fundamentals of our newly combined business continues to prove themselves but obviously the miss to estimates could create a different impression.
In some ways that there is difficulty in modeling our progress is understandable.
We know that everyone is trying to get a handle on the future earnings potential of XL Catlin and there was so much going that it is tough to do.
You can see evidence of this in the very wide spread of analyst expectation.
In my now 30 XL earnings calls this is the fifth widest spread of estimates and before that we are larger surrounded major external events like Hurricane Sandy so our view of tonight's job is simple be as clear as we can about how the business is performing and where there are opportunities to clarify items that we think are prone to miss estimation we will try and help.
Let me start with that overall idea.
The business itself is performing as expected or better and we are incredibly excited by the additional opportunities we are seeing and the fundamental strength of this new company.
Let us look at some fundamentals.
In the third quarter XL Catlin produced a P&amp;C combined ratio of 95.3% and our accident year combined ratio was 96.3%.
This was a relatively light CAT quarter and offsetting that we did experience the Tianjin explosion.
With respect to Tianjin it is noticeable that our level of losses relative to our market share came in as we expected.
Both companies came into this transaction with admired underwriting cultures.
Tianjin was another proof point that the discipline remains once the companies are combined.
With regard to the top-line we produced $2.6 billion in gross written premium versus $2.8 billion in the same quarter a year ago when compared on historical basis and adjusted for FX so let's consider the top-line a bit further.
First many had modeled some drop in business due to overlap and alike.
We certainly did in modeling the transaction pre acquisition but in fact that is less than 1% of the business that has been lost is due to merger impacts.
We are delighted with this result.
Second market conditions remained difficult.
Despite these conditions we are seeing more opportunities to write business than ever before.
This is because our brokers and our clients have seen the benefits of our new position in the marketplace and our working eagerly to find more to do it together.
Our meetings at the Reinsurance Rendez-Vous CIAB FERMA Baden-Baden and now at PCI all affirmed again very high broker and clients report for this transaction.
I know that many of the analysts and investors on this call have their own market contacts to that which they can collaborate what we are saying.
As we complete the upcoming 1:1 renewal cycle we have been through the entire renewal book with the merger either in mind or in place.
In fact you could argue with the pre-Christmas week of the proposal deal last year some 1:1 renewals are already market tested as well and the retention levels are staying at historical norms.
This too is incredibly gratifying.
Third we are doing a good job of walking away from business where appropriate.
There has been much talk of pricing pressures for example in the specialty insurance and the overall reinsurance marketplace.
While Paul Brand and Greg Hendrick will give more detail in a moment let me offer two proof points of our continuing discipline.
Our overall top-line and insurance adjusted for FX is slightly up but that masks our adjustment to our mix of business according to profitable opportunity.
For example it is well known that in the energy sector where we are leading writer is going through a rough patch rates are off around 10%.
Because we are even more cautious our writings are down 26% in the energy segment in this quarter.
On the other hand we like our opportunities in political risk and crisis management taking together premiums there are up 23% year-over- year.
In other words we are continuing to remix the books according to profitable opportunity.
Turning to Reinsurance while the business there is a lumpier quarter to quarter as you will hear more from Greg in a moment consider that on a year-to-date basis adjusted for FX Reinsurance is down about 5% overall given the rate environment that makes sense.
We also know that in North America casualty where we are especially concerned we have reduced our writings by 11% year-to-date.
We are bottom-line underwriters.
In this regard there is no change.
Even with Tianjin in the quarter we produced a P&amp;C underwriting profit of $114 million and both segments were profitable.
Of course it is foremost the capabilities of our people that make all of this possible.
Here too are few important thoughts.
Over the next several weeks we will finish our second and last round of employee consultations in London.
It is now true that the vast majority of our colleagues who have been or will be affected by this transaction already know their personal outcome but they are leaving the firm now or in the future.
The speed with which we have acted has been a critical factor and keeping voluntary turnover of key people well below our pre-deal forecast and only modestly above prior-year levels.
During this quarter there were wonderful reminders of our colleagues' ability to stay focused on clients.
For example the recent Gracechurch survey confirmed our leading position across underwriting claims and overall reputation in the London market.
A recent U.S.
broker survey also showed us our leading our peers in claims service.
In Singapore we were recently recognized as Aon's Asia innovator of the year.
Given all that is going on this is a remarkable set of external validations of our people and their capabilities and Management is very proud to be their colleagues.
Turning to the last of the transaction related variables and that is expensive savings.
We have already raised our estimated savings from $200 million to $300 million on a runway basis to $250 million on a run rate basis.
We are ahead of schedule in the synergy savings with $54 million saved year-to-date.
The savings increments needed for 2016 are already built into our budgets and that $250 million will be attained.
Taking together considering the top-line retained and the fact that we are mostly through a complete renewal cycle considering the remixing of the book to offset the difficult market conditions considering the retention levels of our people and their award-winning continuing focus on client given what that says in total about the reaction of brokers clients and colleagues and given that savings continue to meet our commitments our view is that once the 2016 activities become incorporated into our budget we will view next year as much more of a business year as usual just a bit heavy on the continuous improvement activities than in a normal year.
Having said all that what else is going on in the quarter and where might this misalignment to estimates have most occurred? There are few things to consider here.
The first is PYD.
If you look at the consensus for what we were estimated to release and what we are in fact announcing is big delta but as you know we have a long-established with quarters one and three being in A versus E quarter and our deep dives in quarters two and four to really get at our last picks.
That is why we mentioned in our last call and maybe we did not say it strongly enough that we would not expect to see any releases from the legacy Catlin book during this third quarter and in fact there were not any.
In the spirit of giving information when this estimation is possible I would say to be mindful that we are still in the process of harmonizing the two legacy books to common reserving principles.
You can see how that process could have some dampening impact on future PYD.
We do not know that to be true yet as the work is still being done but you can see how a process like this might alter what you would naturally estimate simply looking at past experience of the firms respectively.
Second I mentioned that the vast majority of our colleagues already know or will know shortly any effect on their job due to the transaction.
While speed is critical to reducing anxiety and confusion for our colleagues it also means that we are moving faster through our estimates of integration expenses so integration related expenses were $55 million in the quarter higher than the number we had guided you toward on our last call.
We believe that there is real benefit of speeding this process so we will continue to move as fast as possible and we remain ambitious about growing these synergies over time.
That said in the spirit of giving you clarity where we can as it is proven difficult to give you an accurate estimate of these costs we will post the integration related expense number for the fourth quarter to our website ahead of the fourth quarter call.
Then third the affiliate income portion of our investment portfolio is near zero due to the recent financial market volatility.
The bulk of the impact coming in the hedge fund managed portion of our investments.
Offsetting these was a one-time positive benefit impact.
Net of these four items the estimate variance is more than explained.
In the end the fundamentals of our business are proving to be strong.
Our integration is increasingly shifting to business as usual and we are continuing to see new opportunities which did not come our way before.
As we look at the quarter in total we are excited.
We will continue to believe that we are on track to deliver double-digit expansion in EPS and meaningful lift in ROE.
With that I will turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
We have been a combined company for only five months.
As such this represents our first full quarter of consolidated results.
Operating net income for the third quarter was $71 million or $0.23 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to $187 million in 2014 or $0.70 per share.
As we indicated during our previous calls we have excluded direct transaction cost from operating income but included integration costs.
During the third quarter we incurred $1 million in Catlin deal-related transaction costs and $55 million in integration costs.
As Mike noted this is higher than we forecast you to on last quarter's call as we have moved faster than expected on all elements of our integration plan.
We expect that by the end of the year we will have provided the vast majority of our colleges with clarity on their position with the company going forward and we will have identified our major systems and infrastructure design changes.
From that point we are truly in business as usual mode on all fronts.
We continue to expect that the relationship of one-time integration costs the run rate synergies will remain as we previously estimated at 125%.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders for the quarter was $27 million or $0.09 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to $72 million or $0.27 per share in 2014.
As we had previously noted our net income numbers are impacted by the mark-to-market movement of the derivatives that transfer the economics of the assets backing our second quarter 2014 life reinsurance transaction.
We continue to show that relationship in the summary consolidated financial data included with the press release.
As always it is no impact on comprehensive income or operating results.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 95.3% or 5.2 points higher than the same quarter last year.
Our accident year combined ratio for the quarter was 96.4% 3.9 points higher than the third quarter of 2014.
The chemical warehouse explosion Tianjin has significantly impacted the quarter.
Excluding this loss the accident year combined ratio for the quarter is consistent with third quarter of 2014.
For the quarter our natural catastrophe losses totaled $31 million or 1.3 loss ratio points.
By comparison net losses from natural catastrophes in the same quarter of 2014 totaled $30 million or two loss ratio points.
Paul and Greg will discuss our underwriting results in further detail.
The third quarter prior year reserve development was a net favorable $28 million arising from the legacy XL reserves or 1.1 loss ratio points compared to a net favorable $35 million and 2.4 loss ratio points for the same quarter in 2014.
This reflects unfavorable development of $7 million in Insurance segment driven primarily by the impact of an unfavorable judgment on a single claim.
The Reinsurance segment had favorable development of $35 million.
As we have discussed in previous calls during the first and third quarters our reserving process is based on review of actual versus expected loss activity for the property international construction and entre energy lines of business insurance and for non-U.S.
business in reinsurance.
The remainder of our business including casualty professional and specialty insurance lines and all U.S.
reinsurance lines of business are reviewed in depth semiannually during the second and fourth quarters.
This business tends to be medium to long tail in nature which generally requires at least two quarters of additional information to credibly imply changes to ultimate loss ratios.
As I noted in our call last quarter and Mike mentioned earlier we are aligning reserve methodologies and assumptions between the two legacy books.
The results of this review will form part of our usual fourth quarter full valuation update.
As we indicated previously our normal purchase GAAP accounting adjustments will earn its income over the next number of quarters.
Overall the impact is relatively small; however certain line items can be distorted in each quarter.
To the extent that these are meaningful they will be noted by Paul and Greg.
Operating expenses have increased materially in the quarter as a result of the combination.
Overall however the run rate operating expense level of company continues to move towards the expected level of transaction expense synergies.
On an annualized basis our third quarter expenses excluding integration costs are approximately 5% less than the combined companies' 2014 expenses adjusted to align accounting practices.
If you recall we indicated that we intend to measure our strategy levels against the run rate cost base of a low single-digit increase on a combined 2014 expense levels from the two companies.
For the three months ended September 30 2015 the Company recorded tax benefit of $31.6 million resulting in a negative effective tax rate.
The tax benefit in the quarter is driven by our ability to utilize certain of the legacy Catlin entities U.S.
deferred tax assets as we restructure our legal entities in the United States.
Our operating tax rate excluding the direct tax benefit from the legal entity restructuring has declined to slightly less than 10% primarily due to the favorable change in the geographic distribution mix of income.
Turning to the investment portfolio net investment income excluding the life funds withheld assets was $179 million or $9 million above the same quarter last year primarily due to the addition of the legacy Catlin portfolio or offset by the impact of lower investment yields.
Gross book yield of the portfolio at the end of September remained at 2.4% consistent with the second quarter.
During the quarter our average new money rate was 1.7% given current yields net investment income will continue to remain under pressure as we are approximately $4.2 billion of assets with book yields of 2.4% rolling off over the next 12 months.
Net income from investment fund and investment manager affiliates was $2 million for the quarter down $38 million from a strong prior year quarter driven primarily by our hedge fund portfolio with a negative market backdrop provided a strong headwind to a number of our event-driven and market-neutral funds.
Net income from other operating activities was $2 million lower than the same quarter last year attributable to the sale of ARX Holdings on April 1<sup>st</sup>.
Net realized gains excluding derivatives were flat for the quarter down $10 million in the prior year.
Our unrealized gain position declined by $101 million for the quarter driven primarily by our equity portfolio against the negative market environment while with fixed income gains from lower U.S.
treasury yields were largely offset by unrealized losses from credit spread widening.
Unrealized net gains were $746 million at the end of the quarter.
Altogether the total return on investments was 0.2% for the quarter excluding FX.
The duration of the total portfolio which includes P&amp;C and the remaining life assets was 3.2 years at the end of the quarter and remained short the duration of all of our liabilities.
We continue to anticipate bouts of volatility in the market reflecting uncertainty around the timing of the U.S.
rate hike and the consequent impact on the market and wider economy.
With respect to capital management during the quarter the Company paid ordinary dividends of $61 million in preferred share dividends of $57 million preferred share dividends in the quarter included the semiannual payment of $22 million in the legacy Catlin preferred share dividends for the first time as a combined entity.
These dividends are paid semiannually in January and July.
We plan to execute in the fourth quarter a very limited liability management program and will redeem legacy Catlin subordinated debt amounting to approximately $91 million.
The proposed action improves operational efficiency and is part of streamlining our capital structure.
We continue to execute share buybacks during the third quarter.
Our Board of Directors approved a new share buyback program in our August meeting authorizing the repurchase of up to $1 billion of our ordinary shares replacing the remaining amounts under our previous share buyback authorization.
During the third quarter we purchased 4.8 million shares for $180 million at an average price of $37.85 per share leaving $880 million available for purchase under our share buyback program.
We continue to view these buybacks as an efficient capital management tool and the continued purchasing in line with philosophy we discussed in May.
I will now turn it over to Paul to discuss our insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete.
Today I will cover the results for the segment prove an update on integration and finish with remark from current market conditions.
First the result third quarter marked our 11<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of profitability with the segment producing calendar quarter combined ratio of 97.2% compared to 94.7% in the same quarter last year and year-to-date combined ratio of 96.4% versus 94.6% in 2014.
PYD strengthening of $7 million compared to release of $20 million in Q3 2014 accounts to 2.4-point to-2.5 point deterioration.
The remaining variance is a result of our acquisition expenses offset by an improvement in our operating expense ratio lower CAT activity and lower accident year ex-CAT loss ratio.
On an accident quarter ex-CAT basis the combined ratio was 96.3% compared to 94.8 in quarter three 2014.
While this is higher than we would expect it should be noted that the insurance portion of Tianjin loss equals to 1.5% difference in the segment combined ratio.
If we look at the first three quarters the reported accident year ex-CAT combined ratio of 95.3% similar to the 95.1% we reported in 2014 demonstrating that we could absorb the Tianjin loss without jeopardizing profitability.
For Q3 we reported an acquisition ratio of 13.2% which was 3.8 percentage points higher than Q3 2014.
This is because the legacy Catlin business included a larger share of wholesale specialty business largely from the Lloyd's platform where the acquisition costs are higher than the legacy XL business.
This is offset by a lower loss ratio as reflected in our Q3 net accident year ex-CAT loss ratio of 62.7% which was 1.3 percentage points lower than Q3 2014 just under three points lower when adjusted for the Tianjin loss.
Insurance gross premiums written in Q3 increased by 66% or $876 million year-over-year driven largely from the Catlin acquisition this growth occurred in all four of our underwriting divisions with the biggest growth continuing in our energy property and construction and specialty divisions.
When me look at the full course of the both legacy organizations and normalize the foreign-exchange our actually year-over-year growth is roughly 1% in Q3 and 3% year-to-date.
While this growth is not as robust as recent quarters it does reflect our success in maintaining the two legacy portfolios while at the same time writing new business that is on par with 2014.
Given current market conditions this growth is something we continue to be extremely proud of.
Shifting to progress and integration let me share a few highlights from Insurance segment perspective.
Firstly the market response to the deal continues to be very favorable.
Having just returned from CIAB I can tell you first time that there was an increased enthusiasm within the broker community to work more closely with us given all greater market prominence.
Kelly experienced much of the same sentiment from both brokers and clients; on last month's FERMA conference and it is not just talk.
Our retentions continue to track well with historical trends and our new business opportunities continue to be strong despite market conditions.
Second whilst our leadership teams were announced last quarter we have now finalized our entire underwriting organization from top to bottom retaining key talent and with minimal disruptions.
Third we have made further advancements in centralizing our outwards reinsurance purchasing.
We combined several programs and we are on track to deliver $50 million in savings in 2016.
With regard to our longer term and state plans we have made significant strides with regards to our pricing methodologies our operating model and our legal entity structures while at the same time focusing on our synergy opportunities.
We will continue to share our progress in future quarters.
Turning to market conditions the headwind we expected in Q2 have continued pricing was negative across most lines of business as the overall rate change for the segment was down 2% in the quarter and year-to-date.
However this was a result of general decreases in rate being offset by broadly flat rate in some lines.
For example Casualty North America as well as some increases most notably Cyber and Environmental North America.
Overall our Casualty and Professional businesses were down just 1%.
Our Specialty business was down 2% largely reflecting continued competitive conditions in the aviation lines and our energy property and construction businesses were once again we severely impacted with pricing down in the mid-single digit led by reductions of the energy book as well as our international North American property books.
Despite these market headwinds we continue to focus on margin expansion by improving our mix of business leveraging analytics into underwriting actions increase our reinsurance efficiency and creating operating leverage through increased productivity and rigorous expense management.
In addition we continue to make strategic investments in our claims capabilities that should also deliver meaningful improvement to our bottom-line.
In summary we delivered another solid quarter of underwriting profitability continue to grow the book and made significant progress on our integration.
As we finalize our plans and prepare for 2016 we firmly believe we are positioned to continue our trajectory of underwriting improvements towards top quintile performance.
Now to Greg to discuss Reinsurance results.
Thanks Paul.
Today I will discuss the results for the quarter provide some thoughts on Tianjin loss and close with the current market condition.
Beginning with the results the Reinsurance segment produced a solid result despite an active loss quarter with the calendar quarter combined ratio of 91.2% and resulting underwriting profit of $68 million.
This compares with the combined ratio 79.2% and an underwriting profit of $90 million for the third quarter of 2014 with the benefit of a relatively quiet quarter of catastrophe losses and continued favorable reserve run-off.
The decrease in underwriting profit is mainly attributable to losses from the explosion in Tianjin China.
Considering this loss and a competitive landscape we are pleased with the results for this quarter.
Excluding prior development the portfolio generated an accident quarter combined ratio of 95.8% which compares to the 82.7% produced by XL in the third quarter of 2014.
The accident quarter loss ratio increased eight points to 59.8% for the quarter.
The primary driver of the loss ratio increase is related to Tianjin.
Further the expense ratio of 36% was up 4.9 points from the third quarter of last year.
This increase is a result of purchase accounting adjustments Pete noted earlier which contributed 2.2 points with remaining increase due to a change in business mix as a result of the Catlin acquisition and higher ceding commissions as a result of the competitive marketplace.
Our reserved leases in the quarter were $35 million compared with $15 million a year ago which benefitted the combined ratio by 4.6 and 3.5 points respectively.
The current quarter release was driven primarily by favorable runoff in our European casualty property treaty and marine lines of business.
Turning to the top-line grocery written premium for the quarter was $459 million up from $276 million in the third quarter of 2014 driven by the Catlin acquisition.
With the third quarter being a relatively lower top-line quarter the year-to-date volume is more reflective of our portfolio premium.
On a year-to-date basis for the combined XL Catlin gross written premium fell 6% relative to the same nine-month as last year.
This reduction was driven by the timing of certain treaties lower multi-year premium and foreign-exchange.
Consistent with last quarter less than a 0.5% or $8 million part of the 6% drop resulted from client concerns about the XL-Catlin combination.
This drop is more than offset by $70 million of new business written in the third quarter alone.
Shifting to the tragic explosion in Tianjin the segment recorded $70 million of net losses.
Our estimates based on extensive client by client review of our portfolio our prudent reserve for losses that are not allocated to client and local dollars to our Shanghai and Beijing offices.
Our detailed lost estimate corresponds to nearly $3 billion loss estimate for our client which translates the high-end of the current market loss estimates.
It is important to note this is a very complex man-made loss that will short-tail in nature may have long tail characteristics as it is adjusted.
Turning to the market conditions we continue to experience deteriorating rates across most lines and regions during the quarter.
On a year-to-date basis global property catastrophe rates fell roughly 7.5% other excessive loss covers fell 5% and ceding commissions on pro rata premium grew by 1 point to 1.5 points.
Through our early renewal meetings we are seeing increased demand from some clients as well as the general acknowledgment that rate decreases are slowing across the reinsurance marketplace.
In summary while our profitably in the quarter decreased due to Tianjin our market momentum continues to be very positive.
Our recent meetings in Monte Carlo CIAB and Baden-Baden all reinforced our leadership position in the market.
We continue to get very strong support from our clients and brokers and we are well-positioned as we are headed in the January 1 renewals.
I will now turn it back to David.
Shirley can you open the lines for questions please? Thanks.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Kai Pan with Morgan Stanley.
Go ahead with your question.
Thank you so much for the detailed description of the discrepancies on the PBD [ph] and other items for the quarter just want to follow-up on the large losses Tianjin is there any sort of like losses related to the Volkswagen investigation? Overall if you look at your CAT losses as well as large losses how do you feel about the combined organization compare with that you had XL legacy business and do you feel that we will see more volatility in terms of your earnings in the past.
This is Mike.
Hi.
Thanks for the comment.
On the question first of all with respect to Tianjin we were very pleased with our results.
It was very much in line with what we would have expected given our presence in Asia and given our relative position in both insurance and reinsurance that we were gratified by.
With respect to Volkswagen which I know is very much on peoples' minds first simply in the nature of these contracts that we do not disclose individual client relationships.
In the rare cases where that does happen it usually has to do with either other reports in the marketplace or with somehow the level of losses with respect to that particular name exceeding what we would consider kind of the point at we would have to think about materiality and disclosure.
I think you can take some comfort from the fact that we are not commenting specifically on that loss at this time.
I understood.
Then my second question if you look at your comments about market condition actually getting tougher you try to maintain the top-line as well as the investing continue under pressure because low rate environment.
In such a condition how do you see we getting from the current level year-to-date about 7% ROE into a double-digit or what are drivers and what timeframe in your guys' mind that we can get there? First I will get to the ROE expansion in a minute.
Finishing the answer to your earlier question I apologize.
In terms of large losses in the quarter they were largely in line with prior year.
Nothing really exceptional to speak of and we do believe that Tianjin in fact makes the point that we can have very large losses in the quarter and still remain profitable some level.
I think that is greater absorbency and large loss than we would historically have so we are actually very pleased with the spread of the book of business in the way that can continue our longstanding effort to try and reduce volatility by having greater diversity in the portfolio.
The second thing with respect to the ROE expansion clearly we continue to believe that this will meaningfully uplift ROE.
We have never given an exact timeframe to a double-digit target though that certainly is what we expect over time.
The main uplifts are coming kind of two parts if you think about it.
One you see a good story at this stage of our ability to continue to remix our book of business to offset market conditions and I think our overall attritional loss ratios continue to show that strengthened certainly better than you would have expect given pure rate impact so that is a piece of the story.
Second and critical piece of the story is expenses.
At this stage in the cycle we are all in a very difficult headwinds.
You mentioned interest rate environment that ain't going to change.
You heard Pete talk about the downward pressure on the reinvestment rate but at the same time we believe one of the most important aspects of this transaction was the way in which the two companies offset each other's weaknesses with regard to expense and we are diligently trying to bring that to truth and that is the way in which we were building out at XL a global specialty platform obviously combining with Catlin completes that.
We are now truly in a leadership position.
Second of course Catlin had been building out a global platform that too was not yet fully scaled and added through the existing XL global platform.
We really have that fully global capability at a much more affordable basis so our view is that by delivering on the synergy is implicit in those two comments on the general synergies available in any combination of two publicly traded companies we believe that that together with managing against these headwinds and by mixing our book of business we really believe we can deliver what we have said that is meaningful ROE expansion and obviously at this point we have the benefit of having early views of 2016 plans that we are certainly seeing the progress we expected.
That is great.
Just lastly you outlined back in May about the major bucket of cost saving 215 G&amp;A about 30 from investment 50 from claims and 50 from reinsurance.
It looks like we are going to realize potentially the 50 in reinsurance.
How about the other buckets? You have any updates in terms of magnitude as well as timing of those? Thanks.
We are on track for those.
Of course the 50 for the reinsurance was the estimate for next year.
The others are estimates over time not in the same timeframe and we do all of those estimates through '17 which is when we expect all of things to be fully actualize on those - so we would not describe those to be fully actualized next year.
The reinsurance piece which we think is a portion of what we can ultimately do the $50 million is for next year.
Thank you so much for the answers.
Pete you have something to? Kai Pan it is Pete.
Just to add one thing to what Mike said or two things on the on the investment bucket I would say part of that was around expense saves and part of that was around extending duration from the legacy Catlin portfolio.
The expense saves the actions of been taken those - the expenses saves will come in next year.
The extended duration as you could tell from my comments we still have not fully extended to what the liability duration would be so that is still lagging behind.
On the claims as Mike said - as I said on the on the call post the transaction that those would come in as claim start coming in we harmonize the processes so those will take some time to come in.
Thank you Pete.
Thank you.
The question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
You may ask your question.
Thank you.
With regard to the expense savings since there is increased confidence I believe a quarter ago I am thinking what else could happen that could give you potential upside to expense savings.
This is Mike Jay.
As we continue to work through these processes it's interesting that you discover two things.
One sometimes you discover additional opportunities for savings as you actually bought the things together and you realize that you have got some more things that you do not need.
On the other hand as you are going through them sometimes when you do something you were planning on you realize an unintended consequence that might require some offset or increase in expenses elsewhere so the numbers does move around a bit and we have been unwilling to put forward any higher number until we are absolutely certain that it will be achieved so at this point we are still sticking with the 250 because that is the number we believe will absolutely be achieved but we continue to believe we can do better than that and when and if that number moves meaningfully higher we will certainly share that with you but it continues to move.
As you do things you realize either unintended benefits or unintended consequences to your actions and we would want to alert you to new number until we are certain on them.
I understand.
The next issue I guess more for Pete is on the fund affiliates.
I guess it shouldn't be too surprising to anyone that it was a pretty challenged quarter given what happened in the markets in August.
However given the sharp rebound in equities especially through September and October I am wondering if we might see a benefit there in 4Q.
Hey Jay.
It is Pete.
Thanks a question.
Let me back up for a second.
Let's talk about what drives - I think the question really is around the affiliate income and the drivers there so let me spend a minute if I could and then try and help you on a go-forward basis.
As Mike said one of the things we are trying to do which provides some clarity here so I will do what I can to achieve that.
First on the hedge funds on the alternative investments there is about $1 billion of that in the affiliates.
There is about another $700 million of that not in affiliates.
For the third quarter we had for the affiliates a loss of about 1.1%.
When you include all hedge funds that was about 0.7% the benchmark on those was negative 1.8 right so we are pretty comfortably ahead of the benchmark but still a loss for the quarter.
It is a business that we are really comfortable with.
We obviously have been it for a long time.
As I said think about that business that is the one that has a one month delay as you correctly pointed out so September was as bad as August.
October the equity markets are looking better than the hedge fund market so far so we think that is still going to be under some pressure for the fourth quarter when we report that out.
The other bucket that I would draw your attention to that it was implied in your question is the investment management affiliates and this is the one where there has not been much on the balance sheet.
There is only about $100 million but there is a fair amount of earnings power and that is really lumpy as you well know because the incentive fees that are built into that number.
That one has a one quarter delay right as opposed to the one-month delay of the hedge funds so that one as you think about Q4 you really have to think about the fund performance in Q3 right? We know what the fund performance was in Q3.
It was not good right and so that is one where you could see a return of incentive fees in the fourth quarter which could actually push that into negative territory for the quarter.
I hope that helped a little bit.
Jay any follow-up on that? No.
That was very clear.
Thank you.
The final one I had was on the patient share buybacks so I think initially we are looking at $50 million a month.
That might have been the commentary from last quarter.
I cannot quite recall but with $180 million this quarter it seem that XL was taking advantage of some pull back in the stock price and just trying to get your perspective on the return of capital story.
Jay it is Pete again.
I would say when we spoke about this last time I think what we said was there will be somewhat marginally above the 50.
We do like the timing right now.
We are buying back stock so we are doing.
It was $60 million a month for this quarter and based on what we have seen so far we have no plans of changing that for the next quarter either.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Good evening.
Thanks for taking the question.
Mike maybe others want to jump.
Two I will let you decide.
I wanted to talk big picture about the operational challenges.
The challenge is operational changes that you guys are working through.
Obviously merger is a big deal.
I would love to go behind the numbers.
Better understand what is going on operationally and culturally for your internal folks I was kind of thinking like what are the most important priorities that people who actually to firm and really focusing on now and how should we think about some of the more operational staff of things that might be happening in the back office consolidating systems as well as more sort of top-down things like how are you changing goals and measurement and sort of cultural management of underwriters and claims people because can we get various press reports from the trades and I would really get to a sense of what is really going on with the new XL Catlin.
Sure Josh.
I appreciate the question and I particularly appreciate that you brought up culture because I think that is a consistently underestimated impact on how great businesses are formed and functioned so it's nice to hear that in the question on this call.
I am going to walk through three different things.
First of all remember Stephen Catlin and I had a long run up to doing this.
We spent something like 18 months just the first year just the two of us talking and then adding slowly a few more people to the mix.
All that conversation was around culture.
We were both deeply aware that we had successful franchises had no need to do anything we felt that the indicators leading to consolidation in a sector very present so we expected there to be consolidation and we thought that if that was true we should pick your partner as Stephen has so well put it.
The greatest concern we had was where these cultures is really compatible.
I think in the end we are discovering the answer to that is very much.
Yes and it is yes for a couple of logical reasons.
Number one we were both definitely underwriting cultures and the disciplines that come with being great underwriters they are healthy to our skepticism a real regard for numbers and analytics.
Those kinds of things we are clearly culturally present across both places.
Second we were both relatively small groups of colleagues spread over the world.
As a result the premium on collegiality mutual respect on using tools to defeat time and distance were both deeply embedded in each culture and there was a real culture of globalism.
These are companies that are truly about the world and not just about any one geography.
Those two things gave us great hope and have proven to be true and I think it is logical given that we were both trying to solve similar problems that they were true.
I will tell you in a Townhall I held in London recently though I did acknowledge something that is different and that people have to work their way through and that is I really do believe that Catlin was able to create an unusual level of family feel within the business really extraordinary for a firm of their size and complexity.
When you get to the affirm of the now size and complexity of this firm it is even more of a challenge to have that kind of family feel so I advised our Catlin colleagues that I would not if I were them believe it will be the same.
Stephen is a unique leader and each of us is different and the size and complexity now is a bit greater and it is more difficult to retain that exact feeling.
However each firm went into the transaction with extraordinary employee engagement scores far beyond the financial services or insurance sector generally.
Meaning each place was a place that colleagues enjoyed working.
What we said to our colleagues you are still going to like it.
It just won't be exactly the same and each person will have to choose for themselves how they feel about that.
I noted in my comments earlier that voluntary departures are still only modestly above what they have historically been which I think tells you that people are taking their time going to make their own decisions but generally are moving along with us and this transaction so that is the first piece and that is because I think generally speaking the cultural traits fit together was one of the first things we addressed as a firm.
Second thing the hardest part will always be in the back office functions.
Underwriting we were all over acted on very very quickly as you would expect because you had to get the underwriting colleges working together in teams that we did literally overnight.
However when it comes the backroom it is hard to sort out and that is where more overlap is so I would have to say that if you are in one of our back office functions you would feel that the progress seen elsewhere in the firm is coming slower and that of course creates frustration because if you are in a part where it is going fast and great and you are sitting next to somebody for whom it does not feel as good we all are affected by how our colleagues feel so that is why I emphasized in my remarks that the speed up of integration costs was tied to good things the speed with which we are getting clarity to our colleagues.
With this as I said this business process in London around consultation when you have redundancies as we finished this second wave which is the last one we expect in London you really see the functions brought up to pace with the underwriting side and that is going to go miles towards getting everybody excited about the future.
Then the third thing is the system stuff kind of naturally fit together.
It was odd where there was currently a deep investment in claims forecast for talent.
We had already made those investments where there was a need for a new strengthened underlying financial system we had just almost finished our own investment in that and are now just going to have to add on the Catlin financial reporting systems.
This not only will improve our financial reporting capabilities but more importantly it will start to feed into analytics once completed by mid-year and therefore feed into what we think is a better ability to forecast losses and alike.
There we were really neatly offset.
The one place where there is a lot of work going on is in underwriting systems.
There we were both making investments.
It is not exactly clear how to resolve those investments and the best answer that will take a couple of years to get done but I think if I take across those three culture as expected we are feeling very comfortable but it does not mean it will be identical and we are being candid with our colleagues about that.
Second with respect to our functional areas a bit behind the speed and success we have had on the underwriting side but coming into line now and hope that will become just a better and better experience and third with systems we had nice offsets and only one really remaining puzzle that we will sort over the next couple years.
I hope that takes you a little bit behind the curtains but the amount of detail that goes behind what I just expressed is books and books of stuff that we review every week in our integration steering committee meeting and have detailed reports of course for our Board and everybody else but we are most the way through all that work and now it is just about starting to grind back in the diary business in the difficulty of competition.
Thanks Mike.
I appreciate you filtering that for us.
Just a brief sort of question for you as an underwriter you and the team is underwriting portfolio manager one of things people have framed recently so idea there is a spectrum pricing stability in cyclical impact from same more syndicated insurance businesses on one hand and until like little less cyclical stuff like small accounts on the other.
Specialty lines kind of fit somewhere in the middle I guess.
I was curious you guys have a whole bunch of different businesses here that we sort of loop or link together.
I am wondering if that framework makes sense for you and if you do sort of where you throw your various businesses on the spectrum and how we should think about this whole idea of cycle sensitivity and sort of where you fit.
How is that informing your strategy as we start to feel the softening market? Well I will start with a couple of thoughts.
I mean ask Paul and Greg if they would like to add more clarification but our reserve first of all unless you are in a really hard or really soft period generally speaking it is not one cycle.
It is a whole bunch of little cycles.
In fact I touched on that when I talked about what is going on in energy and what is going on in political risk and crisis management and how differently we are approaching them because they are just in such very different phases of their own profitability cycle.
I think for our business so we generally seek to play in the morbid spoke and the more complex risks generally speaking.
We like the transaction in part because it really doubled down on specialty and reinsurance underwriting not exclusively do a lot of other things great but they really doubled down our loss and those we think are the lines of business which are the most innovative in the sector.
Over time as greater and greater opportunity comes we believe that that critical mass of creative insurance underwriting specialties by that I do not mean specialty lines.
I mean specialism will really be the differentiator for XL.
We can handle the rate of change going on in the world we think better than anybody over time and that is the biggest field for us.
That distinguishes from what I would call the commoditized underwriting lines where fundamentally the modeling has gotten so cycle so different in the way they vary not absent but very much tighter volatility as it were and where marketing costs and the other things become the greater driver of success.
We are still in more of the underwriting end of things weather individual risk or syndicated.
Generally remember that where we generally play is as a lead not just the follow-on so we would view that underwriting expertise as still critical even though we are heavy players in the syndicated lines but we are more - should not work individual underwriting does not matters we are more interested in where there is complexity to risk and we would say therefore we have lots of little cycles going on all the time and we are trying to sort through that to create the best possible portfolio.
Just I would in some ways reiterate what Mike just said.
I mean I think the importance of leaving business at the moment.
I mean cannot be overstated.
It's absolutely not a good market to be a - need to order following line.
I mean we get better insights we better get better client relationships.
You heard Mike talking about the Gracechurch surveys on both underwriting and claims and the survey in the U.S.
and Aon's recent calling us for best renovation in Asia.
Unless you are really at the top table in the lines of business you are - executed is very difficult to sustain that type of buying from clients brokers and everything else and does help us convert that into the margin and differentiated margin over time.
For us in reinsurance I think that top table that Paul referred to is having a broad set of product geography and the combination of XL-Catlin has really given us on a P&amp;C reinsurance basis a truly top-10 position.
We can service any clients' needs across a broad set of products and we can take care of their business just about anywhere in the world so that ability puts us in the conversation with top-tier reinsurers.
Thanks guys for being so comprehensive.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America.
You may ask your question.
Yes.
Just a couple of follow-up questions Pete the integration expenses you had given us some indication for the third quarter.
Frankly you weren't too far off of what you said.
I know you wanted to put some stuff out before you announced earnings next time.
At this point any indication for the fourth quarter what those expenses might look like? I have not done a very good job because I think what I told you you would have come to 42 and we came to 55 so I thank you for being nice but I am not sure I was accurate.
I may… As we look to fourth quarter it is really hard to say.
I would say we are probably looking - that the third quarter was more the acceleration more than anything else.
I think fourth quarter will be higher than third quarter but nowhere near the same magnitude.
That is helpful.
Then the other one the $50 million in savings associated with outward reinsurance.
Where would that show up in the P&amp;L? This is why we have been careful to separate those three buckets of costs that are synergies claims around investments and around reinsurance because unlike OpEx which is the $250 million that we forecast these are actually very hard to point to explicitly.
You are going to see them in expense ratios you are going to see them in acquisition costs and you will see them hopefully in loss ratios but of course then you have to have known what we thought was going to be the case what does turn out to be the case so they are very hard to get your head on.
Some are absolute costs because the absolute level of reinsurance purchasing is likely to shift as we consolidate programs and therefore can negotiate fewer contacts and fewer fees and hopefully with greater impact but those are the simple costs.
It is the matter that we are really driving toward.
That shows a bit different part to the model at this point.
It will.
Yes.
That is okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Cliff Gallant with Nomura.
You may ask your question.
Good afternoon.
I had a question.
You mentioned Cyber insurance a couple of times in your remarks about that being a growth area and I was wondering if you could tell us a little bit about what type of risks are actually being assumed here? Is this just for data breaches and how big is the book how many customers do you have? I mean anything that you can give us some color perhaps on how much risk is being taken as you go into cyber? The bulk of the - which is principally based on data breach as a team we had in place for four years.
Just coming up it is obviously growing quite rapidly.
As we have seen breaches in last quarter changed by the appetite and also in pricing and conditions.
We are obviously very careful in terms of policy construction most of the business would be retro date inception for example.
We would see single LIBOR [ph] growth across portfolio so it is one of the areas that we are a sort of extremely pleased with how the pricing dynamic is improving at the moment.
Is there like a type of client that XL specializes in when you think about the profile of who you are underwriting? The critical objective of that team is to write broadly diversified portfolio so you would not see a particular class.
We would mainly be dealing with a smaller clients we tend to stay away from kind of the big obvious retail financial and intend to just focus on mainly smaller clients with smaller limits.
Even if we did write in some larger programs we would write very small limits because we want a very broadly diversified book of small limit business.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
You may ask your question.
Yes.
Thank you for taking my question past 6 o'clock I have a question similar to Cliff's.
I want to know more about the Chinese market and the syndication of losses for events like Tianjin.
Can you tell us the extent to which the industry is well penetrated in that market? Are you surprised so much showed up in the reinsurance verse insurance? Maybe you can just help us understand the shape of that market a little bit? Yes.
This is Mike.
I can give you some perspective and I will ask Greg to add in.
The first thing to think about is that in terms of the primary insurance marketplace is overwhelmingly written by the domestic carriers so that is why of course you would see it largely as a reinsurance impact for most say industrial carriers like ourselves.
While we did have some a percentage of the loss that came from a primary marketplace because we do by the way those would also mainly be syndicated losses on larger accounts to which we had a slice of in the Tianjin explosion vicinity but you would expect more to come in reinsurance.
We would tell you that China - first of all you can take out kind of personal lines and all the commodity businesses those that are being overwhelmingly grown by the domestic players.
We have had had meetings in China with folks that we do some business with there and it is simply remarkable.
The rates of growth the rights of sales and the way that they are building out those markets there are some non-Chinese success stories but when you study them they have been in the market for a long time and still have tiny market shares so that is not something we are involved with except for as a reinsurer.
When you get to the industrial and specialty spaces you do see some activity from outside of China insurers but it tends to be the case that that is on syndications for clients that have activities in China but do not originate in China.
For example we might follow a client to their plant in China with a portion of a treaty or something but we would not have written the Chinese competitors out of China.
That tends to be written by the domestics as well.
As we see the market it is mainly an opportunity for specialty expertise to be applied.
There we are seeing some success we see it principally through our own activities we see it also through the inherited of Lloyds Catlin operation in China.
Finally we see our market for those risks written out of Singapore that has become something of a territorial hub but the bigger opportunity and the more likely active area is going to be reinsurance we think for the foreseeable future.
Sure.
Just to put some numbers behind what Mike was saying from the 2014 year the international carriers in China represented 1.5% market share on the P&amp;C side and that is after some of them being added for 30 or 40 years so it is a very very small market between internationally and locally in China.
If I look at our loss I think it is fairly representative of any broad-based global reinsure like ourselves about 60% to 70% our loss is going to come from the domestic insurance marketplace which is going to be a range from personalized the small commercial to industrial properties so I do not have nor we would we have because most of our carriers write across that spectrum so I do not have a breakdown for you within those buckets what it looks like.
Another 20% of the loss is going to be from Cargo Marine-type losses from international players depending upon how the loss exactly was pushed out which is to yet be determined between what's Cargo and what's property.
Then there is kind of two smaller buckets for us 10% of it about being what is referred to sometimes as soft retro non-peak retro from either within China or neighboring countries.
Then the last 10% of was just large risks reassuring folks that look not dissimilar from XL Catlin insurance and might have an odd risk here and there so that is about to breakdown of the loss as we see it.
One question which might sound a little naïve you learn something after every big loss.
After this loss do you come to the opinion that the business you are writing in that market it is fairly priced so that business could use more rates? After the event a couple things I would say we learned one I am quite pleased that we are less pro rata inclined as a carrier than the marketplace would be so we have less of the stake on those pro rata treaties relative to our market share and certainly that conversation needs to be had around the level of risk that is inherent within China marketplace relative to what we are getting and we would submit at this point we would need a little more rate to help compensate for that risk being taken on.
Thank you for the answers very educational.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
You may ask your question.
Yes.
Thanks.
Two questions here.
First one just for Greg just curious Greg could you tell us what the impact you think that the changes in BCAR may have on renewals? I am not a BCAR expert but it has been as you can probably guess a topic of conversation over last couple of months.
Based on the last set of information I read from A.
M.
Best themselves one it is going to be a staggered implementations it is not going to be a hard jump at January 1 but through the course of '16 and then it will be a subjective one as they are with everything they do.
We do see it and we have had conversations already around by clients percentage buying more limit on the CAT side particularly ahead of that change orders of magnitude of kind of 10% to 20% more limited than they had brought before but it is still an evolving topic Brian.
Great.
Then second question for Mike you said at the beginning of the call that you are going through your budget for next year and you are pretty happy with the way they are coming out.
I am just curious if you take a look at the budgets today versus what you would expected back when you start the transaction how much of an impact increasingly competitive pricing environment can had on your kind of view of the potential profitability and then if that price competition eating into maybe the cost savings that you would have expected here going forward? First of all Brian that last bit is a really important element to think about.
It won't change how much we save.
It could change how much we earned.
Right.
Their earnings will be constant.
We will deliver the numbers that we have promised to deliver in streams lined operations and should our top-line be constrained by virtue of the marketplace.
Our goal would be to make sure our expenses savings reflect that in addition to what we are saving due simply to the possibilities of transaction so that is how we are thinking about that problem.
Which means that when you take those two statements together that means that we should be able to stay on schedule to both expand in double-digit our EPS and meaningfully uplift ROE so we do not see their market conditions as necessarily constraining our progress.
What we would say though is that it will require us to be even more firm on how we manage our expenses.
Now there are some level of market craziness that you cannot outrun.
We understand that but so far I think we are doing a hack of a good job at remixing our book to try and offset those pressures.
We will keep trying to do and if we think that market conditions have gotten so difficult that we have a difference to that we will talk about it.
At this point when I look at the budget for next year by the way I am always cautious.
I do not think that the word pleased actually crossed my lips.
We are still mid-way through the budgeting process and I am looking at all of my colleagues.
I do not think what they are taking from my face right now is pleasure but it is directionally in line with what we expect and it is within shouting distance of what ultimately I think we will need to be.
Perfect.
Thanks for the answer.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Sarah DeWitt with JPMC.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Good evening.
I was wondering if you could help us understand what normalized EPS was in the quarter.
Yes.
Sure.
This is Pete.
I apologize.
I am not sure how to answer that.
Okay.
The reason I am getting around $0.50 if I take out Tianjin and normalize for the investment affiliates and take out the tax benefit? Okay.
Now I understand.
Thank you.
Thank you for that clarification.
We have not done that.
That would be pretty much I think backward normalized earnings guidance which we have not done that.
I think you have identified some of the things that you would look at.
Certainly Tianjin I mean again you can assume it is not going to happen.
There are expected losses is that portfolio.
The affiliates would be one.
Mike talked a little bit about the PYD so I think you would factor those in but we have not come up with what we thought the quarter would have been if not for a few of those.
Mike I do not know if you want to give any more color on the PYD.
Again I am glad Pete answered the way that he did because we can certainly through the four buckets that I described account for the difference between estimates and what we have produced.
Importantly none of those had to do with the core earnings of business.
It had to do with other items and this estimation is that given the cloud of the transaction I think are understandable but if you step back from it probably the one that has the most impact on go-forward I guess is how you think about PYD so maybe I could clarify that just a little bit more.
First of all remember we regret not having done it more forcefully but we did say that we did not think that there would be any release from Catlin in the third quarter because again that is an A versus E quarter.
We knew we had work to do to harmonize the two approaches for reserving so that will be done in the fourth quarter.
As I said in my comment you would intuitively expect that process would probably dampen any likelihood of releases in the fourth quarter from that Catlin book.
At the same time think about it this way.
First of all XL's reserving philosophy remains unchanged and that will be the going forward philosophy so that is the first thought.
Second though and by the way obvious with the disclaimer none of knows.
PYD goes where it goes and things certainly can surprise you that world but just if you would look at it right now the second thing I would say is the XL portion of our reserves continued to performance as expected so we are very comfortable with the way the prudence there has played out.
Third we respect to that Catlin portion reserve let us put it in scale the ratio of XL to Catlin reserves is 3:1 and they are performing as we expected them to according to our due diligence.
That is another important point to make.
We think the Catlin reserving approach made sense.
We have not seen any surprises but here is something important to understand.
We are in the process of harmonizing the approaches.
As the larger casualty rider XL has historically been a bit more conservative in the speed with which we were recognized development in the portfolio.
As we get to a consistent methodology this would likely you have to expect dampen the releases from the Catlin portion of the book at least if you were to look at just looking at the pattern of historical releases because we are going to that XL approach so I just think that that is an important thing to keep in mind when you are looking at potential favorable development.
We have just started recognize it and that is the philosophy that will now be applied across the piece.
Okay.
Thanks.
You think for the fourth quarter we should models mostly modest reserve releases? Again I cannot give you a direct guidance on that because we are still doing our work.
In the end we have the obligations to produce our best estimate and we will but I just would know what I have said.
It is likely that our approach which because of our long history in writing casualty there we have learned that you cannot ever wear rose-colored glasses the effective that is we have tend to be slower to react to positive news.
If that were true historically I think you would have had a different historical pattern from Catlin.
For XL there should not be any difference to what we normally do and there has been some happy consistency there.
Look I just remind you in the end that PYD is not plan on.
It is something that is studied in results whatever it is.
Thank you.
Thanks for the answers.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
You may ask your question.
Thanks for putting me in.
Maybe just one question maybe a follow-up to Kai and Brian's question regarding the go-forward sort ROE thought process if I look at the level of recessions can you sort of update where XL stands on maybe pursuing a hedge fund re-type of strategy going forward? Thanks.
Yes.
Look we have said in the past that we will be constantly looking for ways to apply our expertise and to partner with those who wish to participate in that marketplace but at this point I just have nothing to report.
We continue to work at identifying the best way forward.
Okay because there was some press speculation regarding something in the pipeline and it sounded it was fairly eminent? I am fairly surely you would not want me to comment on… Fair enough.
Then maybe I will just switch very quickly.
In the opening remarks and I guess Jay was asking this question regarding the affiliate income have you ever previously disclose what percent of that $1 billion is event-driven maybe the different sort of buckets et cetera so that maybe we can have better insight as to how we sort of benchmark those different buckets or has that not been disclosed? Well if you go back to our 10-K I mean you will get a broad overview but not overly detail but I do think that if you would go look at it at a standard index like it is a HFRI or something like it at least get you in the ballpark.
Got it.
That is what I had.
Okay.
That is all the questions I have.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Newsome with Sandler O'Neill.
You may ask your question.
I just got a couple of a modeling questions and thanks for that.
One just the tax could you just give a little bit more detail as to what - benefit actually happened and is it fair to say that 10% normalizes is the right general number for us to think of prospectively? Sure.
Just real quick on the benefits so they were operating losses in the United States in the legacy Catlin book of business which they could not recognize.
They had to defer tax allowance on that.
When we conducted the transaction we put the legal entities together.
We made sure that the Catlin legal entities will underneath the XL legal entities and therefore you follow consolidated return to get the benefit be able to use that.
To the extent that there were losses from prior years they would have come all in the third quarter when we affected the reorganization to the extent that the losses would be coming into all of '15 that would be taken in three quarters in the third quarter in the last and the fourth quarter.
As far as your question about the 10% we really try not to give the exact numbers.
We have in the past at legacy XL we had that number slightly above 12.
I think with the lower tax positions that legacy Catlin had that number had come down.
I think I had talked about that and sort of in the 10 to 12 range so 10 I would say would be sort of at the low-end of that range but certainly in the range.
Okay.
That gets me where I need to go.
Then I was wondering if you have some guidance for us on how to think about your FX exposure of the combined company from a bottom-line perspective? You talking income statement or balance sheet? Income statement.
All right so in the income statement it really depends if this a mismatch in pretty much the legal entities between the non-monetary assets and liabilities.
For example this quarter you saw that I think we had about $12 million loss in income statement so that would be something like where we had all three assets in a non-monetary assets sitting in a U.S.
dollar denominated unit so there is no easy way that you could sort of say ballpark it should be something like this.
You have to go legal entity by legal entity and determine what the functional currency is in that legal entity and then compare what currencies the non-monetary assets and liabilities are so it is a fair question Paul but it is not one that I think I can give you a rule of thumb that it should be something like this.
We do manage the FX exposure but we do that really more on a balance sheet basis than on an income statement basis.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Meyer Shields with KBW.
You may ask your question.
Thanks.
I will try to be quick.
I know it is late.
When you have accelerated integration expenses does that mean that there is also acceleration in the recognition? Should that $13 million delta from original guidance mean that we will save $10 million in the fourth-quarter? No.
When you think about it for example as we go through the FX on headcount because of the accounting rules you can book that expense when you know it by name and so on but that actual saving maybe later maybe a year or two away because some of the people who know that there won't be a future job might have a couple of years of work that we asked them to do and have lined up for them so it really depends on the specific category of expense.
Generally while we are continuing to accelerate the cost it does mean the less of the cost will be in the period when you have the synergy masking it but it does not mean necessarily that the synergy is brought forward.
They could be anytime during the three years.
Okay.
That is helps.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ian Gutterman with Balyasny.
Your may ask your question.
Hi.
Thanks.
Mike why do not I just ask a big picture one? We have dealt with a lot of different items that are maybe one-offs maybe not if I just asked you looking at your internal numbers for '16 and for '17 now versus the quarter ago are they really changed? I mean maybe a little bit on the margin prices as little bit different but has there anything materially changed? No.
Okay.
I think that is the main thing we are all after.
Then just one detailed question was probably one that I could come up so the Catlin reserves you talked about the casualty part but I guess they were surmise given their a mixed of business a lot of their releases would tend to be more property and event-driven so that if they had attritional IVR for energy and marine and things like that and there has been a losses this year why would not we expect in Q4 or at least Q1 of next year that has to be released? Again it depends on the mixed performance of those shorter tail and those medium and longer tail so it is really about how they all work together not just the one.
Okay.
I guess.
Isn't they are mixed more geared towards shorter tail lines.
I guess I would have thought historically that they would have well more than half of their releases be short tail than long tail.
I do not know that for fact but I would have guessed? In more recent years there has been pretty substantial growth in the casualty portion of the book so that pattern that you would have historically seen I would not expect to emerge in the way you described and that is why I made the comment that I did.
Perfect.
Thank you.
I will save the rest offline.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Dan Farrell Piper Jaffray.
You may ask your question.
Thank you and good evening.
Just a question with regards core combined ratio mostly insurance business but you have obviously showed some nice improvement in the core loss ratio from mix changes but you had a lot of offset from the acquisition ratio too and I am wondering if the increase in acquisition ratio all from mix or is there some tighten competition marketplace that is also driving those costs up.
Then secondly how do you feel about your level of core loss ratio right now if you exclude Tianjin.
It looks like a pretty sold a level right now.
Do you need that to get lower to sort of hitting your goals or are there other levers and is there stuff in your control that you can continue to drive improvement in that core loss ratio? Thank you.
Yes.
I will start.
The biggest things that we can control well is a couple of things number one expenses expenses expenses.
I think that is in this part of the cycle the thing you can control most certainly yourself and that is why I make the comment that I did that why you cannot outrun everything going since we get a portion of it back and that is our job.
When you talk about the loss ratio you can continue to work on mixing your book of business appropriately.
The world is not one theme either by geography or by product line.
You can continue to refine your mix of business in order to get up that to try and offset the impact of deteriorating conditions in any one given segment and that is why we like having the broader breadth of product both in insurance and reinsurance and the broader breadth of debt in geography.
That this give us more choices around how to manage that.
Then of course if you become smarter in your reinsurance or retrocessional purchasing you also can gain a benefit over time but those are three levers that you have to hand and all of which we will be pulling on.
We are certainly very pleased with the overall attritional loss ratio as the two companies combined create.
While that creates some pressure on acquisition that is mainly due to mix with the much every year portion of cover holder writing that those going on and will be continuing to go on in the legacy Catlin or portion of the book.
We like having both of those expertises by the way because it gives us more ways to get to clients but those are the general commentary I would make and look at Paul and Greg and see if they have anything they want to add.
Yes.
I think other needle which you did not mention was we are obviously working to build up analytical insights to try and make [indiscernible] is more resilient in and of themselves.
I think as you look at the larger book of business you have great opportunities with the data site so there is definitely market headwinds but it is about converting all the tailwinds that we have got all those leaders and to more than offsetting and hopefully that will lead to a better outcome as we look ahead.
Yes.
I would say reinsurance that I think the only place you would see the slight increase in acquisition with ceding commissions gone up although I will say through July 1 we start to see a ceiling being set particularly on the long tail casual line - so that is the only part I think when you mixed it all together there is relatively small part of the overall equation but that is the driver of reinsurance.
Thank you very much.
I just have a really quick question Tianjin.
I am you curious do you have any reinsurance or retro protection that had kick in or will start to kick in at certain point.
I am just wondering if we had overall industry creep in the industry number if there is any projections that might start to offset that from your perspective.
This is Greg.
There are reinsurance protections that are from both legacy firms that they have come into play but there is a - I do not what Paul here for a second.
There is a risk? Clash.
…clash between insurance marine reinsurance segment as well as but has not come into play yet but what if there is for the development.
Yes.
This is Pete.
The only thing I would add is that the number that we disclosed that net number our gross number was not materially higher that.
It was a little bit higher that but not of a huge magnitude.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ryan Tunis with Credit Suisse.
You may ask your question.
Hey thanks for squeezing me in.
On the reserve integration I guess my question is could the impact of that have an impact on the accident year loss ratio on a go-forward basis like for instance if you conclude that Catlin hadn't been reserving as conservatively as XL? I do not think there is going to be anything material.
Certainly not that we have seen.
In a pricing environment like this you are always going to get some pressure on attritional loss fix.
If you remix your book you can dampen the impact of that but we would expect over time within our multiple years of softening pricing that there will be pressure over time on those picks and we are awfully happy to enter the period of time with such a breadth of product region to work among as we remix and also to have what we think is an unusual opportunity because of the bringing together the two firms and the expense side to hopefully even more than offset that.
Got it.
Then one quick follow-up for Pete I think.
Last quarter I think there was some fair value adjustments to lower the loss ratio on insurance.
Then something I think in the reinsurance side that raised the acquisition cost ratio.
Could you quantify what those were this quarter and is the forward look still the same as what you gave previously? Sure.
They were pretty close quarter to quarter so in total the acquisition cost the amortization was about $12 million and the reserve was $15 million.
Again I think I said last time the commission the result of amortization run off as you as you run off there and - reserve [ph] so by the first quarter of '17 it is pretty much over.
The reserve one goes up over the life for the Catlin reserve so that one does last a little bit longer.
Okay.
That is what thought.
Thanks so much guys.
Welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Sterne Agee.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Thanks.
Pete just a follow-up so the $15 million of the amortization that is going to last through the end of '16 correct? The $15 million of amortization so the amortization for going to the end of '16 that was on the acquisition cost right so that was $12 million.
That goes through the end of '16 and then drops off almost to nothing the reserves which was the '15 one will go through '16 will continue into '17 and you will see it stop to drop off later in 17.
Okay.
That is helpful.
Thank you.
Big picture for Mike Mike just curious as to why you think the profitability has not really changed for the future despite softening? Are you planning to remix the book or is it sort of higher expenses? Thanks.
First we would expect to all the expense lever harder should it be necessary particularly given where premium might go as we remain disciplined underwriters.
As we have said before it has turned out that the merger has been incredibly well received so we have a lot of new opportunities to look at too.
We get to shift through an awful lot to find things that you like in a market like this but you can find them out there.
A second opportunity for us as we renew business business that you know and are comfortable with we may be able given our new presence in the market do even better with those clients and we have certainly seen indications of that as we worked along.
The third thing is the remixing and I have spoken very directly about that with illustrations but that is a constant.
I mean that is not something we would just be doing next year that is something we would do every year to try and get to right place.
As I have indicated it would not surprise me in the coming years to have some pressure on that attritional loss ratio because of the amount of the rate that has been coming off on consecutive years now but I also think that so far our ability to damp that impact as proven but having this breadth of geography and product mix really does give you an opportunity to offset that meaningfully and that has certainly been the case so far and then I do not see any reason that we won't be able to continue to offset it into the future.
When you do that it makes it a lot easier to get that last bit done with rates.
Look these are difficult market conditions but we are I would say at this way we are even more grateful that we Stephen Catlin raised the possibility and that we were able to consummate this transaction because that get both firms into a position that was much stronger relative to these very different market conditions.
Okay.
That is fair.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time I will turn the call over to the speakers for closing remarks.
I am sorry.
This is Pete I just want to go back and clarify Paul some questions about the alternatives.
We hold the K in two difference places in Note 7 we have lay four buckets out for the affiliates and then in Note 8 related same four buckets out for the non-equity accounted affiliates so that is where you wound non equity accounted hedge funds that is where you would - if you want more detail that is where you would go.
Listen I know we have gone longer than we usually do but obviously as we have mentioned before it is a difficult time to get it right.
It is a difficult time to estimate what is going on.
We want to provide as much clear as we could not answer every question as best we could.
We remain as you can tell a very bullish about what this transaction enables us to do not just now but into the future.
We are excited to be up there working with clients and with their brokers partners and we are incredibly proud of the work that our colleagues have been doing and we are delighted to be able to say to them that we are getting to the backend of the worse of it and onward and upward from here and that has been a long time coming so it is they were hoping enter this holiday season on something of a high note after all of the hard work for both of these organizations really beginning from the time of the leak last year.
Thank you for your attention for your very thought questions and we look forward to next quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Good morning and welcome to our conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please be advised this conference is being recorded.
Now I would like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Rita.
Welcome to XL Group plc's fourth quarter and full-year 2015 earnings conference call.
Our call today is being simultaneously webcast at www.xlcatlin.com and www.xlgroup.com.
We have posted to our website several documents including our press release and quarterly financial supplement.
We also refer you to the combined historical financial statements and 8-K referencing Q4 integration costs we have posted to our website on January 21 2016.
On our call today Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO will offer opening remarks Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer will review our financial results followed by Paul Brand our Chief Underwriting Officer and Chair of our Insurance Leadership Team and Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions and then we will open it up for questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that certain of the matters we will discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations all of which involve risk and uncertainty and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our most recent reports on Form 10-Q and 10-K as well as other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as the date of which they are made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I will turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we are pleased to discuss the fourth quarter and the full year 2015 a year in which we produced solid results increased the relevance of the firm and built a strong position from which we intend to grow value in the years to come.
Thinking about 2015 it's pretty fun now to reflect on what we have achieved but it wasn't so much fun during the year of course because it was an incredibly intense year for the people of XL Catlin.
Bringing together two high-performing organizations would be difficult in any environment.
It is particularly difficult in the context of the current pricing environment.
As we view it we are confident that the hard work of our people last year will be well rewarded by the market because if we think about the totality of market conditions and some of the wild challenges that are going on and when we think about the work we have already done we feel incredibly well positioned for that comes next.
We believe there is a huge payoff for having gone first for having carefully picked out our partner and for having done this work rapidly and efficiently.
So before getting into the quarter and full year in more detail let me walk through some of what I think proves out what I have just said.
When we set out to put these two firms together our objective was to build a company for the future because as risk keeps mutating we want to have the best underwriting minds in the lines of business most able to anticipate and respond to that change.
This implies we would have to do a number of things.
First we had to keep the book together at least as far as we wanted to do so.
Second we had to keep our workforce together and energized by the prospect of being part of this future oriented company while creating a common culture.
And third we had to get our systems together so we could understand how the company is performing and begin applying our unique levels of insight to the needs of our clients.
And finally we had to do all of that while still delivering an acceptable result because we said all along this was about both long-term strategy and a compelling financial rationale.
So how did we do against those goals? Number one we kept the book of business together.
In fact we believe we lost less than half a point of premium.
I will say that again less than half a point of premium that both companies had went away because of the transaction.
Now I should said parenthetically that this will go up a little bit more as we know of one program that will end during the second quarter of this year but even when that is added it will be about one point of premium loss.
We are thrilled by that result and they are less than a tenth of what we had modeled going into the transaction.
Number two we kept the workforce together.
Our voluntary attrition rates this year were only slightly elevated from historical levels.
Of course because of the integration there are certain key areas where you would expect higher turnover including in underwriting.
But let me put it in perspective.
Of our more than 1 200 underwriters there were literally just a couple of handfuls of voluntary departures that gave us pause.
We are simply thrilled that the vast majority of our XL Catlin colleagues see the potential I had.
So we kept the book together and we kept the workforce together.
And our third goal we managed at the same time to bring all this key systems together.
We were able to stop duplicative investments and products that no longer fit our needs and we are already mining the bigger dataset with which we can now work.
Now we have said that we should do all of those things and not lose sight of the fundamentals of trying to build a better business with better margins over time.
One aspect of this of course is savings.
You will recall that when we first announced the transaction in January of last year it was certified that we could reach at least $200 million in synergies and then when we closed the deal in May we came over the top of that and said that we could do at least $250 million in savings.
We have been wrestling with whether we could commit to a higher number.
We never want to commit to a number until we are absolutely certain we can achieve it.
So today we can announce that we have identified not less than $300 million in synergy savings and that we are committed that we are absolutely committed to deliver and we are committed to searching for more.
Now you can ask why? How did you find more money? Well a number of reasons.
Number one the transaction continues to reveal additional savings opportunities.
And when we see one that we are confident in we grab it.
Number two in line with these challenging market conditions we continue to increase internal expectations for savings.
Our people are well aware that these are difficult times in the pricing environment and they have responded and come forward with additional identified opportunities for savings.
And our hand will not come off the expense lever because the simple truth is that these markets continue to worsen and if we don't run the business as though we are accounting and we do not ever run the business as though we are expecting a turn in the cycle.
We may hope for it.
It may come.
But we don't plan for it.
Additionally throughout the year as we have become increasingly confident that we would meet our integration and synergy targets we have resumed share repurchases buying back over 12 million shares during 2015.
I am also pleased to note that S&amp;P recently announced that they have revised the outlook of our main FSR rating from stable to positive which clearly reflected their review of our competitive position.
Additionally the ratings on several of the core Catlin subsidiaries were upgraded from A to A+ during the course of the year.
And then as I said we hope to continue to improve the business throughout the year as well.
In terms of the result in the fourth quarter we produced a total P&amp;C combined ratio of 92.3% and gross written premiums of $2.6 billion.
We think that's a solid result for the quarter but there are some mines in the quarter that do make it a bit messy.
Pete will provide more detail in a moment but I would like to note a couple of important items.
First there was a fair amount of tax benefit in the quarter.
For those who have been following along over the years you can think of it as the book ends to the fourth quarter of 2011.
You may remember that in the 2011 quarter we had all of our losses happen in the wrong places and wound up with an unusually high tax rate.
This quarter is the opposite with our losses happening in places that yield tax benefit.
Second it is noteworthy that we have had pretty solid PYD releases and I am sure that was particularly comforting to you given the questions that were raised during the third quarter and it reflects the continued prudence of our approach.
And third I would like to note that we beat our expense targets in real savings during the year and we are very pleased about that.
And then to the all-important insurance ex-CAT accident year loss ratio.
While not ending up where we want to we should note that from the market commentary that there have been a number of large non-CAT losses.
You heard that from around the market.
We have experienced some of those as well.
But our ex-CAT accident year loss ratio insurance did improve both year-over-year and improved sequentially from the third to the fourth quarter.
If we can make this improvement in the conditions of last year with all that was going on we can and believe we will do it in the year ahead.
I should note that our underwriters actually began optimizing our books about halfway through this past year.
They threw out the growth plans that both legacy had realizing that market conditions have worsened more than were predicted back at the time they were planned and are already hard at work walking away from either wildly underpriced businesses or accounts that simply don't meet our performance standards.
That's why we did not grow much in this past year.
And we are certainly telling our underwriters the past year that this year growth is not the objective.
The books are assembled.
Let's begin to optimize them.
The underwriters are keeping their wits about them especially through this complicated market.
So all-in-all we produced what I would call an acceptable quarter and a solid full year effort particularly when we consider the potential for distraction throughout the year that simply didn't emerge.
This is no market in which to be chasing premium.
But I remain confident that given our geographic positions in our broadened product lines we will find isolated spots where there is profitable opportunity for growth.
Last and I have emphasized this before we still firmly believe that the strategy in and of itself is great but it doesn't mean anything until is married to the right people and the right culture.
We have made leaps and bounds of progress in getting our teams together.
They are think about XL Catlin and not just how it used to be and by knowing that they are part of one of the most powerful forces in the insurance sector they really believe they are doing special work and I agree.
As I have said this is true every day.
Our leadership team functions and so it's has been working together for years.
We make decisions together quickly and efficiently.
We even have a sense of humor about it and we worked damn hard because we believe that we have a common goal that is worthwhile.
Now I know that if progress doesn't show up in the numbers it isn't real.
So let me be clear.
We did a lot in 2015 but this wasn't the year the financial progress would show.
All you will be able to see are the indicators.
I like the indicators.
Our loss ratios despite this pricing environment continue to come down and we believe that will continue.
Our expense ratio is coming down.
We kept the book together.
We kept this incredible group of colleagues together and we have energized them around a common future.
That's the company we were trying to build.
We are pretty happy about where we are.
I would note we are a bit glad that last year is more of a memory now.
We are really excited to take on this difficult year because it is now about the progress we can and will make together.
Pete? Thanks Mike and good morning.
Operating net income for the fourth quarter was $195 million or $0.65 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to $294 million in 2014 or $1.12 per share.
Operating net income for the full year was $706 million or $2.43 per share.
As we indicated during our previous calls we have excluded direct transaction cost from operating income but included integration costs.
During the fourth quarter we incurred $73 million in deal related integration costs and $2 million in deal related transaction costs.
The previously disclose $35 million loss associated with the 100% reinsurance of our U.S.
term life business has also been excluded from operating income.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders for the quarter was $229 million or $0.76 per share on a fully diluted basis compared the $139 million or $0.53 per share for the same quarter in 2014 and $1.2 billion or $4.15 per share for the full year compared to $188.3 million or $0.69 per share in the prior year.
As we previously discussed our net income numbers are impacted by the mark-to-market movement of the derivatives that transfer the economics of the assets backing our second quarter 2014 life reinsurance sale transaction.
We continue to show that relationship in the summary consolidated financial data included with the press release.
And as always it has no impact on comprehensive income or operating results.
Our property and casualty combined ratio for the quarter was 92.3% or 7.8 points higher than the same quarter last year and the full year's 92% was 3.8 points higher than the prior year.
Our combined ratio excluding prior year development for the quarter was 97.4% six points higher than the fourth quarter of 2014 while the full year's 95.8% with higher by 3.2 points.
Our natural catastrophe losses totaled the $108 million or 4.6 loss ratio points for the quarter compared to $32 million or 2.3 loss ratio points in the same quarter of 2014.
Our natural catastrophe losses for the full year of 2015 were $213 million or 2.6 loss ratio points.
By comparison net losses from natural catastrophes in 2014 totaled $113 million or 2.1 loss ratio points.
Paul and Greg will discuss our underwriting results in further detail.
As we indicated on our previous earnings call our fourth quarter ground-up reserve review included the alignment of reserving assumptions across the two legacy portfolios.
The results of this exercise led to modest strengthening of the legacy Catlin portfolio which is included in our overall favorable development of $121 million or 5.1 loss ratio points for the quarter compared to net favorable $97 million or 6.9 loss ratio points for the same quarter in 2014.
This reflects favorable development of $28 million in the insurance segment and favorable development of $93 million in the reinsurance segment.
For the full year development was a net favorable $307 million or 3.7 loss ratio points compared to $255 million or 4.5 loss ratio points in the prior year.
As was indicated previously our normal purchase GAAP accounting adjustments will amortize through income over the next number of quarters.
Overall the impact in the quarter is relatively small.
However certain line items can be distorted each quarter and to the extent these are meaningful they will be noted by Paul and Greg.
Operating expenses have increased in the quarter as result of the combination with Catlin.
Overall however the run rate operating expense level of the company continues to decline towards the now higher level of expected transaction synergies and excluding integration costs are significantly lower than the combined historic levels of the legacy companies.
We continue to believe that these will be achieved in full by the end of 2017 and we continue to view the overall relationship between the one-time cost to achieve integration and the ongoing synergies to be approximately 1.25:1.
You can see from our fourth quarter expense levels that we have already made material progress achieving the synergies.
In fact compared to the combined starting point we had guided you to of $2.3 million back in May based on these fourth quarter expenses we have already achieved over $300 million of run rate savings.
However that would be somewhat misleading as we have had some benefit from foreign exchange rates reducing these costs.
We remain committed to driving real expense leverage from this integration and will only report to you though savings when we are sure they are real and not a function of market movements.
Looking towards 2016 we expect that additional synergies will exceed normal course growth driven by compensation inflation and additional cost from added businesses.
And as a result we expect to improve our overall operational leverage.
The large tax benefit in the quarter and overall tax rate for the year was heavily impacted by both the absence of catastrophes in lower tax rate jurisdictions and higher proportion of large risk losses in higher tax locations.
For the full year this combined with the benefit we realized following our ability to utilize legacy Catlin U.S.
net operating losses resulted in annual operating tax rate of a negative 2.8%.
Turning to the investment portfolio.
Net investment income excluding the life funds withheld assets were $172 million in line with the same quarter last year notwithstanding the addition of the Catlin investments.
Changes in foreign-exchange rates resulted in approximately $5 million reduction compared to prior year.
The gross book yield of the portfolio at the end of December was 2.3%.
During the quarter our average new money rate was 1.3%.
Given current yields net investment income will continue to remain under pressure as we have approximately $3.7 billion of assets with book yields of 2.3% rolling off over the next 12 months.
In the current volatile market conditions we will continue to manage the portfolio for long term benefit of our shareholders.
We have already taken steps in the quarter to reduce our exposure to asset-backed securities and high yield bonds and we will continue to take such action as we deem necessary to protect the value of the portfolio even if this has an adverse impact on reported net investment income in future periods.
Total affiliate income was $15 million for the quarter compared to $34 million in the prior year quarter primarily due through our operating affiliates or our investment manager affiliates as expected experience losses across the board driven by tough third quarter market conditions.
Investment fund affiliates were $10 million lower than the prior quarter driven by our hedge fund affiliates where many of our event driven funds performed poorly on an absolute basis due to the impact of continuing market volatility.
Despite these disappointing absolute returns our hedge fund portfolio continued to outperformance benchmark and we continue to believe that a modest allocation to this asset class improves the risk-adjusted returns we earn on the overall portfolio.
Net realized gains excluding derivatives were $11 million for the quarter down $2 million from the prior year.
Our unrealized gain position declined by $203 million during the quarter driven primarily by increasing rates offset by tightening spreads and an increase in unrealized gains on our equity portfolio of $59 million.
Unrealized net gains were $544 million at the end of the quarter including other investments.
On a performance basis the total return on investments was 0.2% for the quarter excluding FX and on a year-to-date basis the total return on investments was 1.38%.
The duration of the total portfolio was 3.3 years at the end of the quarter which was broadly unchanged from the prior quarter.
With respect to capital management we continue to execute share buybacks during the fourth quarter where we purchased 4.7 million shares leaving $703 million available for purchase under our share buyback program.
We continue to view these buybacks as an efficient capital management tool and continued purchasing in line with the philosophy we discussed with you in May.
As we continue our share buyback program we will remain focused on ensuring that our overall financial leverage move towards our target levels over the next few years.
And as previously indicated we have called and canceled all former Catlin subordinated notes assumed in conjunction with the transaction.
These notes were called at par value of $90 million.
Now I will turn it over to Paul to discuss our insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete.
This morning I will cover the results for the segment provide an update on integration progress and finish with remarks on current market conditions.
First the results.
The fourth quarter marked our twelfth consecutive quarter profitability with the segment producing a calendar quarter combined ratio of 98.2% compared to 93.8% in the same quarter last year with a full year combined ratio of 96.9% versus 94.4% in 2014.
More than half the Q4 deterioration is due to higher CAT experience of $68 million compared to $18 million in Q4 2014 with the majority of the balance due to lower prior year reserve releases of $28 million compared to releases of $35 million in the same quarter last year.
The remaining variance is a result of higher acquisition expense offset by an improvement in our operating expense ratio and a lower accident year ex-CAT loss ratio.
We had an accident quarter ex-CAT basis combined ratio was 95.7% compared to 95.4% in Q4 2014.
For the full year it was 95.4% similar to the 95.2% we reported in 2014 again demonstrating that we can absorb exceptional losses such as Tianjin without jeopardizing profitability.
For Q4 we reported an acquisition ratio of 13.9% which was 4.8 points higher than Q4 2014.
As mentioned last quarter this is because of legacy Catlin business included a larger share of wholesale specialty business where the acquisition costs are higher than the legacy XL business which was largely retail.
This is offset by a lower Q4 operating expense ratio of 19.5% which was 3.3 points lower than Q4 2014 and by a lower net accident year ex-CAT loss ratio of 62.3% which was 1.2 points lower than Q4 2014.
Insurance gross premiums written in Q4 increased by 59% or $859 million year-over-year about $2.4 billion or 41% for the full year driven largely from the Catlin acquisition.
This growth occurred in all four of our underwriting divisions.
When we look at both legacy organizations and normalize the foreign-exchange our actual year-over-year growth was still positive in Q4 and up nearly 3% year-to-date reflecting our success in maintaining the two legacy portfolios.
This is something we continue to be very pleased with particularly given current market conditions.
Shifting to progress and integration let me share a few highlights from an insurance segment perspective.
Firstly the market response to XL Catlin continues to be very favorable.
As mentioned in last quarter's Q&amp;A we have established a robust process to track loss business emanating from the deal and throughout 2015 this metric has consistently been tracking at less than 1%.
Business protections that continues to track well with historical trends and most importantly our new business opportunities also continue to be strong despite market conditions.
Second with our new leadership teams and underwriting organizations fully in place we have exceeded our 2015 synergy targets for the segment as we have been able to streamline our underwriting capabilities across divisions and regions.
And third with regard to our longer term and state plans we continue our efforts to consolidate pricing methodologies operating model and legal entity structures.
And our progress is on plan and most likely ahead of plan.
As Mike mentioned earlier we are also developing plans to pull our synergy lever ever harder in 2016 through further efficiencies.
We will continue to share progress in future quarters.
Turning to market conditions.
The headwinds which strengthened throughout the year have continued.
Pricing was negative across most lines of business as the overall rate change for the segment was down 2% in the quarter and year-to-date.
The most significant decreases were once again in our short tail lines.
We saw broadly flat rates in our long tail lines and we continue to see some rate increases most notably in cyber and environmental North America.
Overall our casualty lines are down just 1% and professional businesses were flat.
Our specialty business was down 3% reflecting continued competitive conditions in the aviation lines as evidenced by the December airline renewals and our energy property and construction businesses were once again most severely impacted led by reductions in the energy book of approximately 10% and reductions in our international and North American property books of 5%.
Despite these market headwinds we continue to focus on margin as we transition from retaining the business to turning the business.
Clearly expense management as Mike mentioned earlier will remain a very important lever in 2016 as will improving our mix of business leveraging analytics into underwriting actions and increasing our reinsurance efficiency.
By pulling all of these levers we firmly believe that there are opportunities for further underwriting improvements and given our greater market presence we are confident in our ability to expand margins despite the difficult market conditions.
In summary we delivered another quarter of underwriting profitability continued to grow the book and made significant progress on our integration and we fully expect this to continue into 2016.
And now to Greg to discuss the reinsurance results.
Thanks Paul.
Today I will discuss results for the quarter and provide a summary of the January 1 renewals.
Beginning with the results the reinsurance segment produced solid underwriting performance with a calendar quarter combined ratio of 79.1% and underwriting profit of $154 million compared with 61.2% and $156 million respectively for the fourth quarter of last year.
The result for the quarter continued to benefit from favorable prior year development modest catastrophe losses offset by a higher accident year ex-CAT loss ratio.
Reserve releases in the quarter totaled $93 million compared to $62 million a year ago lowering the combined ratio by 12.6 and 50.4 points respectively.
In the current quarter all five regions experienced releases driven primarily by the property catastrophe and casualty treaty lines of business.
As Pete noted we continued the process of harmonizing the reserving methodology across the segment and our reserving process continues to recognize values quickly and allows potential good news to become credible.
Catastrophe losses totaled $39 million net of reinstatement premiums during the quarter compared to $40 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
The major contributors to CAT activity during the quarter was the U.K.
December storms Indian floods and Australian hail and bush fire events.
While our combined disaster portfolio is better diversified this quarter's CAT activity is indicative of a book that is likely to incur loss at lower industry loss levels relative to the XL portfolio.
Segment produced an accident quarter ex-CAT loss ratio of 50.2% which compares to the 39.9% produced in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The increase is driven primarily by a property facultative large loss loss activity on our worldwide agriculture portfolio and the impact of recent rate decreases.
The expense ratio increased 2.9 points to 35.8% in the fourth quarter compared to 32.9% for the fourth quarter of 2014.
This increase is primarily driven by a purchase accounting adjustment of $18 million or 2.4 points.
Turning to topline.
Gross written premium for the quarter was $206 million up from $158 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The increase was driven primarily by the Catlin acquisition and was partially offset by the time of a large quarter share renewal which moved to January 1 inception.
Given the light activity in the fourth quarter the full year for the combined XL Catlin is more indicative of how our portfolio changed and the segment's gross written premium fell 8% year-over-year.
This reduction was driven by foreign-exchange lower multiyear premium and adjustments to estimated premium.
After adjusting for these three factors our topline was essentially flat year-over-year.
Less than 0.5% or $10 million part of the 8% drop resulted from client concerns about the XL Catlin combination.
And even in these difficult market conditions we were able to write $372 million of new business in 2015.
Turning to January 1 renewals.
The market generally renewed in an orderly fashion and we continued to experience deteriorating rates across most lines and regions resulting in a low single-digit decrease.
We saw increased demand from a number of clients that have increased retentions over past renewals and broadly speaking terms across the book remain as expiring.
Expanding on rates our global property catastrophe portfolio fell 6% with the U.S.
market down roughly 5% and the rest of the world down 7% to 8%.
Contrary to press coverage while some clients achieved double-digit decreases we did not see that as a broader trend across the international catastrophe market.
The non-catastrophe property treaty portfolio fell 4% between declining rates and some clients achieving ceding commission increases.
On a positive note our casualty treaty portfolio across the world renewed essentially flat.
Overall this renewal reinforced our view that rate decreases are decelerating across the reinsurance marketplace.
In summary the fourth quarter and full year results were solid for the reinsurance segment.
Despite the challenging market conditions and the rapid integration with Catlin our underwriting teams did an excellent job retaining a profitable business and finding new opportunities while maintaining underwriting discipline.
As we head into 2016 we are well-positioned for continued success as our momentum the market remains strong and we have broad support from our clients and brokers.
I will now turn it back to David.
Rita can you please open the lines for questions? [Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Kai Pan from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Hello Kai.
In fact how much of the contribute of those are above normal levels or because last year reinsurance segments the exiting the loss ratio is abnormally low.
I just wondered these are new normal level or above your average? Kai this is David.
Sorry the first part of your question was cut off.
So hate to ask you but could you repeat that please? Sure.
The first question is for Greg.
The question is on the large losses non-CAT losses as well as agriculture losses.
I just wonder are those losses above normal levels or it just returned to normal levels from the low levels of 4Q 2014? Sure Kai.
If you took the 10 point delta year-over-year 3% of it is from a single large back loss.
It's a risk that both XL and Catlin wrote through the combination.
We renewed it.
We looked at the loss.
We write the risk again.
It was just an abnormally large loss for us on our faculty of portfolio.
Both faculty of portfolios have run very well over the years.
So that's one piece that's out of the norm.
The second is the crop.
This is partly a testament to where I talked earlier about reflecting bad news fast.
We had in our U.S.
global ag business a particular crop that underperformed relative to some conditions that are needed to be successful.
And so we took all of that bad news of roughly about $8 million in this quarter.
The remainder of the crop may go well.
In fact the freeze coverage is the remaining risk left and it's going very well so far I am touching wood in California which is our major exposure.
The remainder of it was abnormal activity somewhat weather related around the world.
So the six points there that I would say are well outside the norm.
The remainder of it is a lot of little moving things.
Part of it is what we talked about in terms of harmonizing reserve.
That's just a reflection of that in the fourth quarter.
In the current accident year we would have made some higher picks.
We would have taken the entire impact of the full year in the fourth quarter and some of it a little bit of it is mix.
But in the end it is also a little bit due to rate.
It is impossible to expect flat accident years year-over-year with what we have been going through the rate environment.
But I would put that in the one or two point range out of that whole 10.
So by and large a lot of it is unusual activity a little bit of it as it reflects the current market conditions.
Okay.
Great.
Well then I follow-up o the reserve.
You mentioned Pete on the modest strengthening in the Catlin book.
In the past Catlin has been sort of steady release reserves.
I am wondering if could you talk a little bit detail about that? Is that just reserving philosophy change or process change? And what's the outlook over there? Hi Kai.
It's Pete.
So we had obviously talked about this during last quarter's call as well about the harmonization process and we did put the legacy Catlin reserves through our semiannual process in the fourth quarter here.
And just to be clear in the in the fourth quarter and for the year we recorded about $33 million of adverse prior year development on those reserves.
And what we mean when said the harmonization well we harmonize assumptions at the reserve profile level.
So very very detailed and that included assumptions such as initial expected loss ratios reporting and payment patterns ground-up loss estimates the natural cat perils as well as major events.
I would say while this harmonization is largely complete the ongoing alignment to our process of reacting more slowly to potential good news will take a little bit time to fully implement.
And as Greg just noted I also wanted to mention that we did harmonize the accident year picks as well in 2015 which did cause a true-up in the fourth quarter.
How long process could last? A few more quarters? No.
The harmonization process is done.
Okay.
So you are on the same process right now.
We are on the same process now.
Okay.
That's great.
Then my last question for Mike is really given standing back if you can look at your expense savings target to $300 million or more at the same time you experience some CAT losses large non-CAT losses as well as the pricing pressure.
I just wonder is that expense savings will be enough to offset these headwinds? And will you be able to still achieve underlying combined ratio improvements going forward? Kai thank you.
The answer is yes we do expect to achieve continued combined ratio improvement period but not just because of the expense lever.
While we are pulling it hard and in fact harder now than we were at the beginning because of market conditions we do not mean that we think expense and rate pressure are simply offsetting and will leave it at that.
Our belief is that this book of business has plenty of room to improve and that's the underwriter's task for this year.
I think Pete said something that I really want to underscore.
In the fourth quarter you have seen not only the harmonization of the reserves come through but you have seen the harmonization of the loss ratio picks come through.
So I do not believe that the fourth quarter ex for example in insurance.
I do not believe that the fourth quarter for example in insurance I do not believe that the fourth quarter ex-CAT accident year loss ratio you are looking at this quarter of 62.3%  I do not believe that that's the run rate for next year because we have had things that were harmonized during the year when the catch-up was largely in the fourth quarter.
So that would have elevated that loss ratio beyond what we actually believe the book is running at.
And that doesn't account for the underwriting actions that began as I mentioned in my remarks midway through last year and the will start paying off during the course of this year.
So we don't accept that we -- probably could offset rate with expense ratio but we don't believe that's the game.
The game is a stronger and more profitable book of business and we believe were in the process of creating exactly that.
That's great.
Well thank you so much for the answers.
And our next question comes from Mr.
Cliff Gallant with Nomura..
Sir your line is open.
Thank you.
Great quarter great year.
My first question is on the additional $50 million of savings.
Could you just give us some sort of tangible examples of what drove that? Is it real estate? Is it people? And in terms it hitting the bottom line where will we see it? Will it be in the corporate expense line or the operating expense line? It's mainly going to be in the operating expense line a little bit of that comes down over the corporate but we are focused on that operating expense line.
So that is the driver.
And it's across the place.
I mean when you get past the easy and obvious it starts to be more of a grind around processes that yield greater efficiency.
So you shift from the real estate stuff or shutting down an investment or kind of obvious duplicated efforts and now you are into making the whole place work in a more efficient way from beginning to end of our dealings with clients from seeking them to serving them.
And that's the work that now comes to the fore.
So by definition that has more meaning in terms of the headcount than other kinds of expenses.
And by the way as Pete mentioned when he walked through the numbers we can already see that it against what we forecast our expense levels to be although a little bit helped by FX I don't want to overstate that it's just a little bit we are already at a run rate of $300 million already today.
So we wouldn't use a number like that if we weren't highly confident but it isn't like you are going to see some big new thing and the people that are affected are largely already informed.
Now it's not to say that everybody who may be affected by it has yet been informed because there is continuing work to make it better and better across each process.
But in my experience with this which goes back to Safeco days is that once you get this in motion and you get the right mindset in motion more and more reveals itself because people strain themselves to imagine it to be better and they can do that.
So I am sorry I can't point to this or that process I do think the one area that I am highly focused on beginning of this year is some duplication that crept into reinsurance or insurance organization management levels that we are focused on.
So there are pieces we are working on right now and they will be dealt with quickly.
Okay.
And as a follow-up question on the tax rate I appreciate that quarter-to-quarter it seems like there is going to be a lot of volatility to that.
How should we think about it long-term though? It maybe an annual rate or even just longer like what is XL Catlin's tax rate? Well that is every quarter and every year you are right Cliff this is Pete that that will change.
What we have talked about in the past would continue to be true.
What happened this quarter I don't think is something that would get us to change our overall view in what we have been saying over time that we thought it would be in the low double-digit rate.
I think we have talked in the past of sort of in the 11% 12% range.
Okay.
That's great.
Thank you very much.
I just want to add that your question gets to a larger issue.
We know and understand and sympathize with the frustration of getting to kind of clear baseline for the long-term future.
We are working hard to make it as clear as we can but that's just the reality of transactions.
I mean I have to say we could not be more delighted with the way this transaction is going.
We agree that it creates some appearances of volatility or opaqueness that we are not used to having and we promise as things become clear we will share them with you in the clearest possible way we can so we can get back to the orderly review of the business and not this constant of what's the new norm.
We get that.
We are frustrated by it too.
But we would remind you these two businesses have now been operating together for nine months.
I mean a period of rapid reorganization and when I think of what our competitors are going through when I think of the combinations that have been announced but not yet completed we would rather be us than anybody in terms of being through the hardest part of our hard work and ready to compete in what are difficult conditions but difficult conditions that I would rather have our hand to play.
So I just want to say I empathize with the frustration on getting to the new normal and we promise to do everything we can to help you get there along the way.
Next operator? All right.
And our next question comes from Mr.
Mike Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Sir your line is now open.
Thanks.
Mike maybe picking up on the commentary around the expense ratio.
It looks like you are trading off a higher acquisition cost for a lower operating expense ratio but that trade-off is not quite balanced out compared to pre the acquisition.
So first off how should we think about how that sort of moves forward? And from your comments it sounds like you would expect once synergies and everything else is fully baked in that we should be better than we were before the acquisition? And I would think that would sort of need to happen in order for it to begin to trade-off against loss ratio deterioration from pricing.
But can you give me some idea because just looking at what we have seen sp far this year versus the comments I am having trouble seeing where we start to crossover here? You are right.
I understand the question.
So a couple of pieces Mike.
First of all I just want to note something that I note with some pride in this quarter when you take out the cost of synergies and just look at the rate of operating expenses we overachieved on absolute dollars delivered to shareholders in this year alone and in fact this is the first quarter in two years that our operating expense ratio is below 20%.
I mean our insurance operations.
So I was delighted to see that.
And all I would say tell you is we view that as a preview of events to come and not the resting point.
Number two there is an elevation in acquisition expense for reasons Paul mentions that there is a different mix and there is more program business in the Catlin book.
But we also believe there is levers to drive that down as well.
So we don't accept it's at the long run level.
Between those two taken together yes you will see absolute improvement.
There is expected to be between those two absolute improvement in the expenses of the company taken together across the acquisition expense.
That's the first thing.
Second thing you did slip in a comment of expected accident year loss ratio deterioration because you are right we don't accept that.
We believe this book even in this environment can continue to produce through mix exchange and the reunderwriting already going on improvement over the course of next year in the accident year loss ratio.
So I don't -- I am sorry to note that but I don't accept the observation.
Okay.
Thanks for that clarification.
And then maybe can we talk a little bit about within the insurance segment you had some unusual loss activity.
It sounds like some large loss frequency events.
Can we quantify that at all? I realize it's a business you write and you will probably write again next year but it sounds like there is a little bit more than expected.
So if we can just get some boundary around what that was? Yes.
I am going to ask Paul to get into some of the detail but let me observe two phenomenon that are really important that we have underscored a couple of times.
Number one we did have within year loss ratio pick harmonization.
So that process is now complete.
And we go off on a common footing for next year.
And that would have been mainly toward the end of the year.
There was a little bit in the third quarter and cleaned up in the fourth quarter.
So you would have seen some elevation that doesn't reflect these larger losses that have been discussed.
Second you also would have seen some larger losses from the first half of the year develop into the second half of the year and you did see that across the market particularly in the marine and energy books which I think had tough years across the market not just in our company.
So those are two categories that don't fit the theme of simply elevated loss activity.
But Paul? Yes.
As you look at losses say about $10 million there is four or five of them made in this quarter adding up to around $50 million.
So that's a little over 3% on the loss ratio.
If you compare that to the last year there is about 1% difference in loss ratio say maybe just over 2% for last year.
Great.
Thank you.
And then just a couple number ones if I could Pete any thoughts on alternatives for the first quarter just given where we are? Yes Mike.
The only one that you could really talk about right now would be the investment manager affiliates right.
Because as you know that's done on a three month lag.
I think on the last call I had indicated that we would likely have a loss in the fourth quarter which is what we did.
Right now as we said we haven't finished the numbers but I would expect that to be a small positive.
Okay.
And then last one.
Pete could you provide I mean there are obviously lot of moving parts here the operating tax and pretax operating income just so we can have that? Sure let me step back because I have heard there are a few questions about the tax rate and what the $39 million meant? So let me spend a minute if I could and try and help people think through that.
The first thing I would say is the $39 million that we disclosed at XL almost all the tax is on operating almost all the time because the nonoperating things the realized gains and losses sales outcomes that kind of stuff typically have very little tax impact on those.
And so the operating tax impact would have been $41 million gain rather than the $39 million that we disclosed in total.
To put that in context okay.
So the question of okay so you recorded on operating income a $41 million gain how do I think about that? And if you look at what the operating income was before tax you ask about that number it was $153 million.
I had guided everyone just now to 11% 12% tax rate.
If you use 12% you would have had an expected tax in the quarter of about $18 million just working the math but we had as I said a $41 million benefit.
So a delta or a difference of $59 million right.
And as was in my comments you really got to think about two things the actual tax rate for the year given the distribution of income around the world and the second one is I refer to our ability to use the legacy Catlin net operating loss carry forwards in the U.S.
So in the third quarter right we had adjusted our expected tax rate down to 10% was what I disclosed.
So now in the third quarter I need to adjust that again for what the annual expected tax rate is.
It turned out for the year to be about 3.5%.
So that difference times the nine month's income is about $35 million.
So that's the first benefit.
The second one is the fourth quarter itself 3.5% versus 12%.
That's about a $13 million benefit.
And the last one is this quarter's use of the legacy Catlin NOLs.
That was about $11 million or $12 million benefit and that gets you to the $59 million.
So I am just trying to transparent here on why the numbers are so different from what you might have expected.
So I hope that answers your question Mike.
That's great.
And then if I could sneak one last quick one in here.
What should the life segment look like from here now that you have completed this reinsurance transaction with the remaining term life block? Yes.
So Mike it's Pete again.
I would expect to be in essence breakeven.
There is virtually nothing left of those in the disability business.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And just to add this is Mike.
You will recall that was long ago promised that if we got the right pricing we would get rid of that last term life block.
So I was pleased to get that cleaned up.
Okay.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Mr.
Paul Newsome from Sandler O'Neill.
Sir your line is now open.
Good morning.
Thanks for the call.
I wanted to ask kind of a little bit of a broader picture question here in that I think insurance companies are valued in part due to their complexity.
More complex is bad and less is more valued.
Your company to-date is one of the more difficult ones to model in the U.S.
listed because you have things like affiliates this runoff life business that's still running through your income statements the mergers obviously the tax stuff we just discussed currency risk.
I think I can probably go on.
So my question is forget about next quarter what are these big pieces are going to be less complex two years from now besides hopefully the merger piece? And is that an effort you are thinking about because you obviously sympathize with our difficulty with the complexity but I think it's evaluation concern as well.
So I think that always one of those I feel is something that we have already adjusted to in the most part and that's the complexity of the life transaction.
And what we should remember it does introduce complexity but it's a pretty simple complexity.
It goes in it backs out.
And you can fairly easily and we transparently show you how to do that every quarter that isn't going to go away.
So to me that's just a matter of patience.
You just recognize that that thing has nothing to do with understanding the earnings performance or potential of the company.
And you get used to it.
My observation would be Paul that it becomes more annoying when the underlying results aren't clear and it becomes less annoying when the underlying results are strong.
So I am guessing we all get simply used to that and what we need to be reminded of perhaps from time-to-time is that the benefit of that transaction was to take enormous volatility and risk off of our balance sheet when before we had done that for some of those and certainly you would remember this Paul we used to trade something like a European bond reacting our stock price reacting every time Europe got edgy.
I would note Europe's edgy again right now and I just assumed trade for what we produce in terms of insurance operating earnings than whether our life exposures credit portfolio that creates a lot of noise every time Europe has a hiccup.
So I think it's easier to remember to back in or back out as we clearly delineate every quarter than to have that noise driving the share price.
So that one it will be around for a while.
I don't have any plans to cure it.
And it's just something I believe we all get used to and I think we do normally.
But when it gets noisy I think we get irritated.
The second thing I would point out is most of the noise that has gone on in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter has been transaction related.
And I think we are all going to have to work together quickly to get to kind of a new normal of understanding of what the component parts are of how to analyze profitability.
But the core to it all is do we believe that this firm is better positioned to generate improved earnings? And my answer to that is yes and it has been ever since the transaction.
Number one because we believe we can optimize this book of business to more profitable levels.
We have more levers to pull than we ever have.
We have a more diversified book of business by both geography and lines of business and that simply gives us more to play with in order to create a better result.
We second are able to optimize the expenses and this was a drag on both companies' prior performance.
It was certainly an issue of concern for analysts over time and we are demonstrating with real effort and I think real passion that we can create a very efficient expense platform for this business going forward.
And then third we believe that it is about underwriters who have the real ability to make a difference for clients in a changing risk environment.
And there the level of creativity the continued innovation that we are able to bring into the marketplace will be a source we believe of long-term competitive advantage.
So these are difficult times in the sectors we are in both specialty particularly in London and reinsurance have been under some pressure.
But that's never a permanent condition.
We don't believe it is at all and we like our competitive position in both businesses.
Being the leader at Lloyd's gives us a greater ability to influence the market than anybody else has.
And being one of the largest writers in reinsurance gives us more both more intellect and more capital and more position with which to influence the direction of that market and to take a leading role in the changes coming about in that market.
So when I think about the cause of most of the noise that frustrates it is to do with the recency of the transaction.
That resolves itself over time and I don't mean over forever.
I mean over pretty soon.
And I think the earnings power of the firm due to the expense actions and the speed with which they have been taken and the positioning of the company in the markets we play in I think comes out over the course of next year in large part and certainly with great clarity in 2017.
So I get what you are saying.
We view it very differently.
We view the core has always been straightforward.
Where is the accident year ex-CAT loss ratio going? Are we in line when CAT's do appear? And can we create a more profitable expense platform from which to grow? I think the answer to all of those are yes? So Paul just a quick follow-up on the on the life reinsurance transaction that Mike talked about over time the volatility on that will reduce as GreyCastle the owner of those assets and liabilities turn that investment portfolio over that's accelerated recently so about 25% of those investments have been turned over are now in our trading account rather than available for sale and that will reduce the volatility going forward.
Great.
Thank you guys.
I appreciate it.
Thanks Paul.
I appreciate it and I know that these are well understood.
And I know I apprised that a bit more aggressive than I would like.
But I have seen some analysis out there that I get why it resonates with people but I don't agree with it.
Because people are buying into this notion that because specialty and reinsurance are tough places notably tough that somehow no one could ever manage to improve a book of business when it's in this condition.
Just think about the past that faced an underwriter last year and the past the faced that same underwriter this year.
Last year let's say you are coming you have got two people one from each company who are running these books of business.
We pick the leader between the two.
By definition if it's a Catlin person that's picked by definition 60% of the book they are looking at they have not seen before and if it's on XL leader by definition 40% of what they are looking at they haven't seen before.
I mean crudely put.
And so now you give them the task keep that book together if you can remember that we are writing to profit.
If someone tries to jam you during this crazy market let it go and so on.
So you have this huge task of learning the book assembling the book.
It is a confusing difficult year but never did we tell them keep the book at any price.
So they have got a mandate to still find a profitable way through it.
This year the books assembled.
They have got one job to do optimize this book.
We are now willing to accept that if you have a prejudice against a segment of that book and you are the leader that book act on it.
Last year we would have told you why don't you test it out first before you decide that the other guy was dumb.
This is a clearer year for every person in our company around the globe.
And at the same time we tell them never give up the hunt for profitable opportunity or the opportunity to innovate to do something different for the client now that we more information and not that we have more capability.
So we are excited about what that unleashes into the market that maybe difficult market conditions but we are going to be whistling while we work.
This is fun stuff.
Thanks Mike.
And Rita next to the queue please.
And our next question comes from Vinay Misquith from Sterne Agee.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So first is a really simple numbers question and if you could answer this this would be really helpful.
How much of the $300 million in expense saves should flow to earnings in 2016 and 2017? In other words how much have you already taken versus how much is still left to come in? So Vinay this is Pete.
I would say that in 2016 my guess is that $300 million there would be the majority of it would come in and the rest in 2017.
Well actually my question was how much have you already taken in 2015? So last quarter I believe you mentioned you have already taken $75 million of the $215 million to earnings.
So how much is further left to flow into earnings? So what I had talked about was a run rate right of a reasonable amount of money that you can see the savings.
The actual amount that came in 2015 would have been certainly less than half of that $300 million.
If you would like give me a couple of minutes and I will come up with a little better quantification of those.
Sure.
So what we struggle with is how much further is left to flow through the earnings in 2016 and 2017.
So that's -- okay.
The second point is I just wanted to clarify upon the large losses affecting both the reinsurance and the primary insurance.
I believe reinsurance had six points of higher large losses and the primary about one point of higher losses? I just wanted to just clarify that.
Yes.
On the reinsurance this is Greg there is 3% from a single loss and there is 3% from a collection of losses in our worldwide agriculture book.
So 6% in total.
Sure.
And on the primary book? Yes.
And that was the right number roughly 1% delta as you look at losses about $10 million.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then Mike I just wanted to clarify.
You mentioned that through remixing of the business you can alleviate problems with pricing in the large market and in specialty lines.
Is that what I heard? Yes.
We believe we can overcome rate deterioration through remixing and combined ratio improvement through that continued loss ratio improvement and the continued synergy expense savings and also getting down to some degree the elevated level of commission.
So we have all three levels working.
So Vinay this is Pete.
So giving you those round numbers on the $300 million I would say in 2015 there is a little bit over $100 million in there.
In 2016 we would expect that number to go up a little bit more call it $120 million to $130 million range and then the rest would come in 2017.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you so much.
And our next question comes from Meyer Shields from KBW.
Sir your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I appreciate your patience.
One quick question just on the increased savings.
I don't mean to decry it.
Obviously it's good news.
But does that mean higher integration expenses in 2016 than at the $250 million run rate? First I will give you two general points and let Pete answer the specific question.
Number one we do expect that at this point the costs to achieve synergy have peaked and will be coming down from here number one.
Number two I have always been willing to spend to save as long as the saving is permitted the spending temporary and as long as the ratio we have described of 1.25:1 holds.
At this point we are beating that ratio we are raising the level of permanent savings and I would always grab more savings if I thought that it was a permanent restructuring is creating more efficient platform.
But we peaked and we expect that to come down and now the expense savings as Pete described kind of $100 million-ish already realized this year add $120 million that will be saved in addition next year.
So kind of $220 million by the end of next year.
And then the balance of the $300 comes through with great clarity in 2017.
Pete says I gave the whole answer sorry.
No.
That's okay.
I am happy to get it from either of you.
This is a modeling question.
So there was a true-up of the Catlin accident year 2015 loss ratio in the fourth quarter.
Does that mean that in the first let's say half of 2016 we shouldn't expect that much year-over-year improvement because the prior year quarters were reported on the basis of this lower initial loss pick? Meyer this is Pete.
This gets and I apologize it's a tad complicated So in the prior year quarters that would be legacy XL only and so they would not have had those true-ups and certainly in the first quarter and for the majority of the second quarter as well.
So as you are modeling you will probably need to take that into account.
The accident year loss ratio adjustments obviously were only for the legacy Catlin portfolio.
Right.
Understood.
I meant on the numbers that we had for Catlin for the first half of last year.
For the numbers that you have for legacy Catlin for the first half of last year.
Yes there would be a small change in the accident year loss ratio pick.
Okay.
And then one bigger picture question if I can I guess for Mike.
How long does it take from the time obviously AIG is starting to pull back in some lines of business where it's not earning a profit.
How long does it take from them notifying people that they are out of certain product lines before XL Catlin starts seeing the opportunities to generate profitable growth? It's hard to say exactly what they will do and how they will handle it.
So it's not as simple as they announced that and the next day new stuff starts flowing around.
You must remember we are in a very difficult pricing environment and while there are some positive signs here and there that there is a different attitude emerging we are certainly not calling a bottom.
We can still see competitive behavior.
And usually when you start to have players change their positioning in the market at the initial wave of change it is not necessary positive.
A bunch of underpriced business gets released.
That group still thinks we are in a soft market and expects the same or even more attractive pricing.
And the rest when you get a turn coming is when that starts to happen and people don't do it in the same way.
They say well that's interesting but that's going to cost a lot more to insure.
And we aren't to that point.
I do not think so.
The initial wave of these kinds of movements I don't think creates some kind of a turn or some kind of a huge growth opportunity.
It's a very very selective process at the beginning.
You have got to look for the really good accounts that got thrown out baby with the bathwater.
That's what you are hunting for.
And those ones you do want to pick up and grow.
So our underwriters are going to be on high alert that this is pretty dangerous time and there's lot of underpriced businesses going to flood into the market and you would want to look through that and pick through that and find your spots.
And I would say there is a number of companies who are engaged in that process not just the one you mentioned.
And to some extent we will be.
We continue to do some underwriting and maybe I will ask Paul to elaborate a little bit but we have been certainly through and been picking and starting to push some stuff out.
But I have seen some commentary in the market that boy is that going to be a great opportunity for us.
I don't think that's quite the right mindset for the underwriters.
This is a highly selective moment in time.
But what you want to be positioned with is we have gotten our hard work out of the way you know your underwriter they are ready to go you know their quality you know their capabilities you know their appetite.
You want to be clear in how that is all functioning and we have got that hard work done last year.
So that our odds are we are totally ready for shifts in the market totally ready to go through this highly intense and very selective process.
Yes.
And I think just to reiterate what Mike said I think the stability that we offer is very attractive potentially to clients and the right proper clients.
So clearly some of the dislocation will create opportunities but we need to be very thoughtful about how we go about executing on those.
Coming back to underwriting actions and clearly hard work that can be undertaken in 2016.
But again just to reiterate what Mike said we did start as soon as we brought the businesses together whether it was exiting the ITV motor binder or the emphasis of public entities and some accountants business and professional lines reunderwriting of the New York Contractors book and I could go on and on about the underwriting actions that we took place early in 2015 and those actions will start to have positive benefits as we earn through in 2016.
Okay.
That was very helpful.
Thank you so much.
I am sorry.
I neglected that one point it's important.
The broker conversations aren't changing.
When the brokers see some of the more radical actions that others are now being forced to take they get nervous that their best clients are going to face disruption.
And the conversation they have with us as someone who has gotten the hard work behind them and is ready to go and has all that capability at that very global level and the global program all the risk that's in our toolkit the conversation doesn't start like it was say two years ago or a year ago hey let's start with off 10% and go from there.
The conversation starts I have got a gem of a client here.
I am nervous about what's going on the market.
Show me what you can do for this client.
That's a very different conversation than the ones we were having and those have broken out all around the world.
So it is not the same.
As difficult as we keep describing this market is it's not the same.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Dan Farrell from Piper Jaffray.
Sir your line is now open.
Thank you and good morning.
Just a quick question.
Where do you think you stand with regard to your management volatility? There were some large losses in the quarter in the past that some larger loss activity.
How far along are you in managing that risk? And how much more of a lever do you think that is going forward given that you really haven't been a combined company with Catlin for very long? And apologies for the voice.
No problem.
I hope you are feeling well.
The number one thing is if I think about this last half of the year Dan while there is some noise in there and we have talked about it I am still very impressed with the resilience of our profitability.
The back half of this year saw a changing that's more than a point on the loss ratio.
And many companies threw that in the CAT bucket we didn't and we were still able to deliver profitability with a -- what is that? That's the largest man-made loss in Asia's history and one of the largest Marine losses in history and we were able to absorb that and still deliver profit and have these other smaller losses come through that Paul has described as well and true-up the first half of the year and still deliver a profit.
So this book is more resilient and less subject to kind of wild spikiness that you would have seen with those kinds of events going back two maybe now three years ago you would have seen wild volatility in our quarterly results.
You saw a deterioration but you didn't see wild spikes that took us out of profitability.
That is the book performing better.
Now is it optimized? Are we really where we would like to be? No.
And there is work we can do both on limits management on understanding the flow of volatility of the book on that we are doing in reinsurance all of which are being done with fresh eyes to the whole book.
So can it get even better from here? Yes but would I say this is a quarter that shows wild volatility.
I would actually say it's a quarter that shows a real absorption.
And I was kind of pleased with that result but I will turn the mic to my colleagues in case you want to add something.
Yes I think the reinsurance points have been interesting.
One that clearly as we go around centralizing and redividing how we purchase the reinsurance program which was a little progress was made on one.
One of the goals of that is to both increase the value of the reinsurance program and also to reduce volatility.
And that's something that we think we are achieving against.
That's helpful Thank you.
That was the question I listen I know that this is a very busy day of earnings and many of your racing off to other calls I hope we have spoken clearly.
And I want to be clear about something our purpose is always to make sure we clearly communicate how we view it.
We know that you have difficult judgments to make all the time.
But we wanted you to know particularly given the third and fourth quarter we want you to know very very clearly that we are on exactly what we think matters and all the things we said would come about as a result of this transaction they are coming about.
And we have very high confidence in our ability to continue to improve the loss ratio and to continue to improve our combined ratios given the December book that we are looking at so closely.
So we are excited about this year and looking forward to showing that in the numbers and not just in our words.
Hope you have a good day.
Thank you.
And that concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.