Good day and welcome to this ExxonMobil Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
David Rosenthal.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's first quarter earnings call and webcast.
The focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2011.
I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.
But before we go further I would like to draw your attention to our customary cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Moving to Slide 3.
We provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results.
The global economic recovery remains uncertain as a result of continued sovereign debt concerns inflationary pressures in major non-OECD markets and the tragic events in Japan.
Energy markets are experiencing greater uncertainty with the political unrest in North Africa and the Middle East.
These events along with the effects of the weak U.S.
dollar have resulted in significantly higher crude oil prices.
Natural gas prices outside the United States also increased relative to the first quarter of 2010.
In addition refining margins in the United States and the Asia Pacific region improved relative to a weak first quarter 2010 environment for the Downstream.
We also saw strong Chemical margins especially commodity margins in the United States and Europe.
Turning now to the first quarter financial results as shown on Slide 4.
ExxonMobil's first quarter 2011 earnings excluding special items were $10.7 billion an increase of $4.4 billion from the first quarter of 2010.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 47%.
Earnings per share for the quarter excluding special items were $2.14 up $0.81 from a year ago.
The corporation distributed more than $7 billion to shareholders in the first quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $5 billion was distributed to purchase shares.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 billion in the second quarter of 2011.
CapEx in the first quarter was $7.8 billion up over $900 million from the first quarter of 2010 reflecting the increase in our U.S.
unconventional activities.
Across our diverse portfolio we continue to invest in robust projects through the business cycle to help meet global demand for crude oil natural gas and finished products.
Our cash generation remains very strong with $18.2 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales.
At the end of the first quarter of 2011 our cash balance was $13.2 billion and debt was $15.9 billion.
The next slide provides additional detail on first quarter sources and uses of cash.
Over the quarter our cash balance grew from $8.5 billion to $13.2 billion.
The combined impact of strong earnings depreciation expense lower working capital and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $18.2 billion of cash flow from operations.
Uses of cash included additions to plant property and equipment or PP&amp;E of $7.1 billion and shareholder distributions of $7.2 billion.
We will now provide a review of segmented results starting on Slide 6.
ExxonMobil's first quarter 2011 earnings of $10.7 billion increased $4.4 billion or 69% from the first quarter of 2010 with strong results across all business lines.
Upstream earnings increased $2.9 billion while Downstream earnings improved by $1.1 billion and Chemical earnings grew about $270 million.
Corporate and financing expenses of $640 million during the quarter were down $160 million versus the first quarter of 2010 due mainly to the absence of the tax charge related to the U.S.
healthcare legislation and remained within our continued guidance of $500 million to $700 million per quarter.
As shown on Slide 7 ExxonMobil's first quarter 2011 earnings of $10.7 billion increased $1.4 billion from the fourth quarter of 2010 mainly due to higher earnings in the Upstream and Chemical businesses.
Moving next to the Upstream results and beginning on Slide 8.
ExxonMobil along with our co-venturers reached a major production milestone in the redevelopment of the West Qurna 1 oil field in Southern Iraq.
We achieved the improved production target under the contract by increasing production 10% above the initial field production rate of 244 000 barrels per day gross.
The current field production is now about 320 000 barrels per day gross.
Day-to-day operations have been transferred to the West Qurna 1 Field Operating division which is staffed by personnel from the South Oil Company and ExxonMobil.
Operations include drilling new wells working over existing wells and debottlenecking and optimizing facilities.
We currently have 3 drilling rigs operating in the field and expect to add additional rigs during the year.
Turning now to our exploration and development activities on Slide 9.
Beginning with our deepwater activity in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico where ExxonMobil holds 2.1 million net acres we are currently drilling the Hadrian-5 exploration well which spud in March within several days of receiving permit approval from the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.
Hadrian-5 is a further evaluation of the Hadrian North oil complex.
The Hadrian South gas discovery is fully appraised.
As you know we and other members of the Marine Well Containment Company recently announced the readiness of an initial well containment response system.
Work is continuing on additional enhancements to expand the system which will be deployed next year.
The Marine Well Containment Company membership continues to grow and now consists of 10 member companies.
Finally building on our strong position in Norway ExxonMobil was awarded 3 new production licenses as part of the Norwegian continental shelf 21st licensing round.
These include one operated production license and 2 nonoperated licenses.
Moving now to Slide 10.
In Indonesia ExxonMobil made another discovery on the Cepu Block in East Java Province.
A Kedung Keris well was drilled to a total depth of 7 032 feet and encountered an oil column of 561 feet in the target carbonate zone.
The Kedung Keris discovery is located approximately 9 miles from the Banyu Urip oil discovery which was made in 2001.
The Banyu Urip early production system continues to perform well and activities are progressing on the future 450 million-barrel oilfield development.
We are also evaluating our coal bed methane acreage in the onshore Barito Basin which covers approximately 290 000 net acres.
Exploration drilling commenced with the first coal bed methane well in early April and drilling operations are ongoing.
Turning now to the Upstream financial and operating results and starting on Slide 11.
Upstream earnings in the first quarter were $8.7 billion up $2.9 billion from the first quarter of 2010.
Stronger crude oil and natural gas realizations increased earnings by $2.6 billion as crude oil realizations increased over $25 per barrel and gas realizations increased $0.72 per kcf.
Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $160 million due mainly to the impact of high prices on entitlement volumes higher downtime and decline partly offset by the ramp-up of Qatar projects and the addition of XTO.
Other items primarily a gain on the sale of Western Canada assets and the absence of prior year dry holes increased earnings by $470 million.
Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel were $20.
Moving to Slide 12.
Oil-equivalent volumes increased 10.5% from the first quarter of last year mainly due to growth in our U.S.
Unconventional Resource business and the impact of Qatar project ramp-up.
Volumes were however negatively impacted by higher prices on entitlement volumes higher downtime decline and divestments.
Turning now to the sequential comparison and starting on Slide 13.
Versus the fourth quarter of 2010 Upstream earnings increased by $1.2 billion with stronger realizations resulting in an additional $1.3 billion in earnings as crude oil realizations increased over $16 per barrel and global gas realizations increased to $0.79 per kcf.
Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $520 million due mainly to the impact of higher prices on entitlement volumes higher downtime and divestments.
Other items primarily asset management activity and lower operating expenses increased earnings by $410 million.
Moving to Slide 14.
Oil-equivalent volumes decreased 3% from the fourth quarter of 2010 due mainly to the impact of higher prices on entitlement volumes downtime and divestments.
For further data on regional volumes please refer to the press release and the IR supplement.
Moving now to the Downstream and starting on Slide 15.
During the quarter ExxonMobil Lubricants &amp; Specialties renewed the long-standing technology partnership with the Vodafone McLaren Mercedes Formula 1 team.
The new multiyear agreement maintains the longest continuous oil company sponsorship of a Grand Prix race team.
As part of the agreement we will continue providing Vodafone McLaren Mercedes with Mobil 1 lubricant technology expertise and support to develop next-generation lubricants for the race car engine and gearbox.
ExxonMobil will continue to leverage learnings from the extreme conditions of Formula 1 racing to further enhance Mobil 1 synthetic oil formulations.
With this agreement ExxonMobil will also supply a range of specialized lubricant products for use at the McLaren Technology Center.
These products will include high-performance cutting fluids used in the manufacturing of race car components: Mobil SHC synthetic grease for the wind tunnel and Mobil Delvac 1 synthetic diesel engine oil to help reduce fuel consumption and improve emissions of the Vodafone McLaren Mercedes truck fleet.
Turning now to the Downstream financial and operating results starting on Slide 16.
Downstream earnings in the first quarter were $1.1 billion up $1.1 billion from the first quarter of 2010.
Improved industry margins increased earnings by $470 million driven by higher refining margins partly offset by lower marketing margins.
Continued benefits from our refining optimization activities contributed $350 million in volume and mix effects while other factors improved earnings by $240 million primarily due to favorable foreign exchange effects.
Moving to Slide 17.
Sequentially first quarter Downstream earnings were essentially flat.
Higher industry margins higher industry refining margins partly offset by lower marketing margins increased earnings by $160 million.
Volume and mix effects were a negative $270 million primarily due to higher turnaround and maintenance activities.
Other factors contributed $60 million.
Turning now to our Chemical business starting on Slide 18.
ExxonMobil Chemical recently announced the grand opening of our world-class Shanghai Technology Center in China.
Our investment in this new facility demonstrates the strategic importance of technology and its critical role in supporting the long-term value of our Chemical business.
The 220 000 square foot facility is equipped with more than 200 state-of-the-art processing machines and analytical instruments.
The center also has 22 development-scale and 16 commercial-scale product processing machines allowing us to perform full-scale testing to serve our Chemical customer needs in the fast-growing China and broader Asia markets.
The Shanghai Technology Center is supported by more than 300 employees from our technology sales marketing and supply chain groups.
Today the Chinese petrochemical market is the largest in the world.
And through 2020 China will represent over 1/3 of global petrochemical demand growth.
Shanghai Technology Center is well positioned to support this growth by providing our customers with product and processing solutions and add value to their businesses.
Turning now to Slide 19.
During the quarter Saudi Basic Industries Corporation or SABIC announced that work on our proposed joint venture elastomers project has moved into the front-end engineering and design phase.
As previously announced plans are to establish a domestic supply of more than 400 000 tons per year of synthetic rubber thermoplastic specialty polymers and carbon black to serve emerging local and international markets in Asia and the Middle East.
ExxonMobil and SABIC are targeting development of a globally competitive project with best-in-class industry cost and have selected Jubail Industrial City as the site for the new manufacturing units in order to expand integration opportunities within the existing KEMYA petrochemical joint venture.
The Saudi elastomers project continues a long history of investment in Saudi Arabia and builds on the strong relationship with SABIC to meet the growing customer need for our products.
Turning now to the Chemical financial and operating results and starting on Slide 20.
First quarter Chemical earnings were a record $1.5 billion up $267 million from the first quarter of 2010 again demonstrating the value of a balanced portfolio of commodity and specialty businesses world-scale facilities with strong operational performance and technology application to deliver superior feedstock advantage.
Higher margins contributed $470 million in earnings primarily driven by stronger commodity chemicals margins and our feedstock advantage.
Other effects decreased earnings by $200 million due to higher plant maintenance costs unfavorable foreign exchange effects and the absence of asset management gains.
Moving to Slide 21.
Sequentially first quarter Chemical earnings increased about $450 million.
Margin effects increased earnings by $340 million primarily due to stronger global commodity chemicals margins.
Other effects increased earnings by $100 million due mainly to lower turnaround and maintenance costs this quarter.
Moving to Slide 22.
While we manage our Downstream and Chemical businesses separately we continue to capture benefits from the unique integration and optimization of these businesses.
Looking at our combined Downstream and Chemical results first quarter earnings were $2.6 billion up $1.3 billion from the first quarter of 2010.
Moving to Slide 23.
ExxonMobil's first quarter financial and operating performance was strong and results -- and reflects the ability of our business model and competitive advantages to deliver superior results.
We maintain a continuous focus on operational excellence and improving upon our industry-leading safety performance while continuing with the disciplined execution of our long-term investment plan.
As we continue to deploy high-impact technologies and leverage our unparalleled global integration ExxonMobil remains well positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
And I would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Mark Gilman from The Benchmark Company.
LLC</strong> I wonder if you could comment on what you did in the quarter with respect to the tax rate increase in the U.K.
Did you accrue at the  higher rate and address that in the context of the overall increase in the effective tax rate which one might have suspected from a higher price but E&amp;P earnings were actually a lower percentage than they were in the fourth quarter? I also had a follow-up.
Sure Mark.
That's a good question given some of the other results that are out there.
We did not accrue any impact associated with the increase in taxes in the U.K.
that were recently announced.
As you probably know for U.S.
GAAP purposes effective changes in tax laws are reflected only on the enactment date as opposed to IFRS where the effect of these changes are reflected for laws enacted or laws that are substantially enacted or are anticipated to have that kind of an effect.
So we will reflect the impact of that in our earnings at the time that it's fully enacted.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the tax rate itself going up to 47% in the quarter despite the fact that the E&amp;P percentage of income was lower in this quarter than in the fourth quarter? Yes if you're looking sequentially -- I guess if you're looking at the increase then from the fourth quarter to the first quarter where we went from 43% to 47% the biggest factor in the increase there was some absences of favorable tax items that we had in the fourth quarter as well as we did see a little change in the mix that added about 1% or so.
So we're down quarter-on-quarter and up sequentially.
LLC</strong> Okay.
My follow-up relates to Iraq David and whether or not you included any production in the quarter from Iraq and if you could indicate what kind of impact that that will have in terms of the way you're reporting your financials.
Yes sure.
If we look at volumes in the first quarter they were de minimis given the timing that we reached the production target that we were looking for.
So we will see increased volumes as we head into the second quarter.
We'll take our next question from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
A quick opener.
And forgive me if you gave this number but do you have a net debt number for the end of the quarter? Oh yes.
Sure.
Net debt at the end of the quarter was right at about $15.9 billion.
And how much of that is cash? No I'm sorry that's the actual debt.
All right.
Yes I'm sorry.
The cash balance was $13.2 billion.
So the difference in those then is about $2.6 billion $2.7 billion.
If I could not count as a question and ask you too from here.
Okay.
Firstly on CapEx.
In the U.S.
clearly you've had a big jump in U.S.
CapEx year-over-year.
You had just over $2 billion of spending.
I was wondering could just talk a little bit more about that number going forward? And I'm thinking just given your comments on the Gulf of Mexico about where that $2 billion breaks down to and where you expect it to go from here.
Sure.
If we look at the CapEx increase quarter-on-quarter in the U.S.
that's really all the addition of XTO and the fact that we didn't report CapEx in the first quarter of last year for them and we've got it this year.
And that's the bulk of the U.S.
increase that you see in the first quarter.
But I would imagine that you had a lower level activity in the Gulf of Mexico right? And do you expect that to ramp back up going forward? Yes I don't have an exact number but I would assume the activity in the Gulf was a little bit less.
And certainly we'll see that increasing in this quarter as we're drilling the Hadrian well.
And that well as I mentioned has spudded and is going down.
And so yes we'll see that.
So we'll see a little pickup there in the second quarter.
And what about for the XTO stuff? Do you -- I mean I know you've reached the level of rigs that you've kind of held flat.
Is that the expectation let's say for the remainder of 2011? Yes that's pretty much.
I think you'll see us probably be somewhere in that 65 to 70 rigs  quarter-on-quarter rate which is about flat where we've been.
Obviously as we look at that portfolio we are optimizing the use of those rigs and making sure that we're obviously hitting the liquids-rich areas to the extent possible and as well as prioritizing our gas rigs and utilization and of course utilization of frac-ing crews and other support services and equipment to make sure that we're maximizing the value of that program.
But we're very pleased with how things are going in the first quarter.
I'm looking forward to a good year.
And then if we just roll that through the combination of the 2 things.
You've got the rigs at around the same level.
Would do you expect the CapEx for those rigs to remain at around the same level or are you seeing cost increases? No I think that's a reasonable expectation as we're looking across the year.
That's consistent with the guidance that we had in the March Analyst Meeting.
But as we look across the year we would expect cost to be generally flat.
And that's kind of what we're seeing now here in the first quarter.
Great.
And then just -- I hope it's not too long a question but when I look at your financial and operating information your refining capacity after 2010 has given that 6.25 million barrels a day.
And if I look at your utilization rate in Q1 assuming that's the right number for Q1 5.18 million of throughput.
That's about an 82% utilization rate.
If I remember rightly 2010 was a well I can see from the history was a low year for utilization at 84% with quite a lot of turnarounds.
My question is how come utilization is so low? Is it a Japan effect? Is there some other issue there? And would we expect that to bounce higher for the rest of the year? And I'll leave it there.
Yes sure Paul.
That's a good question.
We had a couple of factors going on.
We did see in the first quarter particularly relative to the first quarter of last year some higher turnaround activity in Europe and across Asia.
And of course we did see some impact in Japan related to the tragic events there.
I can tell you that all of our facilities in Japan are up and running full bore.
We obviously brought those up as quickly as possible in order to help relieve the product supply disruption effects in Japan and we're very pleased with how that effort is going.
Utilization in the U.S.
is doing well.
So again other than the planned maintenance and turnaround activities outside of the U.S.
things were doing pretty well.
We'll go next to Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yes.
So David a couple of questions.
I'm trying to understand the production movements in the quarter.
Obviously there's a lot of moving parts here.
So maybe we'll just highlight some of the ones that had jumped out to us.
Asia Pacific gas seems to be down a fair bit and I'm guessing production sharing contracts impacted African oil.
But if you could confirm those 2 things and maybe talk a bit about them.
But if you could also explain what's going on with liquids in Europe.
And then I have a follow-up please.
If you look broadly across our volumes we did see some impacts as I mentioned in my prepared remarks from downtime.
And we did see that in the Asia Pacific Gas business.
We had some -- we did have some downtime in Qatar and that affected our gas business there.
Liquids of course you're seeing a big decline relative to the impact of the high prices on entitlements.
And as we mentioned in the chart there you are seeing some impact of divestments the 2 divestments that we announced the Gulf of Mexico and Canada on both liquids and gas.
But across the board large impacts of course some PSC entitlement effects and then the downtime that we had in a number of places.
I'll also mention while we're talking about overall volumes we did have some downtime across West Africa that lowered our volumes there.
And as you know there was downtime up on the North Slope that affected the Prudhoe Bay volumes.
So while we did see that downtime effect in the first quarter and that's both relative to last year and the fourth quarter this year in particular all of that production is back online.
So we would expect to get those impacts back as well as the earnings in the second quarter.
Broadly David can you quantify the absolute impact of what has come back on stream? Or do you want me to take that offline? I don't have that number off the top of my head.
So yes you can -- we'll take that offline.
Okay.
My follow-up is fairly quick.
I think the exploration charges were quite light it appears relative to the run rate from last year.
Can you -- is that basically a reflection of the success that you've had? Is spending down? Is it seasonal? Or can you give us some idea of what the trend is there please? And I'll leave it there.
Sure.
That one is pretty straightforward.
It's just the absence of the dry hole costs that we had last year in particular Libya and some of the other places that you're aware of.
And then the rest is just timing.
We have a very large exploration program getting under the way this year.
We got the Hadrian well going down now.
Turkey will be spudding in the second quarter.
So some timing of course across the quarters.
But the main quarter-on-quarter impact that you see on exploration expense is the absence of the dry hole costs that we booked last year.
We'll go next to Doug Terreson with ISI.
So in chemicals you guys have historically invested when competitive advantages were present rather when you really have cyclical returns and it's obviously served you well over time.
But at the same time the returns in U.S.
Chemicals business are about the highest in the Global portfolio which suggests that opportunities for value-added investment might be present.
So while I don't think that the guys said too much on U.S.
Chemical at the Analyst Meeting I want to see if you'd comment on the level of interest and investment in this business that is there is any.
And if so in what product areas given the kind of the surprising strength in this area? Doug as you point out we do have a long history of investing through the price cycle in the Chemicals business and that has served us well.
And it's of course serving us well now and we would expect it to do the same in the future as we bring the Singapore plant up.
When we look in the U.S.
we are currently enjoying a terrific feedstock advantage.
Basically as you know everybody is running everything to the extent that they can into their crackers and we're taking advantage of that.
As we look longer term in the U.S.
Chemical business the first place you got to start is demand and demand growth for the product.
And we don't see the demand in the U.S.
being near as strong as opportunities that we have elsewhere particularly the Asia Pacific region and in particular serving the markets there and of course in the Middle East.
So I think the growth prospects for demand pull is definitely outside of the U.S.
And then if we look at where we are today we're happy with our portfolio and the integration that we have with our other refineries.
And that that we've talked about in the past.
So while times are real good now and we're taking advantage of them we're really focusing the bulk of our investment plan and our growth prospects outside of the U.S.
Okay simple enough.
And also given the geographical scope of your operations your information on oil demand trends are usually as good or better than anybody's.
And on this point while most of the rise in oil prices unfolded in the latter part of the first quarter and there are lag effects in many countries meaning it may be too early to know.
I wanted to see if you'd comment on trends in OECD and non-OECD  demand that is if you have updated  information from these regions.
I don't have any really updated demand relative to the broad things that we talked about in our energy outlook.
I think things are pretty consistent with that.
As I mentioned of course we are seeing some inflationary pressures in the developing countries and the impact that that might have near term on demand relative to economic growth remains to be seen.
But as we look out long term we expect to see growth consistent with our energy outlook.
But no real change.
We'll take the next question from Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse.
And thanks for the cash flow statements in the presentation.
Very very helpful.
You're welcome Ed.
Just a quick question on Chemicals in the international markets.
I mean obviously there are meant to be start-ups coming on this year and obviously oil prices have pushed up and then that may impact demand.
What is happening David because that was a lot of the surprise the Chemical margins as you start into this quarter or your outlook for the rest of the year? Yes as we're looking -- let's start with what we saw in the first quarter which was very strong margins kind of across the board in particular in commodities in the U.S.
and Europe.
And of course those were levered up by our feedstock flexibility and the advantages we have there.
So we had a real strong quarter.
Specialties as well given the increase in economic activity in industrial man.
so kind of hit on all cylinders there in the first quarter.
So as we look into the future it'll be very difficult for me to predict or speculate on margins going forward.
A lot of that is driven by economic activity and what's going on.
Margins are firm as we look around what's going on today.
But again given the impact that the economy and changes can have on growth and fairly quickly on prices I wouldn't want to speculate.
But I would say that one of the important things about taking advantage of what you get is to have your operations that are up and running and we're focusing on that.
We have very good high utilizations and so margins remain strong.
But we'll certainly take advantage of it and maximize feed flexibility.
But overall prices and demand so that would be tough for me to look out the window and speculate on that.
And then my follow-up is on this sort of volume-mix shift as we go quarter-to-quarter.
Obviously in Q4 you had $870 million gain versus Q3.
And then this quarter you lost $520 million.
And you mentioned PSCs and downtime.
Is it right for us to assume that most of that is downtime in terms of that vol.
mix kind of impact? Yes if you're looking quarter-on-quarter one of the biggest impacts there is entitlements had a big impact.
And again as I mentioned downtime was the other.
And so what -- and that really hit our liquids.
So what you see quarter-on-quarter sequentially is liquid volumes went down because of those effects and gas volumes went up.
And we don't -- at current prices we're not making the same money on the U.S.
Gas business as we are on our liquids.
So as I mentioned earlier all of the downtime is back up and running and we're pleased to have those volumes back.
Crude oil prices remain strong.
So to the extent that that continues to have impacts on entitlements we'll see those going forward.
But I think when you look at what we control it's good to have the downtime behind us and the volumes back online.
And a follow-on from Mark's question.
Do you have a number for the U.K.
tax charge at this point in terms of the charge you might take in Q3? Yes I don't have that number yet.
So we'll have that -- obviously and if that goes through we'll have that in the second quarter.
Our next question comes from Faisel Khan with Citi.
I'm wondering if you could elaborate a little bit more on the -- so you talked about the asset management effects of I think about $410 million or so in that same business sequentially.
What exactly is -- when you talked about asset management what does that exactly mean? Sure.
We've got -- and asset management is only one factor in that $410 million.
And you're basically seeing in there the impact of the Western Canada sale that we had in the first quarter of this year.
But that was mostly offset by the gain on the sale of the Eastern Gulf of Mexico last quarter.
So if we look at that $410 million quarter-to-quarter sequentially the biggest impact in there is on lower operating expenses.
So you have a combination of lower field expense and then as the question was mentioned earlier lower exploration expense quarter-on-quarter because of the effects I mentioned.
So the big impact in that $410 million sequentially is really lower operating expense.
Okay got you.
And then one last question.
On the Chemical business if I'm looking at U.S.
Chemical prime product sales and if I go back and look at those volumes kind of over the last few quarters it looks like you've peaked out at about 2.6 million tons in the third quarter of last year and you're still kind of operating around this 2.2 million-ton range.
Is there something going on with some of the assets that you're selling less product than you did in the third quarter of last year? No there's really nothing going on from an asset perspective.
We had a little higher turnaround activity in the fourth quarter.
One in the effects that you see for example when you compare our first quarter volumes in '11 compared to the first quarter volumes of last year we did have an opportunity -- you might recall this time last year I mentioned that a number of our competitors' units were down for various reasons and we had an opportunity to really pick up some spot sales particularly in the U.S.
in the Commodity business and took advantage of that.
And so that was being pretty opportunistic.
As we look across the quarters kind of balancing things out and taking into account maintenance timing and that sort of thing no real change.
In fact I'll tell you from a utilization standpoint we're running our facilities at a rate that's above the industry averages that have been announced.
Uptime has been great.
And I think I said a minute ago that business is kind of hitting on all cylinders right now and we're very pleased with the financial results.
Thanks for the time.
Sure thing.
Our next question comes from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Question for you.
I know you addressed the asset sales in Western Canada and the Gulf of Mexico.
But when you look just in general the asset divestitures have kind of ticked higher here in the last couple of quarters compared to where we where trending previously.
And I'm just curious is that a sign of increased divestiture activity to come? No I wouldn't read anything into that particularly.
As you know we have a long-standing practice and a long-standing program.
I think we mentioned at the March Analyst Meeting that if you go back to the merger we've divested about $40 billion worth of assets.
That's a pretty big program.
It's opportunistic.
It's ongoing.
Obviously you'll have the timing of certain things.
But nothing major nothing out of the ordinary.
Always evaluating opportunities always talking to folks that are interested in our assets.
And as we've said before someone comes along and places a higher value for whatever reason on an asset than we do we're certainly going to talk to them about that opportunity.
But I wouldn't look at the recent trends as any sign or indicator of increased or lower activity levels to come.
And then one follow-up if I could just on the share repurchases.
It may not get very far on this but I'll give it a stab anyway.
I guess I was thinking maybe there's a chance that repurchase program would have bumped up a bit heading into 2Q just given the elevated commodity environment and the fact that the cash balance is back up to $13 billion.
Would you say there is maybe an upward bias should commodity prices stay where they are here? I wouldn't necessarily say there's any bias with respect to the share purchases.
We did have very strong cash flows in the first quarter for the reasons I mentioned.
That did enable us to really follow the cash strategy that we've talked about many times.
We have a very large investment program this year.
I hope everybody noticed the announcement yesterday of our fairly sizable dividend increase So we are pleased to be able to fund that and then have the ability to fund another $5 billion of share repurchases while at the same time maintaining our strong balance sheet and most importantly maintaining financial flexibility.
And of course as we talk about a lot maintaining discipline in investments and uses of cash throughout the cycle is one of our key objectives and we continue to manage the business along those lines.
I appreciate it.
We'll go next to Iain Reid with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> I'd like to echo the thanks for the cash flow statements I'm looking forward to the balance sheet next quarter.
It will be out shortly.
Inc.</strong> Yes yes I know.
Just a couple of questions.
Going back to Iraq.
The industry gossip is that things are tougher than people expected in Iraq in terms of production buildup.
There's a fair amount of infrastructure to be -- and so I think you're responsible for the water injection system.
Can you talk about what you think these volumes might rise to over the balance of this year and going into next couple of years? And also how we should think about what your -- how your booked production is going to look like out of that? Sure.
Let me kind of hit the second question first and then move back to the first one.
If we look at our production and the increases that we've got and are achieving they're right on schedule they're right on plan.
We're not seeing any real constraints moving up to 320 000 barrels a day.
And so from that standpoint we're pleased and look forward to continuing our progress.
As I mentioned from a production booking standpoint very low in the first quarter because of the timing of hitting that target.
And you'll see that ramp-up here a bit over the second quarter.
We've got 3 rigs running now.
We've got more rigs coming workovers facilities optimizations.
So all of that stuff is up and running.
Now as we go down the road not only ourselves but the rest of industry there are infrastructure needs to be addressed one of which on the water injection side ExxonMobil is leading that study and that progresses.
There are also needs for additional export capacity and facilities to move the oil out of the country and those are being addressed as well.
But both of those are large-scale efforts.
They need to be undertaken.
But it's too early for me to predict either the timing or the ultimate potential because it'll be -- there'll a number of factors that affect that.
But I think your observation is spot on.
Things are going very well right now and we've got some infrastructure issues to address in the coming months and years.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And can I ask last quarter you gave us a number for XTO's earnings per barrel as distinct from the rest of the portfolio.
Can you just update on that for this quarter? I wasn't planning on giving any XTO-specific earnings numbers.
We've kind of got that all wrapped up in our U.S.
results that you've seen reported and would continue to do that.
I would offer though as we look at that unconventional business now through the end of the first quarter we are very pleased with the progress we're making on integration.
We're especially pleased with the synergistic results that we're starting to see the fruition coming to bear of our efforts both on the addition of XTO resources to our global unconventional program.
We've got folks working on planning and of our efforts there.
And we have drilled some wells.
We've got others planned.
And we are certainly benefiting from the expertise that they bring to the table.
Likewise here in the U.S.
we're really starting to see the benefit of combining some of heritage ExxonMobil's technology capabilities and research capabilities and some of the technologies that we developed in the tight gas realm being applied to the XTO business.
And I don't have any numbers quote today but I can tell you directionally if you look at the objectives we have of improving capital efficiency improving productivity and lowering operating costs we are making good progress and are very pleased with how that's going.
So the story there remains very positive and we look forward to the upcoming quarters and years to again really really get out of that resource what we had planned.
We'll go next to Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
Dave when I'm looking at your entire European gas output in the first quarter it's 4.8 Bcf versus the first quarter 2010 is 5.1.
And it's a little bit surprised that you dropped that much given the first quarter of 2011 weather was pretty cold and the pricing was strong.
So we would expect that you will probably max out your gas output because the demand is there.
So if -- that means that year-over-year we are dropping by say around 8% on the -- over 7% on the underlying decline curve on your European gas capacity or that the first quarter 2010 is just maybe some one-off accounting issue that number is high.
Paul that is an excellent question.
And interestingly enough even though European demand was high in the first quarter '11 it was actually less than first quarter of '10 and really accounted for at least half if not a little more of the decrease you saw quarter-on-quarter with the balance basically being a decline.
But yes we did see an overall demand drop relative to the first quarter of last year.
Interesting.
I would have thought that the demand -- so the underlying decline is more like in the 3% to 4%? It's not the 7%? Yes I didn't do that calculation.
But yes if you're looking overall at the decline figure about half of that is demand and the other half is decline.
Okay.
And then you're talking about Iraq earlier.
Can you tell us how the accounting works in terms of reporting the production and earnings now that you are about 10%? So does that mean that if the production in excess of the baseline then you just report your 65% share? Or how exactly is the accounting in terms of reporting the production and the earning is going to be? Sure Paul.
As you know those contracts in Iraq are unique.
They do have -- they do exhibit some elements that look like a PSC in terms of cost recovery.
You do have of course then the remuneration the fee that you get above the 10%.
And then of course the actual volumes that you book are impacted by prices as well.
So as we move forward we'll be booking production just as the way we said those contracts work.
We'll get the volumes for cost recovery and then we'll get the volumes associated with the remuneration fee.
And then we'll book the reserves accordingly as well.
So you basically will book similar like what you did in the PSC? So you have your -- let's say you have -- you'll spend $100 million in the cost and then your fee for argument's sake is going to be $10 million.
So you will book -- your production will be equal to whatever.
Let's say if it's $100 oil then you book 11 million barrels in the production -- 1.1 million barrel in production.
Is that the way that you're going to do? Directionally Paul I think the math flows the way you're suggesting and I'm sure there's a few nuances.
But directionally speaking that's how that's going to work.
Okay.
If I could sneak in just a quick one.
Sure.
You're not going to talk about the XTO contribution.
Can you tell us what is the XTO hours [ph] at oil and gas production for the quarter? No we really -- again heading into this year now that we've fully integrated that business into the rest of the U.S.
results we weren't planning to break out either the earnings or absolute production levels.
But of course if you look at the net growth year-over-year that we show in the volume start the bulk of that is XTO.
So again I'll give you an indicator.
We drilled I think 900-and-some wells in XTO last year and we've already drilled 200 in the first quarter this year.
So again the business is doing well.
But it's now going to be reported and fully integrated in with the rest of our U.S.
results.
Our next question comes from Katherine Minyard with JPMorgan.
Just a couple of quick questions on the entitlement sensitivity both quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.
In your slide where you compare year-over-year you've got about a 65 000 barrel a day change and I've got about a $28 change in the Brent oil price.
So that's about 2 300 barrels a day per $1 change in oil.
Then if I look at the quarter-over-quarter it looks to be about a 5 000-barrel a day change per dollar per barrel oil price change.
So I was curious as to what the ratable sensitivity is on a go-forward basis and whether there was any one-off impact in the most recent quarter or over the course of the last year that would be skewing that.
Sure Katherine.
That's an excellent question.
And the biggest factor we have in the sequential quarter more so than in the quarter-on-quarter is really in the price and spend effect.
And the thing you have to keep in mind is both price and spend impact that.
And so what we saw was we had higher prices quarter-to-quarter from the fourth quarter to the first quarter and much lower spending.
But you kind of got a double whammy there of lower spending and higher prices significantly lowering the volumes that you get.
Okay.
We didn't see that impact quarter.
And is there a rate we should be -- thinking about on a go-forward basis? On a go-forward basis I really couldn't give you a number because again I don't know what crude oil prices are going to do.
And directionally our spend levels tend to increase across the year.
Particularly relative fourth quarter to first quarter you tend to see higher spending in the fourth quarter and lower spending in the first quarter and we've seen that effect.
So I really wouldn't have a number going forward other than to say the biggest impact on us is going to be the level of spending and then of course what crude oil prices do.
Okay great.
We'll go next to Allen Good with Morningstar.
Just a quick question.
Can you give an update on Golden Pass and what kind of activity you're seeing down there? Sure I'd be happy to give you an overall update on that project.
Things are going quite well.
As you know we are commissioning that in 2 phases.
We've got the first phase done.
That commissioning cargo actually arrived the first one in the fourth quarter last year.
And we brought in 5 additional cargoes.
We got that thing up and running actually exported some gas into the pipeline.
And all the facilities are working.
As we sit here today Phase 2 is complete and in the commissioning stage and we brought in our cargo for that.
So we continue on the full commissioning and start-up of that terminal.
And as you know that's part of a broader strategy out of Qatar to have a footprint in all the -- a regas footprint in all the major markets and have left about a third of our volumes out of Qatar to be available to the spot market.
And as the strategy was unfolded the ability to divert those cargoes to get the highest netback is exactly what we're seeing today.
And so we're taking all available cargoes into Europe where we enjoy a nice spread there as well as demand in the Asia Pac market for spot cargoes in addition to our term contracts is also strong.
So we're very pleased with how all these facilities are coming along and especially pleased with the performance of our balance and mix of commercial arrangements.
Thanks for those comments on the LNG market.
Just one more follow up on the Downstream earnings for international there was a drop-off there from 4Q to this first quarter.
I just want to confirm if that was due to the turnarounds you mentioned earlier throughout Europe and Asia.
And I wanted to confirm that most of those facilities are back online and producing at full capacity.
Yes you're right the primary impact was the turnaround and maintenance-related activities.
And as we're looking today --- and that was across Europe and Asia Pacific.
And where we're sitting here today those facilities are back up and running and came out of a very successful maintenance period.
Okay.
And any more anticipated turnarounds either in Europe or throughout the U.S.
for the remainder of the year? I don't have a turnaround schedule but I think you'll see normal turnaround and maintenance activities in the U.S.
here in the second quarter kind of consistent with what we normally do and what industry normally does.
Okay appreciate very much.
We'll go next to Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Kind of a broad question if I may.
It's been almost a year of course since XTO closed.
And I'm curious how has the company's unconventional gas plans evolved for your overseas acreage and in particular if any of the drilling timetables have changed? Yes I wouldn't say any of the drilling timetables have changed.
Nonetheless we do have a very active program underway both coming out of 2010 as well as into 2011.
For example if you look at the Poland resources we've been actively acquiring 3D seismic.
We did get a well down in one of our licenses in the first quarter and it finished up in February.
We've got a second well that spud in February.
So we're starting to do our evaluation program our drilling program and would expect to continue to do that as the year goes on.
If you look at Germany there again we have continued our evaluation efforts there and are drilling some additional wells.
And we expect that program to continue on.
But again things are going about as we have planned both in the shale gas in Germany as well in coal bed methane.
We are getting wells down and are evaluating those results.
And that'll determine the pace and extent of our program going forward.
But we continue to view those opportunities very highly.
I'll tell you another area for us outside of the country is Argentina where we have also acquired a fairly large acreage position there.
And we are doing evaluation and preparations to commence drilling there later on.
So if I kind of step back and look at our total global unconventional portfolio we continue to add to our acreage position.
We are continuing to pursue additional acreage positions and again as I mentioned a little earlier really leveraging the capabilities of ExxonMobil and XTO to both evaluate those prospects and to the extent that any of them prove to be commercial move into the development program.
So about as planned but certainly a higher level of activity recently than a couple of years ago.
Inc.</strong> I appreciate the color on that.
And then just real quick.
Any changes at PNG LNG on either start-up of -- timing start-up or CapEx estimates? No I don't have any updated information.
That project is on plan and doing fine and we continue to project that we're going to deliver our first LNG out of there sometime in 2014.
So that project is going well.
The final question comes from Mark Gilman with The Benchmark Company.
LLC</strong> David what specifically was the gain on the Western Canada asset sale in the quarter? Mark as I typically do or don't do I really don't have a number specifically for any one asset sale in the quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay I'm going to try just one other one in light of that.
Was there any lifting variance at all in this quarter David that could have impacted the Upstream side sales as less than or greater than the underlying level of production? As we look quarter-on-quarter sequentially I don't recall there being any impact.
All right well I'll conclude the conversation then by thanking everyone for your time today and your questions.
And we'll look forward to the second quarter earnings call in July.
Thank you very much.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
David Rosenthal.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's second quarter earnings call and webcast.
The focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2011.
I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investor section of our website.
Before we go further I would like to draw your attention to our customary cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Moving to Slide 3.
We provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results.
The global economy and energy markets are being influenced by slower growth and continued uncertainty in the macro environment.
A sustained economic recovery remains elusive as a result of persistent sovereign debt concerns sluggish business investment and lower consumer spending.
Energy market continued to see strengthening in crude oil prices in the second quarter while U.S.
natural gas prices showed a modest increase.
Downstream industry refining and marketing margins also improved during the quarter while commodity Chemical margins weakened slightly.
Turning now to the second quarter financial results as shown on Slide 4.
ExxonMobil's second quarter 2011 earnings excluding special items were $10.7 billion an increase of $3.1 billion from the second quarter of 2010.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 45%.
Earnings per share for the quarter excluding special items were $2.18 up $0.58 from a year ago.
The corporation distributed more than $7 billion to shareholders in the second quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $5 billion was distributed to purchase shares.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 billion in the third quarter of 2011.
CapEx from the second quarter was $10.3 billion up $3.8 billion from the second quarter of 2010 reflecting the increase on our U.S.
unconventional activities including the recently completed acquisition of the Phillips Companies.
Across our diverse portfolio we continue to invest in robust projects through the business cycle to help meet global demand for crude oil natural gas and finished products.
Our cash generation remains very strong with $14.4 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales.
At the end of the second quarter cash and marketable securities totaled $10.3 billion and debt was $16.5 billion.
The next slide provides additional detail on second quarter sources and uses of funds.
Over the quarter cash and marketable securities decreased from $13.2 billion to $10.3 billion.
The combined impact of strong earnings depreciation expense higher working capital and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $14.4 billion of cash flow from operations.
Uses included additions to plant property and equipment or PP&amp;E of $7.8 billion and shareholder distributions of $7.3 billion.
Additional financing and investing reduced our cash and marketable securities by $2.2 billion including the acquisition of the Phillips companies.
We will now provide a review of segmented results starting on Slide 6.
ExxonMobil's second quarter 2011 earnings of $10.7 billion increased $3.1 billion or 41% from the second quarter of 2010.
Upstream earnings increased $3.2 billion while Downstream earnings improved by $136 million.
Chemical earnings were essentially flat.
Higher corporate and financing expenses decreased earnings $174 million versus the second quarter of 2010 due mainly to the absence of favorable tax items.
Corporate and financing expenses remain within our continued guidance of $500 million to $700 million per quarter.
As shown on Slide 7 ExxonMobil's second quarter 2011 earnings of $10.7 billion were in line with the first quarter of 2011 mainly due to higher Downstream earnings offset by slightly lower Chemical and Upstream earnings.
Moving next to the second quarter business highlights and beginning on Slide 8.
We will begin with an update on a number of our Upstream liquids projects.
During the quarter we fully funded the Banyu Urip project on the Cepu Block in Indonesia.
The full field development is expected to recover $450 billion oil equivalent barrels of reserves and deliver gross production of 165 000 barrels per day via a 60-mile pipeline to an offshore floating storage and offtake vessel in the Java Sea.
In Eastern Canada we achieved early oil production from the first well of the Hibernia Southern Extension project.
Project development will continue over the next few years including drilling more wells and providing water injection capability with full production plateau anticipated in 2014.
We also continue to ramp up activity in Iraq and currently have 5 drilling rigs operating.
Current gross production is approximately 340 000 barrels per day.
We are also progressing front-end engineering and agreements for the common seawater supply project.
And lastly we continue to make strong progress at Kearl where we are currently 68% complete with construction.
Turning now to our exploration activities on Slide 9.
Beginning in the Black Sea where ExxonMobil holds 6.6 million net acres the Deepwater Champion drillship arrived in the second quarter.
We are now drilling in the Kastamonu exploration well in the Turkish Black Sea.
We expect to have results from this high-risk high-potential exploration well later this year.
In the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico where ExxonMobil holds 2.1 million net acres we made a significant oil discovery with the Hadrian-5 exploration well which commenced drilling in March 3 days after receiving permit approval from the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.
As recently reported the Hadrian-5 wildcat confirmed the presence of a second oil accumulation in Keathley Canyon block 919.
The well encountered 475 feet of net oil pay and a minor amount of gas.
We are drilling ahead to deeper objectives and have encountered an additional 250 feet of net oil pay to date.
Combined with our other Keathley Canyon blocks we estimate a recoverable resource of more than 700 million oil equivalent barrels making this one of the largest discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico in the last decade.
More than 85% of the resource is oil.
We're also working with our joint venture partners and other lessees in the areas to determine the best way to safely develop these resources as rapidly as possible.
Turning now to the Phillips acquisition on Slide 10.
ExxonMobil concluded the acquisition of the Phillips companies on June 2 2011.
The Phillips transaction included 317 000 net acres across the heart of the rapidly growing Marcellus Shale play and nearly doubles ExxonMobil's acreage to more than 700 000 net acres in the play.
XTO will manage the Phillips assets from the recently established Appalachia Division headquartered in Pittsburgh Pennsylvania.
Given the proximity to our current operations in Southwestern Pennsylvania the addition of the Phillips acreage will create significant value by leveraging regional synergies and also makes ExxonMobil a leading leaseholder in the Marcellus.
The Phillips properties currently produce 50 million net cubic feet per day of natural gas which includes both shallow gas and deeper Marcellus production.
Turning now to our total U.S.
unconventional portfolio on Slide 11.
In the U.S.
XTO is currently managing total resources of 76 trillion cubic feet equivalent which represents an increase of almost 70% from what was initially recognized at the time of the merger.
As shown in the chart nearly 2/3 of the resource additions are from revisions and corporate transfers demonstrating the benefit of the XTO merger.
The revisions resulted from buy-the-bid activities such as down spacing additional development and new plays.
Over 12 trillion cubic feet equivalent of resource additions have been added through acquisitions including the 2010 Ellora-Haynesville-Bossier and Petrohawk-Fayetteville acquisitions the 2011 acquisition of the Phillips companies and several other low-cost acquisitions.
These resources were added at an average cost of approximately $0.28 per thousand cubic feet equivalent.
Turning now to our global unconventional portfolio on Slide 12.
ExxonMobil has a diverse portfolio of the emerging unconventional resource opportunities with access to more than 10 million net acres in North and South America Europe and Southeast Asia.
Beginning in Argentina we hold approximately 240 000 net acres in the prospective Neuquen Basin and will begin drilling in the fourth quarter of 2011.
In Canada we are continuing drilling in the Cardium and the Horn River basins.
In Columbia we are preparing to begin core hole drilling in the fourth quarter to evaluate heavy oil potential.
In Poland we are preparing for well testing.
And in Germany we are progressing permit approvals for our well testing program.
In China we are progressing opportunities with the Chinese national oil companies to apply ExxonMobil's leading-edge technology to develop unconventional gas resources.
Finally in Indonesia we've commenced coal bed methane drilling in the quarter and are now on our third well in the Barito Basin.
These opportunities represent a large and growing global portfolio of unconventional assets with the potential for significant value creation through the application of ExxonMobil's advanced technologies and XTO's strong operational and technical expertise.
Turning now to the Upstream financial and operating results starting on Slide 13.
Upstream earnings in the second quarter were $8.5 billion up $3.2 billion from the second quarter of 2010.
Stronger crude oil and natural gas realizations increased earnings by $3.6 billion as crude oil realizations increased approximately $36 per barrel and gas realizations increased $1.42 per kcf.
Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $480 million due mainly to the impact of lower entitlement volumes downtime and decline partly offset by the ramp-up of Qatar and Iraq projects and the addition of XTO.
Additionally earnings were negatively impacted by the timing of lifts.
Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel were $21.35.
Moving to Slide 14.
Oil equivalent volumes increased 10% from the second quarter of last year mainly due to growth in our U.S.
unconventional resource business and the impact of Qatar and Iraq project ramp-up.
Volumes were however negatively impacted by lower entitlement volumes divestments downtime lower gas demand in Europe and decline.
Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on Slide 15.
Versus the first quarter of 2011 Upstream earnings decreased by $134 million.
Stronger realizations improved earnings by $1.2 billion as crude oil realizations increased over $11 per barrel.
Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by a $1.1 billion due mainly to lower seasonal demand in Europe higher maintenance and the impact of lower entitlement volumes.
Additionally earnings were negatively impacted by the timing of liftings.
Other items primarily higher exploration and operating expenses decreased earnings by $310 million.
Moving to Slide 16.
Oil equivalent volumes decreased 9% from the first quarter of 2011 due mainly to lower seasonal demand in Europe downtime and the impact of lower entitlement volumes.
The facilities that experienced downtime during the second quarter of 2011 are now essentially up and running.
Lastly I'll note that year-to-date oil equivalent volumes increased 10% or over 400 000 oil equivalent barrels per day compared to the first 6 months of 2010.
Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes quota effects and divestments production was up over 12% and remains consistent with the 2011 volume guidance we communicated at the March Analyst Meeting of 3% to 4% growth versus 2010.
For further data on regional volumes please refer to the press release and IR supplement.
Moving now to the Downstream financial and operating results starting on Slide 17.
Downstream earnings in the second quarter were $1.4 billion up $136 million from the second quarter of 2010.
Improved margins increased earnings by $60 million primarily driven by improved industry refining margins.
Continued benefits from our refining optimization activities contributed $150 million in volume and mix effects while other factors were a negative $70 million.
Moving to Slide 18.
Sequentially second quarter Downstream earnings increased $257 million.
Higher industry refining and marketing margins increased earnings by $350 million while volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $50 million.
Other factors were a negative $40 million.
Turning now to the Chemical financial and operating results and starting on Slide 19.
Second quarter Chemical earnings were $1.3 billion resulting in a record $2.8 billion of earnings for the first half of 2011.
This performance demonstrates the value of our balanced portfolio of commodity and specialty businesses integrated world scale facilities premium products and technology application that delivers superior feedstock advantage.
Second quarter earnings were essentially even with the second quarter of 2010.
Increased Chemical margins contributed $120 million driven by strong demand.
Volume and mix effects lowered earnings by $90 million mainly due to higher plant maintenance activities.
Other effects decreased earnings by $80 million.
Moving to Slide 20.
Sequentially second quarter Chemical earnings decreased $195 million.
Lower margins decreased earnings by $80 million primarily due to weaker global aromatics margins.
Other effects decreased earnings $110 million due mainly to higher turnaround and maintenance cost and some unfavorable tax benefits.
Moving to Slide 21.
While we manage our Downstream and Chemical businesses separately we continue to capture benefits from the unique integration and optimization of these businesses.
Looking at our combined Downstream and Chemical results second quarter earnings were $2.7 billion.
Moving to Slide 22.
ExxonMobil's second quarter financial and operating performance was strong and reflects the ability of our business model and competitive advantages to deliver strong results.
As we continue to focus on operational excellence deploy high-impact technologies and leverage our unparalleled global integration ExxonMobil remains well positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
I would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Doug Terreson at ISI.
I have a question really just kind of a clarification.
In the Upstream you mentioned that the other item which was fairly meaningful this quarter was -- which was $310 million was exploration and something else.
What was that something else number one? And number two was most of the delta this quarter exploration? You're looking sequential at the $310 million? Right.
Yes.
The primary items there were the higher exploration expense as well as some higher production OpEx associated with the maintenance activities I mentioned.
Okay.
And then together that added up to a decent sales number.
The $150 million in refining and marketing and Chemicals just generally what were those? Oh on the volume mix effects? The other item sequential? Oh sequential.
Okay.
Yes.
Sorry.
Yes.
If you're looking sequentially on the Downstream earnings the $40 million there's really nothing significant to highlight.
We did have some higher maintenance OpEx that I mentioned.
That was the primary driver there.
Same in Chemicals? Is that the way to think about it? In Chemicals if you're looking at both actually sequentially and quarter-over-quarter it's really higher turnaround OpEx the primary drivers there.
Okay.
And also you guys have obviously been very successful in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and I think you said you haven't TD-ed the exploration well yet.
But so maybe earlier -- early but do you have an idea as to future evaluation and approximate timing for that play? And also is there transportation infrastructure in the area? Well if you look at what we're doing in the area -- and again we do have a very nice oil discovery there.
And as we've mentioned publicly we are going to work with our partners and other lessees in the area particularly with the Lucius discovery to take that well and include it with their reserve so that we can give that production on safely and rapidly.
The rest of the block of course we have both the Hadrian North discovery which is a standalone oil discovery that will not be included in that unit.
We're working on what the optimal development scenario in that might be.
And we've also announced that the Hadrian South discovery which is gas will also be processed up through the assets in the Lucius discovery again to get that gas to market.
So it's very fortunate that we have the ability to monetize a big portion of those reserves quickly but at the same point we're pretty excited.
We're still drilling and we got a lot of additional evaluation and appraisal to do out there.
So it's a good success story and a nice opportunity to get some production on pretty quickly.
Next we'll move to Blake Fernandez of Howard Weil.
Just wanted to clarify on Hadrian while we're talking that -- you mentioned that the incremental 250 feet of pay I wanted to just confirm is that over and above what you had previously reported in the press release? And if so does that indicate potential upside to the 700 million BOE? The answer to that is yes to both of your questions.
That's an addition to what we had announced earlier and it certainly provides some upside.
And also as you know it's normal in the -- in this business that there will also be some redetermination opportunities as we progress the current development of the Hadrian-5 well.
So again good news so far lots more to look at and evaluate.
And certainly we'll be evaluating the upside and we'll assess the total that we have once we hit TD.
Okay.
Great.
And my second question Dave was on CapEx.
If you look at the run rate for the first half of the year it's an average of about $9 billion a quarter which would kind of suggest about $36 billion total which is maybe a couple of billion above what your guidance is.
I'm just curious does second half of the year likely fall off a bit? Or you may be trending above where guidance was? Well I think the first thing to note is if you take out the Phillips acquisition the CapEx in the first half is right in line with what we talked about at the March Analyst Meeting.
So ex any acquisition opportunities that come along I really don't have any different guidance than what we talked about earlier in the year.
We'll take our next question from Mark Gilman at The Benchmark Company.
LLC</strong> If you could just help me and clarify in your sources and uses of funds and that reconciliation exactly where is the Phillips acquisition showing up.
I thought it was in the additions to PP&amp;E.
And then there's this $2.2 billion item which I guess even with your comment I still don't quite understand what it represents.
Was there debt associated with Phillips and that's part of that $2.2 billion? No Mark.
Mark thanks for the opportunity to clarify that.
No the entire $1.7 billion that we've paid for the Phillips acquisition is in that $2.2 billion number called additional financing and investing.
That's what that amount is.
It's not in addition to PP&amp;E.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Was there debt associated with that acquisition which I believe was a stock acquisition not an asset acquisition? No.
There was no debt associated with that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
My second one you referred in your comments to liftings and timing effects on the production numbers.
Does that mean or should I assume that your liftings in the second quarter of '11 were lower than production? Or was that delta versus the year ago period associated with second quarter 2010? No.
That's a good question.
Let me clarify that.
We were underlifted in the second quarter by about in absolute terms 69 000 barrels a day.
And we were underlifted in the second quarter of last year about 26 000.
So the delta is an additional 43 000 barrels a day underlift.
And then sequentially the factor was actually a little bigger.
We were in the delta.
We were a little overlifted in the first quarter.
So if we look at the delta between first and second quarter sequentially we're net under-lift position of 87 000.
LLC</strong> Try that last line one more time.
If you're looking sequentially we were underlifted in the second quarter 69 000 barrels a day.
We were overlifted a little bit in the first quarter 18 000 barrels a day.
So that net between quarters was 87 000 barrels a day.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Got it.
That 6 900 lift any particular region? The bulk of it was in West Africa and the North Sea.
LLC</strong> So relatively high-margin barrels? Yes.
Next we'll move to Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Just a question on this CapEx.
I mean obviously you are still responding after the XTO acquisition and picking up acreage here and there.
I mean should we think of sort of $2 billion here and there as a reasonable addition to your organic CapEx over the next couple of years? Ed I really don't have an answer to that because we don't have a specific target or objective.
It's purely opportunistic.
As I've mentioned before we of course are pursuing resources around the world including unconventional in the U.S.
all the time.
And when we find a really good opportunity like the Phillips acquisition for example where we can leverage either some already existing assets that we have or bring some technology to bear we will take advantage of that opportunity.
But again it's all about increasing value and particularly leveraging what we have in the base through the merger with XTO.
As you kind of start to see on that chart that we showed you're really starting to see how that acquisition has enabled the growth in that business that otherwise would have been very very difficult to accomplish.
And then in particular when you look at the low-cost that these incremental reserves and acreage are adding and you start to look across that portfolio and then in addition the opportunities that may come along from the additional volumes from overseas you really start to see kind of what might be the value created by this global portfolio of unconventional assets.
And again with XTO as the enabler just a year ago it's pretty remarkable that 12 months after this merger we've gone from 45 TCF under management to 76.
So we're pretty pleased with that progress.
Maybe asking it a slightly different way.
At 76 TCF do you think you've got enough? Or do you think there's still going to be opportunities to continue to...
Well we never have enough.
I hope we can find some additional opportunities.
We're certainly pursuing those.
And again if we come across something that's attractive that we can bring something to the party to get value that others can't we will of course take advantage of that.
And again as we've said from day one we're looking for large high-quality resources with upside potential where we can generate some synergies with the technology and operating expertise that we have.
And again we're actively pursuing those things but without any specific target or objective.
And then one final question on the Downstream in the U.S.
I guess perhaps a smaller uptick q-on-q than I guess I was looking for given the margin environment.
Could this just be that 1Q was particularly strong? Or it could that Q2 there was some operational hiccup? Can you give -- talk to any funds that might be between the sequential differences? Sure.
As you mentioned we did see some nice margin improvement in the U.S.
particularly not only along the Gulf coast but as you're well aware of in the mid-con area.
We did have some downtime and maintenance in the second quarter.
In particular we were able to basically get back some of the volumes we lost in the first quarter from weather in the Gulf Coast but that was offset by some maintenance activities in our Midwest refinery in Joliet.
We'll take our next question from Paul Cheng from Barclays Capital.
Dave in the -- we heard from some industry news magazine talking about Papua New Guinea your LNG project may have some high copper that some delay due to the labor or the way how the construction.
So can you give us an update on what's going on over there? And is that going to result in any delay of the project startup? No Paul.
Thank you.
I'd be happy to give an update on that project.
Things are going quite well.
As a matter of fact the project is progressing well.
We've got project execution underway including all the infrastructure development roads bridges site preparation camps et cetera.
We're scaling up the mobilization of the contractors as we get into the larger facility build.
In fact we've recently completed some very key milestones and the project continues as planned.
So I mean there's always minor things that come up in any projects and we manage those.
But as we look forward the project is on target to deliver first LNG in 2014.
Okay.
Second question in the second quarter can you tell us then what is the production with cost from your Iraqi project? And also that you talked about the underlift in the second quarter and overlift in the first quarter.
At the end of June are you from an inventory standpoint very neutral or that you are underlift overlift? As well as the -- in the second quarter is there any meaningful asset sales gain or not? Okay Paul.
Let me track all 3 of these.
Okay.
When we look at the Iraq project as we typically don't give individual country volume numbers I don't have a specific number for you from Iraq.
I think the key issue in Iraq is the progress that we're making there.
That's going very well.
We got 5 rigs running.
I got production that grossed up to about 340 000 barrels a day.
We're meeting our milestones and we're working on the infrastructure necessary to continue to grow volumes.
As you know the actual production that you might record in any given quarter is really going to be a function of the price in that quarter as you divide your total revenue by the price to get the barrel.
So I don't think that number would be as meaningful as really letting everybody know that the activity level is up.
The production is up.
We're meeting our expectations and things are going pretty well in Iraq.
If we look at the underlift position I mentioned that in the second quarter we were underlifted on an absolute basis about 69 kbd.
And that's kind of where we are at the end of the second quarter.
So you're underneath by about 69 at the end.
Yes.
Okay.
And then in terms of asset sales gain is there any meaningful asset sales gain in the second quarter? Given your cash proceeds on asset sales is about in the $1.7 billion and your CapEx base is pretty low so I presume that you have some decent asset sales gain.
We have an ongoing asset management program and we've had some nice sales this year already.
Of course we had sales in the first quarter that we talked about.
And in the second quarter we did sell our gas-led assets in Europe and we did book a -- an asset gain on that.
I don't have a specific number for it but that is included.
When you look -- and if you look quarter-on-quarter in the second quarter where we have the $60 million other effect that asset gain is in that number.
Dave then asset sales you say your gas is in international E&amp;P? I'm sorry.
Excuse me.
Could you repeat? The gain that you report under which segment? Oh yes.
That'll be in the non-US E&amp;P in the Upstream.
We'll go next to Faisel Khan in Citigroup.
It's Faisel from Citi.
I just wanted to go back to your comments on the resources you've kind of -- the resource evolution of XTO.
Sure.
And I want to tie that if I can to the production volumes you've seen over the last few quarters.
It seems like overall U.S.
gas production volumes are relatively flat over the last few quarters and oil production is relatively flat too.
So can you talk to me a little bit about the underlying growth of those assets and where we are today? Sure.
If you're looking at the -- let's talk about the XTO first and looking at that chart.
Of course the chart I showed is really the evolution of the resource base itself.
And so most of that is acreage that we're just now evaluating the pricing and drilling and that sort of thing so you don't see a whole lot of production from those resource adds just yet.
If you're looking at overall liquids and gas volumes in the U.S if you're looking quarter-on-quarter this year versus last year you do see about 72 000 barrels a day increase in liquids.
The bulk of that of course comes from XTO.
And then you do see in the U.S.
about a 2.4 BCF a day increase in gas the bulk of that of course coming from XTO.
So that gets you year-over-year.
When you're looking sequentially first quarter into the second quarter U.S.
liquids are flat and that does reflect some improvement in the XTO volumes offset by decline in downtime effect.
Gas as well in the U.S.
about flat quarter-on-quarter sequentially and that's just reflecting just kind of the normal decline offset by the work programs.
And we also had you might recall a sale of some Gulf of Mexico assets and that's contributing a little bit to the overall U.S.
numbers there.
But overall things are just as we expected.
So overall you continue to expect this portfolio to grow production in the U.S.
over the foreseeable future? Oh sure.
I mean as we said in our -- in the Analyst Meeting we do expect that production to grow over time as we develop and bring some of these resources online.
But of course that takes a little time.
And it's over time but we're working on it very aggressively.
Last question for me.
On the -- in your refinery throughput volumes in Asia Pacific the fourth -- it looks -- it's in the fourth quarter into the first quarter.
Those numbers went down for maintenance.
And I thought -- in the second quarter I thought your numbers will come back up.
It looks like volume has ticked down sequentially in Asia Pacific first quarter second quarter.
I'm just wondering if you missed some sort of downtime of maintenance activity.
Well it is.
We did have continued maintenance and it was actually a little higher even sequentially second quarter versus first quarter.
So second quarter was a big maintenance and turnaround quarter for us in general across the regions.
But yes you did see it in the Asia Pacific area.
Okay.
Is that -- are those facilities back up and running now at 100%? Yes 100%.
I know that most of that maintenance and downtime is up and running and certainly the turnaround we're getting behind it.
We'll go next to Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Two questions.
As you discussed Exxon clearly lead the foray into unconventional gas and oil globally and my questions are on Polish shale.
I know you're -- I know we're approaching some important industry well results in the next few months.
You have a second well in 4Q.
I guess with XTO's expertise why not a faster ramp-up in Poland where we have very attractive royalties receptive host country at least with the rash of hydro frac-ing concerns and oil-linked commodity prices? I mean why not a faster ramp there? And maybe you can discuss your recent farm out of 49% interest of the Podlasie Basin to Total.
Sure.
Let me step back and give you an overall update on Poland.
Actually we are progressing our activities there fairly rapidly.
We had a 3D seismic acquisition program that we concluded in April of this year and we've got -- we are currently processing those surveys on one of the concessions.
And also we have drilled -- we drilled one well that we suspended in February.
We drilled another well that we suspended in April.
And well test activity on those wells is underway and we would expect to have those results sometime in the fall.
So we are progressing what we would view as pretty aggressively here.
And one of the things that of course helps that is the ability to leverage the XTO resources and have them help work on this and both define the appraisal program as well as understand what we have there as we move forward.
Yes.
With local services recently one of your competitors locked up Halliburton in a contract.
I mean how do you see availability of services? And how are you proceeding to make sure that you have what you need to develop that resource? Well clearly getting services is a challenge to the broader industry as we all advance our plans there.
I can tell you without being specific in terms of contracts that we have in place that we don't have any issues with services and getting the facilities we need.
And so we're moving right along.
And again there's no obstacle in the way of progress and we continue to progress that fairly rapidly.
Okay.
A second question on international gas realizations.
It's typically been well correlated with a lagged Brent.
Some correlations have been dropping which I guess would be a function in mix in Qatar volumes.
I mean can you give me -- provide any regional delivery destination on uncontracted LNG volumes generally? And then I guess it would be interesting to know what percent was moving into Asian markets where slopes are north of 14 today? Sure.
Let me hit the latter one and then I'll come back to the former one.
There really hasn't been any change in the delivery destinations of the LNG coming out of Qatar.
As we've said before about 2/3 of it is heading into the Asia Pac area.
And the other third which is a core spot some of that's going to Europe.
Some of it's going into the Asia Pac area.
So I think that strategy is working out very well.
We did see when you look at the price realization a bit of a mix effect in the quarter.
We did have some downtime on the LNG trains but that volume was offset by higher flowing gas deliveries into the local market.
As we've talked about before the realizations in the margins in the local market are less than what you see obviously in the delivered LNG.
So we did have a mix effect on the overall realization that you saw in our international gas business.
And just one last question on a matter of clarification.
I think on volumes you said in your remarks that volumes off-line in the quarter were -- they were out for maintenance or back.
Were you referencing both European and Qatar gas volumes? Yes.
As we look out at where we have the maintenance and downtime over the quarter and again a lot of that -- of course a lot of that is your normal scheduled maintenance that you have seasonally in the second quarter and so we saw some of that.
And yes that maintenance -- if you look at that maintenance by and large that's back online.
We do still have some stuff we're working on but all of it is either online or coming online and will be up shortly.
Our next question comes from Iain Reid at Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Can I ask 2 questions? On the resource base you're showing there for XTO what you've managed to obviously improve significantly since the day of the merger can you say how much of that is liquids in terms of the way you've determined the resource? I don't have the exact split with me.
I can tell you obviously the bulk of it is going to be gas.
I know there is some liquids content in there but I just don't -- I don't have the breakdown of that resource.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
I'm just thinking more generally about your unconventional gas in the U.S.
in particular.
I think you've made statements about trying to shift some of your activities towards oil.
Could we expect to see quite a lot of that resource remaining undeveloped at this sort of level of gas prices? Or how do you think about the kind of short-term economics of developing this enormous resource now in the U.S.? Yes.
Let me make a couple of comments on that.
Certainly we are optimizing the rigs and equipment that we have in the human resources that we have available to the highest return opportunities which of course does include trying to optimize that mix between liquids and gas volumes.
And we're actively pursuing that as are others and that's going quite well.
I will tell you in the U.S.
when we're looking at our gas wells all of our gas wells are economically attractive that we're drilling.
We have a paced development of the gas resources.
We're fortunate that we have very few leases that we have to drill the hole.
We've got a very high percentage held by production or fee property so we're really able to maximize the returns we're getting and optimize where we're locating our drilling activities.
So as we look out today we've got between 65 and 70 rigs running and those rigs are drilling economically attractive rigs even at today's prices.
Inc.</strong> And how many of those rigs are drilling oil prospects or unconventional prospects? Let's see.
I don't know that I have that detailed breakdown.
Clearly when you look at the size and the relative size of our resource most of them of course are in gas.
I can tell you just as an example we've got 7 rigs running in the Bakken whereas -- that's up as you know from the rigs that were running at the time of the merger.
So we continue to progress that.
And of course we do have a number of rigs running in the Eagle Ford.
If I recall right that's probably left about 2 rigs running in the Eagle Ford for example and we continue to access those resources as quickly as possible.
So I would say in summary other than the Bakken and the Eagle Ford anywhere we have an opportunity to optimize a rig and get it on liquids production we're certainly doing that.
Another area although I don't have the exact rig count we're pursuing tight oil in West Texas.
That's just another example of where we've ramped up that activity here recently.
So overall again it's take that resource optimize your people and your equipment for the highest-impact wells.
And that could be liquids and it could also be very attractive gas wells.
Inc.</strong> Just ask one more clarification actually which I think I missed earlier.
What was the absolute volume number in terms of maintenance in the quarter in the Upstream? Sure.
If I look at maintenance -- absolute level of maintenance in the Upstream for the quarter we had about an extra 37 000 barrels a day if you look at what we're doing in the second quarter of 2011 versus the second quarter of '10.
And sequentially it is probably a more important number to you.
If I look sequentially first quarter to second quarter we had right at 100 000 barrels a day additional maintenance in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
And next we'll move to Doug Leggate at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I'm sorry to lever this maintenance issue.
I -- clearly there's -- there seems to be an issue relating to the kind of margins that came off-line.
Could you quantify please the if possible order of magnitude as to the absolute maintenance off-line in the second quarter as opposed to the deltas versus prior quarters? And if I may dig a little bit into Qatar in particular because my understanding is you kind of got $1 $1.50 type domestic prices versus oil link prices internationally.
So if you could maybe quantify how much Qatari volumes are off-line also? And I've got a quick follow-up please.
Doug I don't have any specific details on the absolute amounts of the downtime.
I can tell you if you're looking sequentially in Qatar we had about 27 000 barrels oil equivalent a day off-line as we did some work there.
But that's the delta.
I don't know what the absolute amounts were between the quarters.
But we did see sequentially some maintenance activity there.
Would it be fair to characterize the 27 000 as moving from oil link to something in a $1 $1.50 type level? Well I think you could see it as moving from delivered LNG as instead going in flowing gas into the country.
I don't want to quote any prices or differentials but as we've talked about before the flowing gas in the domestic market sells at a much lower price than our delivered LNG does.
Got it.
My follow-up is just a very quick one.
I don't know if you mentioned this earlier and if you did I apologize.
I was late getting on the call.
Cash flow what was the working capital impact in the quarter? Because it looked a bit light relative to what the run rate should probably have been.
I'll leave it there.
Sure.
If you're looking just in the second quarter we did see a working capital build of about $2 billion in the quarter.
Great stuff and any thoughts on how the share buybacks evolved beyond the third quarter given the current environment? No.
I don't have any guidance to give on that other than in the third quarter we intend to purchase another $5 million worth of shares.
We'll go next to Paul Sankey at Deutsche Bank.
David we've been obviously over a lot of this various stuff.
But just on the European gas volumes can you clarify what looks like a 20% down move year-over-year in volumes? I think you were -- excuse me 3.26 BCF a day down to 2.69.
I know that it's probably worth passing what you've previously said into an answer on this but what was the kind of dynamic behind that down move? Yes.
If we look at that -- the move down of notionally 600 a day -- you're talking about quarter-on-quarter second quarter? Yes.
Actually about 1/3 of that was European demand just lower demand quarter-on-quarter.
And then the bulk the rest of it was just normal decline and we also had some downtime additional downtime in the second quarter.
Okay.
I assume -- I know I can check the dates but you can probably just tell me that you're not bringing any LNG into the U.S.
market.
Yes we're not bringing any LNG to speak of into the U.S.
market.
When we were together earlier this year you did say that you will use changing on exports of LNG from the U.S.
Can you update us on that please? Well I remember discussing this because I don't think I said our views have changed.
I said we like everybody else of course are always analyzing all the opportunities that might be out there.
Some folks are already announcing and discussing plans that they have.
And what I can clarify for you is that we don't currently have any plans to either re-export LNG or export LNG from the U.S.
market.
But again we have a lot of gas and we're continually evaluating all the opportunities to bring that gas to market.
Yes I think that should clarify.
I think what you're saying is that 2 3 years ago you would have thought exports were totally out of the question.
Whereas now it becomes a bet on whether or not these differentials these price these regional price differentials will hold for...
Yes.
Clearly for those who are looking at this and when you got to talk about building liquefaction capacity in the U.S.
you're either making that 25- or 30-year bet on the continued spread between European spot prices and U.S.
spot prices as they exist today or you're going to find a way to get that gas to the Far East.
So yes 3 or 4 years ago I don't think anybody was talking about it.
As we've noted across the industry there are folks talking about it but we'll need to see how that progresses over time.
Sure.
I think what you've also said more or less is that really you're going to continue pursuing the XTO business model I guess with the merger of the best practices of both companies but essentially the business model of quite aggressive growth and acquisitions on an ongoing basis.
And it seems that you've kept up the pace of XTO acquisitions since the takeover.
Is it fair to say that we should -- and I think Ed Westlake was referring to this -- consider that to be the business model going forward and therefore as we've seen in this quarter's results add in an extra slug of acquisition capital on top of the guidance of I think $33 billion to $37 billion a year of CapEx that you gave us at the Analyst Meeting? Paul let me answer that kind of in 2 separate ways.
Yes the XTO model is continuing.
We are -- we have been able to acquire both a lot of small acreage positions in terms of getting acreage that's surrounding acreage that we already have.
And we don't talk about those but those are all going.
And then we have as I mentioned between last year and this year in just 12 months made some really nice opportunistic acquisitions at very attractive prices to what we have.
So assuming that we can continue to find these things and we're looking at them I don't have a number for you or anything to put in the model other than to say as these things come up and we find them and they have the same characteristics as what we've been looking at yes you would -- I would expect us to take advantage of those opportunities.
Particularly again given the leverage we get from that XTO organization and where it's located and what they already have and the ability to add these things without adding a lot of overhead and without having to change organizations and do that sort of thing these things are very attractive.
And we certainly hope we'll continue to have these opportunities but I just wouldn't have any guidance in terms of a number because it could be a fairly wide range.
Yes I understand.
On the pipelines firstly could you update us on the near Billings spill? Any news that you would want to share with us on that? And secondly are you intending to do anything to address the big spread that we have between these inland crudes obviously manifested in the Brent-WTI spread? Have you -- what's your view on that and any potential investments you would make to address that spread? Sure.
Let me hit the Silvertip pipeline incident first.
And I'd like to say right up front that we deeply regret that incident and we are fully committed to completing the cleanup learning about what happened there how to prevent something like it from happening again and really maintaining our focus on effective cleanup and remediation of the impacting area and taking care of the folks that were impacted by this incident.
Progress is going very well.
We got about 800 people working out there on that and the cleanup is progressing very well.
When we look at Billings Billings is still running at reduced rates.
We are working on the logistics to be able to supply feed to that refinery other than what used to come through the pipeline.
We have begun some preliminary work on replacing the pipeline including discussions on permitting requirements and that sort of thing lining up equipment and materials.
I can't give you a time as when we might be fully restored there but we are progressing that at the same time again as we are progressing the cleanup and the impacts from the initial spill.
If we looked more broadly at our supplier organization and what's going on today in the mid-con in particular and folks talking about as we all know the constraints there that are generating this wide spread we are as we talked about before optimizing to the extent possible not only the advantage you can get in the mid-con with the Brent-WTI spread but also when you look at our refining circuit all the way from Canada all the way down to the U.S.
Gulf Coast we continue to optimize our own feed plates and really to process a number of advantaged crudes including the Canadian heavy crudes shale oil other heavy crudes shale oil that's coming out of the U.S.
So a lot of those things are advantaged to a Brent or an LLS crude for example.
And to the extent we're able to get those and run them into our refining circuit we're certainly doing so.
So it's not just the WTI-Brent in fact in the mid-con but also the ability to move these other crudes into your refineries again both in Canada and the Gulf Coast.
And we are actively pursuing that and that's reflected in some of the volume mix impacts that you see.
I've got the idea.
There's probably one minute to go on this call but are you using rail at all? Are we using rail to move crudes? Yes.
Yes I believe we're moving some of our Bakken crude out by rail.
And next we'll go to John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Your international exploration expense was about $0.5 billion higher than normal.
Could you attribute it to projects? Or were you spending more on seismic? What was going on there internationally? If you look internationally at the exploration expense the driver there for the increase we had some dry hole expense in the Philippines and also in Vietnam in the quarter.
Okay.
You gave the one piece for your unconventional reserve adds to -- or 3P at $0.28.
What about 1P for the unconventional for proven? I don't have a number just for the proven.
The way we look at this really is how much acreage are we getting and what are we paying for it? And then as we look at that total resource base that's out there what are we getting? And how much were we paying for that? And annually as we always do and we'll do that in February we'll do a more robust reserves reporting of the proved as well as the unproved.
The real purpose of the chart today was just kind of to step back at the one year post merger mark and kind of give you folks an update on the progress we've made in just a short year in terms of leveraging what we got at the merger and really showing the advantages that we're getting now in the resource base and also tell you from a transition standpoint things continue to go very well.
Attrition remains low.
Management team is still in place and the organization is working hard on the opportunities they had at the time of the merger and then all the opportunities that we've added over the last 12 months.
So when you think strategically about the acquisition and the objectives we laid out at the time we talked about the merger.
Those objectives are being met and we're very pleased with the progress and very excited about the future.
Okay.
Two more.
You mentioned the attrition rate.
What is low percentage-wise? We're not quoting percentage.
Its equivalent to what it's been prior to the merger the same rates kind of that people have had before.
It's fairly low.
But again I think the important thing for us is 13 months after the merger it's remaining low and it's -- it just hasn't been an issue for us.
Okay.
With the Phillips acquisition are you capitalizing most of that? Yes we'll be capitalizing that acquisition.
Okay.
Last one for me.
As you get more unconventional as you start losing things like West African output I think a lot of people have been getting around the question of maybe you're losing higher-margin barrels and you're going to more cost-intensive type activities on a unit basis.
Should we assume that your operating cost Upstream are going to start to increase a little bit? When you look across our portfolio and the diversity both from a resource standpoint as well as a geographic standpoint at any given time depending on how we're bringing those volumes onstream you might see upturns and downturns in both profitability and unit cost.
A lot of these things come on in big chunks.
Obviously bringing Qatar on over the last few years had an impact.
We've talked about the impact Kearl will have in some of the other major projects.
So I wouldn't want to make an overall judgment as to what to expect going forward.
I mean in quarter-to-quarter of course as we saw this quarter you do you see impacts of things like exploration expense.
[indiscernible] Going forward [indiscernible] one way or the other.
And we'll go to Pavel Molchanov at Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> I'll squeeze this one in.
Since the last call we've seen yet another one of your peer companies split into upstream and downstream halves.
And of course we've seen others gradually divesting refineries.
Exxon's been kind of absent from that process.
Just wanted to get your thoughts on that industry dynamic.
Well I really can't speak for some of our competitors and what they're doing with their business plans.
Clearly when we look at our Downstream business and the tremendous value we generate with integration with the Chemicals business and how that whole portfolio is generating the types of earnings and the types of returns that you've seen them generate over the last couple of years every time we look at this we conclude that our integrated model combined with our global functional organization just delivers what we've referred to in the past as a "sum of the parts plus" kind of valuation.
And so for ExxonMobil as long as we can continue to maintain that advantage and in fact increase it through technology advances in some of the investments we're making I think you'll see over time that model will continue to work for us.
Now if it's broken for others or others don't see the same kind of advantage that we do it's not surprising that you might see some different approaches but I wouldn't classify it as lagging some of the others.
I'd really view it as just continuing to take advantage of the unique situation we have and the competitive advantages we get out of that and continue to exploit it.
Okay.
Thank you all very much.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Again thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
David Rosenthal.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to Exxon Mobil's Third Quarter Earnings Call and Webcast.
The focus of this call is Exxon Mobil's financial and operating results for the third quarter of 2011.
I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.
Before we go further I would like to draw your attention to our customary cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Moving to Slide 3 we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results.
The global economy and energy markets continued to face a challenging macroeconomic environment.
Global economic growth was mixed in the third quarter.
The United States GDP in the third quarter is expected to show some modest improvement from the second quarter while economic growth in the European Union continued to slow amid persistent sovereign debt concerns.
In general Non-OECD growth remains robust even with some signs of demand softening in China.
Energy markets overall continued to weaken in the third quarter versus the second quarter with both crude oil and natural gas prices declining.
Commodity chemical margins also weakened across the quarter.
Turning now to the third quarter financial results as shown on Slide 4.
Exxon Mobil's third quarter 2011 earnings excluding special items were $10.3 billion an increase of $3 billion from the third quarter of 2010.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 47%.
Earnings per share for the quarter excluding special items were $2.13 up $0.69 from a year ago.
The corporation distributed more than $7 billion to shareholders in the third quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $5 billion was distributed to purchase shares.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011.
CapEx in the third quarter was $8.6 billion consistent with the third quarter of 2010.
Across our diverse portfolio we continued to invest in robust projects through the business cycle to help meet global demand for crude oil natural gas and finished products while supporting economic growth including job creation.
Our cash generation remains strong with $16.3 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales.
At the end of the third quarter 2011 cash and marketable securities totaled $11.3 billion and debt was $16.8 billion.
The next slide provides additional detail on third quarter sources and uses of funds.
Over the quarter cash and marketable securities increased from $10.3 billion to $11.3 billion.
The combined impact of strong earnings depreciation expense lower working capital and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $16.3 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included additions to plant property and equipment or PP&amp;E of $7.5 billion and shareholder distributions of $7.3 billion.
Additional financing and investing activities decreased our cash and marketable securities by $0.5 billion.
Moving on to Slide 6 and a review of our segmented results.
ExxonMobil's third quarter 2011 earnings of $10.3 billion increased almost $3 billion or 41% from the third quarter of 2010.
Upstream earnings increased $2.9 billion while downstream earnings improved $419 million.
Chemical earnings were down $226 million.
Higher financing expenses decreased earnings $140 million versus the third quarter of 2010 mainly due to tax items.
Corporate and financing expenses remained within our continued guidance of $500 million to $700 million per quarter.
As shown on Slide 7 Exxon Mobil's third quarter 2011 earnings of $10.3 billion declined by $350 million compared with the second quarter of 2011 mainly due to weaker crude oil realizations and chemical margins partially offset by higher downstream margins.
Moving next to third quarter business highlights and beginning on Slide 8.
During the quarter we continued to make good progress at Kearl with construction now 75% complete.
The Kearl initial phase development is progressing as planned towards a late 2012 start up.
The PNG LNG project is also progressing as planned towards a 2014 start up.
Recent milestones include the first weld on the 430-mile gas pipeline mobilization of the first drilling rig and construction of the LNG plant pipe racks storage tanks foundations and jetty.
We continue to wrap up activity in Iraq with 6 drilling rigs operating.
Current gross production is approximately 370 000 barrels per day.
We are also working with the Ministry of Oil the South Oil Company and other integrated oil companies involved in the development of the southern Iraq oilfields to advance the commercial and technical basis for the common sea water supply project.
At Banyu Urip in Indonesia key contracts were awarded including the central processing facility EPC contract and the drilling rig contract.
Additionally the early production system continues to deliver approximately 20 000 barrels per day of crude oil production.
Exxon Mobil also signed a principles of agreement with the government of Indonesia on key terms and conditions for a new production sharing contract for the development of the Natuna gas resource.
The completion of the POA is a key milestone towards the development of Natuna.
Turning now to Slide 9.
Rosneft and Exxon Mobil signed a strategic cooperation agreement on August 30 to jointly participate in exploration and development activities in Russia the United States and other parts of the world.
This includes 30 million acres in the Kara Sea which is one of the world's most prospective hydrocarbon provinces with high potential for liquids.
As you can see from the map the 30 million acres in the Kara Sea is a very large area and is similar in size to the entire central Gulf of Mexico.
Seismic surveys are planned in the Kara Sea in 2012.
In the 2.8 million acre Black Sea block seismic surveys have begun with the potential for exploration drilling to follow in 2014.
We are working closely with Rosneft to finalize the definitive agreement.
Turning now to an update on our unconventional activities on Slide 10.
ExxonMobil's global portfolio of unconventional assets contains a growing number of highly-prospective liquids-rich plays.
We have approximately 410 000 net acres of leasehold and 7 operated rigs in the tight oil reservoirs of the Bakken Shale.
In the Permian where we hold approximately 800 000 net acres of leasehold we are also evaluating unconventional potential that occurs across roughly half of this acreage.
In the Bakken liquids production in the third quarter rebounded strongly from the severe weather impacting operations in the first half of 2011 increasing by 19% from the second quarter and 25% year-over-year.
We are also involved in multiple emerging liquids-rich shale plays the most active of which is the Woodford shale in the southern Oklahoma Ardmore Basin area.
To date we have amassed more than 150 000 net acres in this play through an aggressive leasing and acquisitions program.
This leadership position has been built at an attractive cost.
As we acquired resources for approximately $0.30 per 1 000 cubic feet equivalent and added the leasehold for under $600 per acre.Our activity in the Woodford Ardmore play has ramped up significantly in 2011 with our operated rig count increasing from 3 to 7 rigs and gross operated production more than tripling since year-end 2010.
In our core development area peak 7-day gross production rates have averaged 325 barrels per day of crude oil and 3.7 million cubic feet per day of natural gas with a rich 1 275 BTU gas also yielding significant natural gas liquids providing an average liquids rate per well of over 750 barrels per day and 2.9 million cubic feet per day of  sales gas.
We are continuing to ramp up drilling activity and are progressing  both marketing and infrastructure plans for the play.
Exxon Mobil is also actively exploring several other early stage liquids-rich play in the United States including the Utica Shale play in eastern Ohio and western Pennsylvania.
Our position in the Utica stems from our recently completed acquisition of the Phillips companies and represents incremental upside to the Phillips acquisition which was focused on the Marcellus.
The Phillips acquisition included 45 000 net acres prospective for the Utica in Ohio and we have increased our position now to over 75 000 net acres.
We anticipate drilling our first Utica well in early 2012.
Additionally Exxon Mobil has a diverse portfolio of emerging unconventional resource opportunities outside of the U.S.
including several new plays with liquids potential.
For example in Germany and Argentina we are in the early stages of evaluating several new tight oil opportunities.
These opportunities represent a large and growing global portfolio of unconventional assets with the potential for significant value creation through the application of Exxon Mobil's advanced technologies supplemented with strong operational and technical expertise from XTO.
Turning now to Slide 11 with an update on our new synthetic lubricant basestock project.
During the quarter Exxon Mobil Chemical announced plans to build a world scale facility to manufacture metallocene polyalphaolefin or MPAO a synthetic lubricant basestock at our integrated refining and chemical complex in Baytown Texas.
This new facility will have the capacity to produce 50 000 tons per year of MPAO.
This new high viscosity MPAO manufacturing capacity demonstrates Exxon Mobil's technology leadership and our commitment to providing customers with a reliable supply of synthetic basestocks.
Exxon Mobil Chemical is the world's largest PAO producer and  offers the broadest range of advanced synthetic basestock fluids.
MPAO is primarily  used in high performance synthetic lubricants and offers enhanced characteristics versus conventional PAO such as improved sheer and low temperature properties.
Demand for high performance lubricants is increasing due to the greater emphasis placed on energy efficiency improved equipment reliability and extended drain intervals.
This investment leverages ExxonMobil's proprietary metallocene catalyst process and enables development of innovative synthetic lubricants that can help address lubrication challenges across a wide range of market sectors.
This new plant at the Baytown complex will be an important addition to our synthetic basestock manufacturing portfolio which includes production facilities in Texas New Jersey and France as well as various custom manufacturing arrangements around the world.
Engineering procurement and construction activities have begun and completion is expected in 2013.
Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results starting on Slide 12.
Upstream earnings in the third quarter were $8.4 billion up $2.9 billion from the third quarter of 2010.
Stronger crude oil and natural gas realizations increased earnings by $3 billion as crude oil realizations increased $32 per barrel and gas realizations increased $1.34 per kcf.
Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $660 million due mainly to the impact of lower entitlement volumes in west Africa and base decline partly offset by the ramp-up of Qatar Scotland [ph] and Iraq projects.
Earnings were also positively impacted by the timing of liftings.
All other items primarily gains from asset divestments partly offset by higher exploration and operating expense increased earnings by approximately $600 million.
Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the third quarter of 2011 were $21.31.
Moving now to Slide 13.
Oil equivalent volumes decreased 4% from the third quarter of last year mainly due to the impact of lower entitlement volumes in West Africa decline and divestments.
Volumes were positively impacted by the ramp-up of projects in Qatar Scotland [ph] and Iraq and continued strong performance in our U.S.
unconventional resources business.
Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on Slide 14.
Versus the second quarter of 2011 upstream earnings decreased by $147 million.
Lower realizations decreased earnings by $450 million as crude oil realizations declined by over $5 per barrel.
Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $90 million due mainly to lower entitlement volumes in West Africa and Iraq lower seasonal demand in Europe and decline.
Earnings were positively impacted however by fewer maintenance activities and the timing of liftings.
Other items primarily gains from asset divestment and favorable foreign exchange impacts partly offset by higher exploration and operating expenses increased earnings by $390 million.
Moving to Slide 15.
Oil equivalent volumes decreased 3% from the second quarter of 2011 due mainly to lower entitlement volumes in West Africa and Iraq lower seasonal demand in Europe and decline partly offset by fewer maintenance activities.
Lastly I'll note that year-to-date oil equivalent volumes increased 5% or 226 000 oil equivalent barrels per day compared to the first 9 months of 2010.
Excluding the impacts of lower entitlement volumes quotas and divestments production was up over 8% and remains consistent with the 2011 volume guidance we communicated at the March analyst meeting of 3% to 4% growth versus 2010.
For further data on regional volumes please refer to the press release and the IR supplement.
Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results and starting on Slide 16.
Downstream earnings in the third quarter were $1.6 billion up $419 million from the third quarter of 2010.
Improved refining margins increased earnings by over $1 billion.
Continued benefits from our refining optimization activities contributed $110 million in volume and mix effects.
Other factors including unfavorable foreign exchange effects and lower gains on asset sales decreased earnings by $710 million.
Moving to Slide 17.
Sequentially third quarter downstream earnings increased $223 million.
Positive margin effects increased earnings by $360 million while volume and mix effects increased earnings by $270 million driven by refining optimization and lower maintenance activity.
Other factors decreased earnings by $410 million largely due to unfavorable foreign exchange effects.
Turning now to the chemical financial and operating results starting on Slide 18.
Third quarter chemical earnings were $1 billion a decrease of $226 million versus the third quarter of 2010.
Margins improved earnings by $50 million while higher plant maintenance contributed to a negative $110 million volume and mix effect.
Other factors decreased earnings by $170 million primarily due to unfavorable tax effects and higher plant maintenance cost.
Moving now to Slide 19.
Sequentially third quarter chemical earnings decreased by $318 million.
Lower commodity chemical margins decreased earnings by $130 million reflecting lower global demand consistent with the softening global economy.
Volume mix effects decreased earnings by $50 million.
Other effects decreased earnings by $140 million primarily due to unfavorable foreign exchange effects and higher plant maintenance costs.
While the chemical business is cyclical in nature we continued to leverage feed advantage integration and premium product offerings to outperform throughout the cycle and maintain a positive long-term outlook on the business.
Moving to Slide 20.
While we manage our downstream and chemical businesses separately we continue to capture benefits from the unique integration and optimization of these businesses.
Third quarter earnings were $2.6 billion for our combined downstream and chemical businesses.
Moving to Slide 21.
ExxonMobil's third quarter financial and operating performance was strong and reflects the ability of our business model and competitive advantages to deliver strong results.
As we continue to focus on operational excellence deploy high-impact technologies and leverage our unparalleled global integration Exxon Mobil remains well positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
I would now be happy to take your question [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Doug Terreson with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Global E&amp;P profitability seems to be rising especially overseas which appears to be offsetting some of the weakness in the U.S.
So my question is whether you could provide a little bit more insight into the upstream profitability trends and that is in relation to the level of realizations or margins that there -- that may be called.
Meaning are there other international mix effects besides the ramp-ups in the 3 countries you mentioned? And in the States are the trends assemble at lower oil but higher gas production-related? Or are there other factors at work? Let me actually answer those questions in reverse order.
The impact you do see in the U.S.
is a mix effect with some lower liquids production being offset on a volume basis by higher gas production overall as we've trended in the last year or so.
And you've see that impact on our volume mix effects.
Overseas I would say most of the changes that you see there is really the benefit we're seeing in the project ramp-ups in particular the Qatar trends and you see that both in our non-U.S.
profitability as well as the strength of our non-U.S.
gas realizations.
So those will be the primary factors.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then also you mentioned Natuna was progressing slowly but surely.
And on Natuna I wanted to see if we could a little bit more of a status update on that project and specifically whether you guys feel the partnership structure is settled and also whether you believe current technology is present to effectively develop that project.
Just a little bit of an update on that one.
Sure.
Even though this project has been around a while and we've been looking at it working on it we're still in early days in terms of the definition of the project the partnership et cetera.
I was pleased to report this morning that ExxonMobil Pertamina Total and PETRONAS have signed this principles of agreement which will relate to the plan for exploration and development of the area.
So while the POA is a good first step I have to say we're still kind of in the early days of bringing  that project along and those negotiations for the final PSE are ongoing.
And we'll take our next question from Iain Reid with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could give us an update on the Rosneft deal.
In particular where are you on negotiation the tax terms? Is there any kind of special tax breaks that you're looking for in order to make this project work? And also I think you are going to swap some assets with Rosneft in the U.S.
Is there any kind of decisions being made in which particular assets you are going to do that deal on? And I've got a question on chemicals after that if I can.
Sure.
Let me hit both of those questions on that strategic cooperation agreement.
In terms of tax terms and other issues around the definitive agreements I can tell you work on those agreements is progressing on schedule.
We're working very closely with Rosneft on that deal and that's progressing.
I can say in terms of in particular on fiscal terms the Russian government does recognize the need for fiscal improvements in the offshore and we are working with them to define how that might end up at the end of the day.
But I can't give a specific time frame for the finalization of those agreements other than to say work is progressing.
In terms of the second question I wouldn't refer to it as asset swaps necessarily.
I think a better way to portray it is Rosneft will be given the opportunity to participate in various properties in the U.S.
for example in the Gulf of Mexico in the Deepwater they'll have an opportunity to farm in to some of our 100%-owned blocks and they are evaluating those opportunities to make a decision.
They may also take an interest in some of our unconventional resources in the U.S.
and they're looking at that as well and what those opportunities might be.
There was also potential for cooperation and joint partnership and other pieces of the business overseas.
But again those have yet to be finalized.
I will say that we're looking forward to the multiple joint ventures and personnel exchanges that we're going to see in this agreement.
And I think this will help really strengthen the relationship between the 2 companies as well as provide valuable development opportunities for our staff.
So it's kind of as the title suggested it is a strategic cooperation agreement and that includes technology development that we've also talked about including the Arctic research center.
So a number of things going on.
And I would say again early days but things are progressing on schedule Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my chemical question was you talked about margin weakness during the second and the third quarter.
Is this the kind of a global GDP slowdown thing you're seeing in Asia or the OECD? Or where is that kind of bit of weakness coming from do you think? And do you think this is something which will extend into the fourth quarter and into next year now? Well let me hit the first part of that.
As we've look at margin trends sequentially across the last couple of quarters we are seeing demand weakness overall and that has backed up into some downward pressure on margins.
Asia is probably at bottom of cycle if you kind of look at historic trends.
But we've also seen some weakening demand and margin pressure in Europe as well.
Back again on the Asia side there's a little bit of oversupply across some of the commodity products and that's pressuring margins.
So once again we're reminded this is a cyclical business and the profits that we're earning now are certainly very strong given where we are in an otherwise pretty weak economic environment and in particular on commodities.
Although I will say on the specialty side of the business that business is holding up pretty well both from a volume and a margin standpoint.
And we look at earnings decline across the last few quarters most of that has been in the commodities section as the specialties business has held up well.
So as we look forward in the fourth quarter and next year it's hard really to judge what's going to happen although I will say as you would expect there'll be a close tie between economic activity levels and certainly the profitability of the commodity side of the business.
And we'll take our next question from Evan Calio.
Research Division</strong> First question on the U.S.
unconventional portfolio.
I know last call you mentioned you were earning 65 to 70 rigs.
Can you update us on the rig count this quarter? And secondly as the commodity strip has come down very different than oil on the natural gas side how do you consider any activity response to the environment or can you quantify -- I know you highlighted Woodford Ardmore and Utica I mean can you quantify your shift within that portfolio towards liquids? And I have a follow-up on the Black Sea.
Sure.
As you mentioned the environment has weakened a little bit on gas prices here in the U.S.
I can tell you across the quarter we're averaging right around 64 65 rigs in the unconventional space about what we've been doing over the last year or so.
I don't have a quantification of actual rig movement.
But I can tell you as you would expect we have optimized that rig count towards the liquids-rich plays and ramped up there.
And certainly in terms of keeping the overall total flat backed off on some of the dry gas areas.
So in particular as I mentioned some of these new plays that we're in we're anxious to ramp up drilling activity there and are doing so.
So yes I think just as you would've expected we are certainly optimizing that rig count towards the liquids-rich plays and in particular some of that newer things that we're working on.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That makes a lot of sense.
Just a follow-up on the Black Sea questions.
In terms of the onshore or offshore assets that Rosneft while the option to farm into is this primarily an acreage opportunity? Or is there associated production potential as well? And you didn't mention any time on Kara.
Kara you mentioned seismic this year.
Is that also a 2014 timetable at the Black Sea? Yes.
Let me just kind of clarify.
In the Black Sea we've got seismic underway now and we look to potentially drill a well in 2014.
When you go up to the Kara Sea we would expect to begin the seismic operations next year and then potentially if things work out drill a well in the 2015 time frame.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And any update on the Kastamonu well? I believe -- Is that still drilling in Turkish Black Sea? When you look at the Kastamonu well was our first well.
We have finished drilling that well.
I can tell you that we did not encounter commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.
We plugged and abandoned that well.
And we did take that dry hole expense in our earnings this quarter.
I can also tell you we continue to evaluate the results of that well and the well we drilled last year as we look at kind of the overall play there.
I think as you look out across the next several months.
Our plans in the Black Sea are -- once TPAO is finished they've got the rig now drilling one of their blocks.
We'll then take the rig up to Romania and drill our first well.
Whether we'll get that spudded at the end of the year or it rolls in to the first year -- the first of the year we'll see.
It depends on timing of the return of the rig.
But that'll be the order.
We'll drill Romania next and then we'll evaluate based on the results and what we're seeing from our evaluation of the earlier wells what the go forward plan is there.
Research Division</strong> If I could just slip in just one other.
I know that on that Hadrian discovery large discovery.
I know you were testing a deeper objective.
Any update there? I'm glad you asked that because I do have an update on that for everyone this morning.
We have finished the well.
We drilled to TD.
And I can update for you now the pay that we have logged is now 1 000 feet.
So I think if you look at kind of how we've gone we initially talked about 500 feet then we updated it last quarter to 750 feet.
And I can now confirm that well has encountered more than 1 000 feet of net oil and gas pay.
And we are progressing plans for additional drilling as we continue to evaluate what has turned out to be a very high quality prospective block.
Research Division</strong> That's great news.
The development plans we'll hear those soon? We're working on it.
And as soon as those things are better progressed we'll talk about those.
But at least for now the news is good.
And again we are very pleased with the quality of this discovery in the Gulf of Mexico.
And we'll take our next question from Jason Gammel with Macquarie.
This is John Nelson for Jason Gammel.
I was wondering if I can get any color on the 76 000 barrels per day of entitlement volumes that you lost in the quarter.
Just curious if there was any particular region that stood out or if you could try and maybe quantify that.
Sure.
The primary area there is West Africa.
As it was frankly when you look quarter-on-quarter but if you're looking specifically sequentially you have the bulk of that is in West Africa.
Okay.
And then just wondering real quickly.
Did you have any -- could you quantify the out -- any out-of-period tax charge taken in 3Q for the change in the U.K.
tax law? Yes I can give you an update on that.
That number was less than $100 million impact on our earnings this quarter.
Less than $100 million including 3Q? Or is it simply for out of...
No that would be the 3Q impact on earnings just under $100 million.
We'll take our next question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones if I may.
I guess going back to an earlier question on the strength of the international realizations it's kind of my favorite topic right now.
But can you just talk about the impact of Qatar this quarter? It looks like international gas realizations were flat despite a lower brand price.
And I'm wondering if that was some kind of movement in the direction of the sales volumes after the downtime in Q2.
And I've got a quick follow-up please.
You hit it spot on Doug.
That is exactly what we saw the impact of the higher volumes into the LNG market and then the impact on our overall realization that we saw internationally.
So you got that right.
Research Division</strong> You think it's fair to describe that as a big factor in what's improving your international realizations? Yes I'd say that was the primary factor.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
The follow-up I have is really -- I don't know if you're going to be able to answer this one.
But I know you and I have had discussions about Kearl in the past and.
Given we're getting pretty close I guess to seeing a startup next year albeit at the end of the year that the economics have really come under a bit of scrutiny.
And I wondered if you could just clear things up in terms of how Exxon sees the economics of Kearl and how it stacks up relative to some of your other projects and I'll leave it at that.
Sure.
No Doug that is a good question and it stems from the discussion we initiated at the analyst meeting in March.
I can tell you that as we've looked at this that Kearl returns are within the range of all the projects that ExxonMobil participates in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
When we look at the projects that we're involved in in those economics and compare those to Kearl I can confirm that the returns are going to be consistent within that portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Any perhaps update on the timing of the future expansions beyond Phase 1? No I can't give you the timing on the future expansion.
As soon as we've got that thing locked down we'll let you know.
But we haven't made the final determination on that just yet.
We'll take our next question from Mark Gilman with The Benchmark Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can I stick with the Kearl project for just a second? I wonder if you could -- given that you're 75% complete give us an update on what the Phase I development costs look like whether it's still along the lines of about 100 000 of daily flowing barrel.
Yes.
If you look at as I mentioned that we are 75% complete and that's going along very well in terms of the cost they've not changed from what we told you in March at the analyst meeting on the chart we showed.
Those things are still the same as we mentioned at the time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could follow up with just some PSE related stuff.
Looks to me as if there was a tranche affect encountered in West Africa.
Is that accurate? Was it Nigeria or Angola? Also you mentioned a lower entitlement in Iraq which strikes me given the spending profile there to be -- just a bit curious.
Hopefully you could flesh that out for me.
Sure.
We did have a tranche change in Nigeria and did impact a part of those volumes.
And then I'm sorry what was the second part of your question? LLC Research Division</strong> You had indicated lower entitlements in Iraq which struck me strange in light of the spending profile going forward as well as the price environment.
Can you clarify what was going on there.
Maybe even provide an entitlement production number for Iraq in the period.
Yes sure.
Basically the situation in Iraq is quite simple.
We became cost current last quarter and so we were -- during the second quarter we were catching up.
And the production barrels that we had reflected that.
And this quarter those volumes have come down because we are cost current.
We'll take our next question from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Dave a couple of questions.
First in the -- can you tell us what is the asset sales gain the actual amount in the third quarter -- in the second quarter of this year and whether that they are primarily in the E&amp;P segment? You're talking about the divestment gains? Research Division</strong> Yes.
If you look at our divestments most of the gains that we've seen in the second quarter -- or in the third quarter rather were in the upstream.
And also as you look at the second quarter overall we did have a series of divestments in the upstream and also some in the downstream.
I think the place you really see the impact of the divestments this quarter without giving a specific number but it's the biggest driver in the -- if you look quarter-over-quarter and then even sequentially in the other factor on our earnings waterfall chart  there the primary driver of those positive results are the divestments that we had over the quarter.
Research Division</strong> So it's roughly about $400 million sequentially higher asset sales gain? No that's the total in there.
There were some asset sales gains in there but there were a number of other factors.
We had some favorable ForEx and then we also had the increase in exploration expense.
So again without quoting a specific number on the asset divestments I can tell you when you look at both of those waterfall charts that is the primary driver of the positive impact.
Research Division</strong> Because the second quarter does have a reasonable sizable asset sales gain also right? Yes we did have some asset gains in the second quarter as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you're talking about foreign exchange the unfavorable impact are those related to the translation of the balance sheet? Or is it actually on the cash earning due to the impact on your costs as well as the translation back to the U.S.
dollar when you are in on the revenue side? Yes the primary impact that you see in the downstream on the unfavorable ForEx I mentioned is really the impact on the U.S.
dollar accrued payables that we have in the downstream.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you saw on the balance sheet item? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I sneak in maybe just one final one? Sure.
Research Division</strong> You're talking about the production and driving into the shale oil.
Is there any number that you can share? What is your current well cost that you guys running in Bakken Woodford and Permian Basin? And what is  the GUR [ph] you're expecting and also the 30-day IP on those? No I really don't have any additional details to share this morning other than the ones I've mentioned in my prepared remarks.
As you look at some of those plays obviously with the early wells that we're drilling and some of the optimizations that we're doing it really wouldn't be representative to start talking about I don't think well costs and that sort of thing because our expectation is as time goes on those costs are going to go way down.
I think what's encouraging though is the significant addition we're making to our overall unconventional portfolio with the bulk of that here as I mentioned this morning giving you an update on how we're doing on the liquids-rich plays as you might remember.
Research Division</strong> What is your total production in the third quarter for the shale oil? I don't have a specific breakout number for that in the quarter.
I can tell you it's certainly going up.
I mentioned a couple of examples.
So while it's a little premature to start talking about absolute volumes I think the important thing for everyone to know is the activity is ramping up the rigs are ramping up the drill wells are ramping up and we're progressing.
I will give you a couple of examples.
Just for example we've added 38 wells year-to-date in the Bakken with 18 of those in the third quarter.
So I think that gives you a good feel of kind of how the activity is going and once we get a little farther down the curve we'll talk more about specific volumes.
We'll take our next question from Allen Good with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> I just  had a quick question on LNG and Golden Pass.
It looks like this week there was some movement as far as the viability of exports from the U.S.
I just wanted to get your thoughts and how Exxon views essentially LNG out of the U.S.
and use there at Golden Pass and whether you're actually importing any LNG into the U.S.
currently.
Yes if you step back and look at the viability first of all just LNG exports out of the U.S.
that is a topical discussion today and a lot of folks are looking at it and talking about it.
I don't think it would come to any surprise to you now that any marketing opportunity or development opportunity out there certainly one that we're looking across the board whether it's in the U.S.
or Canada.
I can tell you though that Golden Pass is an LNG-receiving terminal and there are no current plans to change that either -- into any form of an export terminal.
So that's kind of the status there.
We've not brought any cargoes in and recently that I'm aware of into the terminal.
But it does remain obviously a very valuable asset for us.
Other than that I really don't have any other comments to make.
It will be interesting to see as time goes on if the viability of LNG exports materializes.
But that's just one of a number of options that are out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question.
I think last quarter you mentioned that drilling in Argentina would start in Q4.
I just wondered if that's still on track and then if there's any sort of changes as far as outlook there given some of the recent tax announcements and changes with the government in Argentina.
I'll kind of start at the and back up.
We don't have any changes contemplated in our plans at this point.
We do have 2 wells that we're working on here in the fourth quarter consistent with what I mentioned last last quarter.
And those wells are progressing.
I don't have any results for you on that yet but we are working on those.
The one thing I think that I alluded to in my prepared remarks and I've talked about the Neuquen Basin before and our large acreage position there.
We are looking at the potential there for not only shale gas but also tight oil and shale oil.
And so that's encouraging and we'll be progressing that as I mentioned several other tight oil plays that are emerging that we are actively working on.
So back to your basic question no change in our plans in Argentina and the 2 wells are progressing.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I appreciate it.
And I'd like get one more quick one.
It looks like you added one rig from the last quarter in Iraq do you have a goal as far as exit rate on rigs there for the end of the year or sort of eventual plateau rate on rigs going into next year? No I don't have anything specific on either of those.
There are a lot of factors that will drive that.
I think the really important milestone that we've reached is we've gotten up to 370 000 barrels a day.
The 6 rigs are running a lot of workover activity.
And again that progress is going very well.
But I wouldn't want to speculate on what something might look like down the road either next quarter or after that.
And we'll take our next question from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dave if I may one on downstream first.
I believe Exxon is the only company in your peer group that has not been actively looking to sell refining assets in the past let's say 1 to 2 years.
I'm just curious what you see in the refining market that seems to be different from what many of your peers are perceiving? That's a good question.
Let me clarify that because in fact we have had some recent announcements about asset divestitures which include refining assets.
You might recall over the course of the last several months we've announced divestitures in Argentina various areas in Central America and then most recently the Malaysia downstream asset sales.
So we have had quite a number of asset sales over the last year or so.
And again they do include some refining assets.
Now if you look at refining in general across the board as we've talked about in many occasions one of the tremendous competitive advantages we have in our refining circuit versus others is the full integration with most of our refineries with the chemicals and the lubes business.
So as we continue to optimize those facilities and get the kind of profitability and returns on those that we're generating I wouldn't expect us to see a lot of change.
So we're comfortable with what we're doing.
We don't proactively tout major divestment objectives or programs.
But as you look back across the years we have been very active and have divested a number of assets as those assets turned out to be worth more to others than they were to us.
And we'll see what happens going forward.
But right now I think we're in pretty good shape.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that and just to be clear I was mainly thinking North America and Europe but your color on that is definitely useful.
And then secondly just on Poland some press articles in the past week mentioning about your first frac jobs in the Polish shale acreage.
Just an update on that would be great.
Yes we are -- we've got a couple of wells there that we're in the process of frac-ing and flowing and cleaning up those wells.
So it'd really be a little early for me to give you any initial results because we're just now literally as we sit here working on those and flowing them and testing them and seeing what we've got.
So as we get through the evaluation stage and clean those wells up and see how they perform we'll be in a better position to perhaps give some color on that.
But today it's just working on the operations.
We'll take our next question from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> David a lot of question already answered.
But can I just come back to the entitlement issue? So basically Q3 should -- I mean obviously it doesn't affect cash flow but Q3 should be a sort of a better base if we're trying to get a volumes right going forward? If say you kept the oil prices flat? Well there are a number of things that affect the entitlement volumes.
One of course and not only the price but the spend as well.
In fact when you look sequentially at that impact that we had the 76 kbd a fair amount of that was actually due to spending being down and thus the recoup in volumes going down as well as the tranche change that I mentioned.
So in a constant price environment you wouldn't see as big of an effect obviously.
You'd be more down to spending rates and of course tranche changes.
But we did see some pretty big movement particularly quarter-on-quarter with that $30 increase in oil prices and then again sequentially a more spend-driven -- rate of spend driven as well as Iraq being cost-current.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then 2 small questions.
But just the asset gains do you actually have a number for the asset gain in E&amp;P in the quarter? I mean you mentioned $600 million that are a combination of a couple of things in there.
Yes.
I'd tell you Ed I don't have a specific number associated just with the asset divestments to talk about this morning.
Again I'll confirm though when you look at both the quarter-over-quarter as well as the sequential -- the primary factor again driving that other earnings impact are the impacts of the divestments.
And then there were a number of other things up and down.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then in R&amp;M the actual FX impact? Sure.
The actual impact in the downstream if you're looking third quarter '11 versus third quarter '10 was right at $300 million negative.
And then if you're looking -- in fact I'll just tell you if you're looking sequentially it was also close to $300 million negative.
So fairly sizable ForEx effects in the downstream this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then obviously there was a mix effect in terms of volumes with the liquids change you flagged $170 million of extra tax in chemicals.
But the 47% rate was still a little high.
I mean is anything else changing apart from the U.K.? There are a couple of other factors I'd mentioned.
One of course is the mix of profitability in terms of upstream downstream and U.S.
non-U.S.
And then you have the kind of that effect where we had the absence that I mentioned of a few tax effects in chemicals and in corp and fin from last year and then a few negative impacts this year and the difference between those 2 also contributes to that 2 percentage point increase.
And we have a question.
It's a follow-up from Mark Gilman with The Benchmark Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> There's been a lot said I guess in some of the freight press regarding extensive maintenance activities on Qatar gas trains.
Can you help us out a little bit and quantify to the best you can what that looks like for you in terms of both Qatar gas and Russ [ph]  Gas both in the third quarter and for the balance of the year? If you look at the downtime that we've seen in the Qatar trains particularly over the last couple of quarters I'll tell you that the work is done and those trains are up.
And we actually saw -- as we came from the second quarter to end of the third quarter we actually had less maintenance and some improved volume performance out of that in the third quarter.
And so now it's just kind of normal operations.
But we did see improvement from the second quarter into the third quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is there anything remaining that needs to be taken down for maintenance purposes in the fourth quarter? I'm not aware of anything major in the fourth quarter so I would expect you can see basically normal operations.
And our final question today comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Dave just 2 quick one.
You talked about the open lift in the third quarter.
Can you give us a number that -- how much is open lift? And also at the end of the September from the inventory standpoint are you still overlift underlift or neutral? That's a good follow-up from the last quarter where I'd mentioned how underlifted we were.
If we look sequentially which is probably the best way to look at our net overlift position we were slightly overlifted this quarter and underlifted last quarter.
And that gave a net overlift for -- of about 80 000 barrels a day quarter-to-quarter on a net basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So 80 000 barrels a day net overlift.
Yes.
And on the...
Research Division</strong> Is that at the end of September or that is sequentially? No that's sequentially.
So if you look we were underlifted.
I think I mentioned in the second quarter about 69 000 barrels a day.
We were overlifted in the third quarter by about 14 000 barrels a day.
And so the delta between those 2 is about 83 000 barrels.
Research Division</strong> And at the end of September are you -- from an inventory standpoint are you now pretty much balanced? Yes I think where we are year to date we're probably pretty close.
It maybe a little under or over either way.
But I think we're pretty close on a year-to-date basis.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And David would you be able to share with us how much is the production you actually booked from Iraq in the third quarter? No.
As we typically do I don't typically give a country-specific number.
But I can tell you as I mentioned earlier in the call some of that change we saw in the net interest or -- rather in the entitlements column was Iraq getting cost current.
But the most important thing in Iraq is that gross number which we have now gotten up to 370 000 barrels a day.
And that's a real milestone for us.
And Mr.
Rosenthal there are no further questions left in the queue.
I'll turn it back to you for any closing remarks.
I just like to say thank you to everybody for participating on the call and have a good day.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good day and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
David Rosenthal.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's Fourth Quarter Earnings Call and Webcast.
The focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2011.
I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.
Before we go further I would like to draw your attention to our customary cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Moving to Slide 3 I'll start with an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results.
Global economic recovery was slower in the fourth quarter largely due to weakness in Europe.
GDP improvement in the United States and Japan was tempered by negative growth in the European Union.
U.S.
real GDP growth was 2.8% improving from 1.8% in the third quarter while Japan delivered another quarter of positive growth as post-earthquake recovery continues.
In general non-OECD growth remains robust even with the slight decline in growth from China.
Energy markets were mixed in the fourth quarter.
Crude oil and non-U.S.
natural gas prices remain strong while worldwide industry refining margins saw significant declines as did commodity chemicals margins.
Turning now to the fourth quarter financial results as shown on Slide 4.
ExxonMobil's fourth quarter 2011 earnings excluding special items were $9.4 billion an increase of $150 million from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 47%.
Earnings per share for the quarter excluding special items were $1.97 up $0.12 from a year ago.
The corporation distributed more than $7.2 billion to shareholders in the fourth quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $5 billion was utilized to purchase shares.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 billion in the first quarter of 2012.
CapEx in the fourth quarter was $10 billion consistent with the fourth quarter of 2010.
We continue to invest in robust projects throughout the business cycle all of which served to help meet global demand for crude oil natural gas and finished products while supporting economic growth including job creation.
Our cash generation remains strong with $17.6 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales including $6.9 billion associated with asset sales.
At the end of the fourth quarter 2011 cash and marketable securities totaled $13.1 billion and debt was $17 billion.
The next slide provides additional detail on fourth quarter sources and uses of funds.
Over the quarter cash and marketable securities increased from $11.3 billion to $13.1 billion including cash on deposit associated with potential asset sales which have not yet closed and therefore are not reflected in earnings.
The combined impact of strong earnings depreciation expense higher working capital and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $17.6 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included additions to plant property and equipment or PP&amp;E of $8.6 billion and shareholder distributions of $7.2 billion.
Additional financing and investing activities had no net impact in the quarter.
Moving now to the full year results as shown on Slide 6.
ExxonMobil's full year 2011 earnings excluding special items were $41.1 billion up $10.6 billion from 2010.
Earnings per share for the year excluding special items were $8.42 up $2.20 from 2010.
The corporation distributed $29 billion to shareholders in 2011 through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $20 billion was utilized to purchase shares.
CapEx in 2011 was $36.8 billion up $4.5 billion from 2010 mainly due to acquisitions of unconventional assets including the Phillips companies and continued progress on our world class project portfolio including the Kearl oil sands project.
Our cash generation was very strong with $66.5 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales including $11.1 billion associated with asset sales.
Moving now to the full year cash flow statement as shown on Slide 7.
During the year cash and marketable securities increased from $8.5 billion to $13.1 billion including cash on deposit associated with potential asset sales which have not yet closed and therefore are not reflected in earnings.
The combined impact of strong earnings depreciation expense higher working capital and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $66.5 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included additions to plant property and equipment or PP&amp;E of $31 billion and shareholder distributions of $29 billion.
Additional financing and investing activities decreased our cash and marketable securities by $1.9 billion.
Moving on to Slide 8 and a review of our segmented results.
ExxonMobil's fourth quarter 2011 earnings of $9.4 billion increased $150 million from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Upstream earnings increased $1.3 billion while Downstream earnings decreased by $725 million.
Chemical earnings were down $524 million.
Lower corporate and financing expenses increased earnings $50 million versus the fourth quarter of 2010.
As shown on Slide 9 ExxonMobil's fourth quarter 2011 earnings of $9.4 billion declined by $930 million compared with the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to lower industry refining and chemicals margins.
Looking now at the full year comparison on Slide 10 ExxonMobil's full year 2011 earnings excluding special items were up $10.6 billion to $41.1 billion an increase of 35% from 2010 primarily due to strong oil and gas realizations.
Upstream earnings increased $10.3 billion while Downstream earnings were up $892 million and Chemical earnings were down $530 million.
Corporate and financing expenses for the full year in 2011 were $2.2 billion down $104 million from 2010.
Our guidance for corporate and financing expenses continues to be $500 million to $700 million per quarter.
Moving next to fourth quarter business highlights beginning on Slide 11.
The offshore installation of our deepwater Angola Satellites project is nearly 50% complete with development drilling well underway and targeting startup in mid-2012.
The project will involve a subsea tie-back to the existing Kizomba A and B FPSOs and produced approximately 100 000 barrels per day on a gross basis.
This level of production is similar to levels achieved by FPSOs at our Saxi Batuque and Mondo development.
The PNG project is also progressing as planned towards a 2014 startup.
Recent milestones include completion of over 130 kilometers of offshore pipeline welding of over 100 kilometers on the onshore pipeline and commencement of piling work at the Hides gas conditioning plant.
At Banyu Urip in Indonesia we have issued 5 major EPC contracts including those associated with the onshore and offshore pipelines and mooring tower.
The project remains on schedule for full field production in 2014 with a targeted initial gross production of 165 000 barrels per day.
In the Gulf of Mexico we funded our interest in the Lucius development which is scheduled for a 2014 startup.
ExxonMobil's Hadrian South discovery will also tie into the Lucius facility with startup planned for 2014.
Also during the quarter we completed a settlement with the U.S.
Department of the Interior and the U.S.
Department of Justice regarding the Julia field in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
This will allow us to progress the initial phase of development of this important discovery.
Now turning to Slide 12.
Construction at the Kearl Initial Development is now 87% complete and is on schedule to start up in late 2012 with an initial gross production rate of approximately 110 000 barrels per day.
Also during the quarter we funded the Kearl expansion project which will add an additional 110 000 barrels per day of production and is anticipated to start up in late 2015.
When combined with the Kearl Initial Development the expansion will develop 3.2 billion barrels.
Future debottlenecking of both phases will increase output to reach the regulatory capacity of 345 000 barrels per day and fully develop the 4.6 billion barrel resource.
Turning now to an exploration update on Slide 13.
ExxonMobil maintains a balanced global exploration portfolio which supports an active exploration drilling program aimed at testing new play concepts opportunities in existing basins and near field wildcats across the globe.
For example we are currently drilling a well in the Black Sea offshore Romania and participating in an exploration well offshore Tanzania both of which will test new deepwater play concepts.
In Nigeria we mobilized the West Polaris rig and commenced a new deepwater exploration program in oil production License 214.
In the Gulf of Mexico we were the high bidder on 50 new exploration blocks in Lease Sale 218 which further strengthened our acreage position in the western Gulf of Mexico and leveraged our advanced seismic imaging capability.
This technology will allow us to progress new exploration opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico and other basins around the world.
We also maintain an active global unconventional exploration drilling program.
I will now provide an update on some of these activities on Slide 14.
We continue to focus our drilling activity to maximize development of liquids-rich plays.
In the Woodford Ardmore we added another rig and now have 8 operated rigs developing this recently discovered liquids-rich resource where we hold more than 170 000 net acres.
Current drilling is focused on delineating this acreage which more than tripled in 2011 as well as determining optimal well spacing and drilling and completion practices.
Ardmore well performance continues to be strong and we completed a total of 31 new wells in 2011.
In the Bakken Shale we have 7 operated rigs developing roughly 400 000 net acres of leasehold.
In 2011 we drilled and completed a total of 51 wells including 18 in the fourth quarter.
And notwithstanding severe weather in the first half of 2011 and increased downtime our net Bakken liquids production increased 27% in 2011 versus 2010.
In the fourth quarter alone net Bakken liquids production increased 13% versus the third quarter 2011 and 41% versus the fourth quarter of 2010.
In the Permian Basin of West Texas we have 5 operated rigs which are developing conventional plays as well as testing new liquids-rich unconventional opportunities.
In Canada we have had encouraging early results in the Cardium with 2 wells on production at year end and additional drilling planned in 2012.
Finally we commenced drilling 2 wells in the Neuquen Basin in Argentina in December to test unconventional liquids and gas potential.
Turning now to Slide 15 with an update on the Downstream.
We continue to make targeted investments where there is an attractive growth opportunity.
We are investing to help meet growing demand for motor fuels with cleaner burning formulas and to sustain the competitiveness of our refining portfolio well into the future.
During the quarter we completed a lower-sulfur fuels project at our Sriracha Thailand refinery which will increase production of cleaner gasoline and diesel fuels at the refinery by over 50 000 barrels per day.
Additionally construction of a lower-sulfur fuels project has begun at the joint Saudi Aramco and ExxonMobil SAMREF Refinery in Yanbu Saudi Arabia.
The project will include new gasoline and diesel hydrotreating and sulfur recovery equipment with completion expected by the end of 2013.
Turning now to the Upstream financial and operating results and starting on Slide 16.
Upstream earnings in the fourth quarter were $8.8 billion up $1.3 billion from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Stronger crude oil and natural gas realizations increased earnings by $2 billion as crude oil realizations increased over $22 per barrel and gas realizations increased $1.09 per kcf.
Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $1.5 billion due mainly to the impact of lower entitlement volumes in West Africa base decline downtime divestments and lower-than-normal seasonal demand in Europe partly offset by the ramp-up of Angola and Iraq projects.
All other items primarily gains from asset divestments increased earnings by approximately $800 million.
Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the fourth quarter of 2011 were $21.18.
Moving now to Slide 17.
Oil equivalent volumes decreased 9% from the fourth quarter of last year mainly due to the impact of lower entitlement volumes in West Africa decline downtime lower-than-normal seasonal demand in Europe and divestments.
Volumes were positively impacted by the ramp-up of projects in Angola and Iraq and continued strong performance in our U.S.
unconventional resource business.
Excluding the impacts of lower entitlement volumes quotas and divestments production declined about 4%.
Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on Slide 18.
Versus the third quarter of 2011 Upstream earnings increased by $435 million.
Higher realizations increased earnings by $190 million as crude oil realizations remained strong and natural gas realizations increased $0.46 per kcf.
Production mix and volume effects increased earnings by $50 million due mainly to higher seasonal demand in Europe partly offset by the impact of divestments.
Other items primarily gains from asset divestments and lower exploration expenses partly offset by higher operating expenses at unfavorable foreign exchange impacts increased earnings by $190 million.
Moving to Slide 19.
Oil equivalent volumes increased 6% from the third quarter of 2011 due mainly to higher seasonal demand in Europe and the ramp-up of projects in Angola partly offset by the impact of divestments.
Turning now to the full year comparison and starting on Slide 20.
Upstream earnings were $34.4 billion in 2011 an increase of $10.3 billion from 2010.
Improvements in global realizations led to an increase in earnings of $10.6 billion.
Lower liquid volumes mainly due to lower entitlement volumes in West Africa and base decline partly offset by project ramp-up in Qatar lowered earnings by $2.5 billion.
All other items driven by higher gains on asset sales of about $2.7 billion increased earnings by $2.2 billion.
Moving to Slide 21.
Volumes grew by 1% or 59 000 oil equivalent barrels per day compared to 2010.
Ramp-up of projects in Russia Qatar Iraq and Angola combined with continued strong performance in our U.S.
unconventional resource business more than offset the impacts of base decline divestments and lower entitlement volumes in West Africa.
Excluding the impacts of lower entitlement volumes quotas and divestments production was up over 4%.
For further data on regional volumes please refer to the press release and the IR supplement.
Moving now to the Downstream financial and operating results and starting on Slide 22.
Downstream earnings in the fourth quarter were $425 million down $725 million from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Lower industry refining margins contributed to a decrease in earnings of $740 million while volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $30 million.
Other factors increased earnings by $40 million.
Moving to Slide 23.
Sequentially fourth quarter Downstream earnings declined $1.2 billion largely driven by significantly lower industry refining margins.
Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $60 million while other factors increased earnings by $360 million primarily due to inventory or LIFO benefits and the higher gains on asset sales.
The full year comparison of the Downstream is shown on Slide 24.
Downstream full year 2011 earnings were nearly $4.5 billion up $892 million from 2010.
Higher industry refining margins contributed to an increase in earnings of $800 million.
Volume and mix effects improved earnings by $630 million reflecting the ongoing benefits from investments and refining optimization activities.
Other effects decreased earnings by $540 million mainly due to the absence of favorable tax effects and higher expenses.
Turning now to the Chemical financial and operating results and starting on Slide 25.
Fourth quarter Chemical earnings were $543 million a decrease of $524 million versus the fourth quarter of 2010.
Lower margins decreased earnings by $230 million mainly in commodity chemicals while volume effects decreased earnings $40 million.
Other factors decreased earnings by $250 million primarily due to unfavorable tax affects.
Moving to Slide 26.
Sequentially fourth quarter Chemical earnings decreased $460 million.
Commodity chemical margins declined significantly driving a negative earnings impact of $390 million.
Volume effects increased earnings by $10 million while other effects decreased earnings by $80 million.
On Slide 27 we show the full year comparison for Chemical results.
2011 earnings were nearly $4.4 billion including record specialty chemical earnings of about $1.8 billion.
Overall stronger margins increased earnings by $260 million while volume effects decreased earnings by $180 million mainly due to higher planned maintenance in 2011.
Other effects reduced earnings by $610 million primarily due to unfavorable tax effects and higher planned maintenance expenses.
While the fourth quarter was a reminder that the Chemical business is cyclical in nature ExxonMobil's quality portfolio of both commodity and specialty chemicals provides upside benefit when commodity margins are strong and a stable less cyclical specialties earnings base when commodity chemical margins are weaker.
We continue to leverage our feed advantage integration cost discipline and premium product offerings to outperform throughout the cycle.
While we manage our Downstream and Chemical businesses separately we continue to capture benefits from the unique integration and optimization of these businesses.
Both businesses delivered strong results in 2011 with combined earnings of $8.8 billion up $360 million from 2010.
Moving to Slide 28.
ExxonMobil's fourth quarter and full year financial and operating performance was strong and reflects the ability of our business model and competitive advantages to deliver superior results.
As we continue to focus on operational excellence deploy high-impact technologies and leverage our unparalleled global integration ExxonMobil remains well positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value.
And finally I would like to mention 2 upcoming events.
First in mid- February we will be releasing our 2011 reserves performance data.
Second as many of you have already have seen our Analyst Meeting this year will take place at the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday March 8.
This will include a live audio webcast beginning at 9:00 a.m.
Eastern 8:00 a.m.
Central Time.
ExxonMobil's presenters will be led by Chairman and CEO Rex Tillerson.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
I would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Dave 2 somewhat unrelated questions.
Can you comment on the status of West Qurna and how that project is going? And then the related part of that is can you make any comments on adding acreage in Kurdistan? There's obviously been a lot of press about that.
I don't think you've put out anything officially.
That was -- that's the first question.
Yes let me -- Arjun let me actually answer those in reverse.
I don't have any comments to make today on Kurdistan.
I will though tell you that in the West Qurna field things are proceeding on plan.
We continue to meet our production commitments and progress the redevelopment projects in West Qurna and that's going very well.
The common sea water supply project is also progressing and we are in the process of finalizing commercial terms with the Ministry of Oil and other participating IOCs.
So things are going well and continuing to progress as planned.
Research Division</strong> The other question was just on U.S.
gas.
Looks like your production ticked up here in the fourth quarter.
Obviously the current gas outlook is pretty weak.
You all I know take a longer-term view.
Can you provide any comments on how you're thinking about your U.S.
gas rig count and outlook and in light of what at least are currently pretty weak prices? Yes thank you for that question Arjun.
That's a very topical item today and I know there's a lot of questions and a lot of interest in the U.S.
gas business and what we're seeing and what we're doing.
So I might just take a moment and kind of address the broader picture of U.S.
gas.
I'll start by saying we remain bullish on the future of natural gas as an energy source.
For those of you that are familiar with our recently released energy outlook you know we are very bullish on the demand side of natural gas as an energy source in the U.S.
And as we all know given the fairly steep decline in conventional gas unconventional gas will play the dominant role going forward.
In that regard we are very pleased with our unconventional resource portfolio and look forward to a major participation in that space.
Now as we all know due to record production this year and record storage levels and a relatively mild winter to date prices have weakened significantly recently.
I can tell you that we have not curtailed any gas production and we're still running 65 to 70 rigs across the space.
What has changed over the year is we have reallocated a large number of those rigs to liquids and liquids-rich plays.
For example if you were to step back a year and then come forward to today we have actually doubled the percentage of the rigs in that fleet that are drilling either liquids or liquids-rich plays and I mentioned some of those examples in my prepared remarks.
So although the overall size of the fleet has remained about the same a very substantial portion of that -- those rigs are drilling liquids or liquids-rich plays.
Nonetheless I can also tell you that we are still drilling dry gas wells.
We do have a few of those that are required for lease maintenance or meeting other contractual obligations but we are drilling a number that continue to provide good economics.
As you would expect with a drillable well inventory of over 40 000 wells we're able to put those things in order and have significant optionality and flexibility to drill them and that really gives us an opportunity to maximize the value of that resource over a long period of time.
So if you look at the total market we continue to be focused long term while making the adjustments in our rig fleet to head to the higher-value higher-margin products.
Research Division</strong> David just a really quick follow up given the comments on the Cardium and some of the oil plays do you see the opportunity to raise your overall rig count more towards the liquids and liquids-rich plays or a 65 to 70 kind of plus or minus your number for this year? I think as we look across the year I wouldn't expect the 65 to 70 to change a whole lot in total.
But I think it would be reasonable to expect that we will continue to expand the focus of that drilling to the liquids and the liquids-rich plays particularly in some of the areas where we are having good initial success.
And we look forward to again bringing on some more wells there.
So I think that's what you'll see kind of as the year progresses.
Our next question will come from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> David obviously with these PSC effects you've had quite a significant step-down in volumes.
Thinking about your analyst meeting I think that the 2011 number was guided to be around 4.6 million barrels a day of production.
You're about 100 000 barrels a day lower than that.
Should we sort of reset your trajectory of growth from that lower level or should we think about a structurally lower level you've talked about? I guess PSC volumes which I guess are now lost because I assume you're blowing through tranches there.
Any change in how you're handling -- or somewhat of a change in how you're handling U.S.
drilling? Can you just sort of update us on the outlook for 2012? And I have a follow-up.
Sure Paul.
I think we'll give you a broad outlook on 2012 at the March analyst meeting and we'll look at both this year and what the go forward.
Certainly if you look at our overall projection -- or production for the year again if you back out the effects in particular on entitlements we did in fact actually do a little better than the 4%.
I think we had targeted 3% to 4%.
So if I just look at the operational performance we actually did as expected or perhaps even a little better than expected.
As you did note and as we note in the charts we did see a fairly significant impact from entitlement volumes across the year.
In particular if you look year-on-year it's about 124 000 barrels a day in total.
About 100 000 of that was price-related and the other 20 000 was tranche-related as we talked about particularly in Nigeria and Angola.
So clearly at the prices that we saw this year we did see an impact.
The prices that we were looking at and we put together our outlook back in March were a little more conservative than what we saw actually.
And so that had the big effect.
But we'll look forward to giving a fulsome discussion in the March analyst meeting of volumes and drivers for those going forward here again in about a month.
Research Division</strong> And just more specifically -- forgive me if I missed this in the comments but the -- there was a large gain in asset sales in Upstream I think with Apache.
I think it's probably there was a deal with Apache in the North Sea.
But could you talk about what else was sold? I'm not clear what that was.
Yes we had a -- that was the biggest one.
The biggest impact that you saw was in the North Sea.
We had some minor other things going on but the North Sea was the biggest deal and accounted for the bulk of the asset management gain that we talked about there that you see in the other category.
Research Division</strong> Okay so that's quite specific that it was obviously more than 50% of the number was that specific deal? Sure sure.
Yes that was the main item in that Paul.
Next we hear from Faisel Khan with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just one more time just on the absolute gain in the quarter on the asset sales that -- because it's  -- it's $810 million year-over-year but what's the absolute number for the quarter? And also if you can give us the absolute number for the effects that took place in Chemicals the unfavorable tax I think change? Sure.
The absolute impact in the quarter if you're looking on that $800 million we had an impact of about $1 billion in the quarter was the absolute number.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then the effect of the tax incentive or tax impact in Chemicals? Are you interested in the full year impact or looking at the quarterly? Research Division</strong> Just the fourth quarter.
If you look at the fourth quarter again relative to the prior year that impact was really most of that $250 million that you see there.
That was the bulk of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then last question for me on your -- if you could be a little more specific about the rig count in the U.S.
You said you've been shifting a lot of the rigs to the liquids-rich plays.
But of the 65 to 70 rigs you're running how many of those rigs now are running in the liquids-rich plays versus the dry gas plays? Yes I'll tell you Faisel for commercial reasons we don't want to be that specific.
I think what's important is that it is now a substantial proportion of the total.
And again I mentioned several examples in my prepared remarks and you can see the increase we've had in the rigs there.
So without adding all that up and giving you a total it's been a significant increase over the last 12 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay then what about the lower 48 production of liquids how has that trended? Or what number is that in the quarterly number to the volumes? I don't think we've ever given a -- typically give a specific lower 48 number.
If you look at the total in the U.S.
that number has been trending about flat or so over the course and we've seen a number of ups and downs there but nothing real specific to highlight.
We'll move on to Ed Westlake with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> David just coming back to the volumes if I look at it year-over-year I mean all of it's European gas and that's probably weathering the economy.
But of that 214 of net growth is there any other areas that you feel as you look at the performance that has disappointed you? When we look across the year in particular on the full year effect I'll tell you one area where we did not perform quite as well as we would've expected would've been in downtime.
For example if you look at the full year downtime year-over-year was worth about 35 000 barrels a day on a decrease in a number of areas.
And I'm pleased to report that as we came across the end of the year particularly as we went from the third quarter to the fourth quarter we actually got a lot of that back.
And that was a big piece of the increase that you saw sequentially.
Other than that I think as we look across the year all of our projects that came online performing very well.
The base decline performed about as expected.
The projects that came online are doing well.
And overall operations were good but I think I mentioned off and on across the year we did have some unplanned downtime and maintenance outages and we are working on that.
I'll say scheduled downtime was about as expected so it was clearly the unplanned outages.
But again about 35 KBD.
Other than that we're pretty pleased with how things went.
Research Division</strong> And then if I look at the cash flow you've got $10 billion of total CapEx.
You've got asset sales increasing.
Should I read into this that you're going to be a little bit more aggressive about spending organically and then just perhaps selling some of the tail assets or is it just timing in Q4 for that $10 billion run rate? I wouldn't read anything into that.
We had $10 billion in the fourth quarter.
I think that was about the same as it is in the prior year.
We generally see a pretty big ramp-up quarter-on-quarter as we get to the end of the year.
Likewise on divestments and you've seen a number those announced that haven't closed yet and will as we move across this year particularly in the Downstream I don't think there's anything special other than it's all part of our ongoing asset management program.
I'll tell you a lot of these deals are a long time in the making some years in the making.
And others come up rather quickly as the situation warrants.
So no change in direction no change of philosophy for us again timing and -- but we do have a continued program to look at the portfolio add where we need to add divest where it's favorable to us and then restructure where it meets all the stakeholders' needs.
And I think you saw a lot of that over 2011.
And again many of those deals will close in the first half of this year.
Our next question will come from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure that I get the number right.
And you're saying that the absolute asset sales gain in the Upstream is about $1 billion in the fourth quarter? Yes in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And that when I looking at from the fourth to the third quarter the other item is a positive $190 million.
Does that means that in the third quarter we have about $800 million in asset sales gain or that there's other things in there also? Order of magnitude that's about right.
There are some puts and takes but that's pretty close.
Research Division</strong> So what is the full year absolute asset sales gain? Is the $2.2 billion that you show us either that is the number or that there's other things inside there also? No.
If you're looking at the full year number where we show the $2.2 billion yes the full year for the Upstream is about -- the delta is about $2.7 billion with an absolute of about $2.9 billion.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So absolute is about $2.9 billion in 2011? Okay.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> In Europe the European gas is down 730 year-over-year.
How much of them is related to weather? And how much is actually that their underlying capacity decline? I think if you look at the total amount I think about half of that is weather and the other half is decline more or less.
Clearly sequentially third quarter to fourth quarter we didn't see near what we were expecting.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think you had mentioned -- I probably just missed that there's a cash on deposit from the future asset sales.
How much is that and related to which deal? Paul a good question.
It's $3.6 billion that we have on deposit for potential asset sales that haven't closed.
And although I won't -- don't want to give the specific details of what that relates to because obviously the deal hasn't closed and that means we continue to have commercial discussions going on but I do want you to know it was there because what you have is cash without an earnings impact.
And should the transactions mature and close then you'll see an earnings effect some quarter in the future without a cash flow.
But that number is $3.6 billion.
Research Division</strong> When you suppose -- when you expected to close your deal in Japan? By about mid-year.
Research Division</strong> Mid-year.
And that until -- wondering some of your other competitor in the Downstream they are independent refining company that in the quarter they have some significant hedging losses due to using WTI to hedge for the long-haul crude supply.
Wondering whether Exxon did any of that at all.
Do you hedge and not in the defense for your long-haul crude supply in your Downstream? And if you do do you use WTI or brand contracts? Paul that's a good question and a pretty straightforward answer no to all parts of that question.
We don't do any hedging and we certainly don't speculate in the futures markets.
Next we'll hear from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to try a couple also if I may.
And the first one is really more of a philosophical question on your U.S.
gas statements that you spent some time on earlier.
We're all obviously fairly familiar with the XTO economics from the legacy portfolio.
And I think it's probably fair to say that some of your dry gas production is probably challenged from a return on capital on an MPD standpoint.
So has that given Exxon's focus on returns -- given the early revenue or the early dependence of those early wells on the early part of the production to basically justify the economics at what point would Exxon consider basically zeroing out its dry gas drilling or indeed curtailing production? Is it a gas price or is it a philosophical decision that you just keep drilling right through? Doug I really can't comment or speculate on any forward operating decisions.
The comments I made earlier really talk about where we are today and again the plan that I talked about in terms of what we're drilling and where we're going.
But I really don't have a comment to make on what any future operating decisions that we might take.
Research Division</strong> Okay I thought it was worth a try David.
The second one is also a kind of philosophical question.
As we look forward and I guess you'll give us an update in March but you have an awful lot of long-life assets that are either already in or will be in the portfolio for the next couple of years arguably stabilizing the underlying cash flow maybe think about it another way of reducing the maintenance capital.
How do you ultimately think about changing the balance between dividends and share buybacks noting that through all your share buybacks in the last few years your absolute dividend payment as a percentage of cash flow has actually declined fairly precipitously? How do you think about that? And I'll leave it there.
That's good.
Let me hit that in a couple of areas.
One in terms of the CapEx yes as you know we are in a CapEx mode now and have been for the last year or 2 and will for the next couple years investing in large legacy projects that as we talked about before have all of their -- or most all of their CapEx upfront.
Certainly in the last few years the Qatar investments would qualify for that.
Now the 2 Kearl oil sands projects Morgan [ph] LNG Papua New Guinea LNG and those sorts of things.
So surely as I mentioned in my prepared remarks a number of projects are due to come on in the 2012 2014 time frame and we'll begin to see both the production and cash flows from that.
Without going too far beyond that we've got a lot other opportunities we're working on as we've discussed and we'll discuss more at the analyst meeting that we hope give us the opportunities to continue to spend CapEx in order to grow the business profitably.
As you know one of the opportunities we have in addition to our ongoing drilling program is the strategic cooperation agreement with Rosneft which we are progressing and progressing as planned.
And as I've mentioned in prior calls that gives us tremendous exposure to what could be a very very attractive opportunity.
Now as far as the dividend versus share buyback I don't have any change in our approach to communicate today.
We are committed to continuing to provide a reliable and growing stable dividend to our shareholders.
And then once we've invested in all the attractive projects and opportunities we have available returning a lot of the cash to the shareholders through share repurchases.
So that's a long-term kind of approach we've taken over the last many years.
And I would expect going forward although we continue to look at that all the time every quarter I don't have any change to communicate today.
Our next question comes from Doug Terreson with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> In the Downstream between sales in Malaysia I think was in Q3 and then Japan and consolidation of fuels marketing and lubes restructuring is become fairly fairly meaningful in refining and marketing.
And so my question regards the strategic rationale behind these moves and whether you consider these actions is normal course of business or maybe more.
And either way do you know the productivity benefits that the company expects to realize from these actions? Yes that's a good question.
I'll say it's really part of an ongoing program we've had in the Downstream for a long time as opposed to any specific change in strategy or event.
We like others have been looking at our Downstream assets around the world.
And where we have had areas where in certain locations that our assets are of significantly more value to others we've actually sold those businesses.
The resulting impact has been very positive on our returns in the Downstream and so we continue to progress and look at those things.
We've about finished up the retail conversion in the U.S.
and that has gone on very well and the earnings associated with those divestments have been very strong.
As you mentioned a couple of the other sales that we have out there in Malaysia in Argentina and Central America that we announced last year should close some time in the first quarter or second quarter of this year.
And then the Japan restructuring that we mentioned here in the last couple of days we should also close again by mid-year.
So -- but taking all that into account we do continue to invest in the business where it makes sense the ultra-low sulfur diesel investments that we've made in the last couple of years.
I mentioned some additional lower-sulfur and cleaner-burning fuel projects that are underway as well as of course the chemicals projects that we have underway.
So we remain committed to these businesses.
But again as we said in our outlook for energy in certain parts of the world the demand for transportation of fuels is flat to down and I would expect us to optimize there.
And where we have opportunities for growth we will.
But I would say overall if you look over the last couple of years and kind of what's out there now it's been a very successful asset management program and we're very pleased with it.
But it is an opportunistic program and I don't have any guidance going forward other than the deals we got there to close.
Research Division</strong> Okay I follow.
So -- and also in U.S.
E&amp;P profitability has been a little soft over the past couple of quarters.
And I realize that natural gas prices have been weak but crude oil performed pretty well.
And so my question is whether you could comment on the cost trend that you're experiencing in U.S.
E&amp;P and/or any other color that you can provide on U.S.
E&amp;P profitability.
Sure.
Certainly on the overall unit margin or unit profitability we are of course impacted by the decline in gas prices.
And while we do intend to give a nice update in March on the unconventional business in the U.S.
I can tell you that some of the objectives we set out at the time of the merger are coming to fruition.
We are seeing improvement in capital efficiency.
We are seeing reductions in operating expense.
We're seeing improved productivity on the wells through a number of things everything from pad spacing to length of laterals to how we array the laterals in certain areas.
So a number of both engineering and technology.
Things we've brought to the table are paying off and I think that helps mitigate the impact of the lower expenses or the lower prices if you will.
So from that standpoint I think we're progressing well and optimizing again that portfolio.
But at the end of the day the profitability on a book basis is certainly impacted by the declining price trend that we've seen over the course of the year.
We'll move on to Robert Kessler with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> One quick clarification on the U.S.
natural gas commentary and then also on the unconventional liquids.
So on U.S.
natural gas with your unchanged bullish long-term outlook any thoughts on being a continued consolidator in the U.S.
E&amp;P space? And then on the unconventional liquids thanks for the color and activity there in the different areas.
Can you provide some maybe IP rates? And if I can sort of shoot for the moon well specific costs on the areas you highlighted? Yes sure let me hit those 2 questions.
In terms of the first question I don't have any specific guidance but as we have said for a long time I will continue to say we are always looking for opportunities that are out there and you've seen that in some of the acquisitions that we've made over the last year or so.
We continue to look at opportunities.
Certainly as the environment changes over time we're always checking to see what's available and what might be of value to us.
But again no specifics.
In terms of the individual IP rates I don't have any specifics to give you.
I will say that if you look for example up in the Cardium where some of the tight oil well rates that you've heard from others ours are certainly doing well and at the upper end of that range.
We're getting good rates in the Woodford Ardmore.
We're looking forward to some of the other ones.
But again a lot of our drilling has been delineation in nature and we have yet to bring a lot of those wells on production.
So I wouldn't want to give specifics other than to just conclude and say that program is going well and we're very optimistic and again in particular the Bakken the Cardium and the Woodford Ardmore are all looking very attractive and I look forward to giving you more update on those areas as this year progresses.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could ask one quick clarification on the Downstream you mentioned the benefit of inventory liquidation.
It sounds like you blew through a couple of LIFO liquidation layers.
Any quantification that benefit to earnings more explicitly and then any kind of strategy around liquidation of inventories around year end ad valorem tax purposes for example or is this just kind of an inherent volatility in the inventory balances? Yes I'll tell you you didn't see a real big change.
I'll tell you the absolute inventory.
The LIFO effect for this year in the fourth quarter was $200 million.
And frankly that's about what it was last year.
So we didn't see much of a change in any of our businesses about $200 million.
But again no big shift in program.
That's kind of typical as we optimize our inventories at year end.
Next we'll hear from Jason Gammel with Macquarie.
I just wanted to ask really for an update on some of the other unconventional activity that weren't mentioned in the discussion.
So I'll hold it to one but it's going to be multi-part if that's okay.
First of all Utica Shale have you actually spud a well there yet? And are you -- so an acreage position around 75 000 or have you increased that? Sure.
As I mentioned we would be spudding a well in the first quarter of this year and we do have one going down as we speak.
The acreage position there is about 75 000 acres today and we're looking forward to working on that.
Great.
And then on the Horn River Basin David can you talk about what activity levels are like during this particular drilling campaign and if you have advanced any strategy towards potentially exporting that gas as LNG? I'll hit the first one.
We are.
We do have a drilling program planned for this year.
I think it'll be about the same as we had last year.
And again it's really related to evaluation and delineation as opposed to production so a similar size program.
And it's going to be -- I think it'll be about 2 wells 2 to 3 wells which is typically what we've been doing.
In terms of strategies for eventual monetization I don't have any specific information to provide other than of course with a resource potentially as large as that we are exploring all of the options that are out there and we'll continue to do so.
And as soon as I have an update on that I'll give it to you.
I might also mention the Neuquen Basin.
I think I mentioned it briefly in my prepared remarks.
We do have 2 wells going down there.
They are not completed yet so I can't give you any specifics.
But we continue to add acreage down there and looking forward to an active drilling program and really trying to test the potential for both liquids and gas.
So that is active.
Another country that we've talked about before is Poland and I think I mentioned in the last call that we would have had the 2 wells down in Poland.
Those 2 wells did complete in the fourth quarter.
And while we did find gas it did not flow in commercial quantities in either of those 2 wells so we'll be analyzing that evaluating the various characteristics of the shale there and working on our go-forward plans.
I think that's kind of an update.
If there's a country I missed that you're interested in I'd be happy to talk about it.
Maybe just as a follow-up David what is the condition of the service industry in Argentina? Are you able to find rigs and pressure pumping equipment or are things really tight? And then I'll leave it at that.
Yes.
In Argentina we're doing okay.
We have a -- we farmed into a block there and the operator there is pretty well established.
So at least for the activity that we have ongoing and the wells that we're trying to drill it's not impacting our program.
But we'll see how that turns out as we go forward and the activity in the area increases in general.
Allen Good with Morningstar has our next question.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
I just had a quick one.
I know you said the reserve report was coming out in February.
But could you give us any indication if any reserves from Iraq were booked this year or anything else related more to Kearl given the go ahead with the expansion there? No I think I'll wait and we'll of course talk about both of those but both of those will be included in our press release.
And it'll be out in mid-February so we're only a couple of weeks away.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick follow-up on Kashagan.
Is that still on schedule for this year? And any update you could give there would be helpful.
I think the target is still for year-end this year and I don't have any update for you different than that.
Next we'll hear from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One quick one about -- back to U.S.
gas.
With 18 months having passed since you closed XTO has the employee attrition rate been consistent with your expectations prior to closing? Well yes.
In fact that's turned out to be a pretty positive for us.
It's been very stable.
We haven't seen any significant increase.
And on that front things are pretty good.
I think the folks over there are very pleased with the progress we're making in the business in the program the integration the availability of technology and other resources to advance the programs that were under way.
And so again that's been a positive for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a quick one about Japan.
The transaction with TonenGeneral was that brought about by Exxon proactively or were you approached by the buyer in this deal who was interested in making this happen? Or just can you tell us a little bit about the background to that deal? I really can't share any specifics along those lines.
I can tell you when you look at the restructuring and the assets involved and how they're structured and managed today and how they will be after the deal this is a positive for all the stakeholders involved and really better positions that combined business to meet the market needs of Japan.
And I think that's probably the most important part without getting into specifics about how it was initiated.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Will Exxon have any wholly owned refineries in Japan after this closes? No we won't.
Our next question comes from Philip Weiss with Argus Research.
I just have one -- most of my questions have been answered but I do have one follow-up on U.S.
You said that the rig count that's being used for liquids-rich is rising.
But when I look at production natural gas as a percentage of your total production has grown and liquids has actually fallen a little bit.
So I wonder if you could just comment on when we might start to see that trend change.
Sure.
The falloff in the liquids is really just the overall decline in the conventional as well as some divestments.
You'll recall we had a divestment in the eastern Gulf of Mexico and that had an impact on us year-over-year and particularly in the second half.
In terms of when we'll see significant production growth out of the unconventional a lot -- I mentioned some of the increases in percentages although we haven't given all the specific production volumes but we'll do that as we progress.
One of the things we've seen is a lot of the drilling is really around delineating the resource and appraising it finding where the sweet spots are determining what the best approach to frac-ing or otherwise producing those resources a lot of time being spent on evaluating well spacing.
So I think the best way to think about this is a lot of activity and a lot of drilling and a lot of planning as opposed to being in a huge hurry to get a well on production and over to sales.
But clearly as that program advances this year and we continue to put in the wells and the infrastructure we would expect to see those volumes increase at a fairly hefty rate.
And again we'll talk a little bit more about the overall program and what to expect at the meeting we have in March.
Our next question comes from John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Just some quick ones.
For the Woodford Cana what's your split do you know between gas and liquids? In the Woodford Ardmore? Yes.
I'm sorry yes.
Sorry yes.
Yes the -- I don't have a specific split number on that.
I think what's more important as opposed to specific production is the emergence and the discovery really in the Ardmore Basin of the liquids potential.
I'll tell you if you were thinking about rigs in particular on that we've got 8 rigs drilling liquids and 2 rigs drilling gas if that was the real nature of the -- of your question.
And so again early mover in there on our part over the last year or so and really looking forward to ramping up the activity there.
Okay.
With many of the U.S.
liquids plays you spoke of being in a delineation mode.
Does that mean you're having to deal with HBP acreage capture issues or you're just trying to get a sense of field sizes? No it's not really the HBP capture.
It's really figuring out what we've got and what the best way is to go about developing and producing it so that we optimize the total over a long period of time as opposed to again being in a big hurry.
It's -- if you think about it it's what's the field size and the acreage position that we have where are the sweet spots and then where do you go first and then how do you develop that to optimally produce.
And we do -- I will say we probably spend a little more time than others working on the front-end design and evaluation because again we're focused on what the overall long-term value is we can get out of that.
And that's kind of the upfront investment in time and resources that we've seen here over the last year.
I guess the last thing I'll mention is even as we're doing some of these delineation and appraisal wells even that we find some fairly significant efficiency gains as we go from one area to the other and then capturing those allow us once we get to really producing the resource.
We're not starting out from scratch.
We've already got some experience.
So again more to that as the year progresses.
Okay.
In terms of going from a delineation mode to development mode how long do you think that will take before you get your comfort level to reach that sort of level or degree of planning? Well I think it depends on the various areas and the resources.
Some we've had efforts underway for a while now and some we're just starting -- really getting things underway and it'll vary.
But again I think what you'll find as the year progresses I'll give you updates as we progress and really get to kind of the production level because it will be different amongst the various fields.
Next we'll hear from Katherine Minyard with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
What's the -- as we kind of look at ExxonMobil's portfolio in North American natural gas what's the usage been over either 2011 or the fourth quarter just in terms of consumption at the refinery and even the oil sands level? Kate I don't have those specific numbers.
I can tell you directionally in the U.S.
one of the benefits we got out of the merger with XTO was an ability to optimize gas feeds into all of our refineries along the Gulf Coast and optimizing feed into there versus sales to third parties.
So I don't have those specific rates but I can tell you we've been able to optimize that to the benefit of our refining economics.
Additionally we've been able to also through integration optimize our feeds both natural gas for utilities as well as ethane into the Chemical business.
So that's ongoing.
And probably if you talk about integration that's probably more important than anything that we have going on up in the oil sands space so a clear benefit and one we're taking advantage of.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just switching gears to the cash position.
When we think about ExxonMobil's potential uses of cash over the next say year or so should we be considering potential underfunded pension liabilities as a use of cash? I can appreciate that maybe at the year-end 2011 they didn't completely finalize.
But is that something that might be on the table as it's been in years past? Again I think they're still sorting through all of that and I think we'll publish that number when the K comes out here in a little while.
But I'm not aware of anything significant on the table relative to what we've seen historically.
Next we'll hear from Mark Gilman with The Benchmark Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just couple if I could.
You mentioned in your prepared remarks asset sales gains in the Downstream.
Could you quantify that on an absolute basis in the quarter? Sure.
It was about $200 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
It's been indicated in the trades that you are in arrears or I should say Baghdad is in arrears to the tune of $500-odd million on West Qurna.
Can you comment on the validity of that? Mark I really can't comment specifically on the items that you mentioned particularly in the trade press.
What I can tell you is we have an ongoing relationship with the Ministry on a number of administrative items.
But things are -- we're working through that but I don't have any specific on any one item.
We work on issues from procurement to invoicing to payment to a number of things and those are ongoing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay I was curious about the Tonen transaction.
22% kind of an odd number in terms of your retained interest in Tonen.
Can you give me some idea how that number came about and well why it is that you would want to retain a 22% interest? Yes I can tell you the 22% is -- represents the 80 million shares that we're keeping in the business.
I can tell you again the whole transaction is really around optimizing the commercial structure in Japan.
And when we looked at the various restructuring and consolidations and optimization of the assets in there that's where we ended up.
And it really represents -- we're not -- we're still committed to Japan.
You'll see a large presence of ExxonMobil in there.
All of our brands will be in there.
We'll continue to provide services and technology.
But it's really just -- I think if you looked at the Japan market and how it's evolving that restructuring was really kind of a natural next step in the integration of those assets and again will position the combined company to better meet the needs of the market and add value for the stakeholders.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one for me.
You've got some license renewals coming up in Abu Dhabi you and others in the consortium.
I think the expiration of those licenses is 2014.
In your case in particular is there any linkage between these -- the potential renewal of those licenses and the terms under which they get renewed and your Upper Zakum project? We are involved in commercial discussions that are ongoing.
But Mark I think as you can appreciate I really couldn't comment on anything that had to do with the negotiations there or any of the specifics with fiscal terms or anything else.
Thank you Mark and thanks to everybody for being on the call today.
Appreciate your time and questions and look forward to visiting with you at the March analyst meeting.
So thank you very much.
That does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Well good day everyone and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
David Rosenthal.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's first quarter earnings call and webcast.
The focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2012.
I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.
Before we go further I would like to draw your attention to our customary cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Moving to Slide 3.
We provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results.
Global economic growth slowed in the first quarter primarily due to continued contraction in the European Union.
The U.S.
and Japanese economies are also expected to show declines from fourth quarter levels.
China growth while still robust was also lower in the first quarter.
Energy markets were mixed in the first quarter with higher crude oil and non-U.S.
natural gas prices.
Industry refining margins also improved from the fourth quarter.
While U.S.
chemical margins remained strong Europe and Asia continued at near bottom-of-cycle conditions.
Turning now to the first quarter financial results as shown on Slide 4.
ExxonMobil's first quarter 2012 earnings excluding special items were $9.5 billion a decrease of $1.2 billion from the first quarter of 2011.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 49%.
Earnings per share for the quarter excluding special items were $2 down $0.14 from a year ago.
Corporation distributed more than $7 billion to shareholders in the first quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $5 billion was distributed to purchase shares.
Through the end of the first quarter 2012 we have repurchased the number of shares issued for XTO and total shares outstanding are now lower than they were prior to the acquisition.
Yesterday the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.57 per share a 21% increase from the last quarter.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 million in the second quarter of 2012 unchanged from last quarter.
CapEx in the first quarter was $8.8 billion up 13% from the first quarter of 2011.
Across our diverse portfolio we continued to invest in robust projects through the business cycle to help meet global demand for crude oil natural gas and finished products while supporting economic growth including job creation.
Our cash generation remains strong $21.8 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales.
At the end of the first quarter of 2012 cash totaled $19.1 billion and debt was $15.7 billion.
The next slide provides additional detail on first quarter sources and uses of funds.
Over the quarter cash increased from $13.1 billion to $19.1 billion including cash on deposit associated with asset sales which have not yet closed and therefore are not yet reflected in earnings.
The combined impact of strong earnings depreciation expense lower working capital and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $21.8 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included additions to plant property and equipment or PP&amp;E $7.8 billion and shareholder distributions of $7.2 billion.
Additional financing and investing activities decreased our cash by $0.8 billion.
Moving on to Slide 6 and a review of our segmented results.
ExxonMobil's first quarter 2012 earnings of $9.5 billion decreased $1.2 billion or 11% from the first quarter of 2011.
Upstream earnings decreased $873 million while downstream earnings improved by $487 million.
Chemical earnings were down $815 million.
Corporate and financing expenses were flat.
Corporate and financing expenses remain within our continued guidance of $500 million to $700 million per quarter.
As shown on Slide 7 ExxonMobil's first quarter 2012 earnings were essentially flat compared with the fourth quarter of 2011.
Moving next to the first quarter business highlights beginning on Slide 8.
We continue to advance our global portfolio of high-quality projects.
The Kearl Initial Development project is now 90% complete and is on schedule to start up later this year with initial gross production of approximately 110 000 barrels per day.
The initial fleet of haul trucks and shovels are on site and assembled and all pipelines are mechanically complete.
In Angola the Kizomba Satellites project remains on schedule for a mid-2012 startup with peak capacity of 100 000 gross barrels of oil per day.
The development design will optimize the capabilities of existing facilities allowing for increased production levels without the investment in an additional floating production storage and offloading vessel.
Onshore fabrication is complete while FPSO modifications and subsea pipeline installation are expected to finish in the second quarter.
In Nigeria we completed construction of 3 wellhead platforms as part of the Nigeria Satellites project.
The structures are currently being moved to the field site for installation.
These are the first offshore platform structures to be fully constructed in Nigeria.
The project is on schedule to start up in late 2012 with peak capacity of 70 000 gross barrels per day.
Also in Nigeria the Usan deepwater development achieved first oil in February and has a production capacity of 180 000 gross barrels per day.
In Russia construction is complete on the Arkutun-Dagi gravity-based structure with float-out scheduled for later this year.
The project remains on schedule for startup in 2014.
In March ExxonMobil along with our partners finalized the settlement agreement with the state of Alaska regarding the Point Thomson unit which enables the progression of the initial development phase of the Point Thomson project.
The settlement agreement sets out the near-term development plan for the Point Thomson field.
The initial production system will include processing capacity of 200 million cubic feet of natural gas per day and 10 000 barrels of condensate per day.
Detailed engineering and purchasing of long lead equipment is currently underway.
Pending approval of the draft environmental impact statement and other required permits startup of the initial phase at Point Thomson is anticipated in the first quarter of 2016.
Alaska's North Slope holds more than 35 trillion cubic feet of discovered natural gas and Point Thomson is a key component to the development of this resource.
Turning now to Slide 9.
We continue to make progress on our strategic cooperation with Rosneft.
Earlier this month Rosneft and ExxonMobil signed a series of agreements to implement the long-term Strategic Cooperation Agreement that our companies announced last August.
The execution of these foundation agreements for our joint venture with Rosneft establishes the key terms for our cooperative exploration and development of the Kara Sea and the Black Sea.
President-elect Putin also recently announced fiscal terms to encourage offshore development in Russia.
These improved terms eliminate the export tax and lower the mineral extraction tax.
Fiscal terms will be fixed at 15 years for the Kara Sea and 10 years for the Black Sea deepwater.
In addition we commenced joint exploration activities in the Black Sea.
Our seismic acquisition is now nearing completion.
We are also planning for seismic acquisition in the Kara Sea for later this year.
We expect to begin exploration drilling in the 2014 to 2015 time frame as soon as prospect mapping is complete and a rig is contracted.
Additionally Rosneft will take equity in promising exploration and development projects in the United States and Canada including the La Escalera Ranch project in the Delaware Basin in West Texas and equity in the Harmattan acreage in the Cardium play of the western Canada basin in Alberta.
Rosneft also has the opportunity to acquire a 30% interest in 20 blocks in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
In addition Rosneft and ExxonMobil will jointly study tight oil production technologies in western Siberia.
Turning now to deepwater exploration on Slide 10.
ExxonMobil maintains a diverse and robust global deepwater portfolio which supports an active drilling program aimed at testing new play concepts exploiting opportunities in proven basins and drilling near-field wildcats.
For example in Romania we drilled a successful deepwater play test on the Neptune block in the Black Sea with the Deepwater Champion drillship.
Following this encouraging play test we are planning additional 3-D seismic data acquisition to support future drilling opportunities on the block.
We also participated in an exploration well offshore Tanzania in the first quarter which discovered approximately 5 TCF of recoverable gas in a high-quality reservoir.
A second exploration well is planned for second quarter 2012 to test another prospect on the block.
We also maintain an active global unconventional exploration drilling program as discussed on Slide 11.
In North America we hold a material position in multiple unconventional plays across 8 million acres and we continue to increase our lease holdings in emerging liquids-rich plays like the Woodford Ardmore.
Our acreage position in the Woodford Ardmore play tripled in 2011 to more than 170 000 acres with acquisition costs on a per-acre basis roughly 50% below major industry acquisitions in the Eagle Ford play.
In the first quarter we entered into an agreement to purchase an additional 58 000 acres through a strategic acquisition which will increase our total acreage position to more than 230 000 acres.
This will further expand our position in a play where we already hold 170 000 net acres with an estimated potential to recover 600 million oil equivalent barrels at an attractive unit development cost of approximately $10 per barrel.
We continue to focus drilling activity to maximize the development of this liquids-rich play with 10 operated rigs.
Current drilling is focused on delineating the acreage as well as determining optimal well spacing and drilling and completion practices.
We also hold a large heritage position in tight oil plays in western Canada including the Cardium and Viking plays.
We are actively drilling in the Cardium and achieved first oil production in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We are currently drilling in the Viking and have additional drilling planned this year to further delineate this tight oil resource.
Turning now to the Upstream financial and operating results and starting on Slide 12.
Upstream earnings in the first quarter were $7.8 billion down $873 million from the first quarter of 2011.
Stronger crude oil and non-U.S.
natural gas realizations increased earnings by approximately $1.3 billion as  crude oil realizations increased by more than $13 a barrel and non-U.S.
average gas realizations increased $1.27 per thousand cubic feet.
However positive effects resulting from the increase in realizations were mitigated by a higher effective tax rate.
The decrease in U.S.
natural gas realizations of $1.25 per thousand cubic feet also negatively impacted earnings by more than $300 million.
Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $850 million due mainly to the impact of lower entitlement volumes in West Africa base decline and divestments partly offset by the ramp-up of Angola and Iraq projects.
Earnings were also negatively impacted by the unfavorable timing of liftings as we were underlifted in higher-margin areas such as the North Sea and West Africa.
All other items primarily the absence of gains from asset divestments combined with higher exploration and operating expenses decreased earnings by $1 billion.
Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the first quarter of 2012 were $18.83 reflecting the unfavorable mix impacts and higher effective tax rate.
Moving to Slide 13.
Oil equivalent volumes decreased by more than 5% from the first quarter of last year mainly due to the impact of lower entitlement volumes in West Africa decline and divestments.
Volumes were positively impacted by the ramp-up of projects in Angola and Iraq and less downtime.
Excluding the impact of higher prices on entitlement volumes OPEC quota effects and divestments production was down about 1%.
Turning now to Slide 14.
First quarter operational performance was consistent with plans including the successful startup of the Nigeria Usan development.
Additional project startups expected in the second half of the year including Angola Satellites Nigeria Satellites and the Kearl Initial Development project are key to achieving our 2012 volumes outlook.
Although seasonal factors including demand and the timing of planned maintenance activities will impact volume profiles during the year we expect full year volume performance to be consistent with our March outlook.
Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on Slide 15.
Upstream earnings decreased by $1 billion versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
Stronger crude oil realizations and non-U.S.
natural gas realizations positively impacted earnings by more than $300 million as crude oil realizations increased by more than $7 per barrel and non-U.S.
average gas realizations increased $0.26 per thousand cubic feet.
However positive effects resulting from the increase in realizations were mitigated by a higher effective tax rate.
A decrease in U.S.
natural gas realizations of $0.70 per thousand cubic feet also negatively impacted earnings by $170 million.
Production and mix effects mainly higher natural gas volumes from stronger seasonal demand in Europe increased earnings by $100 million.
Earnings were negatively impacted however by the unfavorable timing of liftings as we were underlifted in higher-margin West Africa.
Other items primarily the absence of gains from asset divestments decreased earnings by more than $1.2 billion.
Moving to Slide 16.
Oil equivalent volumes were up slightly from the fourth quarter of 2011 as the impact of lower entitlement volumes in West Africa and divestments were more than offset by stronger seasonal gas demand in Europe.
Excluding the impact of higher prices on entitlement volumes OPEC quota effects and divestments production was up almost 3%.
For further data on regional volumes please refer to the press release and IR supplement.
Moving now to the Downstream financial and operating results and starting on Slide 17.
Downstream earnings in the first quarter were $1.6 billion up $487 million from the first quarter of 2011.
Margin effects decreased earnings by $40 million.
Continued benefits from our refining optimization activities contributed to the positive $210 million in volume and mix effects.
Other factors primarily higher gains on asset sales increased earnings by $320 million.
Moving to Slide 18.
Sequentially first quarter Downstream earnings increased by $1.2 billion.
Improved industry refining margins contributed increased earnings of $840 million.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $70 million.
Other factors increased earnings by $390 million largely due to higher gains on asset sales and favorable foreign exchange effects.
Turning now to the Chemical financial and operating results and starting on Slide 19.
First quarter Chemical earnings were $701 million a decrease of $815 million versus the first quarter of 2011.
Lower margins decreased earnings by $520 million especially in Asia Pacific and Europe while volumes and mix effects were flat.
Other factors decreased earnings by $300 million reflecting higher planned maintenance expense and the absence of favorable tax items.
Moving to Slide 20.
Sequentially first quarter Chemical earnings increased by $158 million driven by stronger demand for specialty products.
Margin effects increased earnings by $50 million.
Volume and mix increased earnings by $60 million while all other items increased earnings a total of $50 million.
While the first quarter continued to show cyclical weakness in Europe and Asia margins ExxonMobil continues to leverage feed advantage integration cost discipline and premium product offerings to strongly position us throughout the Chemical business cycle.
Moving to Slide 21.
ExxonMobil's first quarter financial and operating performance was strong.
It reflects the ability of our business model and competitive advantages to deliver strong results.
As we continue to focus on operational excellence deploy high-impact technologies and leverage our unparalleled global integration ExxonMobil remains well positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value.
That concludes my prepared remarks this morning.
I would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Doug Terreson with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> My question's on the big increase in the dividend.
And specifically at the analyst meeting Rex seemed pretty clear that a more balanced approach to distributions might be forthcoming.
But on this point the size of the increase represents a fairly marked departure from the 6% to 7% annualized growth rate you guys have provided over 5 10 and I think even 15 years.
So my question's whether or not you could provide some color on this change and specifically how we should consider it in the context of overall dividend policy at ExxonMobil.
Yes Doug that's an excellent question given our announcement yesterday.
Let me kind of start with your last comment and move backwards from there.
We really had no change in our dividend policy.
The policy remains the same as does our total allocation of cash generated by the business.
We do have a continued trend in dividend increases as we have said before.
If you go back over a long history of the company we have in other quarters had fairly significant dividend increases.
So again no change in policy.
But as we said at the analyst meeting we are always evaluating the dividend policy and our cash distributions and studying how things are going.
And the board decided yesterday to make the increase they did.
But you also notice that our share repurchases remained at the $5 billion level that you saw across last year.
So I would say the strategy remains the same invest in that very robust investment program we have and you saw our first quarter CapEx very strong as those projects proceed have a continuously growing dividend and then take the balance of the cash and buy the shares.
And that policy and strategy I think continues on.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And let me just ask you one more question.
There's been a lot of crosscurrents about the position in Iraq and specifically Exxon's current license the strategy in Kurdistan and eligibility and/or interest on the upcoming licensing round.
And so could you provide an update on that position which covers these items to the degree possible David? I really can't comment a lot on that other than just say the contracts that we have in place and it's our intent to honor and fulfill those contractual obligations.
I will note in the South we reached another milestone at West Qurna where production has reached right at 400 000 barrels a day and we're very pleased how that effort is coming along and the progress we're making there.
We continue to develop the field and do the things that we committed to do and so progress continues.
But other than that I really wouldn't have any further comments.
And now we'll hear from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple also if I may.
You mentioned on your prepared remarks about the higher E&amp;P tax rate.
I'm wondering if you could just give us a little bit of color as to why that was if it was just mix effects and what the driver was.
And in the context of the same issue you also mentioned underlifts in the international portfolio.
It's unusual for you to mention that I guess.
To the extent that it was material could you quantify that for us either absolute or on a per barrel basis? Sure I'd be happy to do -- answer both of those Doug.
First of all I'll start with the tax rate.
You got the right word.
You said mix.
We have -- and it's a number of mix effects that we saw across the first quarter.
One of those that kind of goes unmentioned is really the difference in a lot of the crude prices around the world.
People tend to focus in on Brent and WTI.
There was a lot of variability.
For example the Middle East crudes tended to do better than those markers.
Some of the Canadian crudes particularly the heavier crudes tended to do less.
You also have different fiscal regimes in each of these countries.
And frankly we saw some of the highest realization increases in countries with higher tax rates and some of the lower-than-average increases or even decreases in countries with lower tax rates.
So the mix -- that mix there and then the corresponding mix of where your earnings were generated that uptick in this quarter on the tax rate.
Let me talk about the underlifts.
They were a factor this quarter so maybe I'll go ahead and give some specifics here.
In the first quarter of 2012 on a absolute basis we were underlifted about 45 000 barrels a day.
Last year in the first quarter we were actually overlifted by about 18 000 barrels a day though the delta quarter-on-quarter was about 63 000 barrels a day.
All of that underlift was in either West Africa or the North Sea which tend to be some of our higher-margin areas.
The impact was actually quarter-on-quarter a little bit bigger sequentially so let me provide those numbers to you.
Again on an absolute basis we were 45 000 barrels a day underlifted in the first quarter.
As I mentioned last quarter we were actually overlifted about 37 000 barrels a day.
You might recall across last year we talked about kind of quarter-to-quarter we were a little underlifted and we made a bunch of that up at the end of the year.
So if you take the 45 000 we were underlifted in the first quarter and the 37 000 we were overlifted in the fourth quarter.
Sequentially we were down about 82 000 barrels a day.
And again all of that was in West Africa.
So it's a bit unusual that you have that level of a lifting timing effect but it did occur in the first quarter.
And as you would guess by doing the math did have an impact on our reported earnings.
Research Division</strong> David would you be able to quantify the net income impact? Or is that not something you want to get into? No I don't have the net income effect on that.
But again as I mentioned those are some of our higher-margin barrels and you can probably use your own estimates and come up with a number.
But I don't have one for you today.
Moving on we'll go to Robert Kessler with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations again on the Rosneft exploration JV.
I wanted to go back to that for a minute.
Your recent presentation and that of Rosneft highlighted or focused extensively on the oil prospectivity of the Kara Sea.
So what about gas? By that I mean estimates from say the USGS and others place more discoverable gas potential in the area than oil.
To the extent that you discover natural gas do the agreements contemplate and does the fiscal structure allow for economic development of the gas? Well that's an excellent question and I'm glad you highlighted to begin with the progress we made because we really have made substantial progress.
I think in the meeting we had last week the term historic was actually used and so we're very pleased as are our partners in Rosneft with the progress that we've made.
I know there's a number of estimates out there in terms of the prospectivity in the Kara Sea.
I think I've seen some different ones the one you've mentioned.
I think WoodMac has some numbers out there.
Clearly there's oil and gas potential out there.
I don't think we know yet how to assess that and really that process is just getting underway.
I really in terms so -- but again as we said at the meeting we are highly encouraged by the prospectivity on the oil side because of the extension of the prolific West Siberia basin plays that are already in existence and are already producing so that's what kind of lends  that.
Looking forward it's really premature to start discussing the contract details or arrangements or fiscal terms and that sort of stuff in detail.
I would just point out again for those on the call that aren't as familiar the Kara -- our position in the Kara Sea is equivalent in size to basically the North Sea and all of the leased acreage in the Gulf of Mexico.
So again a huge area of land over 30 million acres highly prospective.
But again under some rather harsh conditions a challenging environment to work in and will require all of the technological and operational capabilities of the 2 partners to explore that resource and should it be successful to then exploit those resources and move forward with development and production.
We have a lot of experience in the Arctic even in Russia.
And again if you just kind of look at the parameters and the vectors we're encouraged by the progress.
We're certainly excited and looking forward to the joint venture as are our partners and in particular as I mentioned getting the seismic activity underway and preparing to drill our first wells here in the next 2 to 3 years.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> The scenario that was presented in terms of potential FID date and potential first production both of those were presuming this was an oil discovery that would be made.
Is that right? I think that's generally correct.
Again though I would just caution on looking forward.
There's a lot of work to do a lot of effort to be done here and so I don't want to really start getting into specifics about FID dates and production and that sort of thing other than to say the schedule that we have in front of us which is really getting that seismic underway this year developing that drillable prospect inventory siting that first well and getting that well done in what industry perspective-wise would be a fairly short time frame.
So again we're going after it aggressively.
But this is true frontier exploration and we'll certainly be disciplined and diligent in our approach.
And again it is early days so I think we'll focus a little more on the prospectivity and potential and a little less on what some of those specific dates might be in the outer years.
Morgan Stanley's Evan Calio has our next questions.
Research Division</strong> A question on Kearl.
I appreciate your comments and then progress update.
I know you guys have secured a transportation solution but can you provide more color on the planned route to market so we can better understand potential relative realizations versus waterborne crudes? I know you mentioned earlier they're -- they've been quite lower than others.
Yes if we're thinking about the initial phase the first phase that's coming on this year I can tell you we already have placement for that first page -- first phase I'm sorry so it's not an issue.
We have multiple options within our own refining circuit to begin with as well as some other options.
But basically we're looking to place those first barrels with existing infrastructure and routes.
And again the bulk of that will likely find its way within our own system but we have some other options.
I think what's important to know is that we can start up Kearl take it up to its full initial production of 110 000 barrels a day without any concerns over logistical constraints.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And secondly on Argentina I mean have your plans pace of activity or thoughts changed at all in Argentina following the YPF nationalization? I know you have almost a 900 000-acre position and curious to see how you're thinking or kind of accounting for any potential investment risk there.
Sure.
Let me start out by saying that our position ExxonMobil and our activity down there has not been affected by some of the recent activities that you mentioned that have occurred down there.
Our activity our exploration activity is continuing.
In fact I can tell you in the first quarter we did complete our first 2 wells and get those down.
We're in the process here in the second quarter of frac-ing those wells and we'll be testing them in the second quarter so those plans continue and the objectives are being met.
As you mentioned we have a very large acreage position there.
We're encouraged by the early results that we're seeing down there and look forward to profitably moving on with that venture.
Having said that of course we are monitoring events that are occurring down there and what's happening and we'll take all of that into consideration.
But as we sit here today we're meeting the objectives we set for the year and plans are continuing.
And again we have a very long successful history in Argentina and going forward got a great set of acreage down there.
And again we continue to work on that per our plan coming into the year.
Research Division</strong> Have you had [ph] contact with the government and have some confirmation? Or is there any update on dialogue going there of your importance to the development of that resource? I don't have anything specific to identify.
Obviously in any country where we have a lot of activity going on and investments we're always in contact in dialogue with the appropriate government agencies as well as our partners.
So I wouldn't look for anything specific out of any meetings or contacts.
Those are ongoing just as they always have been but wouldn't have any specifics to offer other than normal conversations that go on as we continue to really look at what we have down there and put together our plans and move forward.
And now we'll hear from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> David a couple of questions regarding North America gas potential.
ExxonMobil has a successful and large global petrochemicals business global LNG business.
The petrochemicals is focused on Asia and some in the Middle East growth.
Can you comment on whether you see your now large domestic gas position as creating opportunities on both the export of LNG from the U.S.
or potentially the western Canada and/or coming back to the U.S.
in terms of some of the petrochemical expansions which you guys have otherwise focused on in the rest of the world? Do you see that as more of an opportunity going forward for you? And/or how do you plan to take advantage of that? Arjun that's a good question.
And of course behind that it all starts with some of the obvious competitive advantages that we have across the entire space that you covered: our large prolific gas acreage that we have in the U.S.
the advantages we have certainly and have already demonstrated and you're seeing in our U.S.-based Chemical business and of course our global position in LNG.
So given that competitive advantage background I think -- don't think it'll come as any surprise to you that we're studying and assessing the very opportunities that you referred to.
I don't have any specifics to offer you again other than to say we do have some advantages from all the way through the integration of resources in the products.
And as we're always doing we're thinking about how to optimally develop those take advantage of the acreage position we have the resource potential we have the technology the marketing advantages et cetera to again on an integrated basis exploit those resources.
So any ideas you have and are thinking about and the things you read others are doing you can rest assured we got folks looking at that and studying that as well.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just a related question can you talk about any update on your activities in the Marcellus and Utica as well as the Bakken in terms of maybe how the rig counts are trending and what you're expected to do here over the rest of this year? Sure I'd be happy to.
Let me start with the Bakken and back up a little bit because that is an area where we have been over the last many months increasing rigs and we have continued to increase our rigs.
We're now -- we've now got 8 operated rigs running in the Bakken.
And that is progressing very well and we are encouraged by that.
In the Marcellus we've got 5 rigs operating.
And as you -- well actually we got 4 rigs operating.
And as you know we've got just under 700 000 acres in the Marcellus and another 87 000 in the Utica and so we continue to progress there.
But I can tell you overall when you're looking at our rig count and what we're doing I think it's important to kind of step back and think about what we're doing overall.
You might recall across most of last year or so we tended to have I recall 70 72 rigs running in total.
We've got about 64 on average in the first quarter.
We're running 61 rigs today and we have continued to shift those to the liquids-rich plays that I mentioned really focusing on the Bakken Permian the Ardmore that I mentioned there.
We're looking at and getting ready to plan some wells get some wells down in the Utica so all of that's going well and again continuing to acquire liquids-rich acreage at attractive prices and shift our rig fleet over to those areas while minimizing the incremental exposure to dry gas wells.
And now we'll hear from Iain Reid with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can I come back on the production in Africa? You talked about the underlift.
But if you add that back you're still going to face substantial fall from the first quarter of last year in your African production and I think you said PSC effects.
You've been through some threshold effects.
Is that right to say that that the kind of 50 000 60 000 barrel a day decline x the underlifts is due to threshold effects profit all or cost all? Yes let me come at it a different way and remember the production that we list is the production and the underlift is really just the sale.
So if you come back to the -- just the Africa production decline that you saw in the supplement between the first quarter of last year and the first quarter this year the bulk of that is accounted for by the entitlement effects that I mentioned mostly the pricing spend but a little on the net interest side.
Everything else kind of washed out.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So this is production not liftings? Yes what we show you -- let me clarify that.
What we show you in the supplement that's a production number.
And again we had some project ramp-up that I mentioned and we also had some better downtime performance I'm pleased to say.
And then that was basically offset mostly by declines so the impact you're seeing there really is the impact of higher prices on our entitlement volumes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are we talking about Angola mainly here and some -- is it possible to say which fields Blocks 15 or 17? Well I mean a lot of it's Angola but it's also Nigeria and some other places and then of course our large producing operations there our Blocks 15 and 17.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just thinking more generally about second quarter production.
You've got some maintenance I believe in Angola coming up.
Maybe a little bit of field ramp-up but it was kind of past flow [ph].
Are we looking generally around the same sort of level of production in the second quarter as we saw in the first quarter? I really don't have any guidance to give you on second quarter production no real specific events.
We do see the projects continuing to ramp up a bit but I really don't have a real forward outlook for you.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay David could I just ask one more? You mentioned a couple of times asset sales affecting earnings and yet there's nothing in the special items here.
Is it possible you could tell us what the absolute asset sales was in the first quarter relative to the first quarter of last year in terms of the impact on earnings? Sure if you look at across the total corporation as we mentioned in the press release the absolute earnings associated with asset sales in the first quarter of '12 was about $400 million and that was generally all in the Downstream.
If you look compared to the first quarter of 2011 the number was about the same about $500 million.
But there the bulk of that was in the Upstream so you had kind of a switch there.
The key variance that you see in our sequential earnings as we go from the fourth quarter of last year to the first quarter of this year the total earnings from asset sales in the fourth quarter last year were about $1.4 billion about $1.1 billion of that in the Upstream and about $300 million of that in the Downstream.
So the big sequential impact you see is in the Upstream and that's really the absence of that significant divestment that we had last quarter.
I'd also mention -- yes let me just mention just to be clear in the Downstream the asset sales that we had in the first quarter related to the previously announced divestments in Malaysia and Central America.
We have not booked anything in Japan.
As we mentioned last quarter that'll be later in the year.
And now we'll open the floor up to Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> If I could I was looking at your cash flow statement.
On the working capital and other is a positive swing of $6 billion.
That seems to be a big number even for the size of Exxon.
Is that related to the timing of taxes payment or anything like that? Or would that -- maybe my question is that should we assume that that is here to stay or that at some point in the later year it's going to get reversed?  The...
Let me answer that one first Paul and then I'll let you go to the second question.
That's actually very straightforward.
During the first quarter that we saw a big decrease in working capital and that was literally all due to higher payables.
We have some other ins and outs but the real net effect you're seeing there is a fairly decent increase in our payables counts.
Research Division</strong> You said related to crude purchase? Yes that's related primarily to crude purchases and of course that's price-driven as you saw the prices ramp up across the quarter such that when you got to the end of the quarter you had some pretty high prices.
But again nothing really out of the ordinary if you look at the quarter and you look at what prices did.
But I'm glad you asked the question because that is the impact you're seeing there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
In Woodford Ardmore what is your current production? I know you normally that don't want to go down there to too much granularity in terms of what is the well production run rate that kind of thing.
But can you also tell us then what is the split between say the black oil condensate NGL and natural gas in that play and if there's any rough estimate on your 30-day IP that you've been seeing on those? Yes Paul I'll be consistent with your expectations and just say no.
I'm not prepared to give that level of detail today.
I think what's important is not necessarily the actual production that we're generating there.
What's real important is the effort we have underway now to delineate that acreage to analyze what we have and really put together that comprehensive long-term exploitation and development plan that we have and that's what we'll deliver: the volumes and the rates and the earnings down the road.
But as we sit here today I think what's important we're adding acreage.
It's very attractive acreage.
If you had a jigsaw puzzle of that area you'd see that the things we're adding are plugging right in to adjacent properties that we already have.
So the acreage position I mentioned isn't just an acreage position.
It's a mostly contiguous acreage position which as you would guess gives us really good opportunities to optimize around the development.
So we are seeing nice increases in production as the wells are coming onstream and we're encouraged by those results.
But our focus is less on what today's production is.
We're getting the rigs down there.
I think I mentioned we added 2 more rigs this quarter to the Ardmore so we've now got 10 running and we're working on that area.
And as the actual production goes into sales later on we'll be in a better position to give more information.
Research Division</strong> Okay and if I sneak in a quick question? Sure.
Research Division</strong> Poland how many additional well do you plan to drill this year? Yes if you take a look at our Polish position I think I mentioned last quarter the wells that we had drilled and how those turned out I'll tell you that during the first quarter of this year we did acquire a fourth 3-D seismic activity.
The processing of that seismic is ongoing and the analysis we get out of that compared with the learnings we got from the wells that we drilled will really give us kind of an all-inclusive set of results that we can evaluate and then plan our go-forward plan.
But I got to tell you the go-forward plan is really dependent on the 3-D seismic and again the real geoscience evaluations that we'll do are really going to drive our future plans and those just aren't set just yet.
And now we'll move on to Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back if I could on 2 issues that you covered previously: one being the dividend; and the second Russia.
On the dividend if I look historically it's around this time of year that you -- the board basically sets a policy for the year.
Is it fair to think that the dividend will remain at this level for the balance of the year? Or do you think that we have an opportunity to re-evaluate and potentially increase further in a later quarter? Yes Blake that's a good question but I really don't have a comment or wouldn't want to try to speculate or forecast what we might do going forward.
I think again we did raise the dividend yesterday by 21%.
Policy is unchanged if look from a macro perspective.
But I really wouldn't want to try to speculate or forecast anything on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
The question on Russia I'm just curious if you could talk a little bit about how you arrived at the North American assets to contribute to the JV.
When you look at Exxon's portfolio in the U.S.
obviously you've got quite a few options.
I'm just curious on the Cardium and Delaware I mean was it just similar geologic characteristics? Or was it more financially motivated? Any color you could give would be appreciated.
Sure I'd be happy to provide a little more color on that.
If you look at the assets that we're talking about in terms of what our partners would get here in the U.S.
it's actually a variety of a number of high-quality assets.
I mentioned the Cardium a very attractive tight oil play for us where we've got wells going down and we're drilling.
We talked about West Texas and some of the unconventional oil plays we have going on there.
And of course the ability for Rosneft to improve their understanding of the technology that's at work out there and some of the practices we have and that we're doing to optimize the development of that is important to them.
And as I talked about as we learn about the unconventional resources together what we have in Canada what we have in the U.S.
what they have in western Siberia there'll be a lot of learning out of that.
I also mentioned the Gulf of Mexico where they're going to have an opportunity to farm into 20 blocks.
And as you know we have been expanding our own activity in the Gulf of Mexico have had some very nice success recently.
So it would certainly not be a surprise that those would be attractive acreage opportunities for them.
So again I think you have to step back and look at this partnership just the way we described it.
It's a strategic agreement for both parties.
It allows us to bring to the table each of us very high-quality prospective resources all of which rely on state-of-the-art and forward-looking technology applications and bring together the best of both companies and also in the interest of both companies going forward.
So that's -- and we're talking about other opportunities elsewhere around the world.
And so again I keep coming back to the term Strategic Cooperation Agreement because that's really what it's all about and you'll see that as we move forward.
And now we'll hear from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So strong cash flow good returns.
But I guess there's still some criticism of Exxon's sort of overall liquids position in North America and your shifting -- lowering rig count and shifting to some of the liquids plays you have.
But can you give some color on the sort of ability for Exxon to really move the needle in terms of acquiring acreage outside of the Woodford Ardmore the Cardium and Viking that you're talking to? Yes I think it would be fair to say Ed it's really kind of both.
I mean we're obviously taking advantage of opportunities again to concentrate acreage where we already have a position and those efforts are bearing fruit.
And of course as you get bigger and more concentrated positions you've got a real opportunity to better the -- again the analysis and exploitation of those resources.
Moving the needle there are certainly opportunities we believe for that however you define moving the needle.
But those are really going to come again with a very deliberate disciplined analytical approach to how we go about doing this.
I think as I mentioned last quarter we're very fortunate to have the financial strength the company does and the flexibility to be able to go after these things in a disciplined diligent way without worrying about paying the bills at the end of the month and we continue to progress in that arena.
We are looking at a broad range of other opportunities that are out there.
I can't give you the specifics yet because we're still in the evaluation phase but there are a number of those out there in North America and frankly in other areas.
But I'd be remiss if I didn't also remind you of the success -- recent success we've had with liquid in the Gulf of Mexico with the big discovery we had there last year.
So when you look across North American liquids opportunities it's not just the unconventional oil potential but it's also the potential that we have in our attractive acreage position in the Gulf of Mexico.
And then broader speaking I think's important and you raise a good point when you see the decline in our liquids production recently.
I'll just reiterate one of the comments we made at the analyst meeting in March.
If you look at the projects that are going to start up between now and 2016 I think the number we quoted was about 80% of that production will be liquids.
So whether it's the Kearl project whether it's the Africa projects some of the other things we got going on we have a strong portfolio of liquids projects in development and also the pipeline of opportunities on the exploration side is quite robust.
So I think if you continue to look a little longer term I think we're going to be in really good shape and we're looking forward as I mentioned in my remarks to getting the projects up that we have on the plate for this year and then in particular when you get in that 2014 to 2016 time frame bringing some of those big projects along as well.
And Citigroup's Faisel Khan has our next questions.
Research Division</strong> If I can go back to Iraq.
In your prepared remark or press release you talked about a ramp-up in volumes in Iraq and kind of getting to your contracted volumes.
Can you discuss a little bit about the infrastructure you're placing on the ground to get up to those contracted volumes that you guys have? Faisel help me out a little bit.
In particular infrastructure what do have you have in mind? Research Division</strong> Pipelines and water injection facilities stuff like that processing facilities I guess the basic midstream and infrastructure designed to deliver that oil to market.
Sure.
It's a couple of things.
If you're looking in the field in particular of course it's important for us to get the flow lines in and do some of the debottlenecking that we can do and thus get some production up that way.
If you're looking broader at the infrastructure in terms of the common seawater project some of the lifting capabilities in particular there was a major ramp-up in the capability to take oil out of the country last quarter.
So there's a number of projects going on.
Again some are kind of local and help get the production up.
Some are broader.
Those are progressing as well.
I really don't have any specific comments in terms of timing of some of the other larger infrastructure projects but those are progressing as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then last question for me on non-U.S.
Downstream in the quarter if I strip out kind of the gains on asset sales and also Imperial Oil reported a pretty nice number in refining as well if I kind of take that out it looks like outside of Canada and the asset sales that non-U.S.
Downstream reported fairly low earnings.
Can you talk about what's dragging those results this quarter? If you're looking at the Downstream earnings you're really talking about quarter-over-quarter.
Is that kind of your emphasis first quarter '12 versus first quarter '11? Research Division</strong> Yes that's right.
Yes we had a number of things.
I think the one I'd probably note if you look at the margin impact that we showed slightly negative relative to some higher industry refining margins that you see quoted we had a number of price timing effects on our feed slates into the refineries that had a negative impact there and probably would've given you a little impact there that you weren't expecting.
Nothing out of the ordinary.
It was positive in the first quarter of last year.
We had the absence of that in the second quarter.
So quarter-on-quarter you kind of saw that.
But I'll tell you x those effects things came in just about as we expected.
And now we'll go to Allen Good with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> I wonder -- if I caught you correctly you said 87 000 acres in the Utica.
That seems to be up from the 75 000 you reported at the analyst day.
I was just curious if you could confirm that.
And then you talked about the acreage adds in the Ardmore.
Are there any other liquids-rich plays that are -- currently interest Exxon and you've been adding acreage in during the quarter? Yes let me just confirm first of all that the number I gave you of 87 000 is correct and that is up from the 75 000 that we mentioned at year end.
We have been incrementally adding some attractive acreage there as we went across the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as far as the discovery in Tanzania I just wonder does that change Exxon's outlook there in East Africa? And would there be any potential there for additional acreage adds or maybe farm-ins with some already operators there in the region? Because it seems like it's -- it seems sort of a light portion of your portfolio currently and obviously the Tanzania discovery is a positive there.
Just wonder sort of what's the outlook for Exxon in that region.
Sure.
Let me first kind of hit the overall that you mentioned.
There have been a number of discoveries announced by industry in that area over the last several months.
We are very pleased to have the position we have in the block that we farmed into and it's a very nice discovery.
I think I mentioned 5 TCF of recoverable gas so that's a very positive for us.
We are very interested in appraising that prospect further and have some plans in place to do that.
In terms of going forward and looking at other things I wouldn't be any more specific other than to say we're always looking for opportunities for good opportunities.
We were looking when we found this one and pleased to have it.
So without being specific or really any departure from past practice we're always looking for good opportunities.
This is one.
We're pleased to have it.
Probably get our next well underway here in the second quarter to further appraise that prospect.
And I'll tell you in terms of additional opportunities there are a series of additional structures on the block we have to take a look at and do some more work and appraise.
So more to come from on that block with our partner Statoil.
And again we're both very encouraged with this.
Lots to do on that block but always looking for additional opportunities.
Argus Research Philip Weiss has our next questions.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I just had one small one.
On your profitability per barrel was down relative to the movement in realizations and I just wondered if that was a function of the underlift or if there's something else going on there.
It's a number of the things I mentioned.
Certainly the underlift would be a big component because you have the reported production that you're dividing the earnings by and that's why I really wanted to give you the detail on the underlift.
It's a big impact.
Also the tax rate impact I mentioned because of some of the mix that we saw of course had an impact on calculated unit profitability.
Other than that in the quarter we did see a little higher OpEx including some exploration expense higher that you would've seen in the supplement that we gave you.
But again it's really the U.S.
gas price on the North American side and then the mix that we saw overseas and some of the other factors that were the real driver there.
And Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James has our last questions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give an update on the status at PNG LNG? There's been some press reports about local conflict with residents and construction I believe was suspended for a period of time.
Sure.
Let me give you a progress update on how we're doing in the first quarter.
We've done some additional drilling a number of other efforts associated with the project everything from the civil works to the work we're doing on the gas conditioning plant and just a number of progress items related to the pipelines the plant and all of that.
So that project is really progressing on schedule and we're very pleased with how things are going there.
You have seen in the press some of the issues around unrest.
It's one of the challenges we have with the project.
Each large project we seem to do around the world has its own unique set of challenges so there's nothing out of the ordinary here.
We are managing that situation in conjunction with the local communities and with the government.
And as you would guess there has here and there been some impact at the individual work sites where some of this activity has occurred.
But I can tell you if you step back and look across the whole project and it is a complex project we are on schedule.
We're progressing as planned and there's no change to our outlook for a 2014 startup of that very attractive project.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you just say if construction is currently ongoing at the LNG site? Yes.
Construction is ongoing yes.
We're continuing to progress all phases of the project.
Thank you.
I want to thank everybody for your time today and the excellent set of questions.
So again thank you and look forward to visiting with you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
Again thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporations Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder todays conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
David Rosenthal.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to Exxon Mobils second quarter earnings call and webcast.
The focus of this call is Exxon Mobil's financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2012.
I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.
Before we go further I would like to draw your attention to our customary cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Moving to Slide 3.
We provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results.
Global economic growth slowed in the second quarter primarily due to continued weakness in European Union.
The U.S.
and Japanese economies are also expected to show declines from first quarter levels.
China growth while still robust continues to weaken than prior year levels.
Energy markets were mixed in the second quarter with lower crude oil and natural gas prices while industry refining margins increased from the first quarter.
Although U.S.
chemical margins remained strong Europe and Asia commodity margins continued at near bottom-of-cycle conditions.
Turning now to the second quarter financial results as shown on Slide 4.
Exxon Mobil's second quarter 2012 earnings were $15.9 billion an increase of $5.2 billion from the second quarter of 2011.
Second quarter earnings included a net impact of $7.5 billion associated with divestments and one-time tax related item.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $3.41 up a $1.23 from a year ago.
The corporation distributed $7.7 billion to shareholders in the second quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding of that total $5 billion was distributed to purchase shares.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 billion in the third quarter of 2012.
CapEx in the second quarter was $9.3 billion down 9% from the second quarter of 2011 primarily due to the absence of acquisitions made in the second quarter of last year.
Our cash generation remained strong with $13.9 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales.
At the end of the second quarter 2012 cash totaled $18 billion and debt was $15.6 billion.
The next slide provides additional detail on second quarter sources and uses of fund.
Over the quarter cash decreased from $19.1 billion to $18 billion.
The combined impact of strong earnings depreciation expense working capital and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $13.9 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
The $9.6 billion in working capital and other primarily reflects eliminations or gains on asset sales increased working capital and tax items.
Uses included additions to plant property and equipment or PP&amp;E of $8.3 billion and shareholder distributions of $7.7 billion.
Additional financing and investing activities increased our cash by $1 billion.
Moving on to slide six and the review of our segmented results.
Exxon Mobils second quarter 2012 earnings of $15.9 billion increased $5.2 billion or 49% from the second quarter of 2011 primarily due to gains from asset sales partly offset by one-time tax item.
Upstream earnings decreased to $183 million while downstream earnings improved by $5.3 billion.
Chemical earnings were up $128 million and corporate and financing expenses were flat.
Corporate and financing expenses remain within our continued guidance of $500 million to $700 million for quarter.
As shown on slide seven Exxon Mobils second quarter 2012 earnings increased by $6.5 billion compared with the first quarter of 2012.
Moving next to second quarter business highlights and beginning on slide eight.
We continue to advance our global portfolio of high quality upstream projects.
In Angola the Kizomba Satellites Phase 1 project achieved first oil in May ahead of schedule.
The initial phase has a peak production capacity of 100 000 gross barrels of oil per day and will cover a total of approximately 250 million barrels from the Mavacola and Clochas fields.
The development is located 95 miles of the coast of Angola and water depths of approximately 4 500 feet.
Phase 1 of the project includes 18 wells with subsea tiebacks to the existing Kizomba A&amp;B floating production storage and offloading vessels thus optimizing the capabilities of on block facilities to increase current production levels without requiring an additional FPSO vessel.
In Nigeria we completed the installation of three well head platforms as part of the Nigeria Satellite project.
These are the first offshore platform structures to be fully constructed in Nigeria.
The project is on schedule to start-up in late 2012 with peak capacity of 70 000 gross barrels per day.
We also completed the installation of the Arkutun-Dagi gravity-based structure offshore Saklan Island in Russia.
We are currently progressing pipeline tie in with topside installation scheduled for 2013.
The project will have a peak production capacity of 90 000 gross barrels per day and is on schedule to start up in 2014.
Construction is also progressing at the Papua New Guinea LNG project which remains on schedule for 2014 start up.
The entire 250 mile offshore pipeline has been installed and over 105 miles or approximately 60% of the onshore portion of the main gas pipeline have been welded.
At the LNG plant pipe wrecks and heavy equipment are being installed on the process strength and piling on the jetty is complete.
Additionally mobilization and commissioning of the first two new drill rigs was ongoing during the quarter.
The second rig is being mobilized to hide with drilling expected to begin later this year.
Also during the quarter two rigs began drilling in Hadrian North in the Gulf of Mexico to further appraise the resource.
The results from these wells will be incorporated into the overall development plan.
And finally the Kearl Initial Development project is now 94% complete.
All modules have been transported from the United States and integration of the modules into the plant facilities is progressing.
The project is on schedule to start up later this year.
And turning now to Slide 9 we continue to make progress on our strategic cooperation agreement with Rosneft.
In June we signed agreements with Rosneft to jointly develop tight oil reserves in Western Siberia and establish an Arctic Research Center for offshore development.
This agreement combines the strengths of our two companies Exxon Mobils technology leadership in tight oil and unconventional resource development and Rosnefts direct knowledge and experience of Western Siberias geology and conventional production.
In the near future we will develop a work program for selected Rosneft license blocks which will include geological studies and drilling with drilling planned as early as next year.
A pilot program will be established to determine the technical feasibility of developing these reserves.
The Arctic Research Center will provide a full range of services to support all stages of our joint venture oil and gas development on the Arctic shelf including ice monitoring and management logistics and the design of ice resistant offshore vessels structures and Arctic pipelines.
Safety standards will be a priority for the center which will have its own special marine incident warning and prevention center.
In addition we progress joint exploration activities in the Black Sea where seismic acquisition is now complete.
We remain on schedule to commence seismic acquisition in the Kara Sea later this year.
Exploration drilling is expected to being in 2014-2015 timeframe as soon as prospect mapping is complete and a rig is contracted.
Turning now to conventional exploration on slide 10; in the quarter we achieved continued success in our conventional exploration portfolio.
In Tanzania we drilled a second exploration well with our partner Statoil.
As indicated by the operator this well has confirmed the discovery of approximately 2 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas.
This follows our first exploration well on the block which discovered approximately 5 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas.
We also made a gas discovery on acreage in North Western Papua New Guinea and have commenced drilling of a second well in the Highlands.
This exploration activity is designed to support expansion studies for a third train at our Papua New Guinea LNG project.
Also during the quarter we drilled our third well in Vietnam which encountered additional gas.
Results from this well are being evaluated.
In light of the encouraging results in Romania planning for further exploration activity is underway.
We expect to begin acquisition of a new 3D survey on the Neptune license by year end.
And finally we were high bidder on 22 blocks in the recent Central U.S.
Gulf of Mexico lease sale.
Moving on to slide 11 we continue to advance our growing portfolio of high potential unconventional assets in liquid rich plays like the Bakken the Woodford Ardmore and the Neuquen Basin in Argentina.
In the Bakken we have moved into a development phase across our roughly 400 000 net acre leasehold.
In the first half of 2012 we turned 40 wells to sales nearly double the pace of 2011.
In the second quarter of 2012 our gross operated Bakken production increased by 60% over the prior year quarter.
Since our entry into the play we have more than doubled gross operative production to approximately 32 000 oil equivalent barrels per day.
In the Woodford Shale and the Ardmore Basin we completed a strategic bolt-on acquisition adding 58 000 acres of leasehold and just over 4 000 oil equivalent barrels per day of production.
This brings our total Woodford Ardmore acreage to approximately 260 000 net acres and expands our resource potential beyond the 600 million oil equivalent barrels previously estimated.
In the second quarter we utilized 10 rigs to delineate our acreage to evaluate optimal well spacing and continue development activity.
Moving to South America 000 net acre leasehold.
Turning out to slide 12 on the North American chemical growth project during the quarter Exxon Mobil Chemical filed permit applications to progress plans for a world scale petrochemical expansion that our integrated Baytown Texas complex.
The project includes a new ethane cracker with up to 1.5 million tons per annum on ethylene capacity which will see two new 650 000 tons per year premium polyethylene lines situated at the nearby Mont Belvieu plastics plant.
The proposed expansion capitalizes on the abundant and growing supply of North America natural gas liquids to economically supply the rapidly growing global demand for high performance polyethylene products.
These metallocene based premium resins deliver sustainability benefits such as lighter packaging weight lower energy consumption and reduced emissions.
Required government reviews and approvals are expected to take about a year after which Exxon Mobil will make a final investment decision.
If progressed a 2016 start-up would be anticipated.
Turning now to the Saudi Elastomers project on slide 13 during the quarter the KEMYA 50-50 joint venture partners Saudi Basic Industries Corporation and Exxon Mobil announced the decision to proceed with construction of the specialty elastomers project at Al-Jubail Saudi Arabia.
This continues a long history of Exxon Mobil investment in the Kingdom and represents a significant broadening of KEMYAs product portfolio.
The facility will have the capacity to produce up to 400 000 tons per year of specialty products including synthetic rubber thermoplastic specialty polymers and carbon black to serve local markets the Middle East and Asia.
Project completion is expected in 2015.
Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 14 upstream earnings in the second quarter were $8.4 billion down $183 million from the second quarter of 2011.
Realization has decreased earnings by $870 million due primarily to lower crude oil and U.S.
natural gas realizations which declined by more than $8 per barrel and $2 per thousand cubic feet respectively.
Production mix and volume effects negatively impacted earnings by $330 million due mainly to the impact of lower entitlement volumes base decline and divestments partly offset by the ramp-up of Nigeria and Angola projects.
All other items are nearly gains from asset divestments and lower exploration expense partly offset by one-time tax items and higher production operating expenses increased earnings by $1 billion.
Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the second quarter of 2012 were $22.12.
Moving to Slide 15 oil equivalent volumes decreased by 5.6% from the second quarter of last year mainly due to the impact of lower entitlement volumes decline and divestments.
Volumes were positively impacted by the ramp up of projects in Nigeria and Angola and less downtime.
Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes OPEC quota effects and divestments production was essentially flat.
Turning now to the sequential comparison and starting it on Slide 16.
Upstream earnings increased by $556 million versus the first quarter of 2012.
Lower crude oil and natural gas realizations negatively impacted earnings by more than $700 million as crude oil realizations decreased by more than $10 per barrel and average gas realizations decreased by $0.60 per thousand cubic feet.
Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $480 million due to a decline and seasonal gas demand in Europe base decline and lower entitlement volumes partly offset by the ramp up of projects in Nigeria and Angola.
Other items including gains from asset divestments lower exploration expense and favorable Forex partly offset by one-time tax items increased earnings by $1.8 billion.
Moving now to Slide 17 oil equivalent volumes were down 8.8% from the first quarter of 2012 resulting from a decrease in seasonal gas demand in Europe base declined on lower entitlement volumes partly offset by the ramp up of projects in Nigeria and Angola.
Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes OPEC quota effects and divestments production was down 7.6%.
Year-to-date oil equivalent volumes decreased 5.5% compared to the first six months of 2011.
First half 2012 volumes associated with the 3% full-year decline outlook provided at the Analyst Meeting in March are shown on Slide 18.
Operational performance was slightly ahead of plan benefitting from the early startup of the Nigeria Usan and Angola Satellites projects and strong base performance.
First half 2012 prices most notably in February through April were higher than our March Analyst Meeting outlook basis of $111 and negatively affected first half volumes due to both permanent and price related entitlements.
In the second half of 2012 successful startup of several projects and continued strong base performance will support our 2012 volumes.
Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 19.
Downstream earnings in the second quarter were $6.6 billion up $5.3 billion from the second quarter of 2011.
The driver for the increase was a $5.3 billion gain associated with the Japan restructuring which was completed on June 1.
This gain was partly offset by unfavorable Forex effects one-time tax items and increased maintenance activities.
Improved refining margins mainly in the U.S.
and Europe increased earnings by $650 million.
Moving to slide 20.
sequentially second quarter downstream earnings increased by $5.1 billion primarily due to the Japan restructuring and improved refining margins partly offset by Forex effects increased refinery maintenance and one-time tax items and the absence of first quarter gain on asset sales.
Turning now to the chemical financial and operating results starting on slide 21.
second quarter chemical earnings were $1.4 billion up $130 million versus the second quarter of 2011.
Margins decreased earnings by 150 million as lower commodity margins were only partly offset by improved specialty margins.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $100 million mainly reflecting weaker demand in Europe.
Other factors increased earnings by $380 million which includes $630 million associated with the Japan restructuring partly offset by unfavorable Forex effects.
Moving to slide 22.
sequentially second quarter chemical earnings increased by $750 million mainly associated with the Japan restructuring.
Stronger margins increased earnings by $160 million primarily due to lower feedstock costs.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $70 million mainly due to weaker demand in Europe.
And finally moving to Slide 23.
Exxon Mobil's second quarter financial and operating performance reflects the ability of our business model and competitive advantages to deliver strong results.
As we continue to focus on operational excellence deploy high-impact technologies and leverage our unparalleled global integration Exxon Mobil remains well positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
I would now be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Rosenthal.
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from Doug Terreson with ISI.
Inc.</strong> Good morning David.
Good morning Doug.
How are you? Inc.</strong> Im doing fine.
My question is on foreign exchange FX asset sales and tax items and specifically whether or not you have functional and geographical quantification on those items in Q2 I mean there was a pretty large lump in the quarter and I just wanted to see if we could get little color and segmentation? Yeah let me  why dont I start with the items in the $7.5 million.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
$7.5 billion Im sorry.
The primary item in there was $6.5 billion associated with the Japan restructuring.
Inc.</strong> Right.
Okay.
And the segmentation of that $6.5 billion was $5.3 billion in Japan I mean in the Downstream $600 million in Chemical $400 million in corp and fin and about $100 million in the Upstream.
And the balance of the $7.5 billion really related to gains on asset sales in the Upstream primarily Angola Block 31 and a number of tax related items.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And also in A&amp;P business there was commentary that several of the major integrated gas projects in Australia faced cost overruns that is the most budget contingencies were appropriate at the time.
So I wanted to get your insight in the trends and investment performance versus budget in Australia because Exxon has been in the country for many years and given that you have significant holdings besides the integrated gas you obviously hold a unique perspective.
So any trends that you could highlight or provide insight into would be appreciated.
Yeah I'll make a general comment and then for specific project updates Id recommended that you [to talk] with the operator of any specific project.
But in general over the last couple of years we have seen some foreign exchange issues with the Australian dollar as well as across the board there have been some cost pressures on labor; and I think those have been well documented in the industry.
That's all part of normal project management for us and you have to find ways to offset those I think the important things on some of these large projects in addition to cost management is to ensure that the project stays on schedule and comes up on time and that generally is the focus.
But again if you had a specific project in mind Id recommend you ask the operator for any specific update.
Inc.</strong> Sure thanks a lot.
And well take our next question from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Hey good morning David.
Good morning Ed.
Just two quick questions first the buyback.
I mean obviously youre still maintaining a $5 billion; you did get some good sources and uses of cash from acquisitions.
And [dragging] in Europe is making comments which is helping the oil price.
But if we do see a slowdown how do you think about the rate of buybacks being appropriate and if the earnings starting to support the buybacks do you see enough disposals in the pipeline to compensate?  Ed I really wont want to comment or provide any guidance on forward expectations with regard to allocation of funds.
Other than to say there is no change in our ongoing view of that and as you know our first priority just find all of our attractive investment opportunities after that is to pay a growing dividend and you recall we did raise the dividend 21% earlier this year.
And then after that its the share buyback to maintain our capital structure and return excess cash to shareholder.
So no change in our approach and well see as the year goes along to how the cash flows turn out given the conditions in the market but no change in our approach.
Thanks.
And then just a specific one on the operations.
Asia gas volumes were being pretty steady for a number of quarters until the second quarter of 2012 was that maintenance or was that a PSC effect in terms of a tranche kicking in somewhere.
Yeah let me provide a little more clarity on that because your question also gets to the main factor if you look at our volume breaks and you look at the entitlement effects that you saw there.
And really the impact youre seeing in Qatar and I want you know that that unlike the RasGas and Qatargas LNG trains the AKG projects which as you know supports domestic gas sale does operate under a development and production sharing agreement.
And during the quarter that project became cost current and that did impact both the volumes that you see in the region that we noted as well as the entitlement volumes that we talked about.
As far as performance performance is expected in the region and all the countries there and the assets that we operate.
And again the real impact is AKG becoming cost current.
And its fair to think about domestic prices being lower than the other project so that would have a lesser impacts on cash flow than the headline production? Yeah that would be a correct assumption.
Thanks very much David.
All right; thank you Ed.
Well now go to Doug Leggate with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Hi David.
Hi Doug.
How are you today? Not too bad thank you.
I wanted to go back to one of the events during the quarter which was I guess your official exit from Poland.
And I just wanted to get your updated prognosis on shale gas in Europe generally and (inaudible) thats one of the biggest producers obviously in Northwest Europe.
What are your implications for you gravitating back to work exports of LNG in the well 48? And I have another follow-up please.
Those are two distinctly different questions.
When we look at Poland we did drill and complete and test two wells one in each of the two basins that we were in there.
And we did not have any demonstrated sustained commercial hydrocarbon flow from either of those two wells.
and so we have decided to end our exploration activities in Poland at this time.
Now as you look across Europe there are a number of other opportunities and a number of other countries the people are looking at including ourselves.
And so I wouldnt draw any conclusions in any one country or across Europe its early days.
We have set off and as you look around the world that all the unconventional resource opportunities theyre all different; theyre all in the early stages of evaluation.
And its going to take some time to figure that up.
Now I will mention because we havent talked about it in a little while our holdings in Germany.
and as you know we have a very large acreage position in Germany and we continue to want to actively explore that.
as you know we've had some permitting issues there over the last year or so that has held that program up.
I cant tell you that the expert dialog group that has been studying this issue for a while has reported their findings unlike many other similar studies and findings across the world including the U.S.
this group do not see any fundamental environmental or other risk aspects that would argue against the exploration and production of natural gas from unconventional reservoirs.
So with that study out we are in the process now of working on getting our  working with the regulators particularly in the local areas and the community at large to progress our exploration plants and get the permits necessary to progress.
So again I think every country is different every unconventional resource opportunity is different and it would be tough to make any geographic conclusions at this time.
Now if we switch over to the potential for LNG exports out of North America we are continuing to study those options both in the U.S.
and in Canada as you know we have vast unconventional holdings in both of those locations.
We have a lot of optionality a lot of flexibility; we do have some assets in the ground already to import LNG.
So we are continuing to study all that and look at our options and the economics and more on that as time goes on.
Thanks David.
I guess I was thinking that I look probably European gas would impact your gas decision as well I hope that was one question.
If I could try a second is a very quick follow-up on there is some second half of this question you didnt give the FX or the tax impacts by division if you could that would be really helpful? Ill leave it there thanks.
Sure.
Let me first give you the foreign exchange impacts if you are looking at the second quarter of 12 versus the second quarter of 11 we had about a negative $200 million delta on Forex in the downstream and then another two I apologize for interrupting could you give us the absolute as opposed to the deltas is that possible? I dont actually have the absolute number Ed I have  Doug Im sorry the deltas again I think if you are just looking at (inaudible) its $200 million negative in downstream and 200 in chemical but I dont have the absolutes.
All right thanks very much.
Okay.
Thank you.
I will now go to Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning David.
Good morning Evan.
How are you doing? A question on Kara I know you mentioned the project start-up in the back half of the year.
How should we expect volumes in 3Q and 4Q and whats the volumetric plant there in the start-up and then somewhat related I guess I believe that the 50% goes to Exxon refineries and then 50% into the market? I guess we should assume that (inaudible) refineries first and is there any feedstock change being used system as a result of that? Sure sure.
Let me hit the status of the project.
first its progressing very well as I mentioned were 94% complete and I got the modules in place and that were in the U.S.
and were progressing towards a late start-up.
That start-up is probably a December start-up.
Our intention is to ramp up to 110 000 barrels per day of production from that.
but to give you a quarterly number or a specific timing would be real difficult because again if youre not going to start up till December it wont have a huge impact.
And whats the expected maybe trajectory to either kind of gross 110 gross? Yeah.
Well be ramping that up obviously from the time wed start up into the next year.
I dont have a specific ramp up profile other than to say as safely as possible and with the operations running well ramp up to that 110 as quickly as possible.
But I dont have a specific timeline for you right now.
Great.
But from the feedstock? I'm sorry On the feedstock The first thing Id say is I wouldnt necessarily say we have a 50/50 mix of whats going to our refineries versus whats going to go into the market the other part of your comment is correct we will optimize in general to displace the placement of those barrels but certainly having the flexibility of our own refineries in Canada as well in the Midwest well be able to optimize those first and then put the balance in the barrels.
But that will change depending on the market which is you know has been fairly volatile recently.
And so if I gave you a split today that may or may not be the split six months ago but youre certainly spot on with your comment about us optimizing first into our refineries and then the balance going into the market so that we can maximize the value of all the barrels really across the whole refining circuit.
Okay and if I may just  thank you.
If I may just one other question.
Sure.
Thanks for the update of on the PNG LNG project and it sounds like you are really moving along well there.
I mean can you remind us of how much gas excluding I guess these recent discoveries is behind that development and whether  are further discoveries necessary for potential expansion opportunities there? If you look at first if you look at the trains those are to 6.6 trains will start-up in 2014 and as I recall the total resource back in that is up about 9 Tcf.
Okay.
So you need additional discoveries likely to expand right? Yeah and that's what I said earlier that two things are going on we are certainly studying the opportunity for a third train and the positive news is were having exploration success this year in drilling some wells and we have an active exploration program ongoing with a lot of additional acreage that we have available to us.
So its a positive story with the steel we got going in the ground now; its a positive story on the exploration front.
So well continue to focus on getting what we have up and running while steadying for further expansion and optimization.
Great thank you.
Thanks for taking my question.
Thank you for the questions.
We will now go to Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Hi Dave.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
How are you? Very good.
Two quick questions.
Youve been quite active in building in Gulf of Mexico and had good success are you now all set with all your rig requirements for the next say one or two years or is that you will meet additional requirement there? Well if you look at what were doing now in the Gulf of Mexico probably the biggest thing we got going right now is the two wells that were drilling simultaneously at Hager &amp; North as we continue to look at that resource.
As we go on through the year we are looking at the possibility of another well in the Gulf before year-end.
But were now talking about a specific rig line or whats contracting and whats not what I could tell you is we do have flexibility around the rig fleet.
We are planning for a sustained exploration program.
And when we look at the opportunities and the rig availabilities and the assets that we have under contracts I think were well positioned to progress the program I dont see any constraints or any holds up in terms of equipment availability.
Dave if your current rig the contract expand into lets say 2013 and 2014 or that is expanding this year? Paul I really wouldnt want to comment specifically on rigs and lease arrangements and that sort of thing those are all part of commercial nature of the business and so really wouldn't want to get into any specifics on that.
Inc.</strong>  Okay sure.
The second question that  you have to  I have to apologize yeah probably due to my ignorance.
Given the low natural gas price over the last 12 months in the U.S.
if the natural gas price stay at say $2 to $3 dollar per Mcf range is there a circumstance that would force you guys that to look at your open reserve booking from the XTO and also that any way down for separately how is the accounting from that standpoint? Yeah Paul if we step back just a little bit obviously that is a very large resource that we acquired in the XTO acquisition.
Some of it is book to prove reserves bought a whole lot of it is really in the resource base.
And so when you look at prices and the volatility of those prices and what's going on I don't think when you look at our outlook going forward that we see ourselves really getting into the issues that you're talking about without getting into any specifics on accounting and reserve reporting.
I'm confident that if you look at that resource and what we've got book now in the conservative nature with which we tend to book proved reserves Im not expecting there to be any issues in that area.
Inc.</strong> So should we assume that the ceiling test you would be allowed to use your own internal long-term price deck? Yes if you look at that ceiling test as far as I know you do use your own long-term expectation for those prices.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
I will now go to Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
David good morning.
I have a couple of questions for you on two different projects.
one is back to the Gulf of Mexico and Julia I know there are some issues with the government a while back and as I understand youve worked that out and youve now retained the block.
Can you just give us an update on if I recall it seemed to be fairly large discovery any update on timing and activity out there?  Sure.
Ill be happy to give you an update on that.
as you know we did drill that first exploration well in 2007 it was successful.
we did have some issues with the Department of Interior around that license.
I can confirm that the comment that you made yes those issues have been resolved.
And in fact if I look across the second quarter we are working on the development plans for that.
in fact we are really progressing in the technical validation program at this time and front-end engineering and development.
and late in the quarter we did place some initial long lead equipment items.
So if you look at the whole broader schedule we are progressing as rapidly as appropriate.
but again were already in the process of ordering long lead programs working on the development plan and the evacuation plan.
So that project is progressing.
Okay great thank you.
And then the other one was actually on the Tanzania it sounds like youve got about 7 TCF discovered to-date.
Im wondering for one how much need in order to justify development? and secondly my understanding is that government will not approve multiple development.
So its almost a bit of a race to see who is going to have the first move or advantage Im just curious if theres any update on your activity there? Yeah.
Let me hit the first question on the results in Tanzania that has been today a very successful exploration effort for us.
We have said that the first well looks like we got about 5 Tcf of developable reserves there and then the second well looks like we got about 2; so for a total of 7 Tcf.
I can tell you we are continuing with our exploration activities we got some additional seismic going on this year and may even put another well before the end of year.
So that's all going very well.
I would want to give a specific number in terms of what's required for an LNG project because it could have multiple aspects to developing that.
and so I wouldnt want to give specific number there.
In terms of the race to get a project underway Im not aware of any constraints on that program.
It is still early days in that whole area of East Africa as you know.
There has been a tremendous amount of activity and some successful discoveries but to start discussing order of projects and who gets there first and that sort of thing I think it probably will be premature to talk about that.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you David.
Thank you.
And then Ill go to Faisel Khan with Citi.
Thank you David.
Good morning.
Good morning Faisel.
How are you? Good how are you doing there? Im fine.
I am wondering if you could elaborate a little bit more on whats going on with U.S.
natural gas production.
it looks like it peaked at about 4 Bcf a day in the fourth quarter of last year and its been coming down steadily.
I was wondering if thats the function of your shift in rig count in the lower 48.
It's a number of factors.
You have to start at the top of that with base decline across the conventional resources and decline that were seeing there.
If thats going to be partly offset by the increases in unconventional gas production.
But as you pointed out we have seen a shift and that shift continues in our rig count to the liquids-rich plays.
So the program itself is as I described before we are managing across the entire portfolio which does include continuing to delineate appraise and evaluate the dry gas areas while at the same time focusing the drilling on the liquids-rich plays.
And the other thing that weve had in there we have had some divestments you might recall we had one in the Gulf of Mexico a year or so ago and that would decline  would have an impact there.
So its really a combination of decline divestments some shifting of rigs and then offset by the production increase that weve seen in the unconventional resources at XTO.
Okay.
And I believe at the Analyst Meeting you guys talked about how you were running maybe just under 70 rigs I am not sure if its still the right number or not.
but it seemed like you had shifted to 50% of those rigs were now drilling in liquids-rich plays.
Can you give us an update on where you are with that sort of mix in rig count? Yeah sure.
We have continued to both reduce the absolute number of rigs running.
I think we averaged about 57 across the quarter.
Were currently in about 51 rigs in total and without giving a specific percentage I can tell you the majority of those rigs are working on liquids and liquid-rich plays and that obviously would be a continuation of the trend that you are seeing over the last few quarters.
Thanks David.
And last question from me.
On Slide 16 where you talked about the first quarter to second quarter sort of progression of earnings for Upstream.
The $1.76 billion sort of other and you said part of that was Angola and part of that was favorable FX.
Was the FX sort of movement was that a absolute number or was there a big change quarter-to-quarter because of something in the first quarter?  No again it was kind of small it was less than a $100 million and that would be the change quarter-on-quarter.
So within that bar it's not a big effect either way.
Okay great.
Thanks for the time I appreciate it.
All right thank you.
And well now go to Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Thanks very much.
Two related question about Rosneft if I can.
First one is as you know Rosneft has public said they are talking to BP about the potential TNK acquisition.
If that happens how do you see that changing your relationship with them.
And second question on the same point has Exxon contemplated buying the TNK-BP stake?  Actually my answer would be the same to both of those questions.
I really couldn't provide any comment on either what others in the industry are doing or anything that we might have gone on and are thinking about.
I appreciate it.
All right thank you.
I will now go to John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Yes hi David.
Unconventional liquids was about 5% or 6% of the U.S.
oil production or liquids production.
How big do you want to make that on a going forward basis? I mean how large a ramp should we anticipate?  That's a question I really couldn't answer because I have no idea what the forward projections are going to look like.
Obviously there's a lot of activity a lot of plays we are certainly heavily involved both as I mentioned in the ramp-up of our existing fields like we have at the Bakken but also in the pursuit and capture of a number of attractive acreage holdings like we mentioned in the Woodford Ardmore and the Utica.
So from an Exxon Mobil perspective I can tell you as we move out of these delineation appraisal and valuation of programs into full development you'll continue to see the ramp-up that I mentioned in my prepared remarks particularly in places like the Bakken and then in some of the other areas.
But we don't have a target and I couldn't give you a target for the industry.
It's really just going to depend on how quickly these new opportunities that us and others are finding.
You can get in and get those online and then of course you need the midstream infrastructure to evacuate those volumes and get them to market and to the extent that you're producing NGLs there is other midstream infrastructure that has to be put into process.
So there's a lot of opportunity a lot of nice ramp-up kind of across the board as you mentioned.
But it would certainly be hard for me to give any indication of what kind of ultimate target might be either for us or the industry in general.
Thanks I was only asking about Exxon.
But thanks David.
Okay all right.
And then Ill go to Ian Reid with Jefferies.
Hi David.
Good morning.
Hey Iain.
How are you doing? Im doing very well actually.
And couple questions firstly and thinking about your U.S.
onshore operations at the moment.
Have you got an updated number for either capital employed in U.S.
onshore or return on capital employed which youre generating at the moment? No we dont typically give that level of detail Ian.
So I wouldnt have either of the capital employed number or the return on that.
Okay all right.
Second question is about dividends.
Obviously youve made a pretty substantial increase in your dividend payments.
I just wonder when you are thinking about that and how do you factor in potential changes in dividend taxes withholding taxes in the U.S.
is that something you think about or is this kind of more fundamental change or increase youve made? A number of factors as you would guess go into the whole decision-making process about the allocation of cash and that sort of thing.
Though I wouldnt want to comment on any one specific factor or even to speculate ultimately what the tax situation might look like or changes that we might see in the upcoming several months.
So again a number of factors we think about we dont try to speculate a whole lot about the future from the standpoint that you mentioned so I really wouldnt have a specific comment on that.
So was there something investors were kind of pressing you to look at rather than as a kind of add-on to the existing share buyback was that part of the rational? We spend a lot of time talking to our investors about a number of things; dividends are one share buybacks are another.
Not all of the investors are interested or have a waiting to any one particular disposition over another some have one preference and others have another.
We do spend some time looking at the competitiveness of both our total distributions and the breakout of those and we do look at that.
But in particular on a specific input or a specific factor in the analysis I wouldnt give any waiting to one over the other.
We do spend time taking all the factors into consideration and of course that includes input we get directly from our shareholders.
Okay.
Last question please on Vietnam; I believe you proved up quite a substantial amount of gas now that with these three wells following on from last years discovery.
And any numbers you want to share with us about what sort of level of reserves you proved up you gave us obviously something on Tanzania and maybe you can also talk about the forward program on that? Sure I can tell you.
We are not as far along in assessing what we have in Vietnam as we were in Tanzania.
Were still evaluating the wells there.
We had one well that was not successful and two that were and so were still in the early days.
So looking at that we got a lot of work to do lot of evaluation to do and to assess that we are looking at additional seismic and other expiration activity.
But little early to start giving you resource numbers at this time.
All right David.
Thanks for that.
Thanks so much.
Now we will go to Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank Hi David.
Hi Paul.
How are you doing? Fine thank you.
Apologies Im traveling today so I got on the call late.
But I did want to ask you about your specials and the way you declare them.
I guess the question is I completely don't understand what  why you depend those specials in the table of specials but then immediately say there were lot of specialists?  Paul let's talk just a minute about in term of specials and I think I can address your question.
Really you have to think about two different considerations when you're talking about special items.
The first that I'd offer you is if look at this from an Exxon Mobil perspective both asset divestments and acquisitions that become a normal part of our ongoing operations.
We talked at the Analyst Meeting in March about the level of divestments that we've had.
If I just look across the last four or five years I think we've had $26 billion in proceeds and about $11 billion in earnings.
So this is an ongoing piece of the business for us.
Some quarters the numbers are a little larger than others but in terms of divestments being special they are part of the business.
I think the other thing to consider is that the use of the term special items has in fact evolved over time driven in part by updated SEC guidance on the use of non-GAAP terms.
And we are certainly in compliance with that updated guidance and paying attention to it and it has evolved over the last few years.
So if you take those two factors into consideration I think you know what we've reported here this quarter is consistent with both of those.
So is that SEC definition a question materiality then or and I think the other  find very odd David is that you continue to publish this table of zeros which just kind of seems inefficient quite frankly but can you just talk a bit more about what you are saying about the SEC.
I understand your argument that the divestments are an ongoing part of your business and therefore shouldn't be considered special.
I think thats [fine] the SEC bit.
Sure without getting into the weeds here I can tell you that is not really a materiality look.
Its really around the desire for the SEC for company to not describe a charge or gain as the non-recurring infrequent or unusual event unless it meets certain criteria and that includes a look back as well as a look forward.
So if you're looking back and you've been doing this stuff in the past and you look forward and you think that you might have these type of events in the future the SEC guidance as to not call those non-recurring infrequent unusual special or whatever term you want to use and again that has happened over time.
In terms of the table and efficiency I'll tell you it's possible.
Im not saying that we'll never report a special items because we may Im just saying that when we look at the guidance in our business none of the earnings impact that you saw in the quarter qualified to be the special items'.
If I could just follow-up on Paul Cheng and is kind of related.
I think you were saying that would very very unlikely be a write down related to XTO because I guess what you're implying a very conservative in booking what is essentially a very very large resource.
Yeah I think it's a couple of things Paul it's the conservative nature for which we book things to proved reserves and it's also our outlook for natural gas prices.
If you look broadly and look at our energy outlook we don't have an outlook over the long-term the prices are going to remain at current levels and that's consistent with our investment plans it's consistent with our energy outlook and it's really consistent with the long-term way that we're going about developing these resources.
Okay David thanks.
I think I understand I just wondering is the SEC going back to that allows you to use your own long-term planning assumption for nat gas prices as regard to booking? Yeah that's correct.
Okay thats good.
Thank you.
And well now go to Allen Good with Morningstar.
Good morning David.
Just one quick question on the lower 48 activity it looks like you made pretty good progress in reducing the rig count there and moving towards liquids-rich plays but if we look back sort of a year ago you were at 70 rigs and natural gas prices were at $4.
and then certainly theyve made quite a recovery off the lows we saw earlier this quarter and whether thats sustainable or not its certainly a question but is the $4 level to think about that Exxon will maybe potentially return to gas drilling or given the low base of rigs you are working off now there certainly have to be different conditions where you would revisit some of these gas plays that youve moved away from over the past six months? I think the answer to the question and what youre seeing us doing is really more reflective of our longer-term approach to this.
We are still drilling in dry gas areas.
We do continue to drill wells in order to work on our delineation and our evaluation of those plays to make sure that again over the long-term we want to be in a position to maximize the recovery and maximize the value generation from those resources so that hasn't changed.
What you have seen that we've talked about is both a reduction in the total rig count and some of that of course is in response to the short-term pricing thats happened.
In addition the move of  a lot of the rigs over liquids and liquids-rich is really both to start to delineate and appraise and think about developing our new acreage like the Woodford Ardmore again as well as wrapping up in the Bakken.
In fact I think I heard the other day we're up about 10 rigs in the Bakken out of those 51.
We really dont have a price trigger to any big extent.
You might do something a little different at the margin in any given quarter depending on prices.
but when you really look at the overall plan and the overall strategy it continues to be with a very long-term view of this very large very high quality source we got.
Okay.
In the short-term though do you expect that 51 rigs total youre currently running? Is that enough to do everything you want to do as far as evaluating those plays and driving production on liquid-rich plays or would we expect during short-term to see that rig count continue to fall? I really don't have an outlook going forward for the rig count.
We continue to progress the program and we could see some variability around the number that I mentioned but I really couldnt give you an outlook in terms of either direction or rig count specifically.
Okay thank you very much.
Bye thank you very much.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Rosenthal Id like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
No Id just like to thank everybody on the call today and thank you for your questions and we look forward to visiting you again next quarter.
So thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude todays conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Exxon Mobil Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note todays conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the conference over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
David Rosenthal.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to Exxon Mobils third quarter earnings call and webcast.
The focus of this call is Exxon Mobil's financial and operating results for the third quarter of 2012.
I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.
Before we begin today I would like to say a few words of support for those who have been impacted by Hurricane Sandy which I know includes many people listening to today's call.
Our thoughts are with you as you work to recover from the effects of the storm which has touched so many lives along the East Coast.
We are doing everything we can in our operations to help support the recovery effort.
Now returning to Exxon Mobils results; but before we go further I would like to draw your attention to our customary cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Moving to Slide 3 we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results.
Global economic uncertainty continued in the third quarter with further weakness in Europe and Japan.
The European growth rate is estimated to remain negative in the third quarter following the contraction in the second quarter.
Meanwhile Japan is likely to decelerate further.
The US economy marginally improved versus the second quarter and Chinas growth rate decline moderated versus prior quarters.
Energy markets improved in the third quarter with higher crude oil and US natural gas prices and stronger industry refining margins versus the second quarter.
Although US commodity chemical margins remained strong Europe and Asia margins showed continued weakness.
Turning now to the third quarter of financial results as shown on Slide 4; Exxon Mobils third quarter 2012 earnings were $9.6 billion a decrease of $760 million from the third quarter of 2011.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $2.09 down $0.04 from a year ago.
The corporation distributed $7.6 billion to shareholders in the third quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $5 billion was distributed to purchase shares.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012.
CapEx in the third quarter was $9.2 billion up 7% from the third quarter of 2011.
Our cash generation remained strong with $14 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales.
At the end of the third quarter 2012 cash totaled $13.3 billion and debt was $12.4 billion.
The next slide provides additional detail on third quarter sources and uses of funds.
Over the quarter cash decreased from $18 billion to $13.3 billion.
The combined impact of strong earnings depreciation expense and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $14 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included additions to plant property and equipment or PP&amp;E of $8 million and shareholder distributions of $7.6 billion.
Additional financing and investing activities decreased our cash by $3.1 billion primarily due to the redemption of the SeaRiver deferred interest debentures.
Moving on to Slide 6 and a review of our segment results; Exxon Mobils third quarter 2012 earnings of $9.6 billion decreased $760 million or 7% from the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to lower gains from asset sales and lower upstream volumes partly offset by higher refining margins.
Upstream earnings decreased $2.4 billion while downstream earnings improved by $1.6 billion.
Chemical earnings were down $213 million and corporate and financing expenses were favorable by $263 million primarily due to tax items.
Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remained at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.
As shown on Slide 7 Exxon Mobils third quarter 2012 earnings decreased by $6.3 billion compared with the second quarter of 2012 mainly due to lower gains on asset sales.
Moving next to third quarter business highlights and beginning on Slide 8; we continue to advance our global portfolio of high quality upstream projects.
In Nigeria the Satellites Phase 1 project continues to progress towards first oil in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Drilling has commenced on two of the three platforms.
The project will have a peak capacity of 70 000 gross barrels per day.
Construction is also progressing at the Papua New Guinea LNG project which remains on schedule for a 2014 startup.
In the third quarter we completed both the hydro testing of the 250 mile offshore pipeline and structural steel construction on the LNG plant trains.
Drilling commenced at Hides with the first of two rigs and the final site preparation is underway for the second drilling rig.
Turning now to slide nine and an update on our Gulf of Mexico opportunities.
At Hadrian North we drilled two appraisal wells in the quarter and we are analyzing the results and will incorporate the findings into our development planning.
Our current development basis is 100 000 barrel per day capacity new build semi-submersible floating production system.
Exxon Mobil has also begun drilling our Hummer Shallow prospect located in Walker Ridge Block 674 near the Jack St.
Malo development.
Also during the quarter Exxon Mobil acquired a 20% working interest in the Phobos prospect which is five miles south of Exxon Mobils Hadrian South discovery.
Additionally we acquired a 35% working interest in the foreign prospect located about 30 miles Northeast of Exxon Mobils Julia discovery.
Phobos is expected to spud by year end 2012 and drilling will begin at Thorn in 2013.
Turning now to our activities in the Black Sea on Slide 10; Exxon Mobil has established the material acreage position in the Northern Black Sea across Ukraine Romania and Russia totaling approximately 3.5 million net acres.
In August the Ukrainian Government awarded the offshore Skifska Block to a group of investors led by Exxon Mobil.
Our bid combined the extensive deepwater experience technological expertise financial strength and the environmental protection capabilities of Exxon Mobil Shell and OMV Petrom with the local expertise of the National Oil Company Nadra Ukrainy.
Exxon Mobil will be the project operator and we are currently negotiating the joint operating agreement and production sharing agreement.
In Romania where we had a discovery earlier in the year we are preparing to commence additional 3D seismic acquisition in late 2012 and have begun preparations for additional exploration drilling in late 2013 or early 2014.
In the Russian sector of the Black Sea processing of the newly acquired 3D seismic is underway.
We will be utilize this information to develop our exploration drilling plans with drilling targeted to begin in late 2014 or early 2015.
Turning to Slide 11 during the quarter we continue to progress our strategic cooperation agreement with Rosneft.
We recently completed acquisition of 2D and 3D seismic surveys in the Kara Sea.
In addition geotechnical and oceanographic data were collected of potential drill well locations.
Following completion of prospect definition and permitting exploration drilling is expected to begin in the 2014 2015 timeframe.
To advance Arctic drilling technology we've signed an agreement in September to evaluate concepts for the development of a gravity based shallow water rig that can withstand extreme ice wind wave and temperature conditions.
The structure will be designed to be installed on the seabed refloated and moved to multiple drilling sites.
Studies have commenced on the state-of-the-art design which could significantly increase the safety and efficiency of expiration in the Kara Sea.
On shore West Siberia we are developing a work program for selective Rosneft license blocks which will include geological studies and drilling with drilling planned as early as next year.
A pilot program will determine the technical feasibility of developing these tight oil reserves.
In support of these exploration activities Exxon Mobil and Rosneft have been conducting technical studies on areas of interest including visits to existing field and facilities.
Moving on to slide 12 we also continue to focus on high potential liquids-rich unconventional opportunities in North America highlighted by activity in the Bakken Woodford Ardmore and Western Canada.
In the United States approximately two-thirds of our operated rigs are drilling liquids-rich opportunities up from about 20% at the beginning of 2011.
On September 20 Exxon Mobil and its subsidiary XTO Energy announced the signing of an exchange agreement with Denbury to acquire 100% of their Bakken shale assets which consists of 196 000 net acres in North Dakota and Montana and production is expected to be more than 15 000 net oil equivalent barrels per day when the deal closes.
The agreement will increase Exxon Mobil holdings in the Bakken region by about 50% to nearly 600 000 acres resulting in a significant presence in one of the major US growth areas for onshore oil production.
Additionally this acreage is located close to current XTO development areas generating further efficiencies.
The Woodford Shale and the Ardmore basin of Southern Oklahoma comprises our most active unconventional drilling program with 10 operated rigs delineating and developing more than 260 000 net acres of leaseholds.
In addition we are advancing infrastructure projects to optimize the liquids-rich production from this area.
For example construction was recently completed on a 117 mile natural gas gathering pipeline from our operations of Southern Oklahoma to processing facilities in North Texas.
In Western Canada Exxon Mobil announced an agreement on October 17 with Celtic Exploration in which Exxon Mobil Canada will acquire 545 000 net acres in the liquids-rich Montney shale 104 000 net acres in the Duvernay shale and additional acreage in other areas of Alberta.
Current gross production on the acreage to be acquired is 72 million cubic feet per day of natural gas and 4 000 barrels per day of crude condensate and natural gas liquids.
These new assets will complement our existing North American unconventional portfolio.
Our financial and technical strength will enable us to maximize resource value by leveraging the experience of XTO Energy which has expertise in developing tight gas shale oil and gas and coal bed methane.
Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 13; upstream earnings in the third quarter was $6 billion down $2.4 billion from the third quarter of 2011.
Realizations decreased earnings by $130 million due primarily to lower crude oil and US natural gas realizations which declined by $2.31 per barrel and $1.40 per thousand cubic feet respectively.
Production mix and volume effects negatively impacted earnings by $700 million due to the impact of lower entitlement volumes base decline and down time partly offset by the ramp up of Angola and Nigeria projects.
All other items primarily lower gains from asset sales and unfavorable tax and foreign exchange effects decreased earnings by $1.6 billion.
Upstream after tax earnings per barrel for the third quarter of 2012 were $16.39.
Moving to slide 14 oil equivalent volumes decreased by 7.5% from the third quarter of last year due to the impact of base decline lower entitlement volumes divestments and down time.
Volumes were positively impacted by the ramp up of projects in Angola and Nigeria.
Excluding the impacts of the entitlement volumes OPEC quarter effects and divestments production was down 2.9%.
Turning now to sequential comparison starting on slide 15; upstream earnings decreased by $2.4 billion versus the second quarter of 2012.
Higher crude oil and US natural gas realizations positively impacted earnings by $340 million.
As crude oil realizations increased by $0.77 per barrel and US gas realization increased $0.54 per thousand cubic feet.
Production mix and volume effects decreased earnings by $540 million due to base decline down time lower entitlement volumes and seasonal demand in Europe.
Other items including lower gains from asset sales and higher expenses decreased earnings by $2.2 million.
Moving to slide 16 oil equivalent volumes were down 4.6% from the second quarter of 2012 due to down time base decline seasonal demand in Europe and lower entitlement volumes partly offset by the ramp up of projects in Angola.
Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes OPEC quota effects and divestments production was down 3.6%.
On slide 17 we showed the year-to-date 2012 volumes associated with the expected 3% full year decline provided at the analyst meeting in March.
Operational performance through the third quarter was slightly below forecast reflecting the timing of work program execution duration of down time events particularly in the North Sea and the efficient use of capital in Iraq which is lower net volumes.
Additionally the continued focus on enhancing profitability through the shifting of North American drilling to liquids-rich opportunities has contributed to the variance.
While the year-to-date Brent crude price of $112 per barrel is near the basis of our March Analyst meeting outlook prices in the first half of 2012 mostly notably in February through April were higher than our outlook which negatively affected volumes due to both permanent and price related entitlement.
Fourth quarter volumes will be supported by seasonal demand project startups and completion of schedule downtime.
Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 18.
Downstream earnings in the third quarter were $3.2 billion up 1.6 billion from the third quarter of 2011 as we continue to optimize our refineries by fully utilizing operational and fleet flexibility and the integration with lubes and chemical.
Improved margins mainly in North American and European refining increased earnings by $850 million.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $20 million due to lower earnings associated with asset sold largely offset by favorable refining optimization effects.
Other items included a gain on the sale of our downstream business in Switzerland favorable ForEx and lower operating expenses increased earnings by $780 million.
Turning to slide 19 sequentially third quarter downstream earnings decreased by $3.5 billion.
Improved margins primarily in refining increased earnings by $650 million.
Volume and mix effects mainly driven by lower plan maintenance and refining optimization activity increased by $300 million.
Other items reduced earnings by $4.4 billion primarily due to the absence of a gain associated with the Japan restructuring partly offset by the gain from the sale of our downstream business along with favorable ForEx and lower operating experience expenses.
Moving now to the chemical financing and operating results and starting on slide 20 third quarter chemical earnings was $790 million down $213 million versus the third quarter of 2011.
Margins decreased earnings by a $150 million namely due to lower olefins and polyethylene utilization.
Other items decrease earnings by $60 million mainly due to unfavorable foreign exchange impacts.
Moving to slide 21; sequentially third quarter chemical earnings decreased by $659 million.
Weaker margins mainly in Europe decreased earnings by $90 million.
Other items primarily the absence of the gain associated with the Japan restructuring decreased earnings by $590 million.
Moving to slide 22 Exxon Mobils third quarter financial and operating performance reflects the value of our integrated business model and other competitive advantages.
We earned $9.6 billion generated $14 billion in cash flow invested $9.2 billion in the business and distributed $7.6 billion to our shareholders.
As we continue to focus on operational excellence deploy high impact technologies and leverage our unparallel global integration.
Exxon Mobil remains well positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
I would now be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Rosenthal.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
I've got a couple please one-on-one follow-up I should say.
I understand at the Analyst Day you gave as an indication that production would be done this year but it seems that its slicing a little harder than certainly we expected and at the same time the capture rate that is you know as the earnings against your weighted revenues has deteriorated somewhat this quarter.
So I am just wondering if there's that you still feel confident in the medium-term outlook and if you have something unusual in this quarter in part to the earnings capture and Ive got a quick follow-up please.
Let me first address Doug the volume decline.
As I mentioned in the chart my prepared remarks we are only slightly below what the outlook would have generated if not for again as I mentioned the price and entitlement effects of the higher crude prices earlier in the year and some divestments.
I will say that when you look at the slight underperformance if you will on the operation side a piece of that effect a big piece of that bar is the fact that we've been able to generate the production volumes that we were looking to get in Iraq with less capital being expended.
So because we expended less capital and we are more efficient.
We didn't get as many barrels back.
We've also had some extended downtime a little more than we thought particularly in the North Sea and some other areas but other than that just some timing and some work program and some of the other things I mentioned but other than that we are pretty much online with what we were looking at.
If you are looking at the capture rate in particular in the upstream I think the biggest driver there of course is going to be the mix of the volumes that we had and where we had some of that downtime across the quarter in Kazakhstan and some other areas that we had some downtime North Sea etcetera other than that when you look at the other earnings effects not a lot in there in terms of items other than the fact that we were about a billion less quarter-over-quarter this quarter on asset divestitures.
So I think if you sort those things out we're pretty much as we would have expected to be.
Great.
Thank you.
My follow-up there is hopefully fairly quick.
There is always been a lot of other deltas this quarter the other items that you talked about but again just like last quarter they are not as big but they are still fairly sizeable particularly in the downstream.
So I guess there is two points to my question.
The first one is would you be able to quantify the absolute impacts of the major parts from disposals in the foreign exchange effects as opposed to the relative impact and this is an observation.
At what point or what is the philosophical reason for not providing the absolutes on a quarterly basis because it would be extremely helpful if you were able to do that? Doug let me have a couple of those.
First of all foreign exchange is one thats impossible to give an absolute because you got both changes and impacts on your working capital balances.
Those are specific.
But when you are looking at the impacts on the earnings it's really just a translation of margins and OpEx using exchange rates last quarter and this quarter.
So you dont have an absolute amount on that.
If we look across the corporation though I will tell you that quarter-to-quarter the impact was very small and I am happy to talk about the details.
If we go specifically to the downstream earnings I think which is one you are interested in if I am looking at downstream earnings third quarter of 12 versus third quarter of 11 again you saw the nice margin bump there of $850 million thats really clean there is no lag effects or other things in there.
We were just able to have all of our operations running strong and take advantage of the strong market that we saw there.
On a $780 million if I move over to the other column I am happy to give you some additional color there.
The biggest part in there was about just under $400 million for our divestments in the quarter favorable FOREX quarter-versus-quarter was another $300 million and the balance was favorable OpEx and that pretty much takes that out.
Volume pretty minimal where we lost volumes in some of the divested assets we were able to make up those earnings by higher volumes and throughput and some of our other operations.
Your next question will come from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Yeah I just have a question related to the Celtic acquisition in the quarter and does this deal reflect any change or evolution in Exxons view of potential Canadian or British Columbian specific LNG export potential with your bigger Montney position now? I dont think it changes any of our views or thoughts we have going forward.
The Celtic acquisition gives us an opportunity to pick up as I said about 545 000 net acres in the Montney that most of that acreage is near acreage we already have.
So its very helpful to us.
And its just a continuation of what you have seen for the last couple of years where we have taken advantage of opportunities to go out and acquire large tracks of promising acreage with high upside potential and both goes on to the XTO acquisition and in particular I think what you have noticed over the last year or so is these acquisitions have tended to be more liquids-rich properties than the gas things that we added early on.
So no change I will say though that of course this gives us tremendous opportunities across North America all of which we are looking at and as you mentioned.
I think we mentioned before that we are in the early stages of assessing potential export options from Alaska from Western Canada and from the US Gulf Coast.
So we are fortunate to have large resources in each of those areas and again as we develop our plans and go forward I will have to more to say about that.
But I would say its really a continuation of the strategy that weve had in place now for the last couple of years.
That's great and may be just one other follow-up if I may to those question I mean on relating to upstream volumes.
Can you quantify or discuss the turnaround activity [legacy] contributed to whats your defining lower operational performance and I guess specifically and I guess your comments that may not but just confirm that does not or you dont see that extending into the fourth quarter and Ill leave it to that things? Sure if you look at I think the best place to look at really where we see any impact of this downtime.
If you look quarter-on-quarter third quarter of 12 versus third quarter of 11 over in the net growth where we have the minus 125 about 40 of that is downtime across the number of areas most of its scheduled you are well aware of we had some downtime at Qatar Alaska and the North Sea and so that impact showed up there.
You also see it particularly if you are looking sequentially because as you know a lot of this downtime is seasonal but the downtime effect between the third quarter this year and the second quarter of this year was about 90 KBD.
So a significant effect; most of that production is pretty much back-up.
We do have some continued downtime and operated by others properties in the North Sea but other than that the rest of the production is coming up as we would have expected heading into the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
And our next question will comes from Robert Kessler with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt</strong>  A couple of quick ones from me.
One your US natural gas volumes declining quite considerably sequentially I'm wondering if there's any anomalous items in there and of course we had hurricanes I wouldn't have thought you would have been disproportionately exposed to that what can we assume for a say normal decline rate in your US natural gas volumes going forward? Yeah if you look sequentially at our US gas I mean we had a little bit of impact from weather related activity but it wasnt large.
You did see a decline sequentially of about 5%.
Some of that was downtime but the majority of it was kind of base decline and really the impact you are seeing as we are shifting rigs from drilling primarily gas plays to drilling liquid focused plays.
And so the total rig count is down across the year and the proportion that's drilling liquids rich plays versus gas has gone up and so I think between that and some downtime that really accounts for the bulk of the reason we are down.
As you look forward I really don't have an outlook for you.
It will be dependent on how we bring things along in the market and that sort of thing but clearly you are seeing the impact of our changing focus from drygas to liquids rich opportunity.
Pickering Holt</strong> And then a conceptual one from me on M&amp;A; your recent North American focused transactions have of course further increased your upstream weighting of capital employed to North America.
Your US weighting alone was I think 46% in the upstream capital employed at the end of last year.
Looking at future acquisition possibilities conceptually does Exxon Mobil apply any limit to the capital you plan to deploy to North America or would you continue to look at potential North American M&amp;A the same way you look at opportunities globally? Yeah let me step back that's a good question.
As we step back and look at our total capital budget and where we put our CapEx we really don't have any limits in terms of type of resource or geographic focus.
We pursue all of the attractive opportunities that are out there.
As you look across the last several years you tended to see us sometime putting more CapEx into oilsands or unconventional plays or LNG but all of that is really reflective of the opportunities as they are presented and our ability with our strong financial strength to basically take advantage of anything that's out there that's on offer that we think will provide shareholder value.
As you've seen over the last couple of years the bulk of that has been through internally generated CapEx but there's also been some selective acquisitions and so I would say going forward you'll see us continuing to do what we've been doing which is to look at all the opportunities that are out there on offer and taking advantage of any opportunity we have to really enhance the portfolio of our assets with the focus continued on the long term you know if you look at all the things we've been doing over the last couple of years they are all focused on bringing really long term legacy projects up and get them running and then continuing to add to our resource space our opportunities for the future.
So I wouldn't see anything different going forward than what we've been doing; but we will continue to look for attractive opportunities wherever they present themselves.
Thank you.
Next we will hear from Doug Terreson with ISI.
Some of the global competitors are indicating that global oil demand maybe gravitating lower again and on this point given your global perspective I wanted to see if you could provide insight into some of the demand trends that Exxon Mobil is seeing around the world and specifically whether you guys are witnessing any deterioration in this area? And then second just for Exxon specifically R&amp;M was clearly strong in the quarter but the company didnt seem to benefit to the degree that some of the competitors did and while you talked about some of the cost factors a minute ago was there anything unusual on downtime either planned or unplanned that affected results and if so do you have any quantification in that area? Let me start at the first one there with the global oil demand I don't think we're seeing anything different than what others are seeing and what you're reading in the press in terms of demand particularly say in Europe and Japan and some other areas.
Well be putting out our own update here in December on our view of global oil demand but again from our perspective I wouldn't have anything to offer any different than what you are seeing out there what you are talking about.
Okay.
The R&amp;M results as you mentioned were really strong.
Again I have to say you know we were able to have very good operations up time able to take advantage in particular in the U.S.
of the discounted feeds both heavy Canadian feeds as well as WTI linked crude and so we are optimizing those across our Mid-Continent refineries and you are seeing some of those impacts showing up in the bottomline.
If you are looking at downtime I think it was the rest of your comment in the downstream?  Yeah was it unusual in the period?  You saw a little bit more in the second quarter and less in the third quarter as we came out just to give you a little more color if you were looking sequentially from third quarter of 12 on to again I am sorry the third quarter versus the second quarter we did see some lower OpEx of somewhere between $100 million and $200 million you would have seen there to the quarters and that would have helped that.
But again the bulk of the earnings driven by good operations and favorable margin impacts.
Thank you.
And next well hear from Allen Good with Morningstar Investment.
Just a question on the M&amp;A; obviously you mentioned some of the activities you have had relatively probably a little bit more than some of your competitors off late.
Can you talk a little bit about the characteristics that Exxon looks at when you go out there and survey those market opportunities that are out there and some of the things that may be you have learned from XTO since acquisition as far as what may be the better plays or any sort of knowledge you have gained from XTO that helps you to better delineate on those market opportunities as far as acquisitions go?  Yeah let me Ill actually start with your second question and back up in to the first.
Clearly one of the synergies that we anticipated getting with the XTO acquisition that have been realized in the last couple of years is the ability to utilize the expertise and now as they had combined with some of our technology advances to better analyze and evaluate properties that are out there.
And youve seen that if you look at some of the acquisitions we made in the U.S.
of properties and some of the deals we have done elsewhere and up in Canada a lot of the ability to properly evaluate the resource potential of those properties and assign value to them stems from directly from the organization that came with the XTO acquisition and that is working just as we had planned.
As you look at M&amp;A or any other resource opportunity capture we look for the same thing in all of them.
We do have a high quality large resource with upside potential; that has to be number one.
Do we think we can bring some synergistic value to those reserves and perhaps get a better return than someone else could and that comes from either technology that we bring to the table R&amp;D work or operational expertise that allows us to then again get a better value for that and they might otherwise would have.
And then we look for other more obvious synergies around contiguous properties to what we have or other ways of filling in a portfolio to perhaps be able to pursue a larger strategy.
So M&amp;A versus outright capture of these resources the criteria for us remains the same and we really don't differentiate between the two.
And then just second question could you update us on the North America rig count.
I believe you were close to 250 in the last quarter and you Don mentioned that I think over half of it is in liquids-rich place are you continuing to move drilling away from dry gas at this stage.
Yeah as we look to cross the quarter we ended at about 50 rigs.
We are probably close to that today maybe a rig or two less as we speak and two-thirds of those rigs are drilling the liquids-rich opportunities and in particular I mentioned the Woodford Ardmore is an area of high activity for us the Bakken of course an area of high activity and the Permian is another area of high activity for us.
So you do see this shift going into the areas that are more liquids-rich.
As you go forward without giving any specific counts you could expect to see us continuing to pursue those liquids-rich opportunities particularly in the areas that I mentioned but I don't have a specific outlook for you in terms of total rig count going forward.
Next we will heal from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
You briefly mentioned LNG and I was hoping you could maybe give us an update on where you stand in the application process out of the US Gulf Coast and then maybe more broadly you kind of mentioned the potential from Western Canada Alaska.
Could you maybe rank order where you see the best opportunities if possible I know its early days yet but.
Sure let's start with the Golden Pass opportunity that we are assessing.
We did early in October we received authorization from the US Department of Energy to export domestically produced natural gas as LNG from Golden Pass to nations that have existing Free Trade Agreements.
So we do have that approval in hand.
I can also tell you that we have recently filed an application with the US Department of Energy to explore LNG to non-FDA countries and we will see how that application process proceeds.
I have to say that when we look at all of these activities they really are all in the early days and no decisions have been made.
Again we are very fortunate to have a material high quality gas resource in both the US Gulf Coast and in Western Canada and Alaska and it would be way premature to try to rank order those other than to say they are all high quality resources for us and we are looking at all of the options available to monetize those resources including again early days on assessing the viability of LNG exports from anyone of those three regions.
Yeah fair enough.
The second question was on the Gulf of Mexico shelf as I understand that you had formed maybe a JV with a smaller EMT player to target I guess a deep oil play similar to what some of your peers are doing on the gas side for deep gas.
I'm just curious if you had any updates on that and if I'm not mistaken there was going to be a well [spun] toward the end of the year.
Yeah I don't have a specific update with regard to that joint venture.
We do have that transaction as was publicly discussed but I really wouldn't have any update particularly near term on what our activities are going to be on that.
And I'll just mention though if you look across the broader Gulf of Mexico you do see a nice increase in activity as we continue to develop some of these properties that we have captured over the last couple of years I mentioned some of those in our prepared remarks and we're very excited about getting some of these wells down and continuing to broader exploration phase which as you mentioned has a number of partners and a number of structures but all in a very good opportunity for us and one we're pursuing pretty quickly.
The next question will come from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.
Just a few follow ups on some of the North America type question.
So you have been pretty clear you pulled back on some of the gas drilling in the US and we saw a little bit of that decline show up.
When you kind of slow down the drilling in unconventional the decline is going to be pretty precipitous.
So just wondering maybe the follow up to the earlier question you know is 5% just the beginning of what could be a more rapid decline in your gas production or is there something that is not fully apples-to-apples about this decline and it won't be as bad or worse going forward? I dont have a specific outlook for you Arjun but I will note that there are a number of factors in addition to just some of the shifting of these rigs.
We did have some downtime in the quarter and if you look at this year versus last year you will recall we did have some asset sales last year and we're seeing a little bit of that.
But again if you look just over the couple of last quarter in particular downtime and then just normal decline associated with this but I dont have a decline rate for you or go-forward in outlook.
We will see how things go.
I will tell you in some areas we've been actually able to keep the volumes flat while reducing the rigs due to efficiencies we have gained rates of drilled wells and that sort of thing.
So we have been able to offset some of this decline in rigs with some improved operations and productivity.
In terms of the shift Dave to liquids-rich would you say you have made the shift now or is there still more gas rigs to come out of the rig count?  What you will see as well continue to have this focus on the liquids-rich place exactly how many more rigs might move I dont have a specific number for you.
We do have contractual obligations that we have to meet and other commitments which will keep us drilling some dry gas wells but we evaluate this thing on an ongoing basis literally day-to-day and month-to-month in terms of how we optimize the rigs we have available to us what the market is generating or how the wells are performing.
So I really wouldnt have a forward look for you.
And Dave may be just lastly on the same topic clearly you are increasingly are some liquids-rich you mentioned the Permian the Bakken some of these places.
In terms of having that show up visibly in your US liquids oil volumes Im going to assume there is some lag for that to happen none that you can comment on that at all?  You are seeing that show up in the liquids volumes as some of this ramp up; and again most of what we have been doing in these areas for the last several months is been delineating what we have appraising what we have been doing looking at what the optimum parameters are for developing thee fields.
So now you are starting to see us ramp up on the production side particularly in the Bakken where we are up I think just under 50% year-on-year if you look at the third quarter.
So you are starting to see some of that.
You will start to see some of that in the other areas as well; the Woodford Ardmore for example and the Permian as we continue to move into more of a development mode.
So I don't have the number for you other then to say yes if you look at those fairly small declined rates on US liquids you are seeing the impact of normal decline on our conventional field being offset somewhat by ramp ups in some of those other areas.
I will say if you take out the Alaska and just look at the lower 48 our liquids volumes are actually up quarter-versus-quarter and sequentially.
So some of that downtime is masking some of that performance.
That's helpful thank you so much.
Our next question will come from Faisel Khan with Citi Group.
I want to go back to the production outlook for a second.
In your analyst meeting you guys discussed how production capacity will grow at some blade through 2015 and given your comments around decreased drilling of national gas in US also so that matter decreased investment in Iraq and potentially an exit from southern Iraq and I am just trying to figure out how does this impact your future production capacity gross targets and to that reserve replacement too? First of all I don't have a new outlook on the outer years.
We are just in the process of pulling our plan together and looking at what the future looks like.
I don't have any updates and of course we will provide an update in March at the Analyst meeting.
I will say if you look at all the big projects that we have gone on out there that we've been building for sometime.
Those are all in the process of starting up as planned.
The projects we had this year in Angola and Nigeria as we look out a little further of course the start up of the Kearl project and then as we move into the following years the Banyu Urip project in Indonesia and all the other launch projects Papua New Guinea LNG (inaudible) Gorgon all of those projects that we got still going in the ground all of those are still in the plan and that portfolio remains very strong.
So I don't have an update around on that.
And the second part of your question Faisel.
Yeah David on Southern Iraq I mean what are your plans in the country? Yeah if we look at Iraq the comment I made was we are now producing right at about 430 000 barrels a day of oil right on plan and the good news is strictly that we've been able to do that a little more efficiently than we had expected but I don't have any other update on Iraq other than that.
We continue to work and continue to meet our contractual commitments.
Just one last question on your chemicals business on the expansion of your Singapore facility can you give us a status update on that and what (inaudible) facility is operating its up and running and if you are moving products into the markets.
Sure.
The simple answer would be yes to all three of those questions.
The project is nearing mechanical completion and as we talked about before several of the various pieces of that project have been progressively starting up.
We were able to produce for example metallocene based polymers here earlier in the year.
We do have product qualification activities underway for those products.
So the overall project is coming right along.
The very last project to reach mechanical completion is the steam cracker and we do expect completion of that by year end.
So we would certainly expect to be mechanically complete and on track for starting that large investment up and moving that product into the market.
So the project is doing well.
The Asia Pacific area as you well know is kind of looking at bottom of cycle margins right now.
Not surprisingly that remains a cyclical business and one of our strengths has been for a long time investing through these cycles with very strong a year or two ago its weak now this project as you can well imagine is really designed for the long-term while we remain very bullish on growth in that part of the area.
So the long-term view remains the same.
The project is on schedule to start up and to be mechanically complete by the end of the year and then we will progress the ramp up of that as we go through the first part of next year.
Our next question will come from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Two quick ones on Celtic if I may as I'm sure you saw the Canadian government recently vetoed a purchase by another operator of a domestic oil &amp; gas company.
Any concerns about getting approvals for the Celtic purchase? Our approval process is the same as everyone elses and we are progressing through that.
We have a long history of operating in Canada.
We've been there a long time and we are looking forward to getting through the approval process and closing on that deal and moving forward with our plans for those resources.
Okay and assuming the deal goes through and given what you said about curtailing dry gas drilling across North America is it safe to say that you would pull back on the current relative to the current level of drilling activity across Celtics acreage? I dont have any outlook today on exactly what specifics we would be doing with that once the deal closes.
The deal hasnt closed yet.
So it would be premature for me to make any comments about our plans going forward.
Thank you.
Next we will hear from Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Just two quick earnings questions.
If I turn to slide 15 this is the upstream sequential 3Q to 2Q.
Obviously there is a $2.2 billion negative other and $1.1 billion of it is assets sales but can you give us some color on to what the other $1 billion is in terms of the changes for downstream thats helpful.
Yeah if you're looking at this sequential this is the sequential that you're looking at.
Yeah 2Q versus 3Q.
Yeah there are couple of other factors in there.
OpEx is a negative $200 million foreign exchange is a negative $100 million and then the combination of asset sales and tax items is about $1.8 million.
And the main driver of the OpEx and tax related we did have the change in the UK tax but if you roll it all up just think about OpEx a couple hundred million FOREX $100 million taxes a $100 million in the balance in the asset sales and tax items.
And those tax items were were any of those deferred whether it was ongoing? Yeah some of those were deferred.
And then just on the chemical business in the US obviously Baytown had some disruption in the first half I guess 3Q was it been a good result is that a fair kind of run rate for the macro conditions that we are in Q3 or were there any disruptions in the US portfolio for chemicals? No we didnt really have any disruptions of any consequence kind of normal operations and nothing really to speak off kind of like the downstream; our chemical operations ran well in the third quarter and no major items.
And then coming to my question on cash and buybacks etcetera obviously [Europe] your ending cash at the end of the quarter was lower than the beginning of the quarter because $14 billion of cash flow doesnt cover the dividend plus buybacks plus the spent on this large mega projects.
Are you comfortable to let cash balances fold or is this some kind of statements about the future cash earnings power of Exxon as these big projects come on which means that ultimately this level of buybacks is appropriate? Yeah I think the first thing I will note Ed is that we did spend $3 billion of our cash when the SeaRiver debentures matured in the quarter.
So that was a $3 billion hit there.
In terms of overall strategy around cash no change in our approach there we maintained sufficient cash to run the operations and keep our flexibility for doing other things in the business but really dont have any particular change or outlook in terms of cash or debt.
We will just optimize that as we go forward depending on business conditions.
Thank you.
Next we will hear from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
I have pleased for three really short questions.
First on the versus the second quarter you indicate that production job 39 000 barrels per day due to entitlement I would assume that's all we need to change in [POV] in some of your project.
The question is that do you any major projects about to change their POVs that over the next one to two years? Let me talk about the first one.
I will give you a little more color on that 39 000 barrels a day Paul.
It was about half was permitted to net interest impacts and the other half was on price and expense so kind of a mixture there and neither one of having a significant impact.
Going forward when we look at near-term production of course the biggest factor for us is the price because that drives how many barrels you get to recover your cost as well as how quickly through the transit.
So looking forward here particularly near-term I don't have an outlook number to provide you specific to what the sequential price expend impacts might be but again the biggest factor there is crude price.
Do you have any major project that is above that potentially could be they move to the next [PR] ratio within the next one or two years you have the current oil price stay? Paul I really I don't have any specifics along those lines in terms of our project by project.
We will really talk again about the make up of our volumes going forward when we visit with you in March and so Ill probably just hold any comments about future volume outlooks to that time when we can kind of ramp in the whole story for you.
Okay can you tell us that what is your total share oil production in the third quarter or as of this point and breakout between the oil and gas.
If you are looking at our unconventional volumes you know I don't have a total for you on that Paul or a split between oil &amp; gas you know I think the important thing is as you are looking at the progress that we are making against some of these improvements we are making year-over-year in the Bakken in particular for example and some of the other areas.
I think that the progress we are making in those fields particularly as we transition from delineation and appraisal into more development is probably more important than the absolute production that we are seeing on that and the progress that we are making but I really don't have a specific number for you.
Just quick one last one do you have the absolute venue of the after sales (inaudible) in the quarter and also do you have any meaningful inventory gains or price finalization impact for your long haul [barrel] under water in this quarter.
Yeah let me hit that second question and then I will back up to the first one.
If you look at the absolute number in the third quarter its almost zero in terms of all the price timing price finalization long haul crudes.
We did have a negative effect in the second quarter but if you look at our absolute results in the third quarter there really wasnt anything there.
And then if you were looking at the absolute value of the divestments in the third quarter that was about $400 million and the biggest item there was the downstream divestment of our business in Switzerland.
And next we will hear from Ian Reid with Jefferies.
I just got a couple of quick questions about your international assets.
On Kurdistan do you want to give us your thinking about the drilling program there and when we should be looking forward to the results etcetera.
Yeah Iain I have to say I really don't have any comments on Kurdistan at all to offer today.
Really but you do have a program going on there.
Yeah like I said I really just don't have any comment on Kurdistan today.
Okay.
Papua New Guinea what's the status of the planning for train 3.
You obviously mentioned pretty good mentioned from the first two trains.
I believe train 3 is in the works that when should we look for FID on that.
Yeah let me first back up just a second and let you know that our primary focus of course is on our existing projects.
That project has come along very well and we are on schedule for startup in 2014 and that's our primary focus.
If you look at how we are doing on the exploration side I think we have a number of opportunities in the area and we have a very active broad explorations program going on.
We have had some success this year in the Tingyang well.
So that's looking good.
Obviously as we continue to evolve and mature our resource space in the area we will be looking at options for monetizing those resources and I cant give you any outlook in terms of when we will make final decisions on any opportunities but we are in the early stages looking up we have thinking about what we might want to do and I would of course include a potential additional train of Papua New Guinea but all of that will be depending upon the exploration success that we have and how we look going forward but in the meantime I think the really positive news for the shareholders is the project is progressing and progressing well.
And the areas are looking very promising for us.
Could just comment on PNG I know you didnt take up the form out which also is offering in the exploration areas.
Does that kind of indicates you got enough of PNG or what was you thinking there? I wouldn't want to make any comment on any thoughts or rumors or speculation on deals that we've done or not done.
We're looking at a lot of things but again I wouldn't make any specific comment on any particular potential transactions.
Okay so the last one.
I think you can help me with.
West Siberia tight oil what's the kind of structure of the contracts or the agreement there with Rosneft.
Are you carrying them through this or what are the kind of any idea about outlying cost and volumes etcetera? If you are looking at West Siberia we are as I mentioned looking at we're already actively studying and what we are going to do in that pilot program hope to get a well down in the first quarter.
In terms of specific details of the commercial arrangements there probably premature to be talking about that given where we are in the stage.
So I won't be able to help you on that question after all.
But you do have 30% interest is that the way it would? Yeah its two-thirds one-third Rosneft and Exxon Mobil.
At this time we have no further questions in the queue.
Mr.
Rosenthal I will turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
I would just like to thank everybody for your participation today.
I know many of you are probably participating under some probably fairly difficult personal situation.
So I wish you all the best.
In that regard thanks for the good questions and Ill look forward to seeing you in about three months.
So thank you very much.
Thank you.
And again that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for participation.
Your may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the ExxonMobil Corporation Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
David Rosenthal.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's fourth quarter earnings call and webcast.
The focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the fourth quarter and full year 2012.
I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.
Before we go further I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Moving to Slide 3 we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results.
Global economic growth remained weak in the fourth quarter driven by the U.S.
Japan and Europe.
Preliminary fourth quarter U.S.
GDP showed a slight decline of 0.1%.
The Japanese and European economies remain challenged with Japan experiencing its second recession in 3 years and Europe likely marginally positive.
Meanwhile China's growth rate showed some improvement reflecting an upturn in industrial production and higher retail sales.
Energy markets were mixed in the fourth quarter with higher U.S.
natural gas prices and relatively flat Brent crude oil prices while WTI's prices declined.
European and Asian chemical margins showed improvement.
However global industry refining margins deteriorated significantly versus the third quarter.
Turning now to the fourth quarter financial results as shown on Slide 4 ExxonMobil's fourth quarter 2012 earnings were just under $10 billion an increase of $550 million from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $2.20 up $0.23 from a year ago.
The corporation distributed $7.6 billion to shareholders in the fourth quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $5 billion was used to repurchase shares.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $5 billion in the first quarter of 2013.
CapEx in the fourth quarter was $12.4 billion up 24% from the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily due to the Denbury transaction.
Our cash generation remains strong with $14 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales.
At the end of the fourth quarter 2012 cash totaled $9.9 billion and debt was $11.6 billion.
The next slide provides additional detail on fourth quarter sources and uses of funds.
Over the quarter cash decreased from $13.3 billion to $9.9 billion.
The combined impact of strong earnings depreciation expense working capital and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $14 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included additions to plant property and equipment or PP&amp;E up $10.1 billion and shareholder distributions of $7.6 billion.
Additional financing and investing activities increased our cash by $300 million.
Moving now to the full year results as shown on Slide 6 ExxonMobil's full year 2012 earnings were $44.9 billion up $3.8 billion from 2011.
Earnings per share for the year were $9.70 up $1.28 from 2011.
The corporation distributed $30.1 billion to shareholders in 2012 through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $20 billion was utilized to purchase shares.
CapEx in 2012 was $39.8 billion up $3 billion from 2011 primarily due to continued progress on our world-class project portfolio including the Kearl oil sands project.
Included in full year CapEx was about $3 billion of acquisitions.
Our cash generation was very strong with $63.8 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales including $7.7 billion associated with the asset sales.
Moving now to the full year cash flow statement as shown on Slide 7.
During the year cash decreased from $13.1 billion to $9.9 billion.
The combined impact of strong earnings depreciation expense working capital and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $63.8 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included additions to PP&amp;E of $34.3 billion and shareholder distributions of $30.1 billion.
Additional financing and investing activities decreased cash by $2.6 billion.
Moving on to Slide 8 and a review of our segmented results.
ExxonMobil's fourth quarter 2012 earnings of just under $10 billion increased $550 million or 6% from the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily due to higher refining and chemical margins partially offset by lower production volumes and lower gains on asset sales.
Upstream earnings decreased $1.1 billion while Downstream earnings improved by $1.3 billion.
Chemical earnings were up $415 million and corporate and financing expenses increased by $141 million primarily due to tax items.
Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remain at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.
As shown on Slide 9 ExxonMobil's fourth quarter 2012 earnings increased by $380 million compared with the third quarter of 2012 primarily due to higher production volumes and gains on asset sales partially offset by lower refining margins.
Looking now at the full year comparison on Slide 10 ExxonMobil's full year 2012 earnings were up $3.8 billion to $44.9 billion an increase of 9% from 2011 primarily due to divestment and restructuring gains and higher refining margins partially offset by lower production volumes.
Upstream earnings decreased $4.5 billion while Downstream earnings were up $8.7 billion and Chemical earnings were down $485 million.
Corporate and financing expenses for the full year 2012 were down a favorable $118 million from 2011.
Moving next to fourth quarter business highlights and beginning on Slide 11.
We continue to advance our global portfolio of high-quality upstream projects.
At the end of the fourth quarter construction of the Kearl Initial Development was complete and we are currently progressing phased start-up activities.
Mining operations have commenced and ore is being stockpiled adjacent to the ore processing plant which is being commissioned.
Commissioning of the utility systems is well advanced with 2 boilers operational.
The ore preparation plant crusher and slurry preparation conveyors also began running in December.
The bitumen process facilities are being readied for the introduction of solvent and the diluent and natural gas supply systems are operational.
We expect production of mine-diluted bitumen from the first of 3 frac treatment trains in the first quarter.
Startup of the 2 additional bitumen frac treatment trains will proceed in sequence as planned with production from the initial development expected to reach volumes of approximately 110 000 barrels per day of bitumen later in 2013.
Despite U.S.
permitting the regulatory issues that continued for almost 2 years involving transportation of facility modules our project team achieved industry-leading safety performance and mitigated significant challenges including an early onset of winter and exceptionally harsh weather during the current start-up operations.
Our priority remains to complete these activities safely.
Also during the quarter we announced our plans to develop the Hebron oilfield offshore Newfoundland and Labrador.
The development we utilized a gravity-based structure designed to withstand a variety of harsh Arctic conditions including sea ice and icebergs.
The base which is already under construction has been designed to store approximately 1.2 million barrels of crude oil and will support an integrated topsides deck that includes living quarters and facilities to perform drilling and production operations.
Oil recovery from the project is currently estimated at 700 million barrels with upside potential.
The platform is designed for production of 150 000 barrels of oil per day.
First oil is anticipated around the end of 2017.
And finally the Angola Satellites Phase 2 project was sanctioned during the quarter.
The development continues to optimize the capabilities of the existing Block 15 facilities and will allow current production levels to be increased via subsea tiebacks to our existing FPSOs.
Turning now to Slide 12 and an update on our conventional exploration activities.
In Tanzania the Lavani-2 well successfully appraised the Lavani-1 Palaeogene discovery.
Additionally a new discovery of gas in a high-quality Cretaceous reservoir was encountered.
This reservoir is of similar age to the Zafarani discovery and marked the third discovery on Block 2 in 2012.
The Zafarani-2 appraisal well spud in December.
Additional 3D seismic acquisition and processing is also underway and is expected to be available for analysis in the first quarter of 2013.
Also during the quarter ExxonMobil secured the right to farm in to a 75% operating interest in the Tugela South Exploration Right which covers approximately 2.8 million acres offshore Durban on the East Coast of South Africa.
Separately we executed a technical cooperation permit with the government of South Africa to study the hydrocarbon potential of the Deepwater Durban Basin covering approximately 12.4 million acres.
In the Gulf of Mexico the Phobos prospect which is 5 miles South of ExxonMobil's Hadrian South discovery spud during the quarter.
Additionally we have plans for an active exploration program in the Gulf of Mexico during 2013.
Turning now to our unconventional exploration activities on Slide 13.
In the middle of Magdalena Basin of Colombia we drilled the Mono Arana 1 well targeting tight oil in the La Luna shale formation.
This well will be tested during the first quarter of 2013.
In Argentina we have completed the drilling of 4 wells on the Loma del Molle Los Toldos I and Los Toldos II blocks with encouraging results.
Completions and testing are now underway.
Two additional wells on the Sierra charter [ph] and Pampa de las Yeguas blocks are currently drilling.
In Russia Rosneft and ExxonMobil signed a Pilot Development Agreement establishing a joint project to assess the commercial production of tight oil reserves at the Bazhenov and Achimov formations in West Siberia.
The joint venture is 51% Rosneft and 49% ExxonMobil.
Work will be carried out on Rosneft's 23 licensed blocks covering a total of more than 10 000 square kilometers.
Drilling is anticipated to begin in 2013.
Also during the quarter we closed on the Denbury transaction which increased our holdings in the Bakken region by about 50% to approximately 600 000 net acres giving the company a more significant presence in one of the major U.S.
growth areas for onshore oil production.
Turning now to the Upstream financial and operating results and starting on Slide 14.
Upstream earnings in the fourth quarter were $7.8 billion down $1.1 billion from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Lower crude oil realizations mostly offset by improved natural gas realizations negatively impacted earnings by $70 million as crude oil realizations declined $3.18 per barrel and gas realizations increased $0.21 per thousand cubic feet.
Production volume and mix effects negatively impacted earnings by $400 million.
All other items primarily lower gains from asset sales decreased earnings by $600 million.
Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the fourth quarter of 2012 were $19.65.
Moving to Slide 15 oil equivalent volumes decreased by 5.2% from the fourth quarter of last year due to the impact of base decline lower entitlement volumes and divestments.
Volumes were positively impacted by the ramp-up of projects in West Africa and higher demand.
Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes OPEC quota effects and divestments production was down 2.1%.
Turning now to the sequential comparison and starting on Slide 16.
Upstream earnings increased by $1.8 billion versus the third quarter of 2012.
Realizations decreased earnings by $50 million primarily due to lower crude oil realizations which declined $0.66 per barrel but were mostly offset by improved natural gas realizations which increased $0.72 per thousand cubic feet.
Production volume and mix effects increased earnings by $660 million.
Other items including higher gains from asset sales and favorable tax items increased earnings by $1.2 billion.
Moving to Slide 17.
Oil equivalent volumes were up 8.4% from the third quarter of 2012 mainly due to higher seasonal demand in Europe and lower downtime partly offset by base decline.
Entitlement volumes were positive due to favorable price and spend impacts in several regions.
Turning now to the full year comparison and starting on Slide 18.
Upstream earnings were $29.9 billion in 2012 a decrease of $4.5 billion from 2011.
Lower crude oil realizations primarily in the U.S.
partly offset by improved natural gas realizations led to a negative impact of $110 million.
Lower volume and mix impacts decreased earnings by $2.3 billion.
All other items including higher operating expenses unfavorable tax items lower gains on asset sales and unfavorable foreign exchange impacts reduced earnings by a total of $2.1 billion.
Moving to Slide 19.
Full year volumes declined by 5.9% or 267 000 oil equivalent barrels per day compared to 2011.
Lower volumes were primarily driven by base decline lower entitlement volumes and divestments partly offset by project ramp-up in West Africa and lower downtime.
Excluding the impacts of lower entitlement volumes quotas and divestments production was down 1.7%.
For further data on regional volumes please refer to the press release and the IR supplement.
On Slide 20 we show actual 2012 production volumes compared to the outlook provided at the March Analyst Meeting.
Overall actual 2012 volumes were 2.7% lower than this outlook.
About 1/2 of this variance was due to operational performance with the balance due mainly to entitlement and Iraq spend impacts.
Operational performance for the year was slightly below forecast reflecting the timing of work program execution and the duration of downtime events particularly in the U.K.
North Sea.
While the 2012 Brent crude price of about $112 per barrel is near the basis of our March Analyst Meeting outlook prices in the first half of 2012 most notably February through April were higher than our outlook basis which negatively affected volumes due to the timing of both permanent and price-related impacts.
The efficient use of capital in Iraq resulted in lower spending which also lowered net volumes.
Moving now to the Downstream financial and operating results and starting on Slide 21.
Downstream earnings in the fourth quarter were $1.8 billion up $1.3 billion from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Improved margins mainly in North American refining increased earnings by $1.2 billion.
Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $80 million mainly due to increased capture of advantaged North American crude supply.
All other items increased earnings by a net $80 million.
Turning to Slide 22.
Sequentially fourth quarter Downstream earnings declined by $1.4 billion.
Lower refining margins decreased earnings by $1.4 billion while volume and mix effects increased earnings by $260 million mainly driven by optimization and yield improvements.
Other items reduced earnings by $270 million primarily due to the absence of the gain on the Switzerland divestment.
The full year comparison for the Downstream is shown on Slide 23.
Downstream full year 2012 earnings were $13.2 billion up $8.7 billion from 2011.
Higher margins mainly in North American and European refining increased earnings by $2.6 billion.
Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $180 million as refining optimization activities including increased capture of advantaged North American crude supplies were partly offset by higher planned maintenance activity and lower contributions from divested assets.
Other effects increased earnings by $5.9 billion mainly due to the restructuring of our Downstream holdings in Japan.
Moving now to the Chemical financial and operating results starting on Slide 24.
Fourth quarter Chemical earnings were $958 million up $415 million versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
Stronger margins increased earnings by $330 million mainly reflecting higher aromatics realizations and improved light feed advantage.
All other items increased earnings by $90 million.
Moving to Slide 25.
Sequentially fourth quarter Chemical earnings increased by $168 million.
Stronger margins mainly due to improved aromatics realizations and improved light feed advantage increased earnings by $180 million.
All other items decreased earnings by $10 million.
On Slide 26 we show the full year comparison for Chemical results.
2012 earnings were nearly $3.9 billion.
Weaker margins mainly in Europe and Asia decreased earnings by $440 million while volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $100 million.
Other effects increased earnings by $50 million due to the Japan restructuring partly offset by a number of items including unfavorable foreign exchange impact.
Moving to Slide 27.
ExxonMobil's fourth quarter and full year financial and operating performance reflect the value of our integrated business model and other competitive advantages.
In the fourth quarter we earned just under $10 billion generated $14 billion in cash flow invested $12.4 billion in the business and distributed $7.6 billion to our shareholders.
As we continue to focus on operational excellence deploy high-impact technologies and leverage our unparalleled global integration ExxonMobil remains well positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value.
And finally I would like to mention 2 upcoming events.
First in mid-February we will be releasing our 2012 reserves replacement data.
Second as many of you will already have seen our Analyst Meeting this year will take place at the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday March 6.
This will include a live audio webcast beginning at 9:00 a.m.
Eastern 8:00 a.m.
Central Time.
ExxonMobil's presenters will be led by Chairman and CEO Rex Tillerson.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
I would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> My question on production is for Kearl is that weather the driver in the short-term delay in the production ramp? And should we be considering a 3-quarter ramp-up to 110 000 barrels a day I guess exiting the year at that capacity? And then I have a second question please.
Yes the weather situation was a major factor in the startup moving from what we had originally said by the end of the year to the first quarter.
We had 2 things actually.
One weather came earlier than normal and then it has been just brutally cold up there and so we've had to adjust accordingly.
As we move through the quarter and continue progressing some of the activities I mentioned in my prepared remarks we do expect as that first frac treatment process comes up that'll give us about 37 000 barrels of bitumen a day and then we'll bring up the next 2 frac treatment trains kind of in sequence and that'll get us up to 110 000.
I don't have a specific date for achieving the 110 000 but it'll be later in the year as a function of progress that we make here across the winter getting things started up safely.
So the focus is getting the project up and running getting that first production online and then moving forward and getting up to the full capacity that we've mentioned.
And we are making really good progress this quarter but again it's a deliberate diligent effort to get this thing up safely recognizing that this is a multi-decade project and we really want to focus on getting it up right.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And my second question it really relates to the use of rail for oil movement in North America.
And I know that Exxon has a large existing railcar fleet a diversified and growing liquid footprint.
I also read a report recently that Exxon's placed a significant railcar order recently.
And so I just wondering do you see rail as a potential solution for taking [ph] barrel production in the event maybe the Keystone is delayed or denied or if you have other kind of specified or a contemplated use for rail as a bit more permanent solution for oil movement in North America.
That's an all-encompassing question so I'll probably step back here for just a second and put it in perspective.
First of all with relation -- or with regard to the Kearl project we have worked all of the logistics out and we can place all of our barrels and we have the capability to run all those barrels in our own refineries for that first 110 000 barrels a day.
We may elect to put some into third-party refineries but we do not have an issue in terms of logistics moving those barrels out of the Kearl project and into the market.
As you look a little more broadly both at the Canadian heavy crude as well as a lot of the crudes such as Bakken until pipelines are built and some of the things that you mentioned actually come to fruition there are today some bottlenecks across the industry and there's a lot of different modes of transportation being used to move that product to market of which railcar is certainly one of them waiting for some of these pipelines to come in.
As you mentioned we have -- or as you would expect with the size of our business we have a very large fleet of rail cars both across all of our businesses and so that is already a primary mode of transportation for us.
We're always looking at that.
We're always looking at the logistics and how we can optimize both the placement of our production into the market as well as obtaining advantaged feedstocks for our refining circuit.
And so that is an ongoing effort and there's nothing unusual in that.
In regards to the rumor that you heard I would just say that's a rumor.
I wouldn't have a comment on it specifically but I can say there's nothing out of the ordinary in terms of what our organization our supply organization is working on again getting our crudes to market for the best value and getting the lowest cost advantaged feedstocks into our refineries and chemical plants.
We'll take our next question from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple so I'll try and be fairly quick on these.
But can I deal first with the capture rate? We used to look at this quite a lot I guess it's now become a bit of an issue again.
I'm talking about the net income as a proportion of your weighted realizations.
The last -- not just in this quarter but the last 2 or 3 quarters it looks like it's been sliding a little bit and I'm just wondering if there's a particular trend that you can observe there or for something that you're seeing as well what might be behind that? And then I have a quick follow-up please.
Yes.
That -- yes I know the trend you're talking about over the last couple of quarters.
Of course there's a lot of things working in there some of the price differentials that you're seeing some of the mix effects of where our production's coming from some of the entitlement effects that you see there.
And again U.S.
gas production and that sort of thing.
So I wouldn't read anything into a couple of quarters' worth of data.
We are very focused on unit profitability and working that very hard getting some of these projects up.
We have seen some increased operating expense as we brought some of these new projects up.
But again I think if you look over the longer trend and you look at the projects we've got coming on I think that'll sort itself out but a lot of ups and downs across the year here.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'll keep an eye on that one.
The other one is really I know you're not going to give me a great answer on this at least I'm presuming so buybacks and dividends David there's some chatter in the market that the sustainability of your buybacks may not be -- it might not be realistic to assume $5 billion on a quarterly basis.
But you have still got very very low net debt to cap.
So I'm just curious about how management is thinking about where the balance sheet [ph] ought to be for a company given the level of your capital spending and what the priorities would be potentially for again for the [indiscernible]? Yes I mentioned in the prepared remarks that we're looking at another $5 billion of buybacks for the quarter.
I don't have any guidance going forward that'll be -- depend on a number of things including commodity prices and margins.
In terms of the balance sheet structure and use of debt in our cash flows Doug I -- there's really no change in what we've been doing for a very long time which is making sure we pay a consistent increasing dividend over time.
We fund that very robust capital program that we have and get these projects -- as you know we have very large projects starting up between now and the end of 2016 getting all that funded as well as our pipeline of portfolio projects.
And then the balance of the cash we return to the shareholders via the buyback.
In terms of target leverage or any of that sort of thing I really wouldn't have a comment on that other than we do have an objective of maintaining a very strong balance sheet keeping that flexibility to take advantage of opportunities.
And so although there's wide variability in prices and margins as we go through the cycles in the business those constants will remain just that.
And we really don't -- really wouldn't have any change that I could foresee coming.
We'll go next to Ed Westlake with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So I just was going to keep this on the actual earnings but one question for 2013.
Obviously you've made some small acquisitions you've Denbury and obviously Celtic.
If you can just run us through what volumes you expect in '13 and when you expect I think the Celtic deal to close.
Yes.
Let me hit the second one first and then I'll come back to the other one.
I really wouldn't give any outlook comments on Celtic.
That transaction has not closed yet.
We're still in the review process.
So making any comment about that probably would not be appropriate.
If we go back to the Denbury deal that we did close in the fourth quarter we did pick up as I mentioned a couple of hundred thousand acres there.
I don't have an outlook for you but in terms of what we'll do as we go forward I can tell you that we did see in our own business in the Bakken gross operating production of about 33 000 barrels a day this year and that was up just over 50% from last year and that excludes a little bit of a contribution from the Denbury acquisition there at the end of the year.
I will say that this acreage that we're picking up is in the high-performing middle Bakken and upper Three Forks area.
It's also pretty adjacent to the properties we already had so we get some good synergy and leverage there.
So without giving a specific outlook on the volumes from that we are certainly looking forward to folding that into our portfolio optimizing the production out of that and really putting together as we always do a long-term forward plan for developing that resource.
So we're pretty excited about it but we just got it and we're just getting to work on it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in the quarter you had I mean European gas I mean is it -- was demand weak or was it declined? And then on Africa you fell a bit in Q4 versus Q3 and I'm just wondering was that anything unusual? Yes.
If you look at -- so let's take Europe first.
It's really decline just normal decline nothing out of the ordinary there.
We did see -- we also had a little bit of -- if you're looking say year-over-year particularly in the fourth quarter we did have some asset management impacts as well.
So think about it as a little uptick in demand offset by normal decline and the impact of the assets that we divested.
Research Division</strong> And then Africa oil fell Q-over-Q and obviously year-over-year? Yes.
If I'm looking at the Africa liquids I think we're actually up a little bit in the fourth quarter of '12 versus '11.
But sequentially yes.
We began -- yes if you're looking sequentially that's really just a planned downtime event.
We actually had a little increase in pricing spend entitlement impacts but it was really maintenance and downtime.
We'll go next to Robert Kessler with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I could just follow up on the European gas volume comment even if I adjust for the portfolio effects I estimate you're still down maybe 5% year-on-year and I'm wondering what -- one is that a good adjusted number where would you point me there? And then secondly how much of the decline might you attribute to loss with increased competition with say coal imports into Europe which appear to have been quite robust kind of midyear into year end? And then how much of that might reverse in the first quarter would you estimate? Yes.
Let's take those -- probably best to look at that on a full year over full year.
Although the quarter I think could be -- would be pretty similar.
If we look year-over-year in total we did see a little uptick in demand on a net basis and we actually had a little better performance in our operations from a downtime perspective.
So that was offset if you look at the total year-over-year demand really by decline and asset management impacts.
In terms of competition from coal or that sort of thing I don't think that's a big impact.
I know there's been some switching around up there but I think for our perspective overall -- again our demand was a little higher we're just seeing the impact of normal decline in the asset management from the assets we divested primarily in the fourth quarter of last year.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Downstream it sounds like you referenced a better capture on the light end of the barrel feeding into your refineries.
Can you give us some more color around that? Are you running more light crude oil in North America as a percentage of the overall feedstock? And are you getting a better price relative to benchmarks in the applicable regions let's say LOS [ph] along the Gulf Coast and any kind of incremental color in terms of earnings contribution on the margin or extra volumes you're running? Yes sure.
Let me give you just a little bit of data coming right out of the earnings Rex [ph] that we talked about.
If you look at our fourth quarter '12 over fourth quarter '11 earnings there's a volume mix effect there that nets to $80 million.
I can tell you within that is about $300 million positive on our optimization of our refining circuit.
And a big piece of that is going to be higher advantage crude processing both heavy crudes into a number of our refineries as well as an increased light feed slate along the Gulf Coast.
Now that was offset by a number of things including assets that we no longer own.
But likewise even if you look on the sequential earnings where you see that volume mix effect of a positive $260 million embedded in that is about $400 million of total refining optimization effects also including the slate that we're running in particularly in the light feeds as well as getting some more of the heavy feeds in.
So without being real specific in terms of numbers we are benefiting greatly.
And it's not just -- I think one thing that we ought to be clear on understanding is it's not just the optimization of the feed slate into the refineries to produce clean products it's also the benefit we get from the integration with chemicals and lube so we're optimizing the products that come out as well across a broader slate.
So when we're looking at optimizing the total circuit it's across all of the business units.
And that's where we probably get an advantage that others who don't have this level of integration just aren't able to get.
And so some of that shows up in the other places as well.
I can give you one just number that'd probably help a little bit.
As we look at just our U.S.
Gulf Coast refining circuit we have more than triple the processing of advantaged North American crude over the last couple of years.
So again without giving a KBD or a percentage basis you can get a feel for the kind of impact that we're having.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the ratio at least.
Now that you've tripled and we're set to get a bunch more pipe to come online to the coastal markets here in short order can you give some order of magnitude of how much further you could go as far as a ratio again assuming the price would justify it in the linear programming model? I wouldn't want to give a specific number there for commercial reasons other than to say we are working on that and tweaking things a little bit so that we can continue to pursue the opportunities to do that and get a little more flexibility.
One of the things I'll mention another statistic that I think folks lose sight of a little bit just because of our size is when you look at our 5 what we call Mid-Continent refineries so you're talking about the Rockies and then up into Canada we've got about 600 000 barrels a day of "Mid-Con " if you will refining capacity.
And while that's not a big percentage of our total worldwide capacity when you look at it compared to others in the industry in the U.S.
it is a sizable component of our capacity.
So again if you're thinking about heavy feeds in the refineries if you're looking at light feeds into the circuit from the Gulf Coast all the way up into Canada we are optimizing that entire circuit.
And again that's across refining chemicals and lubes and you're seeing that in our margins both in the Chemical business and in the Refining business.
And we'll go next to Jason Gammel of Macquarie.
David I was hoping that I might be able to get some more granularity on the comment on Slide 12 that talks about the active exploration program in the Gulf of Mexico in 2013 either in terms of number of rigs employed number of wells planned or better yet specific prospects you're planning to drill.
And then if you could provide similar information on the global deepwater program.
Sure.
Let's start with the Gulf of Mexico and it's really a number of things from drilling wells to processing seismic to capturing additional opportunity.
I could give you a couple of well examples.
The Phobos well has spud.
We're participating in the Thorn well next.
So a couple of wells there.
We're also -- as you know we have a very large portfolio and we're running a lot of seismic activity both on the imaging side as well as the processing and analysis so a lot going on.
I think in terms of the specifics and kind of some of the numbers I'll hold off and we'll discuss that in our Analyst Meeting and give you a little more granularity and coverage on that.
If you look globally we've got a number of things going on building on success from last year.
As you know we had the discoveries in Tanzania very successful there and a lot more work going on there.
We also -- we followed up on the success we had in Romania in the northern Black Sea as an example.
So it's really a nice pipeline.
We're doing appraisal and work on Hadrian and looking at the project there so that's kind of at the front end of the curve.
Some other wells going down building on some successes and then the pipeline of opportunities coming in a couple of those I mentioned in my remarks.
So we do intend to give you a really good fulsome update on our deepwater program in the Analyst Meeting and so I probably don't want to get too far out ahead of that.
In addition and I think equally exciting is we have a number of unconventional wells that are liquids-oriented that we'll be doing this year.
Of course I mentioned Western Siberia with Rosneft.
We have a lot of activity going on in Colombia continuing to work in Argentina.
So probably as balanced a portfolio as we've had in a long time as we head into 2013.
And again building on last year's success and starting to drill a lot of these opportunities that we've acquired over the last few years.
Okay that helps and I look forward to the Analyst Meeting.
As my second question David this is probably going to be fruitless but you do reference on Slide 20 that Iraq spend had negative effects on the 2012 production volumes relative to the outlook.
If that Iraq spend number went to 0 would you be able to provide what type of impact it would have on your production guidance? No I really don't have that number and wouldn't want to speculate on that.
I think if you look at what we were able to do in this past year in Iraq it's really meet our commitments get the production up spend a lot less money all of that's good.
It just -- as you know how the contracts work there that meant that we got fewer barrels but I wouldn't want to speculate on what a number might be if the spend went to 0.
And we'll go next to Doug Terreson with ISI.
Research Division</strong> I have a question about the Downstream.
Your OECD product sales posted a positive comparison for the first time in a while meaning North America and Europe Canada.
So my question is whether or not you guys are seeing better trends in some of these developed countries or whether company-specific factors might be driving the improved results specifically a minute ago you mentioned that you're running a lot more North American crudes and yields might be better.
But anyway I just wanted to see if you could try and reconcile that.
Sure.
Let me start with the U.S.
because that's probably the best indicator of what we're seeing.
You do see a bit more of I mentioned the optimization that we're getting out of running some of the feeds but I think the biggest part and the one that we're really pleased with is we're seeing some good business growth out of our new model and our new footprint.
We've been spending the last few years transitioning from a company-owned retail market -- or a retail business rather -- into a dealer and distributor market.
And so you might think we'll -- we'd lose all those volumes.
But what we've seen in fact is we've kept a lot of those volumes and then the B2B business has picked up for us.
So again we're pleased with the ability.
Again it all gets back to this integrated business model and integrated business teams looking at the new footprint that we have on the retail side and finding ways to profitably move the barrels into the market that we used to run through our own and operated stores.
So that's really the big driver there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And also you mentioned in the presentation just a few minutes ago 2 of the more high potential unconventional oil development areas which being Argentina and Russia and so I wanted to see if you could provide a little bit more specificity on what Exxon plans to accomplish in the joint venture with Rosneft and also in Argentina in 2013 meaning given the pace of activity that you highlighted it seems like you may be able to frame an outlook in Argentina sooner.
But just wanted to see if you had more specifics on the next steps in those 2 countries this year.
Sure.
Let me start with Russia and then back up into Argentina.
So if you're looking at Western Siberia in particular in that unconventional area the plan for 2013 is really to take this agreement that we've signed and really start looking at testing analyzing what's there.
And of course on all these unconventional plays it's not a question of is there something down there it's a question of can you make it commercial.
And you've seen around the world some of these have been commercial early and some have not been commercial.
So the most important first step in Western Siberia tight oil is to see what's there apply some technology and see if that's going to be commercial.
And that's what we'll be doing this year jointly with Rosneft.
Of course the great thing about Western Siberia is you have an opportunity to leverage the expertise we've developed and are applying here in the U.S.
and we've applied elsewhere in other countries -- we're currently doing it in Argentina and Colombia -- and take that into Western Siberia marry it up with Rosneft's operating capabilities and all of the assets that they have on the ground and see if we can fairly quickly ascertain what's there in the commercial viability.
I mentioned there's I think 10 000 square kilometers over 23 blocks.
So defining where the best spots are quickly will also be very key so that we don't spend too much time and money drilling in areas that don't have the best prospectivity.
It's still early days in Argentina.
I mentioned that we do have these 4 wells down and we're very happy to have that and we're looking at those.
We've got 800 000 acres down there and we know it spans all of the windows from dry gas to mixed gas and liquids to tight oil.
And so the real objective of the exploration effort is to figure out what we've got where it is can it be commercially produced and then after that how you might develop that resource and get those products to market.
As we look into 2013 in Argentina we're going to continue evaluating and testing the wells that we drilled and got down last year.
I'll tell you that we have another well that was drilling at year end that we'll get done in the first quarter and get to work testing that this year.
And then we have the 6-well I mentioned that spud in December.
And then we've got 4 additional wells coming this year.
So these will be our first operated wells in a number of areas.
So when we get done this year although we'll barely scratch the surface of 800 000 acres we should have a pretty good idea of what we got with the way we've got these wells spread out.
Research Division</strong> David you don't consider infrastructure constraints to be meaningful in either country where you guys are operating? Not at this point in time.
We've got plenty of assets on the ground that we're deploying and so we don't see that as an issue again in this exploration and evaluation and assessment phase that we're in.
We'll take our next question from Iain Reid with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Going back on production just looking at it from a high level you're talking about falling about 6% year-on-year but gas is down substantially more than that particularly in Asia.
You've talked about European issues but also in the U.S.
So it seems to me that globally your gas volumes are declining well about faster than I think was generally expected a year ago at the Analyst Meeting.
Do you want to make a kind of general comment on that? Obviously Exxon is very positive on gas in terms of demand going forward so it seems strange in a way.
I can understand the U.S.
situation but outside of the U.S.
it seems strange unless there's some operational issue why gas is falling really so far.
And it kind of makes you wonder about whether the rebound which you were forecasting last year and overall production of 1% to 2% from 2012 is likely under this sort of progression we're seeing.
Yes that's -- let me kind of look at that on a full year basis.
As you mentioned gas in total year-on-year is down about 6%.
If you look across the regions I mentioned Europe already and that was a chunk of that.
One of the big factors is what I mentioned in the last quarter we became cost current in our AKG project in Qatar and you might recall that's a flowing gas project into Qatar as opposed to going into LNG.
And that's the biggest driver.
If you look at our Asia gas production down about 500 a day or 10% year-on-year.
There's a few things in there but a big chunk of that is going to be the AKG project.
Now if you look across some of the other ones we did see for example in Australia some lower demand this year across that was weather-related.
And then if you look at the declines in North America the U.S.
down just a little bit.
We have as I've talked about over the year had a fairly significant shift of our rig count away from the dry gas areas into the liquids-rich areas in the places like the Bakken in the Permian in the Ardmore and away from some of the dry gas areas.
And so you're certainly seeing that impact there as well.
Canada just there we had the asset sales you might recall a year ago and so we saw some of that.
We got good value from that property and just normal decline.
So if I look across all of the regions there is nothing there that's unexpected.
The only thing that happened a little quicker than we were expecting was the cost currency in AKG.
We will be providing a fulsome update on our production outlook at our March Analyst Meeting both on the liquids and the gas side.
But I will say just to kind of finish it up if I look at expectations and performance decline came in this year right about what we were expecting.
Of course we knew what the impacts of the asset sales would be and the cost currency on AKG so from that standpoint and operationally overall downtime was a little better performance improved there.
So I wouldn't looked at the year-to-year change as anything to be concerned about or that we weren't able to do what we had planned to do.
But again in terms of going forward we're certainly looking forward to visiting with you all in March and giving you a fulsome outlook on that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay David.
Could I tempt you on a question on the reserve outturn for 2012 or you going to hold that one over until you report that? We'll hold that for a couple of weeks.
We're going to do our normal mid-February report out on how the reserves and resource space is looking.
And so if you'll bear with us for a couple weeks we'll get that out about mid-February.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay last one then.
If I look at CapEx which obviously is higher than you outlined a year ago can you just strip out the acquisitions you've made so to tell us what the kind of organic CapEx is? Yes that's -- let me take the opportunity to update on that because I think we had talked about $37 billion at the Analyst Meeting and we said that did not include acquisitions.
And so we had about $3 billion worth of acquisitions across the year.
So if you take the $3 billion out of the $40 billion that we actually reported we'd be pretty much spot on the outlook that we gave you in March.
We'll take our last question from Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
David in your presentation on Page 16 you indicate that the $1.2 billion is the asset sales gain and the favorable tax primarily.
Do you have an actual absolute number for the tax benefit in the quarter? This was the -- which...
Research Division</strong> Page 16 on the Upstream.
Oh okay.
That's on the sequential.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So I mean do you have an absolute number not sequential change but the absolute number of the tax benefit in the quarter? Sure.
The absolute -- oh let me see I have a -- I don't have an absolute number.
I can tell you what the change is sequentially it's about $700 million of the $1.2 billion.
Research Division</strong> That's the sequential change.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> If after the call you have that number and will be willing to share if you don't mind to have someone just send me an e-mail.
Okay.
Research Division</strong> And secondly in Kearl if we look at the actual cause for Phase 1 now is $12.9 billion.
Last year I think revised up to $10.9 billion and original budget was $8 billion so this is somewhat uncharacteristic of Exxon given the cost of a run.
And with that only about a year and you'd gone up from $10.9 billion to $12.9 billion should we be concerned about the Phase 2 the current $8.9 billion that is going to be significantly higher? Yes Paul let me -- let's talk a little bit.
As you recall between the very first estimate and the $10.9 billion that we gave we reconfigured the project and put it into the initial production project and the expansion project and talked about the bottlenecks would come down and that was one of the big factors in that.
Of course ForEx has played a factor in the overall project et cetera.
I think one of the things that's real important to keep a focus on is if you look at the total bitumen expected to recover by the first phase in the expansion phase about 3.2 billion barrels of bitumen the all-in cost for that including this recent update that we gave on the dollar cost is about $6.80 a barrel total all-in and that compares to the $6.20 that we had given before.
So we're up about 10% on a unit cost basis as we work through both the initial project and the expansion.
So while that is an increase we're feeling pretty good about it given a lot of the challenges that we had to deal with in terms of transportation of the modules and the weather and that sort of thing.
If we look specifically at the expansion project where we have given an estimate on -- of $8.9 billion and of course that's a lot less than the first one because of all the infrastructure the tailings dam and all that sort of thing that's already in there.
The good news on that project is it's actually a little ahead of schedule as we're sitting here today.
It's about 27% complete and moving right along and really really starting to see the advantage of the ability to basically carry over all of the engineering work that was done on the first phase building the second train right behind the first one applying the learnings in kind of a real-time basis.
So I don't have another cost outlook for you other than the $8.9 billion but when you look at the schedule that we're on and the progress we're making that project is coming along real good.
And again when you look at those 2 projects together we feel real good about the competitiveness of that project going forward in this space.
And then again as the years go by we'll look forward to the bottlenecking and getting up to that full 345 000 barrels a day we've talked about before.
So...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can I just maybe sneak in on the shale oil do you have a rough estimate the number of rig that you're going to use in the U.S.
for the shale oil's development? Is that going to be higher about the same or lower than last year? I think on average you'll see that because of the big trend we made across last year where we kind of went from notionally 45%-or-so of the rigs as we came into the year doing dry gas and now we're down to about 1/3 on the gas side 2/3 on the liquids.
So as you balance that out across the full year you would of course see on average year-to-year more rigs associated with the liquids.
We continue to optimize the whole rig fleet.
But in terms of what the total rig count would be that would be hard to say right now because again we've just gotten the Denbury deal done and we're looking at that and thinking about what we want to do and looking at some of the other aspects of our unconventional liquids program in North America.
But we will be actively pursuing those resources and working hard on the development but I just can't give you a specific rig count just yet.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Rosenthal at this time I will turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
I'd just like to thank everybody for your participation on the call today and all of your questions.
And I -- we certainly are looking forward to our meeting in March and having the opportunity to talk more about our results and our plans for the future.
And so we'll see you then.
Thank you all very much.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Todays call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
David Rosenthal.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to Exxon Mobils first quarter earnings call and webcast.
The focus of this call is Exxon Mobils financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2013.
I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.
Before we go further I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Moving to Slide 3 we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results.
Global economic growth was mixed throughout the first quarter.
U.S.
growth was flat to moderate and economic indicators were mixed.
China experienced slower growth and the European economies remain challenged.
Energy markets strengthened in the first quarter with higher crude oil and non-U.S.
natural gas prices.
U.S.
natural gas prices remained relatively flat compared with the fourth quarter.
Industry refining margins strengthened and we experienced improved chemical commodity product margins.
Turning now to the first quarter financial results as shown on Slide 4 Exxon Mobils first quarter 2013 earnings were $9.5 billion an increase of $50 million from the first quarter of 2012.
Earnings per share for the quarter were $2.12 up $0.12 or 6% from a year-ago.
The corporation distributed $7.6 billion to shareholders in the first quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $5 billion was used to purchase shares.
Yesterday the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.63 per share a 10.5% increase from the last quarter.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $4 billion in the second quarter of 2013.
CapEx in the first quarter was $11.8 billion up $2.9 billion from the first quarter of 2012 primarily due to the $3.1 billion Celtic acquisition.
Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $14 billion.
At the end of the first quarter 2013 cash totaled $6.6 billion and debt was $13.4 billion.
The next slide provides additional detail on first quarter sources and uses of funds.
Over the quarter cash decreased from $9.9 billion to $6.6 billion.
The combined impact of strong earnings depreciation expense and the benefit of our ongoing asset management program yielded $14 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included additions to plant property and equipment or PP&amp;E up $7.5 billion and shareholder distributions of $7.6 billion.
Additional financing and investing activities decreased cash by $2.2 billion primarily reflecting the Celtic acquisition.
Moving on to Slide 6 and a review of our segmented results Exxon Mobils first quarter 2013 earnings of $9.5 billion increased $50 million from the first quarter of 2012.
Higher chemical earnings and lower corporate and financing expenses due primarily to favorable tax items were mostly offset by lower Upstream earnings.
Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remain at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.
As shown on Slide 7 Exxon Mobils first quarter 2013 earnings decreased by $450 million compared with the fourth quarter of 2012.
Lower Upstream and Downstream earnings were partly offset by higher Chemical earnings and lower corporate and financing expenses.
Moving next to first quarter business highlights and beginning on Slide 8 we continue to advance our global portfolio of high quality Upstream projects.
Extraction of bitumen froth at the Kearl plant facilities began March 31 and we are beginning to process the bitumen froth.
We will be filling onsite tankers with diluted bitumen and will transport the product to market with the new pipeline.
Start-up of an operation of this size and scope is a sequential process involving multiple integrated systems.
Our first priority is completing start-up activity safely which includes mitigating the impacts of abnormally cold weather of both workers and equipment.
Production from the initial development is expected to reach volumes of approximately 110 000 barrels of bitumen per day later this year.
Progress also continues on the Kearl expansion project which was 32% complete at the end of the first quarter.
Fabrication and assembly of pipe rack and equipment modules in Edmonton is ahead of plan and we have completed setting the main pipe rack modules in the froth treatment plant also ahead of plan.
The project remains on schedule for startup in 2015.
During the quarter we also started production from the Telok gas field located offshore Malaysia in the South China Sea.
The development concept of divide one design one build multiple was utilized to efficiently develop the project and shorten construction and installation timeline allowing Telok to be completed on schedule and within budget.
The Telok A platform is the first phase of the Telok natural gas project which when completed will consist of two four-legged gas satellite platforms.
A total of 14 development wells are planned for the Telok A and B platforms.
In the Gulf of Mexico appraisal drilling at Hadrian North has been completed and the results are being integrated into development planning for the Hadrian North project.
In addition the Erha North Phase II project in Nigeria was sanctioned during the quarter.
The project is located 60 miles offshore Nigeria and consist of the Subsea tieback to the existing Erha floating production storage and offloading vessel.
It is anticipated to recover approximately 175 million barrels of oil with the peak capacity of 60 000 barrels of oil per day.
Startup is targeted for 2016.
Turning now to Slide 9 and an update on our conventional exploration activities; in Tanzania we completed two successful wells during the quarter.
The Tangawizi-1 well discovered gas and high-quality Tertiary sandstone reservoirs confirming 4 Tcf to 6 Tcf of gas in place.
This new discovery is located 10 kilometers from the Zafarani and Lavani discoveries.
In addition the Zafarani-2 well confirmed gas-bearing high-quality reservoir in cretaceous appraisal target.
We have so far completed five successful wells on Block 2.
Exploration efforts continue and additional drilling is planned for later this year.
In the Gulf of Mexico the Phobos prospect encountered approximately 250 net feet of oil pay in the Lower Tertiary-aged reservoirs.
As you know we plan to drill several wells in the Gulf of Mexico this year.
Our next prospect Thorn will begin drilling in the second quarter.
Moving now to Slide 10; also during the quarter we made several substantial additions of high-quality acreage to our exploration portfolio.
We expanded the strategic co-operation agreement with Rosneft to include an additional 150 million acres from seven new blocks in the Chukchi Laptev and Kara Sea of the Russian Arctic.
We are now working with Rosneft on 180 million acres in the Russian Arctic including the original 31 million acres in the Kara Sea.
These lots cover some of the most promising and least explored acreage in the world.
In West Africa we acquired an 80% interest in Liberia Block 13 comprising more than 625 000 acres offshore and water depths ranging from 75 meters to 3 000 meters.
Block 13 is located 30 kilometers offshore Liberias central coast.
In the Gulf of Mexico we added high quality acreage to our deepwater portfolio.
The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management awarded Exxon Mobil the four blocks for which we were the high bidder in the Western Gulf of Mexico OCS lease sale 229.
In a recent central lease sale 227 Exxon Mobil was the high bidder for seven blocks.
Additionally we acquired a 33% working interest from BP to reform into the Maui prospect located in the Walker Ridge area.
Exxon Mobil will provide a state-of-the-art deepwater drilling rig and will operate the Maui-1 exploration well expected to spud in the second half of this year.
Turning now to our unconventional activities on Slide 11 we continue to progress high-potential liquids-rich unconventional opportunities.
During the quarter we closed the Celtic acquisition bringing 545 000 net acres of liquids-rich Montney Shale a 104 000 net acres in the Duvernay Shale and additional acreage in other areas of Alberta into our unconventional portfolio.
Although its very early days we are rapidly integrating personnel systems and processes leveraging both our own extensive unconventional expertise and our long operating experience in Canada.
We are currently developing future drilling plans to focus on areas expected to deliver the highest liquids yield and to optimize both drilling and completion methodologies.
In the Bakken gross operated production increased 75% year-on-year with the growth attributable to increased development and optimized completions across our core Bakken acreage.
We are utilizing 10 drilling rigs in the Bakken and have fully integrated the acquired Denbury properties into our operations.
In the liquids-rich Woodford Ardmore Shale play rose operated production increased 39% year-on-year.
The Ardmore is our most active unconventional play with 12 operated rigs delineating more than 270 000 acres in the Ardmore and Marietta Basins.
We have absorbed encouraging early results from our first well in the Marietta Basin since coming online a year-ago.
After the successful 2012 test of the over-lined Caney Shale in our core Ardmore area we are progressing with further delineation across both the Ardmore and the Marietta areas.
We also continue well testing and execution of drilling plants in Argentina and Colombia.
In Russia we planned to begin operations in West Siberia later this year.
Turning now to the Upstream financial and operating results starting on Side 12 Upstream earnings in the first quarter were just over $7 billion down $765 million from the first quarter of 2012.
Lower crude oil realizations partly offset by improved natural gas realizations negatively impacted earnings by $230 million.
As crude oil realizations declined $8.66 per barrel while gas realizations increased $0.97 per 1000 cubic feet.
Production volume and mix effects negatively impacted earnings by $280 million.
All other items including higher expenses related to new project activity decreased earnings by $250 million.
Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the first quarter of 2013 were $17.79.
Moving to Side 13 our first quarter volume performance is in line with the projection presented at the Analyst Meeting in March.
Oil equivalent volumes decreased by 3.5% from the first quarter of last year; excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes OPEC quota effects and divestments production was down about 1%.
Liquids production was down 21 000 barrels per day or just below 1% from the first quarter of 2012 as field decline was mostly offset by project ramp up in West Africa and increased production from liquids rich plays in the United States.
Natural gas production was down 823 million cubic feet per day or just under 6% quarter-on-quarter as lower entitlement volumes primarily reflecting [cutter] AKG becoming cost current in 2012 and field decline are partially offset by lower downtime and higher seasonal demand in Europe.
Turning out to the sequential comparison and starting on Slide 14 Upstream earnings decreased by $725 million versus the fourth quarter of 2012.
Realizations positively impacted earnings by $340 million as crude oil and natural gas realizations increased by $1.68 per barrel and $0.94 per thousand cubic feet respectively.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $80 million as the unfavorable timing of lifting and two fewer days in the quarter were mostly offset by higher natural gas volumes in Europe and Asia.
Other items including the absence of gains from asset sales and favorable tax items realized in the fourth quarter decreased earnings by $980 million.
Moving to Slide 15 oil equivalent volumes were up 2.4% from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes OPEC quota effects and divestments production was up more than 4%.
Liquids production was down 10 000 barrels per day from the fourth quarter as unfavorable entitlement volumes were mostly offset by lower downtime.
Natural gas production was up 672 million cubic feet per day versus last quarter primarily reflecting higher seasonal demand in Europe.
Moving now to the Downstream financial and operating results and starting on Slide 16 Downstream earnings for the quarter were $1.5 billion down $41 million from the first quarter of 2012.
Improved margins mainly in refining increased earnings by $780 million.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $290 million mainly due to increased refinery maintenance activity.
All other items decreased earnings by $530 million including lower gains on asset sales outside of the United States the increased operating expenses associated with refinery maintenance activity and unfavorable foreign exchange effects.
Turning to Slide 17 sequentially first quarter Downstream earnings declined by $223 million improved margins mainly in refining increased earnings by $470 million volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $430 million mainly driven by increased refinery maintenance activity.
Other items reduced earnings by $260 million due primarily to the absence of a fourth quarter LIFO gain.
Moving now to the Chemical financial and operating results starting on Slide 18; first quarter Chemical earnings were $1.1 billion up $436 million versus the first quarter of 2012.
Stronger commodity margins increased earnings by $320 million reflecting improved U.S.
steam cracking margins on lower ethylene feed cost.
All other items increased earnings by $120 million mainly due to increased gains on asset sales.
Moving to Slide 19 sequentially first quarter Chemical earnings increased by $179 million stronger margins mainly in U.S.
commodities increased earnings by $80 million.
Lower operating expenses and higher gains from asset sales partly offset by the absence of a prior year quarter LIFO gain increased earnings by a net $90 million.
In conclusion Exxon Mobils first quarter financial and operating performance reflects the value of our strong integrated business model.
In the first quarter we earned $9.5 billion generated $14 billion in cash flow invested $11.8 billion in the business and distributed $7.6 billion to our shareholders.
As we continue to focus on operational excellence deploying high impact technologies and leverage our unmatched global integration Exxon Mobil remains well positioned to maximize long-term shareholder value.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I would be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Rosenthal.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi.
Good morning David.
How are you? Good morning Doug.
How are you? I love the short name I get on these calls.
Anyway two quick questions please.
The unit profitability David on the Upstream continues to like the historical capture rate.
Can you comment as to whether or something that materially has changed there and if I guess a couple of years ago we talked about start of the LNG trends is there anything specific you can point to that is back on track to where weve been historically? I think if you look at whats happened over the last couple of years as youve noted the change in the mix in particular the addition of the U.S.
gas volumes particularly over the period when prices were down in the $2 and some range you saw the mix impacting the unit profitability relative to the historical trend.
As we go forward when you look at the longer term and you look at the liquids increases that we have coming on and the higher gas prices that we have seen you could reasonably expect the profitability to reflect those increases in the both the production as well as the margins.
I think one of the other things to keep in mind is we crank up these new projects again is going to be the addition of long-term plateau volumes and the lower decline rate.
So as the decline rate levels out and you are not chasing the decline that we had in prior years you wont be investing as much money to keep the production levels where they are.
I think the other thing thats positive as we look down the road again in addition to the liquids increase that weve talked about in the Analyst Meeting and the increase were projecting this year and going forward.
The LNG project that we have coming on stream in the next few years are all sold with the gas linked under long-term contracts to crude oil prices.
So if again it gets back to the longer-term looking at the projects that we have coming on this year and in the next few years and the relative profitability of those projects and again over the long-term Im very confident in the robustness of those projects and our ability to bring them on stream and get those barrels to market.
Okay thank you.
My follow-up hopefully a quick one; somebody is go to ask you David the share buybacks $14 billion of cash flow; youre not covering the cash outflow.
Can you just talk about what youre signaling to I mean is this oil spill over $100 and youre cutting the buyback program my recollection is youre not using the planning assumptions any color you can give us would be appreciated?  Doug let me hit from a couple of perspectives.
First when you look at the cash flow in the quarter as you saw from the sources and uses of funds we had basically a zero impact on working capital in any prior quarters we have positive impacts there.
We did close and pay the $3 billion for the Celtic acquisition; we also had some timing of tax payments and that sort of thing.
So but the cash flow again is just an outcome of the earnings give or take these timing effects.
As we said in terms of the buyback I have to tell you there is no change in our approach to capital allocation and the use of our cash flow as you saw we once again raise the dividend here and Board announced that yesterday 10.5% this year following on the 21% increase last year so we continue to raise the dividend on a consistent basis.
And then the share buyback is strictly a function of cash flows in the quarter and expectations going forward in the quarters but no change in terms of signal or the way that we approach the allocation of the fund.
All right thanks a lot David.
Well take our next question from Doug Terreson with ISI.
Dave can you hear me? Sure I can.
Hi.
Hi how are you? So my question is also on Upstream profitability and Im just going to ask a little bit of a different way and specifically on the international side meaning your point is taken on U.S.
natural gas and the benefits of some of these large LNG projects over longer term but internationally between flat realizations versus last year plus or minus in Rexs comments on declining drilling and completion cost in March I just want to say if you could maybe provide a little bit more color on some of the volume and mix effects components on the international side that you highlighted in Exhibit 12 and maybe also whether or not there is a geographical aspect of the mix effect to work here.
If you look at the  on the international side and you take a look at the profitability one of the things that were seeing there is a mixed impact with some of the losses some of the higher margin barrels from the production sharing contracts that weve seen over the last couple of years and then the mix certainly when you get into  in this part of the year of European gas sales.
So nothing structural nothing really to point out other than some mix effect but again if you look over a longer period of time at the projects we have coming online and the earnings contribution that those will make I dont think you will see any major change to talk about relative to prior history.
Okay.
Thanks for the clarification.
We will take our next question from Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Hi Dave.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
How are you? Very good.
Two questions one can you give us  what is your 2013 CapEx on the North American share volume pay and versus that if not absolute but versus 2012 and whats the expectation for 2014? Paul I couldnt hear you.
Could you just repeat the question on the U.S.
CapEx? Right.
Yes two questions.
First for North American share volume can you share with us what is the actual CapEx for this year related to those basin and you cannot give us an actual that can you tell us what is that comparing to 2012 and also if you can give us an idea that what is the expectation for 2014 if that is going to be higher or is going to be staying at that level? Second do you want to answer that and then I go for the second question.
Yeah how about I answer that one and then we will go to your second question.
As you look at our I dont have a specific actual CapEx outlook number for you but as weve talked about as you see our focus in drilling in the unconventional plays and in particular the liquids rich plays in the Bakken in the Woodford Ardmore we are allocating an additional amount of CapEx to those areas relative to what we would be allocating to dry gas.
And clearly as we integrate the Denbury acquisition that we did the Celtic acquisition that we did; it is reasonable to expect that on a relative basis year-to-year over time we will be spending more money on those liquids rich plays and youre starting to see some of that bear out.
If you look at the improved performance in the Bakken and in the Woodford Ardmore not only in the production thats coming up but the efficiency that were getting improved completions improved performance that strategy and that approach is starting to play-out and youre starting to see the dividend.
In terms of going forward 2014 again I dont have a specific outlook for you but it would be reasonable to assume that as we continue to progress these liquids based opportunities and continue to drill the wells and have the activity that were having and leveraging the ability were getting now with these additional properties certainly as we ramp that up you could expect on a relative basis over time for the CapEx to go up but I dont have a specific actual amount for you.
Dave just curious I guess see $3 billion or $4 billion currently youre spending.
Is that a ballpark it is reasonable estimate of SME or that youre not going to be able to come in even on that? Yeah I wouldnt again I wouldnt want to give an actual number allocated to one particular resource types and one particular geography other than again to call to reiterate that clearly we have increased the focus on the liquids rich plays and we continue to ramp-up that activity and in particular as we move from the delineation and appraisal phase into the development phase and start bringing wealth online and getting them to sales.
Okay (inaudible) hopefully that really at the tail end of the Phase 1 start up phase.
Just I want to see that you learn a lot since that you guys have never done the mining project and so what steps that you have taken or what experience that you have learned? Now you have tied to Phase II so that you can ensure that youre just going to $1 million budget and the start up schedule?  Paul let me first comment on the Kearl start up.
Literally the actual production is eminent and so well be looking forward to that here shortly as I mentioned in my remarks.
In terms of lessons learned and applying those to the Kearl expansion project the one thing you need to recall is we are partners in the Syncrude project and therefore have a lot of experience in that operation and are actually quite familiar with bitumen mining.
I think the real carryover that you get as you move from the Kearl initial project development to the Kearl expansion project is the ability to carryover all the engineering work from the first section.
I think we mentioned before about 90% of the engineering carries over.
The new trains are being build adjacent to the existing ones.
And so its really the efficiency that you get in building a second train  second set of trains right behind the original project and I think thats what youll see there.
And in fact if you look at where we are today and the progress that we made we are actually ahead of schedule right now on the expansion project.
So I think thats what you will see in the real efficiency.
Now clearly having said that as we progress with the mine development it will be natural for us to find improvement opportunities as we go along and learn some things and continue to develop the mine plan and heading into the expansion.
But in terms of starting from ground zero or low starting point I dont think Id characterize it that way but again as you know us well be continuously improving everything were doing as we start-up and ramp up the current project and then head into the next phase.
Okay.
Thank you.
Dave can I just stick in with a short question for clarification in your earlier comments for 2013 production guidance that given the March for 1% to 2% is that already factored in the potential PSC impact based on $110 brand or that is not included?  Yes the impact of PSC effects at the $112 price that we used is in that estimates that we showed you.
So to be very specific if you look at the 2% increase in liquids that we had we had the PSC effects in there at the assume price.
Thank you.
Well take our next question from Iain Reid with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Hi David.
Good morning Iain how are you? Inc.</strong> Yeah Im doing very well.
Couple of questions well first question on the Downstream if I could.
You had a very strong performance in U.S.
Downstream relative to where the margins seem to go.
And also probably a weaker performance in our non-US Downstream do you want to talk about the kind of drivers there like were you accessing more advantage crude in the U.S.
perhaps and we estimated and some international Downstream was relatively driving that one which kind of offset what the benefits you got in the U.S.? Yeah if youre looking at the Downstream in particular if youre looking Im not sure if youre actually referring to our quarter-over-quarter or sequential.
Inc.</strong> Well both really.
If you look at both yes we saw a very strong refining margins in particular in the U.S.
and that really does reflect the advantage feeds that were doing that were running into those plus the fact that we had good uptime and reliability and good performance in the operations.
So that has come along as we talked about in the Analyst Meeting in March and were seeing those benefits.
I will say if you are looking at the sequential quarter-to-quarter delta there was helped by the absence of some unfavorable price timing that we had in the fourth quarter.
So if youre looking sequentially and you look at that nice bump in U.S.
earnings a good bit of it is actual margin improvement and the other is in absence of prior quarters unfavorable price timing that I mentioned.
If youre looking overseas and if youre looking at the Downstream business the biggest impact you see there is the significant increase in maintenance activity in our refineries particularly in Europe and in Canada and thats the bulk of what youre seeing in both sequentially and quarter-over-quarter.
Driving those results we did have a little negative 4X impact as well.
And then again the absence if youre looking sequentially the absence of the LIFO gain that we had in the non-US from the fourth quarter.
So I think if you step back and look at all of this and just take out the LIFO gains and asset sales that we had talked about in the fourth quarter as well the operations are running great were taking advantage of the feeds that are available particularly here in the U.S.
and continuing to benefit from the integration that we have across our refining and chemicals businesses.
I think youre seeing all that really come to fruition particularly in the margin area.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks for that.
And second one youre obviously building up now significant further volumes in Canadian bitumen.
And weve seen the differential there widened even further in the first quarter.
Can you talk about how Exxon is impacted by market differentials there? I think you said at the Analyst Meeting that you thought you could take advantage if you like of your own pipeline systems to get around some of that.
Do you just want to flush that out a bit? Sure.
If you look at our refining footprints and what we call an extended mid time if you will so if you look at our refineries in the Midwest in the Rockies and in Canada we can process about 600 000 barrels a day of that advantage crude that you see in that part of the business.
Now when you come back specifically to the Kearl project as we have said before we are capable of sending all of the output from the initial development project into our existing refining circuit.
So to the extent that differentials continue we will be able to capture those in our own refining circuit.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So obviously into the second phase which youre going to have some problems with that? No when you look at the second phase we will be looking at both the opportunity to run more of that crude into our existing refineries as well as obvious into third party.
So we are working those logistics now looking at our various options and opportunities we got till 2015 but we are pretty confident when we look across our broad logistics capability in our refining circuit that well be able to place those barrels in an optimum manner and extract the maximum value from those products.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So we should be expecting maybe lower E&amp;P earnings from Kearl but Downstream earnings for the whole mix comes out in the ore.
Well I think that it will all depend on the absolute level of crude prices and margins and then the differentials as well.
I cant predict what either of those will be at a given time.
I think the real message though is that whatever the absolute prices and margins are at the time we are going to get a benefit from being fully integrated both across the refining chemicals business and in that integration into Kearl and the ability to process other crudes including disadvantage imports like crudes in the U.S.
and that sort of thing.
So it is really optimizing across the entire circuit as well as geographic optimizations but we feel pretty good about where we are and how our assets match up and how we are managing those and look forward to benefiting more as we go forward with this integration.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
And just one very quick one if you dont mind you talked about asset guiding chemicals is that  are we talking on an absolute basis hundreds of millions of dollars there like how much is that in terms of improving chemical earnings? Kind of all in just under a $100 million.
Inc.</strong>  Okay all right.
Thats great.
Thank you very much indeed.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Hi guys question on two of your exploration areas.
First in Tanzania I realized you are not the operator but you have had a lot of success there.
And is there  do you envision a point maybe in the next 12 months of sanctioning a development plan?  I think if you step back and take a look at Tanzania we have had significant success there with the wells that weve drilled so far both the exploration wells and the recent appraisal well.
So far were looking at gas resources somewhere in the range of 10 Tcf to 13 Tcf discovered to date.
But as we look forward we got a lot of work left to do weve got a lot more seismic that were running and processing lot more analysis to do we are looking at drilling an additional well later this year.
So weve got to take all of that into account before we can never really start thinking about development plan.
So its still early days we know weve got a very high quality resource weve had a significant amount of early success there is more exploration work ahead and once we finish the exploration and appraisal process and know what we got and know how whether its how the commerciality looks then we would do the natural progression into development planning and that sort of thing.
But its a little early to  right now fortunately its early because of all the success weve had to date.
But we got a little more work to do and once we get all that done we will be in a better position to talk about our go forward plans.
Appreciate that.
And follow-up a little bit bigger picture question on your unconventional opportunities globally one of your European competitors recently poured some cold water over particularly shale gas development internationally talking about all the obstacles.
And in your [FNL] review you noted some of the issues in Germany and I mean obviously earlier in Poland.
Can I actually get to your kind of latest thoughts on how international ex-North America unconventional fits into your portfolio and what the plan is?  Yeah I think the most important thing to think about when you look at our international portfolio is how diverse it is.
So if you just kind of walk around the world we have a very active program underway in Columbia that weve talked about and were progressing activities there and testing some wells and planning to drill some more.
Argentina continues to be a very active area for us.
We drilled a number of wells last year that were testing and looking at.
We have planned to drill a number of more wells in Argentina.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks we do still intend to get to work in West Siberia over the course of this year and get some work there.
So thats doing very well and we continue to leverage again the expertise that we have here in North America into those plays.
Having said that there is prospectivity in Europe and as weve mentioned before we have a very large acreage position in unconventional prospectivity in Germany for both gas and liquids.
We are working with the government there to try to get permits that would allow us to continue our exploration and appraisal process.
We stand ready to ramp-up activity there pending that.
So its a long-term business its a long-term resource development both the oil companies and the countries that have these resources are just getting started with their evaluation programs and developing policies.
So we can pace our activity based on local requirements and regulations and again the good news for us is we got a very large portfolio in a lot of different areas with a lot of different resource potential and were able to dedicate the resources both human and financial and technology to those areas with the most promise and the most availability and accessibility and were continuing to do that very well into this year.
All right I appreciate the color and all that things.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our next question from Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Hey good morning David.
This is Scott Willis on for Ed.
Hi Ed.
I just want to focus on U.S.
natural gas for a minute if I could.
I noticed that your domestic volumes were down around 4% quarter-over-quarter and then when we look at natural gas prices those have been stronger so far in this quarter should those prices go forward I was just wondering how that would affect your decision to grow your domestic gas volumes going forward? Well I think if you step back and look at the unconventional resource in North America and particularly in the U.S.
that were working on as we talked about over the last few quarters we have been allocating and dedicating more resources towards the liquid-rich plays particularly the Woodford Ardmore as I mentioned as well as the Bakken and those efforts are continuing and we are making great progress in terms of productivity optimizing the completion getting the initial rates and extended rates out.
And so that effort continues unabated and we will continue to do that.
I think the other news thats really good for us is the flexibility we have across our unconventional resource.
We have as you well know very large positions in all of the unconventional gas plays in the U.S.
and we are still maintaining activity in some of the gas plays where the returns are good and we maintain the flexibility to increase our efforts in those areas if we want to.
But when youre looking at prices in any of the commodities they move around we dont tend to take the last two data points and draw the trend line and react in that manner we tend to have longer term approaches to the development of all of our resources.
So I dont know what prices are going to do going forward and I wouldnt want to predict exactly what we will be doing in any given time other than currently our focus is on the liquids-rich plays and we are having great success there but we do maintain a flexibility and optionality in the gas plays as well.
So its pretty good position to be in and well continue to work on the long term development and react is appropriate to changes in market factors.
Okay great.
And then also just on the asset sales it looks you did around $400 million this quarter I was just wondering if that is a decent run rate and how you think the rest of the year will go there if you look to kind of ramp up those asset sales as we go forward? Yeah it would I cant give you any expectation of our run rate if you look back across the last few years the asset sales of tended to be lumpy as well as different in certain quarters than the Upstream versus the Downstream.
So I wouldnt want to give you a run rate we are continually looking at our portfolio is that we always do but I wouldnt want to either say any absolute number was appropriate or to give any guidance relative to future quarters or what youve seen this quarter or prior quarters it will happen when it happens.
Gotcha.
Okay thanks David.
And we will take our next question from Robert Kessler with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong>  Good morning David.
Good morning Robert.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Couple of follow-ups to some earlier points you made.
One on the buybacks you were asked about reduction and the strategy there.
But Id like to ask you about the cash balance and flexibility.
So the $6.6 billion of cash that youve got on the balance sheet at the end of the quarter.
How much of that I guess in theory could be used for buyback? So I know you got about $400 million marked in the footnotes as restricted.
But is that to say that a full 6.2 remainder could be used again in theory for buybacks or are there any other factors to consider like taxes on repatriation of cash to the U.S.
to the extent youve got some of broader or that kind of effect?  Well earlier getting to the last part of your question and backing up.
There are a number of factors that determine what our point in cash balances in any quarter I mentioned some of those this quarter including closing the Celtic acquisition some timing of tax payments working capital changes et cetera.
So we dont have a target in terms of what the cash balance is or a minimum that we have to have or an operating level.
We manage the cash just to maintain our flexibility and meet all of our commitments and it does bounce around a fair amount as youve seen over time.
But I wouldnt want to make any specific comment on what cash would be available for what or how it might change going forward.
Other than to say as weve said before the share buyback is determined on a quarterly basis and as a reflection the cash thats available has delivered from the business given the market conditions that we have.
And as I said our expectation is well buy $4 billion in the second quarter.
But other than that I just wouldnt have any guidance on either the uses of cash or the buyback level going forward.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Can you say whether the $6 billion figure roughly is fully available for general corporate purposes in any jurisdiction or do you have any sizable amount that can only be used in certain geography? Yeah I tell you I wouldnt have a specific comment on that.
But I dont think there is anything significant or material in any one region or another thats restricted for us.
We manage our cash globally and I wouldnt expect there to be anything significant or material to worry about or to think about what to do with.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then a quick follow-up from me on the chemical asset sale gain I mean you mentioned just under $100 million I think in aggregate can you provide a quick split on U.S.
versus non-U.S.
for that gain in the first quarter? Yeah its about half-and-half half in the U.S.
and half overseas and I guess I said the number was just under $100 million its in total its $70 million and again half in the U.S.
and half in the non-U.S.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Great thanks very much.
And with no further questions I would like to turn it back to Mr.
Rosenthal for any additional or closing remarks.
Yeah I just like to say in closing I appreciate your time and your questions this morning and look forward to our call in about three months.
So thank you very much.
This concludes todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to this Exxon Mobils corporations Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions).
Todays call is being recorded.
And at this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
David Rosenthal.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to Exxon Mobils second quarter earnings call and webcast.
The focus of this call is Exxon Mobils financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2013.
I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.
Before we go further I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Moving to Slide 3 we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results.
Global economic growth remained constrained in the second quarter.
U.S.
economy continues to be sluggish after first quarter GDP growth was revised downward.
Chinas economic growth continues to lag expectations while European economies remain weak.
Energy markets delivered mixed result in the second quarter.
The quarterly average crude oil price declined more $10 barrels per barrel from the first quarter.
Narrowing the spread with WTI.
While U.S.
natural gas prices increased.
Global industry refining margins were essentially flat with increases in the U.S.
margins offset by weakness in Europe and Asia Pacific.
Chemical commodity product margins declined across the quarter.
Turning now to the second quarter financial results as shown on Slide 4 Exxon Mobils second quarter 2013 earnings were $6.9 billion a decrease of $9.1 billion from the second quarter of 2012.
Mainly reflecting the absence of prior gains associated with the Japan restructuring and divestments.
Earnings per share for $1.55.
The corporation distributed $6.8 billion to shareholders in the second quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $4 billion was used to purchase shares.
CapEx in the second quarter was 10.29 billion and 22 billion for the first six months of 2013 in line with anticipated spending plans.
Cash flows from operations and asset sales was $8 billion.
At the end of the second quarter cash totaled 5 billion and debt was $19.4 billion.
The next slide provide additional detail on second quarter sources and uses of funds.
Over the quarter cash decreased from $6.6 billion to 5 billion.
Earnings depreciation expense changes in working capital and other items including equity company dividend and our ongoing asset management program yielded $8 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included addition to plant property in equipment of $8.7 billion and shareholder distribution of 6.8 billion.
Additional financing and investing activities increased cash by $5.9 billion.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $3 billion in the third quarter.
Moving on to slide six and the review of our segmented result.
Exxon Mobil second quarter 2013 earnings of $6.9 billion decreased 9.1 billion from the second quarter of 2012 reflecting the absence of prior gains associated with the Japan restructuring and divestments.
In the sequential quarter comparison shown on slide seven.
Earnings decreased by about $2.6 billion across all segments.
Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remained $500 million to $700 million.
Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results and stating on slide eight.
Upstream earnings in the second quarter were $6.3 billion.
Down $2.1 billion from the second quarter of 2012.
Higher natural gas realization mainly in the U.S.
partly offset by lower crude oil realization increased earnings by $90 million.
Worldwide natural gas realizations increased a $1 per thousand cubic feet while crude oil realization declined $4 per barrel.
Production volume and mix effects had a small negative impact of $70 million.
All other items mainly the absence again on prior year asset sales and the reimbursement of past exploratory cost to Rosneft for the Back Sea and Sea joint ventures decreased earnings by about $2.1 billion.
Upstream after tax earnings per barrel for the second quarter for 2013 were $17.
Moving to slide nine volumes declined by 78 000 oil equivalent barrels per day or 1.9% from the second quarter of last year.
Liquids production was down 26 000 barrels per day as field declined and divestments were mostly offset by increased production from liquid rich place in the U.S.
project ramp ups and lower down time.
Natural gas production was down 307 cubic feet per day.
As field decline mainly in the U.S.
and lower entitlement volumes were partly offset by higher European demand lower downtime in several countries including Qatar and project ramp up.
Note that entitlement impacts were all price and stand related.
Turning now to the sequential comparison and starting on slide ten.
Upstream earnings decreased by $722 million versus the first quarter of 2013.
Realizations reduced earnings by about $360 million as worldwide crude oil and natural gas realizations decreased by $5.84 per barrel and $0.56 per 1 000 cubic feet respectively.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by about $300 million mainly due to lower European seasonal gas demand.
Other items had a small net negative impact of about $70 million as the higher cost in Russia mentioned in the quarter-on-quarter comparison were mostly offset by several small positive items.
Moving on to slide 11.
Oil equivalent volumes were down about 7% sequentially.
Liquids production was essentially flat compared to the first quarter.
Higher plant down time and field decline were mostly offset by improved reliability and project ramp-ups.
Natural gas production was down 1.8 million cubic feet per day versus the last quarter mainly due to lower seasonal demand in Europe.
Our year-to-date volume performance is in in line with the projection presented at the analyst meeting in March with strong uptime performance increased North America unconventional liquids production and higher European gas demand offsetting this lower than anticipated ramp-up at Pearl.
We remain on target to meet the 2013 volume outlook presented at the analyst meeting.
Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 12.
Downstream earnings for the quarter were $396 million down $6.3 billion from the second quarter of 2012 due primarily to the absence of the $5.3 billion gain associated with the Japan restructuring.
In addition lower refining margins reduced earnings by $510 million.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by 370 million reflecting significant planned refinery maintenance activity across all regions.
Turning to slide 13 sequentially second quarter downstream earnings declined by almost $1.2 billion.
Lower overall refining margins including unfavorable price timing effects in the U.S.
decreased earnings by $170 million.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by 540 million reflecting significant planned refinery maintenance activity at Juliette and Torrance in the U.S.
and Strathcona Saudi Arabia Augusta and Singapore outside the U.S.
This was the highest quarterly planned maintenance activity over the past five years.
Other items reduced our earnings by $440 million primarily due to the absence of first quarter asset sale gains and costs associated with the Dartmouth Refinery conversion.
Moving now to the chemical financial and operating results starting on slide 14; second quarter chemical earnings were $756 million down $693 million versus the second quarter of 2012.
Lower specialty product margins reduced earnings by $100 million.
Higher commodity product volumes driven by strong polyethylene demand increased earnings by $120 million.
The absence of the gain associated with the Japan restructuring decreased earnings by $630 million while all other items decreased earnings an additional $80 million.
Moving to slide 15 sequentially second quarter chemical earnings decreased by $381 million.
Lower margins mainly due to weaker aromatics prices reduced earnings by $200 million while an improved sales mix provided a $30 million offset.
Higher plant maintenance expenses associated with Singapores new steam cracker start up and the absence of gains from prior quarter asset sale decreased earnings by 210 million.
Moving next to the second quarter business highlights beginning on slide 16.
We continue to advance our portfolio of high quality upstream projects which we expect will deliver the liquids growth presented at the analyst meeting in March.
The Kearl oil sands development continues to produce pipeline quality crude.
We continue to ramp up production having now run two of the three froth treatment trains individually as well as concurrently and achieved rates of 35 000 barrels per day through each.
The third train is ready for initial operation and its startup will enable production to increase 110 000 barrels per day in the coming months.
The Kearl expansion project is on budget ahead of plan and now over 40% complete.
We are using existing Kearl initial development contractors for efficiency and continuity and achieving higher productivity as a result.
The expansion project is scheduled for start-up in 2015.
The Julia initial development project was sanctioned during the second quarter and is expected to develop more than 190 million gross barrels of oil with start-up in 2016.
The initial development phase is being designed for daily production of 34 000 gross barrels of oil and includes six wells with subsea type tie-backs to the Jack and St.
Malo production facility.
Front-end engineering design has been completed and the engineering procurement and construction contracts has been awarded.
The field is estimated to have nearly 6 billion barrels of resource in place.
Hebron construction activities continue with commencement of concrete ports for the gravity-based structure as well as fabrication of living quarters and drilling support module.
Oil recovery from the project is estimated at 700 million gross barrels with upside potential.
The platform is designed for production of 150 000 barrels of oil per day.
First oil is anticipated around the end of 2017.
Turning now to slide 17 and an update on our efforts to progress global LNG projects and opportunities.
The map to the left of the chart provides an overview of our LNG business displaying gross existing production capacity of 64 MTA.
The sites currently under construction and a number of future opportunities being evaluated.
The PNG LNG project construction is currently 88% complete and is achieving project milestones towards a 2014 startup.
Commissioning activities for the first train at the LNG plant are ongoing while construction activities for the second train continue.
Progress also continues at the Hides gas conditioning plant for equipment including gas turbine generators and utility systems thats being received and installed.
We are also advancing expansion opportunities including negotiations with NOL Corporation and Pacific LNG on the future development of the Elk Antelope resource.
Major terms have already been agreed and should negotiations successfully conclude Exxon Mobil is proposing that 4.6 TCF of the gas resource from the Elk Antelope field be used to underpin the construction of an additional train at the PNG LNG project site subject to partner and government agreement.
Construction at Gorgon is now 65% complete.
Installation of the first subsea trees at [Jens] has commenced and offshore pipeline installation is ongoing.
Moving now to North America Golden Pass Products our venture with Qatar Petroleum International recently initiated the FERC pre-filing process setting the stage for essential permitting activity associated with the design environment and construction of a proposed project to produce and export up to 15.6 MTA of LNG.
Golden Pass Products already has an export for free trade agreement countries and awaits approval of its non-free trade agreement license from the Department of Energy.
Exxon Mobil and Qatar Petroleum International also signed a commercial framework agreement in the second quarter which demonstrate the projects readiness to succeed based on its technical financial and marketing capabilities.
In Western Canada Exxon Mobil and Imperial Oil recently filed an application with the National Energy Board for LNG export license to support the further assessment of the potential development of a natural gas liquefaction terminal on the Northwest of British Columbia.
The export license requested is for up to 30 MTA for a period of 25 years.
If developed the natural gas liquefaction plant LNG storage and marine loading facilities are anticipated to be in vicinity of either the [Kiddie map] or [Inaudible] areas.
We also continue to assess other LNG opportunities in Alaska Australia Russia and Tanzania.
A range of factors will be considered before any final investment decision is made in particular the fiscal and regulatory regime market conditions and capital cost.
Turning now to slide 18 and an update on our exploration activities.
In June Rosneft and Exxon Mobil announced the completion of several milestones under the 2011 strategic corporation agreement including joint venture formation for the Kara Sea and Black Sea projects.
Collection of seismic data within both regions is underway and drilling operations are set to begin in 2014.
As we announced previously Exxon Mobil and Rosneft agreed to increase the scope of their strategic cooperation by adding seven new blocks in the Russian Artic spanning approximately 150 million acres.
We have now entered into more definitive foundation agreements for joint ventures to explore within these areas.
Foundation agreements are also now in place for our joint venture Tide Oil project in West Siberia where data gathering is underway in preparation for drilling.
Rosneft holds a 51% interest and Exxon Mobil has a 49% interest in this project.
Turning to Romania.
Exxon Mobil and OMB Petron have successfully completed acquisition of the largest ever Black Sea 3D seismic survey on the Neptune D Block covering more than 2 300 square miles.
This survey will be used to continue the evaluation of the Domino Discovery as well as to evaluate additional exploration potential on the Block.
In the Gulf of Mexico we recently spud the Maui deepwater prospect on Walker Ridge Block 282 after acquiring a 33% in the prospect during the first quarter.
Turning now to slide 19 an update on our unconventional liquids activities.
In the Bakken play our gross operated production recently hit its highest level ever surpassing 60 000 oil equivalent barrels per day.
For the quarter the equivalent production increased by 74% over the prior year quarter.
This strong growth reflects higher per well production rates due to optimized drilling and completion practices and the shift to more pad development.
For example after writing 20% in 2012 peak 30 day flow rates had increased another 15% in 2013.
We have also commenced evaluation of multiple ventures in the Three Forks Reservoir as part of a larger Bakken project involving XTO and our upstream research company.
This initiative has a goal of increasing recovery identifying further drilling and completion efficiencies and better defining resource size and distribution across our 580 000 net acres of leasehold.
In June of 2013 we started operations at a new cryogenic gas processing plant in Southwestern Pennsylvania.
Located in Butler County this 340 acre facility well recover marketable liquid from Marcellus gas production.
Two gas compressor stations feed the facility which is designed to treat approximately 125 million cubic feet per day of natural gas.
More than 45 wells are expected to be contributing to production process at the plant by year end.
In our Appalachian operations we hold nearly 700 000 prospective net acres across the Marcellus and the Utica Shale plays.
The liquids rich Woodford Ardmore shale in South Central Oklahoma remains our most attractive and active unconventional play with 12 operated rigs.
During the quarter we closed on a small bolt-on acquisition adding to our core Ardmore area and increasing our total acreage position to more than 280 000 acres.
In the quarter gross operated production reached 31 000 oil equivalent barrels per day up 73% over the prior year quarter.
As noted in our March analyst meeting we are expanding the play into the overlying Caney shale.
In the second quarter three Caney wells were completed and brought online as we continue to delineate the reservoir across our acreage.
Additionally our first Caney well is being completed in the Marietta area Southwest of the Ardmore Basin where the initial Wordford well in April 2012 had a 30 day peak flow rate of just over 700 barrels per day of oil and 1.4 million cubic feet per day of natural gas.
Turning now to the Downstream chemical highlights and starting on Slide 20.
We recently announced expansions to increase Group two premium lube basestock production capacity at our Baytown and Singapore Refineries.
These expansion projects build on Exxon Mobils strong manufacturing base at these two world scale facilities.
Exxon Mobil is the largest producer of basestock for use in lubricant manufacturing in the world and these projects will help us strengthen our position as one of the industrys leading global suppliers of high quality lube basestocks.
These expansions will employ Exxon Mobil proprietary technologies and increase production capacity of high value premium lube base stocks by 30%.
Both projects are expected to start-up by early 2015.
Turning now to Slide 21 on the Singapore Chemical Plant Expansion Project during the quarter Exxon Mobil Chemical began producing ethylene from the facilitys second world scale steam cracker more than doubling steam cracking capacity at the site and significantly increasing specialties capacity.
We are now able to produce Exxon Mobil proprietary specialty elastomers and Metallocene based polyethylene in the Asia Pacific region.
Integrated with the existing petrochemical plant and powered by a 375 megawatt co-generation plant the new steam cracker is among one of the most energy efficient in our portfolio.
The Singapore Petrochemical Plant is well positioned to serve growth markets in Asia Pacific while leveraging our feedstock flexibility in dozens of new technologies.
In conclusion in the second quarter we earned $ 6.9 billion generated 4 8 billion in cash flow invested $10.2 billion in the business and distributed $6.8 billion to our shareholders.
We maintain a long term perspective on our business with a relentless focus on operational excellence and disciplined investing through the business cycle.
As discussed in the business highlights we continue to progress a unique set of profitable growth opportunities which position us well to deliver long term shareholder value.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I will now be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operators instructions).
And we will take the first question from Faisal Khan with Citi.
Please go ahead.
If you could elaborate a little bit more on the refining downtime I know you said that this is the most downtime youve had in the last five years.
But I looked at the last two quarters in a row throughput has been relatively lower versus kind of 4Q last year and 3Q last year.
Can you discuss kind of how these plants are coming back online and how it is going to trend for the rest of the year? Yeah if you look across the year the first quarter also had a high turnaround work load so if you look at how we are doing this year the first quarter was high but the second quarter was even higher.
And certainly if you look prior to this year over the last five years it was considerably higher than normal.
In fact about 9% of our capacity was offline for plant maintenance in the quarter and we typically averaged about 4% to 5%.
Okay and then going forward is this all these plants back up and running or are you still have a significant amount of downtime? No these activities is now behind us and by and large all those units are back on line and up and running.
And the other thing I will mention Faisal is we have a long standing practice of implementing improvement projects minor projects anytime we have these large facilities down for an extended time.
And we are certainly taking advantage of that opportunity and weve done a few things at each of the sites to further improve the advantages that they have.
Julia would be an example in the Midcon where we have done a few things to help improve our distillate production there.
So big downtime all of it planned all of it coming back up.
And we are looking forward to the third quarter and getting these things again back up and running and producing product.
Okay then last question from me on U.S.
upstream capital expenditure looks like it kicked up really significantly from the first quarter this year to about 2.6 billion.
Can you tell what is going on in the U.S.
CapEx and in the trend going forward are you ramping up your program in different areas or how is that progressing.
Yeah we did see a little if you are looking at a quarter-over-quarter in the U.S.
upstream CapEx was up a just a little bit.
It wasnt anything in particular.
I can point to.
We are doing we have added some rigs drilling activity is a little higher and just a number of other spend across the business.
Okay fair enough.
I was looking from the first quarter to the second quarter it and looked like a big ramp up.
Is that increased rig activity or is that  I thought you guys were cutting back on CapEx in North America on the rig cap but that was one of the things that came out at the analyst meeting but maybe I am wrong? Yeah I am sorry Faisal what you are looking sequentially we are up we had a couple of minor XTO-based acquisitions.
We added some more acreage in the Woodford that I mentioned and we had a couple of other items.
Additionally drilling was up quarter-on-quarter sequentially by about $100 million.
We did have also a net increase in rig activity by a couple of rigs.
So its continuing the program of ramping up the production capability of the liquids and also taking advantage occasionally when we have an opportunity to bolt on a nice piece of acreage that fits in one of our big areas.
It makes sense.
Thanks for the time.
I appreciate it.
All right thank you.
Our next question will come from Ed Westwick with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Actually a follow-on from Faisals question.
Good morning.
Good morning Ed.
Just on the back in refining and chemicals.
Do you think third quarter will be sort of fully clear or will you be fully back up sort of in the fourth quarter? We always have a little planned maintenance across the quarters and there will we some but if you look in across our major plans in the book of our maintenance and turnaround activity is behind us but well always have a little bit but particularly if you are really looking at the second quarter heading into the third quarter and the fourth quarter this year yeah there will be a much lower rate of maintenance activity.
And you flagged Singapore startup cost obviously a big plant.
I mean any number that we could think about in terms of the sort of scale of that in the second quarter so that we can model it for the third quarter? You know total OpEx in there was up a little bit.
Singapore was an item but its not real significant in terms of order magnitude.
So as we continue to ramp up a little bit you will see a little more there but nothing I would really signal out as being material.
Okay then a general question on LNG.
I mean obviously Canada is a big opportunity Tanzania and the Golden Pass Exports I mean do you think well be talking about that at the analyst day next year with some granularity or you think its further off in the future? I think as we typically do at the analyst meeting well provide an update on all of those opportunities as they progress and hopefully by the end we can give you little more granularity in terms of expectations.
But a number of things to look at and work on in the meantime.
I think the good news for us is we have a number of potentially attractive large scale opportunities out there and we are assessing all of them and we look forward to talking about it more in March and of course particularly here in the U.S.
we are dependent on getting the permit for non-free trade agreement countries to progress that project.
But in the meantime as I mentioned in my remarks we are working on other permits and by the time we get to March we hope to be able to give you a good update on that.
Thanks very much guys.
Well now go to Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning David.
Actually I want to stick on the Canadian LNG.
It sounds like obviously we will get some more detail down the road but I had a general question for you with regard to the resource potential that you have to feed the facility do you feel that you have adequate resources to feed it or would you rely somewhat on third-party gas just any color there? Yeah I think in general you know we have the resources available to feed that that doesnt mean that we wouldnt bring in some other but if you look across our resource base in Canada in particular the acreage that we got with the Celtic acquisition you look at the Horn River a number of other properties we have out there we are pretty well positioned just internally to support a major LNG facility.
And thats why we are looking at it so hard but again its one of many projects but I think we are in pretty good shape.
Okay thats great.
Thanks.
My second question is really on U.S.
natural gas.
It seems like the decline has slowed a little bit from what we witnessed in previous quarters and I am just curious if thats a stabilization in activity levels or if some of the ramp-up you talked about with regard to Faisals question it may be and if that was in the gas window? Well we do have obviously more drilling in these liquids rich plays.
There is some gas obviously that comes out for that and that gets produced.
And whats you are generally seeing there is kind of the base decline rate that you have particularly if you are looking sequentially across the quarters in the U.S.
being offset by a little higher higher production.
So its really just the continuation of the program that we had in place.
It does tend to stabilize.
One of the things thats interesting with some of these unconventional oils of these unconventional wells particularly on the gas side is you get all these tails that stack up and by and large thats mitigating impact by itself.
But we are also seeing very strong performance.
I mentioned the Marcellus in particular but also in the Haynesville.
So were tracking right along in general some of the things we talked about at the analyst meeting in terms of well productivity some of the benefits were getting from advanced completion technologies.
You really starting to see that come into effect and in particular also on the liquid side.
Whereas we talked about before we spent a lot of time after the XTO acquisition getting the Denbury trade dong a lot of delineation a lot of appraisal working with the research folks on trying and improve our technologies.
And now you are starting to see kind of the fruit of those efforts as we ramp things up.
More pad drilling et cetera.
So we talked about it before and I know youve been waiting to kind of see the results of Marietta at XTO capability with Exxon Mobils technology and research.
And I think were starting to see that come up and we look forward to continued production increases in those areas.
I appreciate the color David thank you.
Thank you.
And well now go to Robert Kessler with TPH.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Hi David.
Couple of questions if you dont mind just to quantify some of the variance figures.
One thing the Rosneft on that reimbursement amount paid to Rosneft for past exploratory costs and then the other one just quantification of the unfavorable price earnings effects and the downstream.
I think you said there was part of 170 million sequential margin variance.
But if you could just specify each of those in absolute terms? Sure Id be happy to.
The Rosneft reimbursement of past costs was 220 million on an after tax basis.
And if you look at the total price timing effects for the second quarter of 2013 they about 166 million in total about 150 of that in the U.S.
If you compare that to the first quarter we actually had a 32 positive.
So if you are looking quarter-to-quarter sequentially in the U.S.
that was about $183 million negative impact on a sequential basis.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Very helpful.
Thank you.
All right thank you.
Next is Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Good morning David.
Good morning Doug.
David when we [travelled] this year you talked about [Rex] having a laser focus on efficiency gains cost improvements and so on.
If you look at the capture rate on your upstream margin this quarter it doesnt really seem to be a lot of movements.
So I am wondering if you could share some of those initiatives on what our expectations should be coming out of that? And I got a follow up please.
Sure.
I think what I said was a little more broadly we had a laser focus on unit profitability.
As we talked about at the analyst meeting where we acknowledged the fall back weve had in the upstream unit profitability given the mix of our production since the XTO acquisition and just reinforcing that we are very aware of this.
Were working on it.
Some of the portfolio projects that are coming online and particularly the liquids project are coming to fruition.
Weve talked about the mix impact were going to have over the next two or three years as all those liquids and liquids-linked projects come on.
So there is not a specific OpEx program or something like that its top to bottom its production its margin capture its bringing the projects online see any improvement in the earnings but also I will say as we always have continued focus on operational excellence and cost management.
So thats ongoing.
But its not anyone particular program.
I will say if you take out the Rosneft seismic reimbursement and look at some of our unconventional liquid increases sequentially across the quarter and how things are trending.
I think youre going to see that upturn on a cost on a price constant basis here as we go forward.
Thank you for that.
My follow up I am afraid is the buybacks.
I really just want to take frame this but oil prices were obviously lot stronger both domestically and internationally.
You are targeting production goals with 90% weighted towards liquids and you had obviously a big one off working capital shift in the second quarter.
So with that backdrop I know you dont like to talk about the longer term outlook for buybacks.
But conceptually why would you be pulling back on your buyback program given that backdrop and what is your tolerance for net debt and the balance sheet and Ill leave it there? Sure let me add a little bit to your backdrop comments because they are all quite valid to me.
Let me add just a little of perspective on the buyback.
If you look back over the past two years so you look at 2011 and 2013 we bought back $20 billion in each of those two years in share buybacks.
We also had over that so $40 billion lets call it for the two years combined.
Over that same time period we had about $20 billion in debt proceeds from asset sales so about 10 a year.
So if you put those two together and you think about it we bought back $20 billion a year.
10 of it sourced from our operating activities and 10 sourced from proceeds from asset sale.
Then if you come into 2013 and look at the first half we bought about $9 billion of shares back have less than a $1 billion in proceeds from asset sales.
So on equivalent basis weve already bought back a little over $8 billion in share buybacks excluding the proceeds from asset sales.
So if you look at it from that perspective the buyback actually remains quite strong.
There is nothing magical about the $3 billion number for the third quarter other than weve just take look at like we always do expect the cash flows for the quarter our needs cash requirements and that sort of thing.
And just came up with the $3 billion number.
Were also managing our capital structure this year and keeping that in line with our longer term objectives.
But not any more complicated than that.
Again I think sometimes people overlook the fact that asset management program that we had that last couple of years generated a significant amount of cash for us.
And we returned all of that to the shareholder which I thought was very positive.
So I hope that answers your question if not Id be happy to talk about it in little more detail.
Well go now to Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning David.
Ill look forward to the point assistants next time the call begins as well.
Ill look into that.
My first question on PNG.
I mean its clearly a differentiated position for Exxon I know you discussed your negotiations required additional supply and you picked up some exploration acreage in the quarter.
But could you discuss how additional expansion trend compared within your portfolio versus other projects that I know you have reviewed globally.
And additionally with train one and two were I think in their five years from FID to expected first gas.
I would presume expansion trains could be much faster than that.
And based upon the availability of gas does Exxon envision replicating a (inaudible) style development here of a train per type of a concept.
I have a follow-up.
Yeah let me kind of start at the back of your question first.
Clearly as would be true of your project once youve got all the facilities in play the pipelines the capacity the trains the utilities all the common facilities any addition is typically going to be quicker and have quite attractive incremental economics.
So I wouldnt want give a specific time frame on an additional train at Papua New Guinea beginning other than they say we have plenty of land space there we have plenty of infrastructure.
So we certainly have the ability to as rapidly as possible expand that facility over the course of the next few years and we do have a number of opportunities for gas we mentioned the [Interoil] discussions are going on we have had some success in exploration recently in Pingyang South and we have got some other exploration opportunities in the area.
So we are optimistic on that.
In terms of relative economics of Papua New Guinea versus other projects I wouldnt want to give any specific comparisons or numbers other than to say we do view that project as quite attractive for us and we certainly look forward to bringing forward some expansion opportunities and continuing to improve further on those economics.
Great thats helpful and my second question if I can follow up on the buyback I mean thats gone from five to four to three on a guidance basis with limited free cash flow in 3Q even if we see CapEx flat to down in 2014 we see some continued pressure on that buyback.
So really the question is going to reiterate Dougs question would you consider using the balance sheet or larger than normal asset sales to support the buyback going forward which is also historically supported your very high returns.
One of the things to keep in mind as we go forward particularly as you look into 2014 and you get kind of the ramp up in production and particularly liquids production that we showed you in the analyst meeting at current prices you could certainly expect increased cash flow right from operations.
So I think as that goes up and remember most of these assets these projects that we are bringing online in the next few year have two things.
One they are either oil-based or oil linked gas and they are no decline kind of projects.
So the CapEx requirement on a maintenance basis will be much lower than your typical oil projects and in the free cash flow generation out of that and the earnings impact were basically 90% of that increment tied to liquids.
So you have to keep that in mind.
When you think about I guess the other one was using the balance sheet to buy shares.
We manage the balance sheet really around to the whole capital structure that we want to manage and you have seen some increase in our debt levels here over the year.
You might recall back three years ago after the XTO merger we had about $19 billion of debt on the books.
We paid most of that off over the ensuing years got rid of that high cost debt.
We have replaced that with low cost commercial paper.
So we do continue to manage the balance sheet manage the capital structure of firm but also always maintaining that balance sheet flexibility that we have talked about.
So I wouldnt make any specific guidance on use of leverage or the buyback going forward other than to say we continue to focus on cash flow generation and returning as much of that cash flow back to the shareholders as possible in the form of both increasing dividends which we did again this year and the buybacks.
Okay thats helpful.
And one last one if I could I missed it.
On chemicals in the quarter were there any impacts of outages there particularly in the U.S.
I think volumes were lower.
Yeah we did have some planned maintenance but it was kind of minimum in terms of the impact in the U.S.
Yeah one of the things we did see in the U.S.
that was helpful was some increased polyethylene demand and that kind of helped our mix but we did have some downtime in a couple of areas but nothing real significant.
Got it.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
John  with Society Generale is next.
Yeah hi.
Two quick ones Dave.
With respect to the Bakken you said you were going to combine your [exploitation] as to XTO folks with your technical people should we expect to see more of an activity ramp given the potential of Three Folks in the Williston? Yeah I think it would be logical to assume overtime as we continue to develop that resource particularly taking this kind of full field development approach that you would see us ramp-up activity overtime.
I have to say and I kind of alluded to it in my opening comments we are really pleased with the progress we are making in Bakken.
Again its pad drilling its optimized completions its change in the way some things are done incorporating the learnings as we go along.
One of the things we talked a little bit about is not yet in a hurry you dont want to drill a bunch of wells and then look back over your shoulder and wish you hadnt done that quite yet because you have learned a bunch.
So I think we have a pretty deliberate discipline pace of growth in both activity and production but the gains that we are seeing year-over-year we would like to continue and do more and not yet too far out in front of that curve.
Okay thanks.
Next one from me is on the Tidal Oil pilot project with Rosneft.
How long we will be in the science phase next or so? I think with unconventional resources in general we are going to be in science phase for a while.
You know I think if you look at the West Siberia area tremendous opportunity for that joint-venture with us and Rosneft.
We are in the process right now of gathering data but testing will begin this year.
So that activity will startup before the end of the year depending on how that goes.
That will determine the pace heading into next year but as we have done in all the other conventional we will prudent making sure we know what we have testing the resource itself the quality of what we find underground and then looking for that commerciality determination but the area has plenty of infrastructure plenty of support so if we can make it work we will get after it pretty quick.
Okay.
Last one from me is Maui deepwater can you give us any more information on that? Yeah Maui is drilling ahead.
We have not reached the target depth yet so because of that you know I really wouldnt want to say much more.
Obviously in the next quarter we will have more to say on that.
But the drilling is going fine as expected and we look forward to providing a little more update next time.
All right thank you.
Hey thank you Doug.
Next is Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
Hi good morning David.
Good morning Paul.
David with respect to [inaudible] on this net income to barrel marginal barrel profitability can we just  sorry to do this but can we go back to this Rosneft deal first.
If I look at the earnings year-over-year the variance in the other category was 2.07 billion.
I think you said it was 220 million of that was Rosneft is that correct? Yeah thats correct.
Whats the rest? Its very simple.
All of the rest is the absence of asset sales from last year.
We sold our Block 31 in Angola we booked some of the Japan in there we have some other minor sales but that 2.1 billion its 1.9 asset sales and 200 million for other reimbursement of past cost.
Got you.
I mean I think generally speaking because we are as focused as Rex is on this issue its the more detail we can get on this [sort of noise] the better that would explain why the sequential earnings were down only 70 million in other would include the 220 of Rosneft right? Yeah thats correct.
So then there is obviously you know whatever it is 100 or something offset positive.
Yes.
Paul its a number of small items nothing really big to point out but yeah I think the important thing there is just what you have noticed.
Its pretty clean on the other where you down all the factors in particularly given that we had a negative 200 million in there for the Rosneft cost.
Yeah understood.
The proceeds from the after-sales you also mentioned that you made a couple of acquisitions.
Can we get some more detail on what the scale although you got 3 million of proceeds? I guess the acquisitions were in CapEx right? Yeah the acquisitions are in CapEx.
I think all in less than a $100 million.
I mean it wasnt significant in the quarter.
There were some small bolt-on.
That was the acquisitions.
What were the sales upstream? Sorry I missed that.
Excuse me.
The sales that we had we had some minor ones in the upstream just some minor ones there.
It was upstream.
Yeah it was just a little bit of stuff there.
Again net-net kind of there wasnt a big deal.
And I think you quite deliberately reiterated your guidance as given at the analyst meetings for I think it was for full year 12 is that what you referred to? Yeah I just wanted to reinforce two things for you the volume outlook is unchanged and the CapEx outlook is also unchanged.
Okay great I have got a kind of a detail one which is unfortunate but then if you could extend into the overall North America picture can you update us on the status and future for the Pegasus pipeline and then can you also talk about how you are going to move crude out of Canada down into major refining centers on the Gulf Coast thank you.
Yeah let me hit the second one first.
We have the ability if you are really referring to Kearl we have got the pipeline capacity in place for 10 000 barrels per day to move that either into the U.S.
some of that into Julia and also into our other Canadian refineries.
If you are looking in general Western Canada crude down into the west coast we have made some other arrangements to offset what was coming down Pegasus.
So that really hasnt had a big impact on us on a net basis.
If you look at the Pegasus pipeline incident kind of broadly I will tell you that the clean-up of that is going very well.
We have removed all visible free standing oil from the environment.
Many of the folks that were evacuated from their homes have completed re-entry process.
So thats going well.
In terms of starting up that pipeline you know I really couldnt give you an estimate on that or an outlook.
We still got some more work to do to determine the details of the investigation around that incident and what caused it and that sort of thing.
So until we have got that completely nailed down and can you know think about that over the rest of the line I just cant give you any update when that is going to be back in service.
Okay so it is obviously now I think the interesting thing is if I could say I believe it was built in 1940 that pipeline right? Yes yes.
David I look forward to seeing you in September thank you.
All right thank you.
Next is Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Hey guys good morning.
Good morning Paul.
Two questions David.
In the second quarter is there any one-off or some more unusual tax adjustment or inventory gain on those in any of your division that we should be aware? No Paul this is actually a pretty clean quarter along those lines.
Secondly that Dave I think you talked about the success story that you guys have in the Woodford and also in some of the unconventional play like Bakken.
Can you give us a rough idea that how much is the total unconventional liquid production today that you are running at net to the company and also within that the percentage between the split oil condensate and NGL? Paul I dont have the breakdown of unconventional liquids relative to conventional certainly what we are seeing if you look at how we are doing particularly sequentially in the U.S.
where I think our liquid production are basically quarter over quarter our liquid production flat what you are seeing is unconventional increase in liquid production is offsetting declines.
And so youve got you normal decline on the conventional being offset by the unconventional.
But I dont have those two numbers.
Is that something that you guys will be willing to share and we could take it offline now or you could have someone to shooting me an email.
I think those kind of details will probably hold for a broader update in our analysts meeting in March.
I think the important thing for us is this ramp up that we are seeing and the year- over-year increase that I have mentioned in my prepared remarks and again in particular the ability to grow these volumes at a lower capital cost as time goes on and a lower OpEx but I do understand your question.
And I would look for an opportunity down the road to be a little bit more specific on that.
And on the unconventional liquid are your guys operating cost per unit or per barrel are they higher or about the same or lower than your average portfolio in the U.S.? I dont know that I have that specific number in terms of coming up with conventional average cost versus an unconventional.
Again Paul I think the important thing for us is to continue to ramp down those Op costs ramp up the well productivity as we depend on those unconventional liquids to offset the decline in the conventional.
So I dont have a split out in the cost for you along those lines but again as this portfolio goes forward you will see an increasing amount in unconventional liquids offsetting and then growing more than the decline on the unconventional.
But well also look for opportunity at the next analyst meeting to talk about that a little more as these volumes come up.
All right.
Thank you.
Well now go to Allen Good with Morningstar.
Good morning David.
Good morning Allen.
Just a follow up question on your commentary related to the asset sales reporting share repurchases in the past.
First of all if there any current marketing of assets now that will be significant to potentially support the repurchases later this year and next? And then secondly on that point when you evaluate aftersales or the future potential of assets do you expect the returns on those future of those assets in the future relative to what you could potentially get on returns on buying your own stock and the valuation of your own stock so as the repurchase of  or use of proceeds factors into whether you decide to sell an asset or not? Let me answer that second one.
First those are two completely separate decisions.
The decision to sell assets is sometimes its strategic like our decision to get out of owned and operated retail stores in the U.S.
which also ties into the other part of asset sales which is they are worth more to somebody than they are to us and so often times when we look at something that looks like a strategic benefit for us it turns out that it marries up quite with an economic advantage for someone else.
When you look across our other assets either an upstream downstream or chemicals its a very simple analysis.
What this things worth to us looking at both upside potential and downside potential and then how does that compare to the value to a potential purchaser and when the latter is greater than the former generally speaking well conclude an asset sale and a lot of those sales are opportunistic where people approach us asking to buy assets.
So we dont have a program.
We dont have a target or an objective where they come along and they are attractive we go ahead and do it.
And that kind of leads into  I really cant comment on future sales because as I said so many of those come about because we get approached by people and dont have any way to look at that.
But I will say we did see a very successful program over the last couple of years and again as I mentioned earlier that cash flowed directly to our shareholders.
But what we might do next quarter next quarter or next year I just I dont know and couldnt comment on.
Okay.
Thanks.
And my second question relates to the factors that you outlined as far as [direction] relative to tracking of LNG project with respect to Australia and I understand you are going to pursue FLNG down there and the development of Scarborough.
Is anything else beside that potential with respect to regulatory or capital cost in Australia that had may be abated in the past call six months to a year that made that project a bit more attractive than it maybe was a year or two ago relative to the rest of your portfolio? We havent seen a big change in terms of the cost structure.
We are evaluating the potential of FLNG at the Scarborough prospect and those evaluations continue but again I would want a position that relative to any other project either already in the portfolio or one that were looking at.
Again its nice to have the wide geographic flexibility we have and the opportunity set for LNG.
So you got a lot of things in play as I mentioned fiscal term stability capital cost in particular areas infrastructure and that sort of thing as well as the market of those things which serve.
So as we bring along this portfolio and evaluate it well be looking at different technologies FLNG is an example of that.
Also different sizes the facilities and different locations and that sort of things.
So well continue to progress that but dont have an outlook for FID and cost or any of those or certainly not relative competitiveness.
Okay thanks.
And just one quick one.
I am sorry if I missed it.
But on Asian gas volumes in the quarter was there a reason whether it be PSC or turnaround effect for the decline thats sequentially there? If youre looking sequentially we had some downtime was a big piece of that.
And then there also some price and spend impact on entitlements in the gas area there.
But nothing outside of that unknown there.
Thank you very much.
All right.
Thank you.
And we go to Pablo Mockonoff with Raymond James.
Thanks for taking my question.
First just a quick one on PNG LNG any sense of when youre looking to make a decision project extension on [inaudible]? No I really dont have an outlook on that.
Were still in the commercial discussion on the potential for expansion.
So until those concluded it would be difficult to give any forward guidance on timing after that.
Other than were working on it and if those negotiations are successfully concluded well be in a better position to talk about the going forward timeframe.
Okay.
And then segment from me weve seen a number of large western players getting into the Vaca Muerta in Argentina in a pretty big way.
Can we just get an update on where things stand with your JVs down there with I guess its Americas Petrogas.
Sure I think as youre probably aware weve got a huge position in the Vaca Muerta.
We were kind of early mover into that area.
Weve got a 11 blocks totaling over 800 000 net acres in the Neuqun Basin.
And of course were targeting the potential of the Vaca Muerta.
We did have number of wells that we drilled last year and into this year.
Some of those are on test.
And others are being completed and we will be testing going forward.
We do have a fairly active operated plan for the balance of this year and well get a few more wells down there over the course of the year.
The real key there is to kind of figure out where the windows are for the liquid versus the gas figure out what you got how it looks and not drill more wells then you need to define that resource.
So were pleased.
The early results are encouraging and we continue to progress and like I mentioned minute ago were looking forward to drilling our operated wells the rest of this year and give you a little better update as we progress.
Right appreciate it very much.
We go now to Iain Reid with Jefferies.
Hi David.
How are you? I am good Ian.
How are you? I am doing very well.
Got a few things.
Firstly on just coming back share buyback.
Just wondering when you look at share buybacks and dividends.
Do you kind of look at those together because youre ramping down the share buyback at the same time you increased dividends payments fairly significantly.
So do you look at that as kind of total shareholder return number? I know youre moving if youre like more towards dividends rather than share buybacks consciously or is it more about this disposal impact you were talking about earlier? Let me talk about the dividends first.
I think the most important thing to think about the dividend is we have a track record and certainly talked about on a go forward basis the objective of always growing that dividend overtime.
The rate at which weve grown that dividend over the last several years has varied a little bit although if you average it out over the last five or ten years its been substantial.
We did take a 20% hike in the dividend in 2012 and other 10% almost 11% this year.
And I think as we talked about it in the analyst meeting that was to in response to both desires of our shareholders and also to remain competitive in the marketplace.
So if you just hold that aside on the dividend than you get to the buyback and the buyback is of course driven by cash flow thats available to give back to the shareholder.
And buybacks give us great flexibility in terms of managing cash and capital structure.
And so I wouldnt combine that with the dividend.
Theyre separate and managed in that manner.
I think as you look back over the last few years at the sheer level of total distributions to the shareholders they have been quite impressive and again we have grown the dividend to meet those needs and then the rest of the cash has gone back in the form of the buybacks.
Okay.
second one is I was curious about this what you are talking about in terms of refining capacity being significantly down in the because if you look at it on a sequential basis it is down but not significantly compared to the first quarter.
So is there anything else in these refining numbers which could explain the kind of really weak performance other than just the cost of what you are doing and also the downtime you are talking about? Sure a big piece of the actually impact on earnings really comes from the fact that a lot of the refineries were down or some of our higher margin refineries for example our Julia refinery in the Midwest was down for two full months and thats without giving a specific number I can tell you thats a big chunk of what you are seeing in that earnings number.
So its not the just the amount of throughput or the amount of value that was lost but the mix of those refineries as well.
And last one just on tax rates if you dont mind your tax rate kicked up fairly substantially in this quarter compared to second quarter of last year is that a purely mix effect or some of your competitors have being talking about the impact of the stronger dollar on deferred tax balances.
So is this something we might see kind of maintain at elevated rates if the dollar remain strong or is it something you would expect to reverse with refinery becoming little bit more profitable? Yeah let me hit that if you are looking for example the last years second quarter and this years second quarter the biggest impact of that there is the difference the tax rate on earnings and some of divestments and restructurings that we have.
Aside from that if you are looking sequentially this year it is purely the mix effect where we are making our money upstream versus downstream U.S.
non-U.S.
so a geography there and you saw the results much different in terms of the downstream quarter-on-quarter.
I dont think foreign exchange rates are having an effect on us and going forward I dont have a specific number for you but if you kind of look back over the last several quarters and take out the impact of the big restructuring divestment we have kind of been in that kind of mid to upper 40s range.
And so again I dont have a specific outlook for you but if you take away a couple of those anomalies thats kind of where we have been.
All right David thats very kind.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And we will take our last question from Faisal Khan with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Thanks David.
Just have a follow up.
Could you just [stress] how are you dealing with this [REMS] issue in the U.S.
for refining and downstream where you guys fairly balanced or you do that more blending capacity that you gasoline production capacity and how retail and marketing sort of help mitigate some of that? The answer to that is yes we are a net purchaser of [REMS] but I will tell you we are pretty well balance we do generate the majority of our credit by blending our biofuels directly.
So while it is an impact on us its not real significant I think the more broader issue is that arena is really the RFS mandate and approaching hitting the blend wall next year from an industry perspective and its not going to be matter of [REMS] pricing but just the fact that the [REMS] will be come in sufficient and compliance with the RFS mandate is just going to be infeasible.
So [REMS] are an issue its topic but the more broader issue going forward is going to be the RFS mandate heading into 2014.
Okay.
So just a comparable I am looking at your results for the quarter I shouldnt see any sort of material impact from Faisal [REMS] in the quarter? No not at all.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And that does conclude our quarter and answer session for today I would like to turn it back to David Rosenthal for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.
I just want to thank everybody for time and questions today.
We appreciate you being with us on the call and look forward to visiting with you next quarter.
So thank you very much.
And thank you for your remarks.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation for today.
And you may disconnect.
Thank you Mr.
Rosenthal.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning guys how are you? Good morning Evan how are you? I am good.
May be I missed it in your opening comments on discussion on the cash balance but the additional financing investing item thats should open the balance sheet meaning what was the change to debt in the quarter? Yeah that was the $2 billion that was an increase in our debt.
Okay.
Well it may be premature I know you guys address this at the analyst day I mean but what are your thoughts with regard to potentially reducing CapEx on a go forward basis which has been seen primarily in Europe or using as you did in this past quarter some of your significant and potential leverage to continue to fund the buyback? Evan if we step back to the analyst meeting in March we did show somewhat of a rollover in CapEx going forward particularly in the upstream with a little higher investment in downstream in chemical.
And we will update that in the next analyst meeting but right now I dont have any new number to give you and so thats still a good outlook for us as we go forward.
In terms of leverage on the balance sheet no real change in kind of our approach.
You have seen us over the course of this year increase leverage just a bit but thats really get us back to where we were if you go back to about 2010.
So if you look across the 2011 and 12 timeframe where we had significant cash flow including from asset divestitures over those two years weve returned a lot of that cash to the shareholders.
We also paid down a lot of debt and so this increase you are seeing this year really just kind of gets us back to about where we were.
But no real change in approach to the balance sheet or distributions to shareholders.
Great.
Ill leave it there.
Thank you.
Okay thank you.
Good morning David.
Good morning Doug.
I have a question about E&amp;P and specifically after-tax profitability appears to have increased versus the year ago period in both the U.S.
and international arena.
But in your E&amp;P earnings chart that you highlighted that didnt indicated volume mix effects played much of a role in its improvement.
So I wanted to see if you can provide some color on unit profitability excluding tax and foreign exchange benefits? And specifically whether or not the trend is improving and really just any other drivers of E&amp;P profitability that you are able to provide color on? Sure Ill be happy to provide a little more color on that.
So if you are looking at quarter-over-quarter you see on the chart and I mentioned in my prepared remarks a net increase of about $20 million.
We did have an under-lift this quarter of about 25 000 barrels a day in a number of areas including West Africa and the North Sea.
And if we had not been under-lifted earnings would have been notionally $100 million or so higher.
Okay.
So that might have been more closer to what you expected.
And we did see quite a nice contribution on the liquids side and that was offset a bit by declining as we expected and I talked about on the gas side of the business so if I look at the third quarter things came out really just about the way we expected higher liquids particularly in some of our more profitable areas and then a decline in gas volumes particularly in the U.S.
And so as we talked about at the Analyst Meeting we are taking steps and well continue to take steps to strengthen profitability.
I think if you look at our third quarter results and the flow through of higher realizations to the bottom line I think our unit profitability actually went up a little more than our realizations did.
So I wouldnt want to take any one quarter and say we set a trend but were certainly starting to see the impact of the higher liquids volumes and a little lower gas volumes in the U.S.
as we had expected.
Okay thanks a lot David.
All right thank you.
Thanks.
Good morning David.
Good morning Doug.
How are you? Not too bad thank you.
I wonder if I can ask you about production volumes.
I realize you got lot of projects on the ramp up phase and I guess slide nine shows that the year-over-year impact but can you help us understand what stage of their evolution the new projects are in? what Im really trying to get to is most of the my questions are answered but are we at the point where the ramp up in the new that stuff has started up already is now enough to offset the underlying decline so that they can hit that inflation point of goal and then Ive got a follow up too.
Sure Doug if you look particularly on the liquids side which is I know where the focus has been youre certainly starting to see an inflection point of where weve been as the new projects have come online.
I mentioned its really a mix.
some things were doing a little better than we were expecting this year and that has more than offset little slower ramp up in Kearl.
So if I were to step back and look at overall as the projects are coming online the satellite projects in West Africa the Kearl project et cetera we are starting to see a kind of turnaround that we talked about at the Analyst Meeting and weve been discussing since then.
One of the other things that weve seen this year particularly year-over-year is much lower downtime.
Our operations are running very well this year were very pleased with the progress we have made.
Particularly on the liquids side and some of our higher margin areas but also on the LNG side of the business.
So when you have the combination of lower downtime on selling your better profitable barrel equivalents and the turnaround and uplift that youre starting to see from the liquids production volumes including here in the U.S.
you saw we had a nice increase just in the U.S.
so I would say again we dont want to grab any one quarter.
But if you are looking directionally and look at trends we are starting to deliver on the commitments that we have made and the projects that we have talked about and then as I mentioned in my prepared remarks as I look in 2014 our major projects are on schedule on budget and we continue to be very pleased with our progress and as that continues on into the 2015 and 2016 timeframe.
So we are on track to deliver that big wedge volume between year-end 2012 and year-end 2017 and things are addressing well.
Thank you.
My follow up David is really I know you have been on the road a fair amount since last several months and there seems to be I am really looking for you to qualify or at least put the debate to rest there seems to be some debate over whether or not you are going to stick to your capital budget as with your multi-year capital budget as laid out at last years Analyst Day and in light of where the share prices is I guess it goes back to Evans question the share has been very awful this year on a relative and absolute basis how is management thinking about the kind of reward some of your overseas competitors apart by cutting back capital and how are you thinking about maybe even bit more aggressive on the buyback taking advantage of or at least address the weakness that weve seen so far this year and I will leave it at that.
Thank you.
Thanks Doug Let me kind of hit those three things.
On the CapEx side there is no new outlook relative to what we said at the analyst meeting.
We are certainly updating our plan now.
We will update in March but what we look at our investment plan that we showed you we dont have any information today that would suggest a major change from what we said.
As oppose to regards the stock price the market determines that we are executing on the things that we can control flawless execution of the base business making sure our assets are up and running when the margins is good as you seen in the chemical business this quarter where up time rates were extremely high were capturing that value added there on the margin particularly in the U.S and then I mentioned the operations that we are having in the upstream.
So if you are looking at the things really generate shareholder value short-term and long-term running the business well we are seeing that and bringing those big projects online and benefiting from the CapEx profile that we have in the last few years and youve seen that.
In terms of the buyback no change in the buyback.
T continues to be a quarter decision and I updated you on the fourth quarter another $3 billion and well have another update on that in the next earnings call.
Thanks David.
Thanks.
Kelly is here.
Just on the CapEx comment you made about CapEx rolling over.
Thats presumably mainly the Celtic acquisition that you flagged in the Analyst Day.
If you look at where we are on CapEx say we are in line with expectations if you kind of step back to the analyst meeting we have said wed spend about $41 billion in total we had about $3 billion in there for the Celtic so if you were to look at what we showed you ex-acquisition that would have been about 38.
As we sit here through the third year and we take Celtic and add in the [Clyden] acquisition thats about $4 billion around numbers.
If you take the 4 billion away from the 32.6 you have seen year-to-date thats 28 and change.
So I dont have another number for the end of the year.
But from what we can see we are going to be pretty close as we head through the fourth quarter and we are generally pleased with how weve been able to manage such a large project low this year and keep that CapEx discipline to bring this project in on budget.
So again thats a large number to close to call for the year end but we feel pretty good about where we are at.
And just to switch to the downstream in chemicals.
Obviously in the second quarter you were still burdened with Singapore cost and you had as you flagged a lot of downtime.
When you think about the third quarter operations as you look across the world do you feel thats a more normal kind level of operations that most of that are turnaround and downtime activity was not in that quarter so it was clean.
Yeah when you look at we step back to the second quarter we talked about on the last call significant downtime a lot of plant maintenance.
Again I am happy to say that we came out well that very successful on the turnarounds and the maintenance concluded in a safe manner and thats come out very well.
As we come into the  as we came through the third quarter all of that equipment came back up fine running well capacity utilizations doing well.
So the third quarter is more of a kind of normal quarter I guess if you are looking from that perspective.
We have some minor turnarounds as we always do coming up but nothing specific.
So as we look into the third quarter and as you saw from our earnings charts the margin hit was big but the volume mix effects reflecting the turnarounds coming off and excellent operations boosted back we took what the market had on offer in terms of margins and we are able to take that to the bottom line.
And may be one final one just on the sort of restructuring in the downstream of CV weve already taken some moves to improve the competitiveness of the refining assets relative to the market environment but any thoughts about being more aggressive here given some of the trends and some capacity adds and gasoline margins globally that we are seeing? Yeah I wouldnt want to give any guidance on specifically on that program.
We did as you point out have a very successful multi-year program on some asset restructuring and some asset divestitures in the downstream particularly during an up cycle in the business.
So we certainly brought lot of value home to the shareholders.
Going forward no big change in approach.
We are always looking at all of our assets.
We are always talking to people people are approaching us and so well see how that goes.
So no change more aggressive less aggressive just optimizing the business and bringing the value home whenever we have the opportunity to do so.
Thanks David.
All right thank you.
Hi David.
Hey good morning Paul.
David reading between the lines are we saying that 2013 is it peak year for CapEx? If you look at the chart that we showed in March it would indicate that this was a peak year and again I really dont have a change to that.
Our expectation is what weve seen which is the upstream CapEx would trend down some of these projects come on and other ones continue to spend.
As we mentioned we still believe we have some nice investment opportunities in both the downstream and chemical and particular in chemical weve talked about our major expansion opportunity potentially in the Gulf Coast with the new steam cracker and some polyethylene lines.
We are expanding the specialties business elsewhere around the world.
So those investments still look good.
We do have some nice investment opportunities in the downstream that still look attractive.
So I really dont have any different signal or any different fundamental change in the opportunity set then what weve talked about this year.
Off-course well update that in March but as of now I dont see any change to what weve talked about before.
Which would imply that it would be a peak year CapEx.
And then the I guess the risk there as youve highlighted is actually non-operated which is obviously the Gorgon Project.
Well I mean you know we do not have an update on the Gorgon Project and obviously be appropriate to defer to the operator for that kind of update but we dont have an update on that project as of today.
And speaking of non-operated could you I think you mapped on this but could you just remind us what the contribution of cash again was in Q3 and what you anticipate it will be in Q4? Yeah it was fairly small and across the quarter.
I dont have that exact number I mean we came on line.
It got up to 80 000 barrels a day and went down.
Looking into the fourth quarter Paul I really dont have any kind of an outlook or estimate for you.
The operator is currently evaluating and inspecting the gas line and trying to get to the root cause of what happened there.
And until we know that its hard to give an outlook.
We just have to wait and see and find out what remediation if anything if necessary and how long that might take.
But as you would expect that investigation and evaluation is ongoing as we speak.
But we will stay shut in until its complete and I just dont have any better outlook than that.
Understood David and then finally could you just remind us something what you said here is your debt levels in the quarter rose net debt rose but you maintained your buybacks.
So in other words you are now increasing debt in order to buy shares is that a fair statement? I would separate those two things the share buyback is reflective of how things are going in the quarter and looking ahead at the business and our cash needs and cash avails.
The debt is simply managing the capital structure on the balance sheet.
Were kind of up as I mentioned the levels that we work couple of years ago but still fairly conservative lot of flexibility as we like to keep on the balance sheet.
I think our debt-to-equity ratio and some of the other metrics that people look at on the balance sheet are all pretty much within where weve been kind of historically coming out of the low period we had as I mentioned in 11 and 12.
So no really change in either approach or any other outlooks to offer in that regard.
Okay thanks David.
Sure thank you Paul.
Hi David good morning and thanks for taking the question.
Weve covered CapEx pretty well so I was just going to see if we could may be shift it over to divestitures.
This may be a better question for the Analyst Day but some of your peers in Europe especially have definitely gone into a mode of more aggressively divesting assets and then it seems like Exxon in particular would certainly have quite a host of opportunities there.
Are there any thought to may be take advantage of that in the marketplace? Well I think the first thought I have is we dont ever announce in advance what our divestiture plans are.
Over time we kind of think we get a little better value in the market if we dont announce in advance what it is were planning to do.
And I really cant again forecast any particular outlook in terms of the divestiture program.
As we talked about in the past some of the divestitures youve seen in the last few years have been strategic or initiated from our standpoint.
But several of our divestitures have actually been buyers seeking our assets out because in their portfolio they view them as having more value than we value them in our portfolio and so when you have that type of a situation its very beneficial to make a transaction.
Were always looking at that.
Were always talking to people.
But again no change in our approach in any of our businesses or across the asset management program in general.
You did see us with about as I recall $20 billion over the last two years 11 and 12 in cash flow from asset sales; several billion dollars in earnings so that program was very successful.
This has been a down year so far in that but again its not because we made any strategic decision or decided to change the program.
Its just again always optimizing the portfolio and taking advantage of the opportunities that the market presents.
Okay.
Fair enough the second question David is on LNG I didnt see any comments in the slides on where you stand with regard to the LNG export facility in the U.S.
could you just give us an update there please? Yeah there has been no major change.
We continue to look at that project and do what we can while were waiting for approval of our non-free trade agreement permit that is pending with the government and we are hopeful well get that permit approved soon.
In the mean time we continue to look at the project and again develop what we can pending the permit.
So still looks like a very good opportunity for the company and certainly a good opportunity for the economy and trade and were anxious to get after that project as soon as possible.
Good day thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Hi David.
Hey hi Jason how are you? Good thank you.
I just wanted to ask a few questions thank you for the details first of all on the project schedule but we always want more than you give us.
I guess we do have a healthy appetite.
I was hoping that you might be able to first of all discuss any commercial arrangements for the natural gas at Sakhalin given the expansions that you are going through there? And then just also within the gas business if you could talk about the potential for train three at PNG and what the process will be leading up to that decision? And then finally there has been a little more discussion on the monetization of Alaska Natural Gas can you talk about may be what your intents would be on deployed comps and lease? Sure Jason thats you kind of hit kind of our big piece of our opportunities set out there and it is pretty broad.
We have a lot of opportunities in a number of places around the world.
If I take them in order while I cant ever discuss commercial arrangements or commercial negotiations that might be ongoing in the business I will say as we look at Sakhalin gas and the gas resources that we have there we are looking at a potential LNG facility with Rosneft on Sakhalin Island or looking at some locations under consideration and progressing the evaluation of that project and working on it pretty steadily here.
So thats one opportunity thats certainly out there.
We have a very nice gas resource in the area and finding a way to monetize that.
We continue to make whats already a very attractive project even more so.
So we are looking forward to working on that.
If we flip over to the Papua New Guinea plant as I mentioned that project is coming along very well were very pleased with the progress heading towards a start-up next year.
We are and continue to look at the potential for adding a third train.
We have space to do that there lot of opportunities.
One of course is the discussions that are ongoing with InterOil.
I know it was in the press recently that our exclusivity period had ended and that was correct.
But were still discussing.
We still have negotiations ongoing and well just have to see how that bears out.
We also in the area have a pretty good opportunity set in terms of exploration and we have had some success there recently and we continue to evaluate that opportunity.
So thats still a possibility and of course adding a train to an existing site is usually a pretty robust investment opportunity.
So well continue to pursue that.
When we look at the potential of LNG exports out of Alaska we did complete in the third quarter our summer field surveys on the northern portion of the proposed pipeline route which of course is the first field work required for permitting.
So we did a lot of work during the summer to analyze particularly environmental conditions among other items.
So we continue to progress that on the project side.
That would be a very very large project of literally unprecedented scale and complexity.
So its going to be very important to have a good fiscal sound fiscal and stable fiscal regime there and that will be one of the items necessary of course to continue to progress that project.
But it does move along.
The Point Thomson project is also moving along.
So that opportunity is still there.
I think whats really interesting if you take a step back and look at some of the questions we have had today on LNG you really get a sense for the really rich opportunities that we have around the world for potential monetization of our gas resources particularly by LNG mentioned the Sakhalin project we have had great exploration success so far in Tanzania.
We have the Gulf Coast project that were anxious to progress.
We continue to evaluate the potential for LNG exports out of British Columbia and then we mentioned Alaska and we have other opportunities.
So its nice to have a real rich opportunity set thats geographically diverse and we are spending as you would expect a lot of time working on all of those and looking at which ones are ready one order to bring forward for commercialization.
But its great to have that portfolio and the ability to take a nice long term view of monetizing those natural gas resources we have around the world.
Thanks for that very clear answer David.
Maybe just a very quick follow-up in [Penang Field] still a possibility for under pinning train three at PNG? Thats one nice discovery that weve had.
I wouldnt want to take it any further than that other than it is one of many opportunities that we have in the area and were still evaluating that to answer the question that you have asked while we consider other exploration potential in the area.
I think the good news is the base projects doing well opportunities for expansion exist and we have a couple of different opportunities we can pursue to affect that expansion in due course.
So more to come on Papua New Guinea in the future.
Great thanks David.
Good morning David.
Hey good morning.
How are you doing? Good good.
Two quick questions.
First on just following back on the PNG LNG projects looks like the time line have improved just slightly.
Could you talk about the critical steps ahead before the first LNG sales take place next year.
You mentioned that youve started commissioning the LNG plant how long does that and whats the drilling program look like? Sure I would  its little early to talk about a different start up timeline other than to say we are still looking at the second half next year.
A lot to do  we are very far along.
I did mention weve started some commissioning feeding in some gas into the plant for testing and making sure things are working.
Its a very complex project not just down at the LNG plant side but up in the Highlands.
So there is still a lot of kit to put together and test but again all of that is ongoing.
Were finishing up the pipeline drilling is continuing.
Weve had success and the things are going well as we did the initial drill pad and move over to the second one.
So I think as the months ago by well be able to give a little better update on the exact timing but for now I would say everything is certainly on schedule and going per the plan.
Thanks and a quick unrelated follow up just on U.S.
Chemicals looks like very nice numbers.
What percent of your U.S.
business is specialty versus commodity? Could you provide any guidance on that? Yeah if we are looking at the split in the U.S.
on commodities versus specialty we are little higher obviously on the commodity because of our big steam cracking operations but the specialty business again as well.
But we are not given a specific number in the U.S.
alone we are more heavily weighted to the commodity side of the business in the specialty.
Thanks.
Good morning David.
Good morning Faisal how are you? All right how are you doing? I am great thank you.
Okay thank you.
Could you  I appreciate the KPI along the unconventional resources in the U.S.
and production.
But could you give me a little bit more color on if I look at the total liquids production in the U.S.
of roughly 423 000 barrels a day.
How much of that is really coming from shale oil and shale liquids it sounds like your Permian production is mostly geared towards conventional than CO2 floodings so is that primarily at that level where its producing anything from shale oil or tight oil.
Yeah thats Faisal I dont have a specific breakdown just in the U.S.
on conventional versus unconventional.
Certainly as youve said in the Permian the big uptick weve seen recently has been on the conventional side with the lot of work going on in the unconventional and so whereas if you look at the absolute production levels more of its coming from conventional and unconventional.
But certainly as we go forward the conventional continue to decline and even though I mentioned some of the steps we are taking to stem that we do see decline in Alaska and et cetera.
But the real key for the U.S.
is we are just really getting started on the unconventional side.
And as Ive mentioned before we spent a lot of time in the last couple of years evaluating what weve had doing a lot of testing a lot of technology work a lot of research work and thats why I pointed out now you are really starting to see wells coming on not for evaluation and delineation but to sell.
So we can start ringing the cash register from these investments and you are starting to see that uptick.
So although the absolute split you havent really seen a huge change there the growth is coming along as we expected and we are very pleased with the progress.
But I have to say its not just the unconventional.
We are happy with what we got going on in the Permian and some other areas to stem decline base decline and do some things and grow those profitable barrels for us.
Okay and then along the same lines then if youre starting to scratch the surface down and finally monetize all this acreage that you accumulated over the last few years or several years I should say whats your  in terms of your total rig count in the U.S.
what is it and how much of it is dedicated to the oil and liquids? Yeah I think our current rig count is just over 40 rigs.
I think we averaged about 45 in the quarter and I think we are currently at about 41.
In terms where those rigs are drilling just about all are drilling liquids areas we have very very few gas rigs running only where we have an opportunity for a nice return on that.
But if you think about our three core areas the Bakken and the Ardmore and the Permian those are where the wells we are drilling thats what we are seeing not only the increase in production but very pleased with the progress we are making on operating expense reduction productivity of the wells CapEx efficiency and all of that as you know helps on unit profitability in the portfolio as well as cash flow generation.
So if you think about those three core three areas you are really starting to see benefits of the time we spent evaluating those areas understanding what we had quietly adding acreage to our positions which are now quite large in all of those areas.
So business is doing well and certainly a potential growth area for us that we are exploiting in due course.
And last question from me David.
On the Bakken if you could just give us like what your average well cost have been over the last quarter just so we can compare these efficiency gains you are talking about versus what we are seeing from your other peers and competitors? Yeah I understand the question I really dont want to give out per well cost for a number of reasons.
One for competitive purposes but also any particular point in time what a well cost isnt near important as kind of what we are doing over the longer term period.
We did share some of that with you at the Analyst Meeting last year.
We will share some more at the upcoming Analyst Meeting as we talk about again this productivity gains both from technology and approach and some of the improvements we have seen there.
So without giving a specific number I can tell you that we are meeting or exceeding the expectations we had in this area when we acquired XTO and have added all of these properties consolidated our acreage position and now as I have said really ramped up the activity there.
Great.
Thanks for the time.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Hi good morning.
Morning Roger.
I guess lot of stuffs been already asked and answered.
But I just wanted to check the couple of things.
Number one is a follow-up to the last question on gas production  production in the U.S.
and I guess specifically gas production.
We have seen expected slowing in the rate of decline.
It doesnt sound like much of that would have been due at this point to ramp up associated gas from some of the shale plays.
So is this just a function of the decline rates are finally slowing enough and this will help that overall expectation of production growth in 14 and 15 because you no longer have this drag or is there something else going on here? Id say there are things are going exactly as we had anticipated.
If you look at where we are just for example year-over-year in U.S.
gas were down about 4% in the third quarter and thats kind of in line with the full year look that we had in March.
So if I look across the year things are going just as we had expected.
You do see the impact of associated gases in there and thats offset some of the decline but nothing going on any different than what we expected coming into the year and again consistent with that full year outlook that we gave everyone in March.
So again liquids up U.S.
gas down have seen a benefit as I mentioned earlier over the year in some European gas on demand but things are going pretty much as we had anticipated.
Okay thanks.
And the follow up question recently the exploration expense had been moving higher and I know you cant predict when you will drill a dry hole and when you will drill a successful well.
But I was wondering does that indicate a generally higher exploration spend overall as we are looking out? No I think if you look at total exploration expense from a programmatic standpoint over the years I wouldnt give any indication that its any different than what we have talked about in March.
What you do see is lumpiness in the actual booked exploration expense.
We did have about a $100 million higher exploration expense this quarter than we had in the quarter before.
And as you mentioned its just the timing of expensing the dry holes and thats what we saw in the third quarter.
Okay thank you.
All right thank you.
Yeah hi Dave.
Some quick unconventional questions.
Sure.
With the Vaca Muerta you are going to drill four wells are you going to spud them more or less sequentially and then frac them to see what you have? Yes well do those sequentially.
Weve got a number of wells that we drilled in the past couple of years and they continue to be on test.
We are starting our operated program and yes we will drill those sequentially and then frac them as you mentioned.
And then regarding your operator program you dont have same type of expenditure commitments correct as one of your West Coast peers? When we look across our acreage no we dont  I wouldnt comment on other folks but certainly when we look at our 800 000 acres that we have down there no we do not have any significant committed expenditures.
We are continuing on the program of evaluating in due course but we have a lot of flexibility in both the pace and size of that program.
Okay and then last one from me.
On the Permian you added eight new drilling rigs.
How much would be for conventional activities how much unconventional? Thats it.
Thank you.
I dont have the exact split.
But I would tell you generally more are doing conventional than are doing unconventional.
Yeah.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good morning Allen.
Good morning David.
Just a few quick one first of all on the Kearl volumes can you give a split between the amount or even a percentage that were run through Exxon refineries versus third party? And long-term is there a target as far as our with respect to integration with your downstream there where certain amount of Kearl youd like to run through your own facilities? Sure Ill start with the first part without an exact barrel split the vast majority that we ran in the third quarter we ran in our own refineries.
Most of that went to our Juliette refinery in the Mid-con area we did also get some down in the Gulf Coast to run at Baton Rouge and we ran some in Sarnia in Canada.
So a pretty good dispersion there and as I mentioned in my prepared remarks all of the refineries experienced exactly what we were expecting them to running that product.
So again a good demonstration of the technology.
Going forward we will continue to expand the disposition of this crude in our other refineries.
Well probably run some more down to the Gulf Coast into Baytown and then into other Midwest refineries up in the Midwest et cetera.
In terms of third party we expect to expand that a little bit.
I wouldnt mention the specific customers or give a target rate other than one of the things thats really nice is we have the capability to take all of the crude into our refining circuit.
We have the pipelines in place to do so but because of our integrated businesses and our unique supply opportunities and coordination we cant place those barrels in third party refineries where we actually get more value overall by doing that and substituting other crudes in to our refineries.
And so no target in any particular disposition just optimizing the value upgrade of those molecules across our circuit.
Hey great thanks.
And then regarding some of your comments on the unconventional here in the U.S.
and so which are in the beginning phases of it does this imply that you will see increased capital moving in to U.S.
a little 48 exports and those opportunities is there is that assumption more incorrect and two so is that largely already built into some of the CapEx guidance that was given earlier this year? I think if I take your second part of that question all of that is built in to that guidance that weve given you.
We are seeing a little better volumes than we had expected coming in which is good but I wouldnt have any specific guidance on lower 48 versus non U.S.
or one particular type of resource development or the other other than to say we will direct CapEx to the areas where we get the most uplift.
But dont have an outlook any different than what we talked about in the last Analyst Meeting.
Okay thanks.
David.
Just one more quick one and this may be more of a Analyst Day question but earlier this year regarding unit profitability there was obviously variety of concerns in things that contributed to maybe the lower earnings per barrel over the past few years.
I think one of those was unattractive commercial terms and fiscal terms in some areas has there been any progress and I am sure you cant mention specifics but if you can Ill take them.
But is there any progress with respect to some commercial terms that may result in lower profitability per barrel with respect to Exxon renegotiating terms or even trying to progress some of the assets and divest them longer term or is that still sort of an issue that may be have to be worked out over the longer term? I would say if I kind of wrap up each of those questions one it probably is a good question for the next analyst day and we look forward to talking about that a little more.
Having said that I will say we have progressed a number of initiatives across the year.
I dont want to mention anything specifically.
But we have undertaken initiatives in a number of areas to improve unit profitability.
And to the extent we can be more specific at the next analyst meeting well do so.
But I do want to confirm that we are doing what we said we would do and we are making progress in that regard.
Okay great thanks.
Thank you.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
In your U.S.
downstream segment can you talk about the impact either in Q3 or year-to-date of having the purchase RINs? Yeah if you step back and take a look at the RIN situation its not a huge impact on us and we do generate the majority of our RINs by doing our own blending directly.
So there is some minor impact but not a lot financially and certainly nothing material in our results.
I think the more important thing in the whole discussion of the RINs is the issue of blend wall and the industry hitting that blend wall next year and then some of the things that could be done to alleviate that we are certainly supportive of those.
But if you are looking just in our third quarter results or year-to-date the net impact of the RINs is nothing that would show up as a material impact for us.
Okay appreciated.
And just quickly a lot of news flow recently mostly bad frankly from various shale gas opportunities in Europe protest political controversy et cetera.
You obviously have acreage in lot of those countries any comments on where you stand in the places where you still have acreage? I think if you look at Europe probably our biggest opportunity is in Germany where we do have about four million acres perspective unconventional resource opportunity.
We continue to talk with the regulators and the authorities in Germany about that opportunity and the prospectivity of it.
And looking for an opportunity to work on that and pile it some of that to see what we have.
But its all about working closely with the communities with the regulators with the policy makers so that we can all understand what the potential opportunities are and balance those against the concern.
So outside of Germany I probably wouldnt comment on any of the other European countries.
But its certainly is an opportunity for us potentially an opportunity for the country and the one that we will continue to have dialogue on.
Right appreciate it.
Thank you.
Hi David thanks very much for taking my question.
Hi Kate.
Just very quickly on going back to your answers on the coral project you talked about having the ability to take all the volumes within the Exxon and Imperial system and you mentioned pipelines.
Are all the volumes moving via pipeline are you moving any volumes by rail? All of the volumes coming out of the initial development are moving by pipeline.
Okay.
And do you see the ability to accommodate I mean at what more point do you need to start moving via mechanism other than pipelines or can you fully accommodate the expansion basis to and also any potential development to further expansion at Cold Lake and then also any potential future development of [Clyden] Well we first we talk about the Kearl expansion project and as we look towards 2015 and bring in that online we are looking at a number of logistical opportunities that we have including pipeline routes and certainly Keystone XL will be there for the industry in general.
But as would be prudent we are looking at other options including evaluating a project to build a rail terminal in Edmonton and then move some of that crude out of there into the lower 58 by rail and we are in the process of evaluating that opportunity and well have more to say on that in the future.
But certainly as the Kearl expansion project comes on I mentioned the Nabiye project in Cold Lake lot of volumes to find disposition for and again as I think I mentioned earlier we are very fortunate in that we have a very good logistics optimization opportunity and network and a lot of avenues for us but we are actively working on all of the alternatives that are available to us to move that crude into market and get the maximum value for those molecules.
In regards to Clyden as I mentioned in my prepared remarks a very nice resource opportunity for us.
It does set near a in situ opportunity Imperial already we have so we are working together to take a look at all of that.
I dont have an update for you in terms of project timing or any of that just yet but we are evaluating that and looking at what we might want to do in terms of development plans and timing.
So more to come on that later.
Okay thank you.
And then just switching a little bit over to West Africa can we get a status update on maybe on deepwater satellites in Angola kind of timing and specifically whether you are kind of actively drilling there right now whether you have a rig engaged? If we look at the satellite projects both in Nigeria and Angola Ill start with Nigeria first that project is on ramping up the Angola satellites project also progressing per the plan.
I cant give you a specific answer in terms of drill rig running or any of that sort of thing but I would say as we look at the satellite opportunities again to tie into existing facilities those investments and projects are quite attractive and they are coming along and ramping up as planned.
All right thanks very much David.
Thank you Kate.
Hey guys.
Paul how are you today? I am very good.
Just one very quick one Qatar I think several years ago RasGas your joint-venture between you and Qatar Petroleum did have a bond offering and they had their prospectus and that seems to suggest that the local tax holiday for the RasGas 6 and 7 will be expiring probably in 2014-15.
Can you give us some idea that if indeed thats the case what is the financial impact both in earnings and cash flow may look like? You know Paul if we look at Kearl all the various streams that we have on that have come on over the years they have their own unique fiscal terms and I wouldnt comment specifically on any of the terms on any of the trains other than to say you know as we move out into the future there is nothing material in terms of our results no significant impact that we would see but in terms of talking about the specific terms of those contracts it just wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on that.
Final one on Alaska I think both your partner Chronicle and BP in the North Slope that indicate that with the tax law change they are going to increase their spending there.
Are you guys also aligned with them that you are going to increase your spending in Alaska? I think you know there are number of opportunities for us in Alaska but I wouldnt comment specifically on any specific plan to ramp up CapEx or to progress anything any faster than what we already have in the plan but of course anytime you know the fiscals improve projects on the margin by definition become attractive or more attractive and get reevaluated but other than that I really wouldnt have a specific comment relative to Alaska.
All right thank you.
Thank you very much.
I would just like to close by thanking everybody for your time and your questions today excellent questions and I appreciate it and I look forward to visiting with you again after the year-end results are in.
So thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Todays call is being recorded.
And at this time I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
David Rosenthal.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to Exxon Mobils fourth quarter earnings call and webcast.
The focus of this call is Exxon Mobils financial and operating results for the fourth quarter and full year 2013.
I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.
Before we go further I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide two.
Moving to slide three we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results.
Global economic growth continued at a modest pace in the fourth quarter with mixed performance across the region.
Moderate U.S.
economic growth was sustained.
Chinas growth rate stabilized which Europes economic recovery remained sluggish.
Energy markets delivered mixed results.
WTI prices decreased more than more than $8 per barrel widening the discount to Brent as the global marker was only slightly lower in the quarter.
Henry Hub natural gas prices were essentially flat.
Global industry refining margins strengthened as stronger U.S.
margins were partially offset by continued market weakness in Europe and Asia Pacific.
Chemical commodity product margins also declined over the quarter.
Turning now to the fourth quarter financial results as shown on slide four ExxonMobils fourth quarter earnings were just under $8.4 billion or $1.91 per share.
The corporation distributed $5.8 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $3 billion was used to purchase shares.
CapEx was $9.9 billion in the fourth quarter.
Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $12 billion.
At the end of the quarter cash totaled $4.9 billion and debt was $22.7 billion.
The next slide provides additional detail on fourth quarter sources and uses of funds.
Over the quarter cash decreased from $5.7 billion to $4.9 billion.
Earnings depreciation expense changes in working capital and other items and our ongoing asset management program yielded $12 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included additions to property plant and equipment of $8.4 billion and shareholder distributions of $5.8 million.
Additional financing and investing activities increased cash by $1.4 billion.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $3 billion in the first quarter of 2014.
Moving on to slide six and a review of our segmented results ExxonMobils fourth quarter earnings of just under $8.4 billion decreased by $1.6 billion from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Lower earnings across all business segments were partially offset by reduced corporate and financing expenses.
In the sequential quarter comparison shown on slide seven earnings increase by $480 million as higher upstream and downstream earnings and lower corporate and financing expenses were partially offset by lower chemical earning.
Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remains at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.
Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results and starting on slide eight upstream earnings in the fourth quarter were $6.8 billion down $976 million from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Realizations increased earnings by $60 million as worldwide natural gas realizations increased by $0.41 per 1 000 cubic feet and crude oil decreased by $2.38 per barrel.
Unfavorable volume and mix effects including the impact of crude under lifts of West Africa and the North Sea along with lower natural gas production decreased earnings by $550 million.
All other items decreased earnings by $490 million reflecting increased expenses driven by Kearl operating costs and higher planned exploration costs in Russia.
Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the fourth quarter were $17.95 excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes.
Moving now to slide nine production decreased by 77 000 oil equivalent barrels per day or 1.8% from the fourth quarter of last year.
Liquids production was up 32 000 barrels per day or 1.5%.
Ramp up at the Kearl and Nigeria Satellite projects lowered downtime and continued increased production from unconventional plays in the U.S.
were partly offset by field decline and price and spend impacts.
Natural gas production was down 654 million cubic feet per day primarily due to expected lower U.S.
production and field decline in several areas.
Turning now to the sequential comparison and starting on slide 10.
Upstream earnings increased by $73 million versus the third quarter.
Realizations decreased earnings by $430 million as worldwide crude prices decreased by $5.89 per barrel and natural gas realizations increased by $0.57 per thousand cubic feet.
Volume and mix effects improved earnings by $90 million reflecting increased global liquids and natural gas production.
All other items had a positive impact of $410 million.
Higher gains from asset sales were partially offset by higher operating expenses.
Moving to slide 11 oil equivalent volumes were up 190 000 barrels per day or 4.9% sequentially.
Liquids production increased 36 000 barrels per day mainly due to additional production from work programs in the U.S.
and the North Sea Kearl ramp-up and lower downtime partly offset by scheduled maintenance in Nigeria and field decline.
Natural gas production was up 973 million cubic feet per day mainly due to seasonal demand in Europe.
Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 12.
Downstream earnings for the quarter were $916 million down $852 million from the fourth quarter of 2012 mainly due to lower non-U.S.
refining margins.
Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $110 million driven by refining optimization activities.
All other items including higher operating expenses and unfavorable foreign exchange impacts decreased earnings by $280 million.
Turning to slide 13 sequentially fourth quarter downstream earnings increased by $324 million.
Improved refining margins mainly in North America increased earnings by $120 million.
Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $330 million reflecting favorable refining optimization activity.
Other items reduced earnings by a net $120 million.
Moving now to the chemical financial and operating results and starting on slide 14.
Fourth quarter chemical earnings were $910 million down $48 million versus the prior year quarter due to lower specialty product margins.
Positive volume and mix effects were mostly offset by other items.
Moving to slide 15 sequentially chemical earnings decreased by $115 million primarily due to lower margins in Europe.
Moving next to the fourth quarter business highlights and beginning on slide 16.
We continue to advance our global portfolio of high quality upstream projects.
Construction at the PNG LNG project is now nearing completion.
With the focus shifting to commissioning key facilities and equipment in preparation for first LNG delivery now targeted for the third quarter of this year.
Gas has been introduced to both the gas conditioning plants at Hides and the LNG facility in order to progress commissioning activities.
The Kearl expansion project is on budget is now more than 70% complete and remains on target for 2015 startup.
We continue to develop attractive logistic solutions to provide market access for our growing oil sands production from this future additional capacity.
At Upper Zakum we are progressing with our partners the field redevelopment to raise production capacity to 750 000 barrels a day over the coming years.
The increase is enabled through the use of four artificial islands of which two are now complete and the extended reach drilling using proprietary Exxon Mobil technology.
Similar works and facility additions will continue through 2015.
In 2013 the Upper Zakum joint venture was granted a 15 year license extension through 2041.
The extension includes enhanced fiscal terms allowing the expansion project to meet our investment criteria and contribute towards Abu Dhabis plans to boost production.
In Iraq we reached a production capacity of 500 000 barrels per day at the West Qurna 1 development in 2013.
We continue to progress additional capacity expansion through facility debottlenecking workovers new drilled wells and well tie-ins.
We have also completed 3-D seismic acquisition over the West Qurna 1 field.
In the fourth quarter we executed agreements to sell a combined 35% interest to PetroChina and Pertamina reducing our participation interest from 60% to 25%.
We will remain as the lead operator for the project and are committed to maximize value for all parties involved in redeveloping this world class resource.
Turning now to slide 17 for an update on our exploration activities.
In Tanzania the Mronge 1 well discovered an additional two to three TCF of natural gas in place from two separate intervals.
The main accumulation is at the same stratographic level is the proven Zafrani 1 well.
The secondary accumulation was encountered in a separate gas bearing reservoir in a play previously untested in Block 2.
Mronge 1 is the fifth discovery on Block 2 and brings the total of the gas in place up to 17 to 20 TCF.
Further exploration drilling is planned for 2014.
In Russia Exxon Mobil and Rosneft completed joint venture agreements to implement a pilot project for tight oil development in Western Siberia.
Operations for the pilot program are under way.
We are evaluating data from the 2013 activity which included a mix of workovers and new well drilling.
The year 2014 we will focus on drilling and testing new horizontal wells with operations to commence by the third quarter.
We are currently finalizing locations to test this high potential resource.
In Argentina we drilled our first operated well and are currently drilling the second operated well in Vaca Muerta shale formation.
Previously we have drilled a total of six Vaca Muerta wells with our co-venturers to progress the evaluation of approximately 900 000 net acres.
We have ongoing well operations to gather their production testing data required to validate expected recovery and to support potential development planning.
Turning now to slide 18 and an update on our downstream investments which continue to strengthen our global portfolio.
During the quarter we achieved several investment milestones.
We commissioned a new diesel hydrotreater at our Singapore refinery increasing ultra-low diesel production capacity by 62 000 barrels per day.
The new unit along with the recently completed petrochemical expansion project at our Singapore complex positions Exxon Mobil to competitively deliver high value products to the growing Asia Pacific region.
We continue to extend our operating cost advantage by improving energy efficiency at our facilities.
Worldwide cash operating costs for our portfolio of refineries are well below the industry average and consistently outperform the competition.
In November we commissioned our latest cogeneration facility at our Augusta Refinery in Italy increasing energy efficiency by 6%.
To support market access for our growing Canadian oil sands production we announced plans to build a crude oil railroad loading facility next to the Strathcona refinery in Edmonton.
The terminal will have a capacity of up to 250 000 barrels per day of which we plan to use a 100 000 barrels per day to supply our refining network.
Connections to both Canadian National and Canadian Pacific mainlines will enable efficient cost effective transportation of heavy crude.
Construction is underway and startup is expected in early 2015.
Now I would like to provide a summary of our full year results shown on slide 19.
2013 earnings were $32.6 billion or $7.37 per share.
The corporation distributed $25.9 billion to shareholders in 2013 through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $15 billion was utilized to purchase shares.
CapEx in 2013 was $42.5 billion and includes $4.3 billion for acquisitions.
Base full year CapEx of $38.2 billion was in line with our spending plans.
Cash flows from operations and asset sales remains robust at $47.6 billion which included $2.7 billion from asset sales.
Moving now to the full year cash flow statement as shown on slide 20.
During the year cash decreased from $9.9 billion to $4.9 billion.
The combined impact of earnings depreciation expense changes in working capital and other items and our ongoing asset management program yielded $47.6 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included additions to property plant and equipment of $33.7 billion and shareholder distributions of $25.9 billion.
Additional financing and investing activities increased cash by $7 billion.
Moving on to slide 21 and a review of our fiscal year segmented results.
2013 earnings decreased by $12.3 billion.
Lower net gains from divestments account for 70% or $8.6 billion of the reduced earnings.
Lower earnings across all business segments were partially offset by reduced corporate and financing expenses.
Turning now to the full year comparison of upstream results and starting on slide 22.
Upstream earnings were $26.8 billion down $3.1 billion for 2012.
Improved natural gas realizations partially offset by lower crude oil realizations increased earnings by $390 million.
Unfavorable volume and mix effects including the impact of crude under-lifts in West Africa and lower natural gas production decreased earnings by $910 million.
All other items including lower gains from asset sales higher expenses driven by Kearl start-up and operating cost and higher planned exploration cost in Russia reduced earnings by $2.5 billion.
Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the year were $18.03 excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes.
Moving to slide 23 volumes decreased by 1.5% or 64 000 oil equivalent barrels per day compared to 2012.
Excluding the impacts of lower entitlement volumes quotas and divestments production was essentially flat.
Liquids production was up 17 000 barrels per day.
Ramp-up at the Kearl and Nigeria projects lower downtime and increased U.S production were partly offset by fuel decline and divestment impacts.
Natural gas production was down 486 million cubic feet per day.
As expected lower U.S.
production field decline in several areas and full year AKG entitlement impacts in Qatar were partly offset by increased weather related demand in Europe and project ramp-ups.
On slide 24 we show actual 2013 production volumes compared to the outlook we provided at the Analyst meeting last March.
Overall total production volumes were in-line with our target of 4.2 million oil equivalent barrels per day with liquids production slightly below target and gas production slightly higher.
Several positive factors contributed to this result including strong uptime performance increased North America unconventional liquids production and higher European gas demand for the year.
These factors mostly offset the lower than expected volume contribution from Kearl and the loss of Kashagan volumes due to the pipeline issue currently being investigated.
During the fourth quarter we continue to ramp up Kearl production including making several upgrades to the steam system and filtration units to improve overall reliability.
Average Kearl production for the fourth quarter and full year was 47 000 and 21 000 barrels per day respectively and production rates of 100 000 barrels per day were reached by the end of the year.
Full year comparison for the downstream is shown on slide 25.
2013 earnings were $3.4 billion down $9.7 billion from 2012.
Lower refining margins across all regions reduced earnings by $2.9 billion.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $310 million as higher planned maintenance activities in the U.S.
and Europe was partly offset by refining optimization activities.
Other items including the absence of gains from the Japan restructuring and other divestments reduced earnings a total of $6.6 billion.
On slide 26 we show the full year comparison for chemical results.
2013 earnings were $3.8 billion.
Higher commodity margins partly offset by lower specialty margins increased earnings by $480 million.
Volume and mix effects also increased earnings by $80 million mainly due to strong U.S.
commodity demand.
Other effects reduced earnings by $630 million mainly due to the absence of gains from the Japan restructuring.
Moving to slide 27 in conclusion in 2013 we earned $32.6 billion generated $47.6 billion in cash flow from operations and asset sales invested $42.5 billion in the business and distributed $25.9 billion to our shareholders.
ExxonMobils strong financial and operating performance reflects the benefit of our integrated business model and other sustainable competitive advantages that create long-term shareholder value.
We achieved total production in line with our target and continue to progress attractive opportunities across our unique and balanced portfolio.
Base full year CapEx spending was also in-line with our plans.
Our cash flow remains strong and enables robust shareholder distributions.
Finally I would like to mention two upcoming events.
First in mid-February we will be releasing our 2013 reserves replacement data.
Second as many of you will already have seen our upcoming analyst meeting will take place at the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday March 5th.
We will include a live webcast beginning at 9 AM Eastern 8 AM Central Time.
Presentation will be led by Exxon Mobils Chairman and CEO Rex Tillerson.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
I would now be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Rosenthal.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Doug Terreson with ISI Group.
Good morning David.
Good morning how are you? I am doing fine.
My question is about European E&amp;P and specifically whether or not we could get clarification on the supply restriction at Groningen meaning it seems like 20% reduction in output is going to be required from the partners during the next three years which I think equates to about 60 000 BOE per day of heavy duty net Exxon Mobil.
So is it the correct way to think about the supply effect and the duration of the restriction and just any color on that situation will be appreciated.
Yeah Doug Ill be happy to give you a little perspective on the Groningen situation.
Let me start by saying that the governments draft decision does include a production decrease for the next three years of about 7% compared to average production over the average of the last few years.
If this indicated  this off take limit is final it would have an impact of approximately on ExxonMobil 100 MCF a day net production in 2014 versus the average of the last several years.
Now compared to 2013 which as I mentioned was a year of very high production due to weather-related demand there would be a decrease of about 20% and thats consistent with what was communicated by the Dutch government.
The proposed curtailment is not final it will take a little bit of time to finalize it.
But if implemented again the impact on us relative to a normal year is about 100 MCF a day.
Okay.
Sorry go ahead.
I am sorry.
Let me just make one of the comment to keep it in perspective and add a little color in terms of the financial impact on the company while Groningen is of course very attractive asset in our upstream the unit profitability is in the bottom half of our portfolio.
And so the earnings impact is not as great as I think some people might have expected.
Okay good point.
And then just second in U.S.
downstream obviously you guys have a several leading position in the mid-continent naturally benefited from wide differential to the last couple of years.
But wondered if we could get an update on the program to secure advantage [inaudible] or what have you for the refineries outside of mid-conn.
So any elaboration on this is appreciated.
I think you guys talked about a little bit on the Gulf Coast at the analysts meetings so just an update there would be appreciated.
Yeah sure in general if you look at our mid-conn footprint which as we talked about before is one of the largest in the industry.
And our Gulf Coast refining footprint is also one of the largest.
So we got a lot going on in terms of making sure that we can get the Western Canadian crudes down into the circuit and also take advantage of the light sweet crude.
And we are pipelines rail barge we are using all of the logistics opportunities available to us to optimize those barrels getting to refineries and thats a big piece of what you see in these positive volume mix effects on our earnings both quarter-to-quarter sequentially and that sort of thing.
Particularly if you look at that sequential comparison where weve really been able to optimize the sea slate were running and of course take advantage of butane pricing as we switch over to winter grade fuels and so thats been helpful to us as well.
But we are actively progressing that and the fourth quarter was a good one for us.
And I might just mention one other thing that makes that important in the earnings comparison we did have in the fourth quarter alone about $ 250 million of negative price timing effects.
So that hurt on the margin side gets somewhat offset by some of these refining optimization efforts that we talked about.
So we continue to work on that.
One of the things that helps is being fully integrated across the downstream and upstream and chemical and having a worldwide supply department to help us on this.
But you can rest assured from Canada all the way down to the Gulf Coast we are fully optimizing and taking advantage of our integration opportunities.
Great thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Hey good morning David.
Good morning Evan.
Yeah first question on the production lines I guess from your comments I can disaggregate the impact from Kearl and Kashagan in the 4th quarter.
Can you provide any outlook into 2014 on Kearl whats the ramp and more color there? And on Kashagan which you mentioned is there any prognosis for the production return the state of the gas leak repairs and I have a follow-up thanks.
Sure let me start with Kearl.
I cant give you an exact time when we would expect to reach our full production capabilities.
I will say although the Kearl volumes did come in over the course of years I mentioned less than our expectation going in and certainly part of the volume outlook we shared with you last March we did achieve a number of milestones in cranking that project up.
We have been able to run each of the three froth treatment trains at their maximum capacity on a combined basis.
Weve been able to reach rates at a 100 000 barrels per day.
What we are working on now is how do we improve the reliability so that we can run at those rates on a consistent basis.
So we continue to make progress there.
And again as I think I have mentioned in prior calls the good news for us is all the technology is working the trains work the equipment works.
Its simply then just a matter of start-up and this complex kit we got on the ground and working some of these reliability issues that I mentioned.
But they are all fixable.
Were working on it.
We are making progress.
But I wouldnt want to give you an exact date in terms of full capacity but well give you an update at the Analyst meeting in March and probably be in a better position to help you with some outlook on that.
With regard to Kashagan n as you know oil and gas production does remain shut in.
We are investigating.
Weve got the best experts in the world looking at this.
Were investigating the root cause of the pipeline leaks and the seeps.
Thats going to take a little more time.
We do know that the immediate cause of the leaks has been sulphide stress cracking but were still investigating to establish whats the cause of the sulphide stress cracking.
And that is ongoing.
Theres a lot of work going on a lot of analysis underway but I just couldnt give you an outlook I know there is some speculation out there at various times but I will be hesitant to try to give you an outlook until we know more about both the cause and extent of the leaks and therefore what its going to take to repair and get that equipment back in service.
Okay this is helpful.
And my second question is on  it also relates to the production and 2014 production.
Thank you for the color on Groningen.
I guess there is there any ability to offset volumes from other European fields as its largely a demand driven market.
And secondly another area which has been which profitable and a marquee investment for Exxon in Kearl LNG I mean any color there on the relative contribution as you move through various contract thresholds in those contracts would be helpful.
Thanks.
Yeah let me start off with Groningen.
As you know it is the swing field in Europe and tends to take the balance of whats needed depending on weather typically unless there are some supply disruption and so thats really what drives the production there year-to-year more so than capacity.
In terms of ability to offset you know were already working everything we got as you know our continental Europe conventional gas is on decline North Sea gas is on decline so we do feed LNG into that circuit out of the Middle-East.
But it has to compete with prices that you can get in Asia Pacific.
So well be looking to optimize that but again under normal circumstances loss were about 100 MCF but well be looking optimize around that to the best we can.
If talking about Qatar I think the one thing to keep in mind is other than the AKG project all the rest of the trains are joint ventures they are not PSEs.
So they dont react the same way that PSEs do.
They do all have unique fiscal terms associated with them.
But I can tell you as time goes on we dont see any significant impact on the earnings contribution anything that would be material.
So we continue to remain focused keeping that equipment up and running.
We had a terrific year on uptime and reliability and that enabled us to take advantage of some very strong margins at available prices through particularly in the Asia-Pac.
So it continues to be a terrific investment for us.
Great David.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Good morning David.
Hey good morning Doug.
Hi I have a couple of questions also if I may.
The first one is on the long life nature of some of your assets.
It just kind of occurs to me obviously you havent given a reserve replacement number for the year yet but as your portfolio shifts towards the likes of Qatar and the likes of Kashagan and so on Kearl all these are very long life asset.
What is the determination internally about the need for reserve replacement to be at or above 100% when you have such huge piece of your portfolio that doesnt decline on a multi decade basis? And I have got a follow-up [as I think of] really the capital intensity of the overall portfolio.
Yeah let me hit the capital intensity first and I will use that to back into your original question.
We have been in a very capital intensive mode in the upstream over the last few years as we recapitalized and invest in a number of these big projects.
Some of you mentioned coming out of Qatar and into Kearl Papua New Guinea LNG Groningen LNG the Kashagan of course you have seen a ramp up in CapEx on these long life projects but as we talked about in the March analyst meeting last year we do have an expectation of rolling that upstream CapEx over a little bit as we go forward and well give you an update on that in March.
But we continue to progress that.
In terms of having a target of 100% reserve replacement we dont really have a target.
In other words were not going to go out and do things that are not optimal just to achieve 100% replacement target.
We basically you know the company and the organization well.
We span the world looking for good opportunities good resources to get access to.
And if they are commercial well put the investment capital and human capital in there to development.
We have been fortune over the last many years that the summation of all this effort has achieved 100% or greater than 100% reserves replacement.
But I am glad you asked the question because I do want everyone to know that we do not go and spend the shareholders money to reach any kind of target like reserves replacement.
Its the outcome of our very disciplined analytical process and again making sure that the CapEx is being spent in those areas that have the best opportunity to generate long-term value for the shareholder.
And I think last thing I mentioned Doug as we look around the world and you look at our exploration portfolio one of the things thats really nice today is our ability to be selective amongst that portfolio and pick and choose those opportunities that we want to go after and do the most attractive ones and the reserve adds will be the fall out of that.
But thanks for asking question.
So my follow up there is very quickly is on the Middle East again as specific to the ADCO concession.
I know its fixed margin and relatively low in the grand scheme of things but can you just explain for us what the situation is with that contract.
I believe that expired in January 1 and whether or not you have any chance of re-tripping that at some point and I will leave it there thanks.
Yeah the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expired on January 10th of this year.
We did have a 9.5% interest in that.
That worked out to about 140 000 barrels a day in production.
We are no longer in that concession.
I will tell you you mentioned fixed margin contracts while it was 140 000 barrels of production the unit profitability of that was down at the lower end of our profitable barrels.
So thats the status on the onshore.
I really couldnt comment on any discussions opportunities forward-looking thoughts other than to kind of give you a status of where we are today.
All right thanks David.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Hey good morning David.
Good morning Ed.
Seems real fishing for your slides in March on the production volumes so why not fish again just very quickly the reduction in the West Qurna stake how much did you include longer term in the slide that you put up each year in terms of the new projects for West Qurna? Yeah what I can tell us is we put up that slide in March of every year and its important to know this we do it on an apples-to-apples basis.
So we assume the status quo and the same as prior year prices.
So it allows you folks to get a look at what we would be status quo so no assessments every March in terms of acquisitions divestments contract expiries and all those sort of things.
So last year we would have had an assumption of the status quo in the outlook.
Now I can tell you that the way the contracts work we dont book a lot of barrels in that area.
And so the reduction will not be significant I dont have a specific number for you other than to tell you it wont be significant in the overall context of our production.
Okay.
And then just trying to shift the conversation on can you talk a little bit about where you are in terms of oily rig count again in North America some of your plans obviously the industry has announced some success in the Duvernay youve got some good acreage in Woodford and the core of the Bakken and the Permian just a quick sort of update on where you are in the oily drilling in North America? Thanks.
Sure.
As you can tell by the sequential quarter-to-quarter sustained increase in U.S.
liquids volumes we have been really orienting our rigs towards the more liquid areas.
Biggest places for us the Bakken the Permian and the Woodford Ardmore most all of our rigs are running in those areas.
We continue to ramp up.
Were adding rigs in the Permian for example both for conventional liquids as well testing some of the unconventional.
We are drilling in the Montney and the Duvernay as you suggested an increase in the activity there as well as in the Bakken.
So if you look at the rigs were running today its not 100% but its probably 85% or so all of our rigs are working in liquids focused plays.
And thus you have seen that significant increase in production.
We are bringing a lot of wells onto sales every quarter and continue to ramp that up.
We are testing new areas new zones and in these plays the Maynard and the Ardmore for example looks very promising to us we will be getting more wells down there the Wolfcamp out in the Permian and a number of those plays.
So we are very pleased with the acreage weve been able to acquire and get into and ramping up pretty dramatically.
And if you look at a number of these things that are occurring over the years over this year a lot of it gets back to the commentary we made at the Analyst Meeting about working on improving unit profitability.
And you do that by limiting or reducing your exposure to low profit barrels working on fiscal terms where you can and putting your human and financial capabilities in those areas that generate above average incremental profitability and weve been executing those efforts this year and we will give you a better update at the March Analyst meeting on the extent of that program.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from to Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Hey David.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
How are you? Very good.
Sorry not to beat a dead horse too much.
If I look at your last year presentation in the Analyst Meeting on the production profile can you tell us that for 2014 2015 roughly how much is building into that particular profile you share from the Kashagan from the Abu Dhabi also [onshore] and also on Groningen? Yeah.
I dont have a specific number for Kashagan.
Abu Dhabi would have been something in the neighborhood of the 140 000 barrels a day I mentioned and Groningen would have been whatever the equivalent would have been again for an average year.
So I think the important thing to think about is the difference would be kind of what we have mentioned today for both Groningen and the onshore.
And again we will be giving you a full update on our outlook that will incorporate those changes and many others that we have heading into 2014 when we get together in March.
Okay.
Second question.
When I am looking at the Imperial in the fourth quarter they report downstream earning of $625 million Canadian dollar.
So if you adjust for your working interest and the foreign currency it would suggest that your share of their downstream earning is above $417 million meanwhile that your U.S.
downstream only report $319 million.
Does that mean that outside Canada the rest of your global downstream operation actually loss of a $100 million or that is some different other accounting adjustment that we didnt avail? Yeah let me give you a little perspective on that.
First of all as I mentioned a few minutes ago one of the issues we did see in the quarter was price timing affects about $250 million negative in the U.S.
and that impacted those earnings.
We do see weakness in our European and Asia Pacific businesses out there margins are weak the economy is a bit sluggish.
So both on the refining and the chemical side you are not seeing an earnings contribution there that you would see in an up cycle because we are at  we are kind of  as Ive said before we are at the bottom of the cycle margins.
We also had in the fourth quarter a higher turnaround and maintenance load in Europe.
Our Antwerp refinery for example had a major turnaround.
So you are looking at some volume impacts there.
But clearly we are optimizing the European and Asia Pacific footprint as best as we can with the integration between refining chemicals and lubes.
But those are weak markets compared to the U.S and Canada without question.
And I just sneak in one real quick one.
Sure.
For the quarter do you have a cash proceed from asset sales of $1.8 billion.
Can you tell us what is the after sales gain in the quarter and breakdown by segment? Sure.
If you look at the first of all the proceeds from asset sales we had a number of asset sales in the quarter.
I mentioned our partial sell down in Iraq and we had a number of sales in the U.S.
and in Canada additional service stations as we continue to progress that effort.
We booked a films divestment on the chemicals side.
So a number of things contributed to that $1.8 billion.
In terms of an earnings contribution in the fourth quarter that total was about $1 billion all-in in the quarter across all the businesses.
And that compared to about $400 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
Dave do you have a breakdown by segment on that $1 billion? Sure.
If you look in the upstream right about $775 million in the downstream at about $225 million order of magnitude.
Thank you.
Those are absolute numbers.
Our next question comes from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Hi David good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
I couldnt help but ask a question on natural gas here given the recent spike that we have seen.
I know the volumes for Exxon have been progressively in decline due to the activity but I am just curious is there a certain pricing level where you may get interested in reengaging in activity and I guess tied in with that I know historically the company doesnt hedge but with the recent move weve seen is that an opportunity to may be lock in some economics and get more active? I will hit the last one first and then back up.
No we dont hedge oil and gas prices and I wouldnt expect that to change here.
So in terms of natural gas pricing you have seen some firming here in the last several weeks.
We had a very cold winter in the U.S.
and the demand for gas in the power gen and heating has been very strong.
And so weve seen a fluctuation on the upside for that.
But we dont change our activity levels and investment plans to any significant extent on short term price movements in the commodities.
We do have tremendous flexibility in our operations.
I think our drill well inventory here in the U.S.
is about 50 000 wells.
So we certainly have the capability to move our activity around.
But again we dont typically move dramatically one way or another on a short term price spike or decline.
But do acknowledge that we have seen some price uptick here recently.
Okay fair enough.
And second question is on Tanzania obviously you had some really good success there and from what I gathered it looks like sufficient resources to probably move forward with the development.
So I am curious can you give us an idea of may be timing on potential FID and may be what additional resources you may need to kind of move forward? Sure first of all it all starts with that resource and we have found a very high quality gas resource out there with the wells that we drilled so far.
Like I mentioned earlier 17 to 20 TCF gas in place.
I think one of the things thats encouraging is we still have several more prospects on that block that havent been drilled yet.
And so we are continuing to drill well drill some more this year.
Well be doing some appraisal drilling and some more Wild Cat exploration activity.
So that continues to go very well.
In terms of forward planning we are in the early stages of planning for the development of that block working on things like site selection.
Youre probably aware that us and our partner Statoil had worked with BG and Ophir to completing an evaluation of potential sites for our common onshore LNG plant.
And we have made a recommendation to the government of Tanzania regarding that.
The next step as you progress would be moving into early feed to kind of see what you have there.
But its a little too early to be talking about any potential FID date at this time.
But clearly as we always do if you have what looks to be an excellent resource you put the human capital on it and get to thinking about development and optimization and I can assure you that that process is well underway.
Well probably be able to get a little better update in March as well on that opportunity but for now Ill just say were moving right along and very pleased with this world class discovery that weve made.
Thanks David.
Our next question comes from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks David just a couple of follow ups just first on the natural gas point.
I fully appreciate Exxon classically does not adjust to the short term price swings.
Is it reasonable to think that kind of mid-single digit decline you have had will continue for the next several years or as you assess the XTO and your own resource base between the Marcellus and Woodford and these other areas do you see greater confidence in the class of the resources that the decline rates might be lower or different than what you have done say over the last year and a half? Yeah thats a multi-part question both of those can be independent or work together.
Certainly we have continued to make good progress in terms of productivity well rates down spacing optimizing our completions and drilling.
So we have been able to kind of make the progress we always thought we would when we acquired XTO and combined their folks with our folks and looking at some of these things.
So that continues to improve.
Its hard to give an overall decline curve because as you know thats  a lot of time that depends on well work activity and workovers and various other things and a lot of that will be driven by the activity levels which of course are dependent on longer term price outlooks.
So I think you know from our perspective with the resources there the opportunities are there we know all these plays we know how to produce more gas and when the market needs the gas well provide it.
But so its a market-driven activity and the outcome in terms of production and reserves and decline will be based on the outcome of those activities as opposed to any target that we might set.
But we can adjust quickly.
I mean we do have the capability to adjust quickly if the market needs the gas.
Thats great.
And unrelated follow-up you mentioned the partial sell-down in West Qurna in Iraq to 25%.
I think a few years ago you also bought some acreage in Kurdistan.
Can you provide any update in your activities there? I think there had been some questions at least at the time as to whether you could pursue activities in southern Iraq and Kurdistan.
So any thoughts on what you are doing in Kurdistan would be helpful? Sure.
If you look at the Kurdistan region in northern Iraq I can tell you that we continue to progress all six of the PSE contracts we have there and meet our commitments.
Specifically we do have drilling operations underway in one of our blocks.
That drilling is ongoing.
I dont have any report out for you yet but those operations are underway and we continue to do seismic and other operations on our other blocks in preparation for drilling there.
So I think in summary across Iraq all of our contracts in the north and the south we continue to meet our commitments and we continue to progress our operations in all of the areas and I am pleased to say that all of them are progressing as per the plan and doing quite well.
Thats great.
Thank you so much.
Our next question comes from Asit Sen with Cowen &amp; Company.
Thank you.
Good morning David.
Hey Asit how are you? Good good.
Two quick questions first on asset sales.
It looks like the $1.8 billion in the fourth quarter did not include the portion of Hong Kong Power.
Could you update us on the Hong Kong Power sale? Sure.
You are right.
That $1.8 billion did not include any proceeds from the Hong Kong Power sale.
As you are aware we have reached agreements to divest our interest in those facilities.
Those approval efforts are ongoing but its not closed and it wont close for a little while but the process is moving along.
We would expect to close that deal sometime later this year.
Okay.
And the second one is on PNG LNG.
Its very unusual to see a big LNG project coming on ahead of schedule.
My question is what sort of volumetric contribution do we expect in Q4 in the ramp-up phase? Yeah I might just add to your comment about how unusual it is to see one of these mega projects stay on schedule.
I will also note that were still on budget and weve not increased the cost outlook on that project since the outlook we gave.
So we are ahead of schedule and on budget.
I dont have a specific volume outlook for you for the fourth quarter.
Its all going to depend on how we get this thing ramped up.
But I think as I mentioned earlier we have been saying we have first deliveries in the second half and now we moved that up a little more concrete to the third quarter.
And as we progress commissioning we will be in a better position here in March to maybe give you a little better update in terms of what to expect.
But everything is working well the drilling all the commissioning feeding the gas the equipment and thats why we are able to give a more specific target of the third quarter.
But we look forward to giving you a better update here in a month or so.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Faisal Khan with Citi.
Thank you and good morning David.
Good morning Faisal.
Just want to clarify the gain on the asset sale of $1 billion.
Is that for the year or for the quarter? Thanks for that follow-up so that we can be clear.
The absolute gain in the fourth quarter was $1 billion and that compares with a gain of about $600 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
So we had a change of a positive $400 million.
Okay understood.
And just on exploration expense its sort of been elevated for last three quarters and I understand some of that is coming out of Russia.
But can you give us an idea of how these numbers were to trend because youve gone from roughly 450 to over 700 a quarter and it seemed to have an outsize effect on some of your expenses? Any sort of clarification or sort of guidance in terms of where that should be would be helpful.
Well the biggest driver of the exploration expense as you note has been our pick-up in activity in Russia and its in all areas.
So we are talking about all the work that we did this summer in the Kara Sea the seismic we have been running the efforts we have in West Siberia as well as across the Black Sea Northern Black Sea and then over in Russia.
So we have had a lot of exploration activity in support of what is going to be a very robust drilling program this year and next year in a number of these areas.
So that is ongoing.
Its nothing that we havent planned or expected as we came into this year and look forward to this year.
But I dont have an outlook in terms of a forward look.
Again thats one of those areas we will talk a little more about in March.
But dry hole expense has been kind of low this past year.
So hadnt been a big contributor to that.
So its been just a lot of work identifying those drillable prospects and preparing for again an active drilling campaign.
Thank you David.
Appreciate the time.
Our next question comes from Allen Good with Morningstar.
Good morning David.
Good morning Allen.
I wondered if you just press you maybe for a bit more detail on the Western Siberia and Tight Oil campaign whether it be maybe rig counts or planned wells for 2014 and maybe even what you anticipate production exit rate in 2014 might be? Sure Ill be happy to give you an update.
Weve got a lot of activity going on lot of geo technical work seismic work.
As I mentioned in the last quarter call we did have a lot of effort in terms of entering some old well bores and doing some other activity in the fourth quarter of last year.
As we head into this year nows the time to move on to a drilling program or we would drill some horizontal wells and see how we can get various areas to produce.
One of the things thats really important for us with the size of our acreage position is to make sure we understand where we are in the play what are the most prospective areas and that takes a lot of analysis so you dont waste a lot of money drilling wells.
But weve got a lot of expertise in this area that we acquired from XTO.
We are bringing that to full bear along with some of our own technology that we have.
And we are looking forward to get some more wells down this year testing the production capability of some of these areas.
But it would certainly be premature to give any indication or thinking about exit rates or production rates because were early on in this analysis.
And again its very huge resource opportunity in front of us and it certainly behooves us to take our time and go about this in a disciplined manner so that we dont waste a lot of money while at the same time finding out what this very exciting play is capable of doing and this will be a big year for us.
Okay thanks for that.
And then I know you dont give guidance on asset sales or what you may see in marketing but earlier this week I guess one of your peers came out and sort of indicated that he is going to sell a pipeline or an asset here in the U.S.
And I was just wondering presumably you are sitting on a lot of mid-stream assets that may unfairly receive the value that they would in a market being incorporated within Exxon given the level of disclosure and the size of your business.
Is there any interest and I know MLP may be out of question but any interest in potentially trying to monetize some of these mid-stream assets you have or do you think you just have more value ultimately to operating them and then integrate in your operations as opposed to selling them.
Yeah its interesting if you look back over the last couple of years so 2011 and 2012 we actually did divest a fairly significant chunk of those mid-stream assets that we had not only in the U.S.
but elsewhere.
And that was a portion of those large asset sale gains that we had and cash flows in those two years.
I cant give any specific outlook or asset but as you would expect we are continuously looking at all of our assets including our midstream assets what those values are to us internally and what they might be on the market.
And we test the market occasionally with some of these.
So again they are not sitting there and not getting looked at and evaluated but its all part of our program to look at the entire logistics footprint that we have.
And so I mentioned the Edmonton rail facility were building so where its optimal for us well add mid-stream facilities and where some midstream assets that we have are worth more to somebody else than they are to us we will divest them.
Again no specific outlook or assets but we are continuously looking at that entire portfolio.
Okay great thanks.
Our next question comes from Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
Yeah good morning.
Hello.
I guess just to follow up a little bit on the chemicals business and thereve been a few questions on it already but I just wanted to sort of understand the changes you saw in the fourth quarter and Exxon wasnt particularly unique.
We definitely saw greater competition out there.
But as we look forward in to 14 whats going on in terms of new competition pricing and all that.
Kind of let us know how you fall into that or how you how you would expect 14 to unfold on the chemical side.
Yeah as I have on a number of other questions I cant give an outlook today on any kind of financial parameters for the business.
But one of the things weve seen recently  well first of all well start here in the U.S.
we continue to take advantage of a very good market there.
Demand has picked up a little bit and of course gas cracking is also very attractive business for us.
And we have been fortunate in that weve been able to run our facilities along the Gulf Coast flat out here over the last quarter and therefore make the production we need to meet the market demand.
And so those margins in the U.S.
remain healthy demand pick up a little bit export opportunities also very attractive and were maximizing all that.
On the other side of the planet margins continue to be quite weak in the Asia Pacific area.
We did have some capacity come on last year.
And its typical in our business theres never a perfect match between capacity additions and demand growth.
Demand growth tends to be out there for a while and then people put on the facilities and they tend to come in on in chunks and for a while youll have supply outstripping demand.
And weve seen that in a number of areas a number of products particularly in the Asia-Pac area.
Those have a tendency to balance themselves out over time.
We are also seeing some demand pick up in China and the rest of the Asia-Pac area and that is helpful.
I mentioned the specialties business.
We have seen some weakness there particularly in Europe again both from the economic situation there as well as additional industry capacity thats come on.
So Id characterize it as kind of normal cyclical business for the chemical industry across many years.
You have got the U.S.
at kind of top of the cycle business conditions today in Europe and Asia-Pac kind of at the bottom of the cycle.
And thats why weve over time invested in each of these places where we can bring some technology or get a feed slate advantage or a logistics advantage in order to be able to supply all of those regions through the business cycle.
But most importantly be able to take advantage when you get an upside and we are certainly well positioned to do that with our facilities.
Combine that with the level of integration we have and if you look overall it is kind of a tough market but we did make almost $4 billion this year in that business and thats pretty strong performance.
Fully agreed thanks.
And then the unrelated question you mentioned in the press release about LNG for Alaska.
I was just curious is there anything you can do to help us understand more conventional business North Slope Prudhoe in Alaska you had the tax change that the government put through up there.
Weve seen some indications that the other participants in Alaska are getting a little more active.
Just wondered is how does Exxon participate in that? Is it basically along with the others? So maybe there is a little bit of growth coming from Alaska in the near future.
Or if its you are waiting for something larger like the more offshore drilling that looks like it continues to slip out to the future? What we have seen across the business up there is pretty much what you would expect.
Lower taxes have led to folks to take another look at their investment opportunities.
And investments that were not viable under the old regime could very well be viable under the new regime.
So you have seen some activity up there.
As you know we are a large participant owner in Prudhoe Bay.
We are not the operator but any of the growth that you see there in some of the projects and activity increase that you have seen announced and underway in Prudhoe Bay up on the North Slope we would participate in.
And so obviously everybody up there is looking at that and its still a very key resource for us.
And as opportunities become attractive of course with our partners we would be willing to invest in that.
So I think thats pretty straightforward on the North Slope.
If you look at the Alaska LNG opportunity for us as you know its one of many opportunities we are looking at across the globe for LNG.
We did as you read in the press have heads of agreement here recently another very positive milestone.
It sets guiding principles terms and conditions to progress the work on the project and so we are continuing to progress that.
We have after a long evaluation process looking at locations we have identified an industrial site near Nikiski as a lead site for the potential plant and terminal.
We are looking at other sites.
But I think the message is thats potentially a very large very complex project.
And so all of the stakeholders are progressing the analysis and looking at that project in due course and we of course are a big part of that.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Kessler with Tudor Pickering Holt and Company.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Hi good morning.
I see you have finalized the Canadian rail terminal project plans.
Can you tell us what the total CapEx will be for that 230 000 railway facility? And then how you think about it more strategically? I know at least to me Exxon seems more like a vertical integration player where you see an opportunity in your downstream and you set up a midstream opportunity here that you really integrate.
But others seem to be using rail as more of an optionality.
So if the spreads get to a certain distance and other transport routes are not available you use them kind of opportunistically.
So can you tell me how you are thinking about the expected utilization rates at that facility is it more of a base run you are at 100% or you are leaving it out there as an option? Yeah.
I think let me hit the first part of your question first.
We would expect the all-in capital cost for that JV to be somewhere in the neighborhood of $200 million to $250 million and thats a 50-50 joint venture.
So we have got about half of that.
You know the terminal we will have the max capacity could be upwards of 250 000 barrels a day.
Out of that were looking at utilizing initially about 100 000 barrels a day to move our expanded production into the market.
With the growing production of Western Canadian crudes so both heavy crudes and oil sands its prudent to be working at all of the logistics opportunities so that you do get a lot of optionality as you mentioned but also the flexibility to be able to better pinpoint the destination of some of your crudes as various regional opportunities present themselves.
So were taking full advantage of all the pipeline opportunities that are out there and working on that.
Other modes of transportation by water are also being utilized.
And then again as is prudent were looking at the railcar option.
So its all about optionality flexibility and being able to take advantage of spreads and opportunities to maximize the overall value and we have been working on that for quite a while.
The other thing you have in the flexibility on the transportation piece is it really helps us on both the integration with our own refining circuit as well as have any opportunity and viability to make third-party sales.
And so the more options you have the more flexibility you have the better off you are to divert production to areas different than what you might have originally planned.
So were taking all of that into consideration.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Makes sense.
Thanks for the clarification.
Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Hey guys.
Well just one from me and this is a high level question.
On the day that the Senate Energy Committee is debating crude oil export policy I know that Exxons perspective on this is kind of we closely watch.
So any thoughts on the issue and where the company stands? Sure.
I would be happy to talk about that.
Its a topical subject.
First of all our response is principal-based as you would probably guess.
And as a company we fully support free markets free trade.
We oppose any barriers or restrictions to free trade and open investment across the value chain in the energy sector.
And over time I think its pretty clear that barriers to free trade can actually lead to higher prices dampen economic growth and prosperity and in this case could potentially harm energy security by limiting diversity of supplies.
So trade is good free trade is the best way to maximize the economic value of any enterprise including the oil and gas enterprise generates the most jobs generates the most revenue to the taxing authorities.
And so across the business thats what we support and we would not advocate putting any restrictions at any point along a manufacturing value chain even if it might benefit some part of our business.
In addition to crude oil we strongly support unrestricted LNG exports even though we are a very large petrochemical company and consume a lot of petrochemical feed stock.
So the bottom line big supporters of free markets and free trade level playing field for all competitors and then let the market do what it does best.
Inc.</strong> I appreciate it guys.
Our next question comes from [Viraj Kataria] with RBC.
Hi David thanks for taking my question I have two if I may.
Especially on LNG you touched on it a couple of times in the call.
I wondered if you could talk through your options to expanding this growth area outside of Tanzania and PNG.
And secondly I wonder if you could talk a little bit about your thought process when setting dividends.
You obviously have a very strong balance sheet and the highest returns in the industry and you could afford a significantly higher dividend.
So I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about that.
Sure.
Let me start with LNG because were very pleased to have a broad opportunity set in front of us.
In addition to Papua New Guinea Australia and Tanzania as you mentioned we have a very attractive opportunity in the U.S.
Gulf Coast where we already have a very large re-gas facility.
So a lot of that investment is already on the ground.
And we have an opportunity to add liquefaction capacity there.
And one of the things that makes our project unique is we also have re-gas capacity available in Europe from some investments that we made in prior years.
So we have the opportunity to simply add liquefaction capacity on the front-end and then export that LNG take advantage of a number of opportunities not least of which is capacity we have to regasify in Europe.
We have received a permit for free trade agreement countries and we have had a permanent application in for some time for non-free trade agreements and that continues to be a nice opportunity.
We also are looking at the possibility of viability of LNG exports out of British Colombia and Canada.
We have a very large resource base in western Canada of natural gas and we do have efforts underway and are progressing.
In fact we just received a permit approval for a potential up to 30 MTA facility in western Canada and were working on site selection and other things there.
Then of course Alaska which we just mentioned a minute ago.
Huge resource great opportunity but again like the other projects very high capital cost very complex.
It will be extremely important to have attractive stable fiscal terms as it is in any area but thats also an opportunity for us.
So again its all about having a broad balanced portfolio of opportunities so that you can select those that are the most attractive.
But you dont find yourself in a position where you have to do something thats not attractive and our LNG opportunity set certainly fits that case.
In terms of dividends you know we have been pretty briskly increasingly the dividend over the last few years.
We had a fairly significant dividend increase.
I think its about 20% or so in 2012 another 11% increase this past year and it extends a very long period of time that we have been increasing dividend so I think we have been responsive in that area.
In terms of going forward I wouldnt expect any change to our overall philosophy with regards to the dividend.
We do expect to pay a consistent dividend that grows overtime and obviously we are able to do that given the strong cash flows the business generates our strong financial capacity.
So dont have any outlook or guidance or anything other than to say that I would expect our philosophy going forward to be the same as it has been historically.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Rosenthal I would like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay I simply like to thank everybody for their participation on the call.
I appreciate your questions today very important to our business and look forward to seeing everyone here in a few weeks at the Analyst Meeting in March.
So thank you very much.
This concludes todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Todays call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
David Rosenthal.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to Exxon Mobils first quarter earnings call and webcast.
The focus of this call is Exxon Mobils financial and operating results for the first quarter.
I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.
Before we go further I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide two.
Moving to slide 3 we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results.
Global economic growth continued at a modest pace in the fourth quarter with mixed performance across the regions.
The U.S.
economy grew moderately despite the adverse effects of severe winter weather conditions.
Chinas growth rate has flattened while the economies of Europe and Japan improved modestly.
Energy markets delivered mixed results.
WTI prices increased narrowing the discount to Brent as the global marker decreased in the quarter.
Western Canadian select prices increased significantly.
North America natural gas prices were also significantly higher.
Global industry refining margins were essentially flat while chemical commodity product margins were stronger during the quarter.
Turning now to the financial results as shown on slide 4 ExxonMobils first quarter earnings were $9.1 billion or $2.10 per share.
The corporation distributed $5.7 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and our share repurchase program.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding were $3 billion in the quarter.
CapEx was $8.4 billion.
Cash flow from operation and asset sale was $16.2 billion including proceeds associated with asset sales of $1.1 billion.
At the end of the quarter cash totaled $5.8 billion and debt was $21.4 billion.
The next slide provides additional detail on first quarter sources and uses of funds.
Over the quarter cash increased by $900 million from $4.9 billion to $5.8 billion.
Earnings depreciation expense changes in working capital and other items and our ongoing asset management program yielded $16.2 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included additions to property plant and equipment of $7.3 billion and shareholder distributions of $5.7 billion.
Additional financing and investing activities decreased cash by $2.3 billion including a reduction in debt of just over $1 billion.
Yesterday the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.69 per share a 9.5% increase from last quarter.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $3 billion in the second quarter of 2014.
Moving on to slide 6 and a review of our segmented results.
ExxonMobils first quarter earnings of $9.1 billion decreased by $400 million from the first quarter of 2013.
Lower downstream chemical earnings as well as higher corporate and financing expenses were partly offset by higher upstream earnings.
In the sequential quarter comparison shown on slide 7 earnings increased by $750 million as higher upstream and chemical earnings were partly offset by lower downstream earnings and higher corporate and financing expenses.
Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remains at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.
Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 8.
Upstream earnings in the first quarter were $7.8 billion an increase of $746 million versus the first quarter of 2013.
Realizations increased earnings by $410 million primarily driven by higher U.S natural gas realizations.
On a worldwide basis natural gas realizations increased $0.31 per 1 000 cubic feet while crude oil realizations decreased by $4.09 per barrel.
Volume and mix effects increased earnings by a net $20 million.
This included a favorable liquids mix effect of about $300 million reflecting increased volumes in Canada Russia and West Africa as well as the minimal financial impact related to the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry.
A positive liquids effect was mostly offset by a lower natural gas volume primarily due to warmer weather in Europe.
All other items increased earnings by $320 million mainly due to gains related asset sales.
Moving to slide 9.
Excluding the impact of the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry oil equivalent production decreased by 2.9% compared to the first quarter of last year.
Liquids production was up 73 000 barrels per day or 3.3%.
As the ramp-up at Kearl and lower downtime in several countries more than offset price and spend impacts divestments and decline.
Natural gas production was down 1.2 billion cubic feet per day primarily due to lower weather related demand in Europe.
Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on slide 10.
Upstream earnings increased to $1 billion versus the fourth quarter.
Realizations had a positive impact of $540 million as worldwide natural gas realizations increased $0.84 per thousand cubic feet and crude realizations were essentially flat.
Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $650 million this included a substantial positive liquids mix effect associated with increased volumes in Qatar Kearl and West Africa as well as a net over lift and including the minimal financial impact related to the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry.
The positive volume earnings factor also reflects higher natural gas volumes in Qatar.
All other items had a negative impact of $190 million.
Lower gains related to asset management activities were partially offset by lower operating cost.
Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel were $21.35 excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes.
Unit profitability increased to $3.40 from the fourth quarter reflecting the benefits of our broad diverse portfolio including leverage to North American natural gas our strong LNG portfolio and the strategic choices we have made on production volumes to improve unit profitability.
Moving to slide 11 excluding the impact of Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry volumes were up 45 000 oil equivalent barrels per day or about 1% sequentially.
Liquids production was up 23 000 barrels per day or 1%.
Lower downtime increased production from West Africa projects higher liquids volumes in Qatar and ramp-up at Kearl more than offset price and spend impacts divestments and decline.
Natural gas volumes were up 129 million cubic feet per day reflecting higher volumes in Qatar partly offset by lower production in the United States and Europe.
Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results and starting on slide 12.
Downstream earnings for the quarter were $813 million down $732 million from the first quarter of 2013 mainly due to lower refining margins across all regions.
Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $80 million offset by other items for a net $70 million.
Turning to slide 13 sequentially first quarter downstream earnings decreased by $103 million primarily due to unfavorable volume and mix effects reflecting higher U.S.
refining maintenance activities.
Moving now to the chemical financial and operating results starting on slide 14.
First quarter chemical earnings were just over a $1 billion down $90 million versus the prior year quarter mainly due to lower margins.
Positive volume and mix effects were offset by other items.
Moving to slide 15 sequentially chemical earnings increased by a $137 million primarily due to higher commodity product margins and lower expenses.
Moving next to the first quarter business highlights beginning on slide 16.
As we discussed in our March Analyst Meeting we are starting up a number of major projects that will deliver profitable volume growth.
Our world-class project execution capabilities are enabling significant progress on several of these projects.
At PNG we continue to achieve milestones that will results in the first LNG cargo [to be unloaded] ahead of schedule.
We have completed the onshore and offshore sections of the pipeline which transports natural gas from the Hides gas conditioning plant up in the mountains to the LNG plant near Port Moresby.
The first LNG train is now operational and the second train is mechanically complete with final commissioning underway.
Over recent weeks we started holding the first gas from Hides and in the past few days initiated LNG production.
And we produced the first condensate and liquid recovered through the liquefaction process.
We expect the first LNG cargo deliver in the coming weeks.
These are exciting milestones for the PNG LNG project and a great achievement for our project partners contractors and the people of Papua New Guinea.
As we mentioned in our Analyst Meeting we had overcome a number of challenges during the construction phase such as very steep slopes flooding and lack of infrastructure.
Despite these challenges we are starting up several miles ahead of plan and delivering a project with one of the lowest cost per MTA relative to other LNG projects being built and in close proximity to the growing Asian market.
This is also an excellent example of how ExxonMobil creates value through our leading project execution capabilities.
In Malaysia we have started our production into the Damar gas field from the first two of a total 16 wells.
The Damar field has a projected capacity of 200 million cubic feet of gas per day and follows the Telok gas development which began production in 2013.
These projects provide additional gas supplies to help meet Malaysias power and industrial needs promote growth of the countrys natural gas industry and drive profitable volume growth for Exxon Mobil.
The Hibernia Southern expansion in Canada a project that will deliver a 170 million barrels of oil is progressing per plan and is now nearing completion.
Installation of subsea infrastructure for the water injection facility has now been completed.
Three of five platform production wells have been drilled and top side modifications to the Hibernia gravity based structure platform are 97% completed.
Start-up is expected later this quarter.
At our Arkutun-Dagi in Russia we are commissioning the last few top side system at the fabrication yard.
The platform drilling rig will be tested over the coming weeks.
Before the 42 000 tonne topside structure is loaded out later this summer.
The topside will then be floated over the gravity based structure already installed offshore Sakhalin Island.
Drilling will then start and first production is expected later this year.
The Banyu Urip project in Indonesia is now 87% complete.
The project will deliver 450 million barrels of oil through an onshore central processing facility with a 165 000 barrels per day of production capacity.
Pipe rack construction is complete equipment installation at the central processing facility is progressing and the onshore and offshore pipelines are installed.
Conversion of the floating storage and offloading vessel is nearing completion with major equipment installed and commissioning ongoing.
Two rigs are operational and the first 20 wells have been drilled.
Start-up is expected around year end.
The Kearl expansion project in Canada remains slightly ahead of plan and is now more than 80% complete.
We continue to ramp-up production from the Kearl initial development with 66 000 barrels per day produced during the first quarter up from 47 000 barrels per day in the fourth quarter of last year.
Facility uptime performance is improving and we are achieving many days with production above 100 000 barrels per day.
Turning now to slide 17 for an update on our North American activities.
We continue our commitment to deliver profitable volume growth as underscored by our efforts to increase high margins liquids production in the Permian.
We had eight operated rigs running in the Permian in the first quarter and recently picked up two more in early April to continue to ramp-up drilling activity.
Our current net production in the Permian is over 90 000 oil equivalent barrels per day.
Through an agreement with Endeavor Energy Resources XTO will gain substantial operating equity in approximately 34 000 gross acres in the prolific liquids rich Wolfcamp formation.
The presence of multiple stacked pay zones creates a potential for capital efficient horizontal development and the proximity to XTOs ongoing Wolfcamp operations will offer operating cost efficiencies.
The agreement increases XTOs holdings in the Permian basin to just over 1.5 million net acres enhancing the companys significant presence in one of the major growth areas for onshore liquids production in the United States.
Also during the quarter we signed an agreement with American Energy-Utica or AEU that will enable XTO to optimize funding of development cost in the Utica.
As part of the agreement XTO will continue to operate in a core area of approximately 55 000 net acres in this emerging play and AEU will fund near-term development cost to earn acreage.
This transaction is an example of an innovative solution to develop our extensive natural gas resources in United States in a capital efficient manner.
Turning now to slide 18 for an update on our exploration activities we are currently drilling a number of wildcat prospects from our deep and diverse opportunity portfolio primarily concentrated in established areas.
Some of this activity includes the deepwater prospects Mica Deep in the Gulf of Mexico and the Cominhos prospect in Angola Block 32.
We also continue exploration drilling in the prolific Block 2 offshore Tanzania were somewhere between 17 and 20 TCF of gas in place has already been discovered.
And a recent drill stem test on the Zafrani 2 well confirmed good reservoir quality and good connectivity in both of the reservoirs tested.
Drilling operations are also currently underway on two blocks in the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
Also preparations are underway for near-term drilling that includes the [Inaudible]prospect in the Kara Sea the broad gaining prospect in the Faroe Islands follow up drilling to the successful Domino well in the Romanian Black Sea the [Inaudible]well in Gabon and additional drilling prospects in Tanzania.
Turning now to slide 19 and an update on our chemical business.
During the quarter we achieved notable investment milestones to grow high value product sales.
For example we processed synthetic base stock investments to meet global demand growth for high performance lubricant applications.
We commissioned a new 50 000 tons per year manufacturing facility in our Baytown Texas complex and construction of our expansion project in Baton Rouge Louisiana continued during the quarter with start-up anticipated late this year.
Both projects leverage Exxon Mobils technology leadership to meet the industrys growing demand for advanced synthetic basestocks and improved finished lubricant performance.
We also recently improved a world scale grassroots specialty polymers project in Singapore to produce halobutyl rubber to support the growing tire market in the region.
In premium resins for adhesive applications such as packaging wood working and non-molding fabrics.
The project builds on the feedstock advantage and integration benefits of the recent steam cracking expansion and will allow us to meet rapidly growing demand in Asia.
Construction will begin this year and start-up is planned for 2017.
In conclusion in the first quarter we earned $9.1 billion increased upstream unit profitability to $21.35 per barrel generated $16.2 billion in cash flow from operations and assets sales invested $8.4 billion in the business and distributed $5.7 billion to our shareholders.
ExxonMobils strong financial and operating performance demonstrates progress in delivering profitable growth and achieving our business objectives outlined during our Analyst Meeting in March.
We improved our production mix and increased upstream unit profitability.
We are committed to maintaining our capital spending discipline and generating strong operating cash flow to deliver robust shareholder distributions and create long-term shareholder value.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I would now be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Rosenthal.
The question and answer session will be conducted electronically.
(Operator Instructions).
We request that you limit your number of questions to two so that as many may have the opportunity to participate as possible.
(Operator Instructions).
And your first question will come from Doug Terreson with ISI Group.
Good morning David.
Good morning Doug.
I have a couple of questions on international E&amp;P.
First both profitability end margins were very strong and pretty much it has been in several quarters even if you normalized for the exploration in Abu Dhabi.
So my question is whether there is any additional color on the positive liquid mix effects that you talked about a minute ago and whether or not there were any positive effects on the gas side that might have contributed to that result? Yeah sure let me take a look at the upstream earnings we can look quarter versus quarter where I mentioned although we had a net impact of only $20 million we did have a significant impact on liquids that was about $290 million and gas was a negative $270 million on that.
When you look at the production in the first quarter we saw some nice increases in Canada Southern Russia West Africa much lower downtime little more in the North Sea and those were benefits to us.
And the biggest decline in production was the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry which carried a little earnings effect.
If you would look at that same effect sequentially where we noted we had $650 million volume mix impact liquids was about $400 million of that and gas was about $250 million.
Okay.
So as we look at going from the fourth quarter to the first quarter similar on the liquid side we saw some increases in Qatar increases in West Africa as well Canada with a ramp up of Kearl and then it offset with the decline in Abu Dhabi.
On the gas side we also saw a nice positive mix effect volumes for example in Qatar were up and volumes in Europe which was mainly the lower margin volumes out of the Netherlands were down because of the lower demand due to the normal weather.
So in both liquids and in gas sequentially we did see a nice uplift in earnings from the positive mix effect.
Okay.
And so on your last comment about European natural gas most of that or all of that decline was related to weather is that the way to think about it? Yeah.
The way to think about is it was all demand driven due to weather with the bulk of it again coming out of the Netherlands where the margins are a little lower than they are than on the rest of our European sales.
Great.
Thanks a lot David.
Thank you.
And from [Singular] Research well hear from Paul (Inaudible).
Hi David.
Hey good morning Paul how are you? Great.
Thank you.
David can I just ask you about your CapEx and your volumes in the former case there is an enormous step down in your CapEx almost 30% which takes you well below the run rate for the year that you indicated at the Analyst Meeting is around $40 billion.
Is there a reason to believe that were coming in lower on CapEx for the year or is this  Q1 with your catch up later and therefore you would stick with the 40 or could we see some downside to that? And if I could follow up on the volumes David the guidance at the Meeting has been flat to 14 over 13 aligned for all the adjustments that needed to be made again your Q1 numbers are actually tracking below that.
Can we expect a catch up back to flat later in the year.
And final  final part if you could just address the cash account and where that sat within your volume forecast both for this year and longer-term? Thanks.
Okay sure Paul.
Let me hit CapEx first.
Yeah we did come in at $8.4 billion that was down little over $3 billion from the first quarter last year.
That was mainly due to the absence of the Celtic acquisition in Canada so if you take that out from last years results wed be pretty much flat maybe down just a little bit.
As we look out across the year the first quarter is usually lower than the rest of the quarters we tend to ramp up across the year with a little extra in the back half.
So I would say as we look at where we are today and looking out over the rest of the year the number we gave you in the Analyst Meeting is probably still a good one.
I dont have an update you know what I will say though is when we look at the first quarter CapEx it came in just about right on what we had expected.
So so far this year things are going according to plan on CapEx.
On the volumes guidance we said overall we will be flat at about 4.0 million oil equivalent barrels per day year-to-year ex-Abu Dhabi about a 2% increase in liquids about a 2% decrease in gas.
As we look at the first quarter and then across the rest of the year those numbers still look good to us.
We have got some additional ramp up expected at Kearl across the year.
We do expect some of these other projects I mentioned come on Papua New Guinea being one of those.
So we look at the first quarter it looks real strong and certainly increases our  maintains our confidence in meeting that full year projection we shared with you in the Analyst Meeting.
I think the other thing thats noteworthy when I talked about a little bit on the last question is we are seeing the impacts we are expecting on the volume mix as we reduced our exposure to some lower margin barrels and we are able to increase production in some of our higher margin areas both on the liquids and gas side.
And so thats kind of coming in as we are expecting and we talked about a little bit at the Analyst Meeting.
In terms of Kashagan in the forecast for 14 we did not have any volumes in our outlook that we showed you in March for Kashagan for 2014.
Thats very helpful David and then a quick follow-up.
Your product sales were up 11% year-over-year quarter-to-quarter in the past  recent past there has been a number heavily affected by asset mix.
Could you just address the scale of that jump I mean 11% growth obviously on a company of your size looks like enormously strong oil demand globally any thoughts? Thanks Well.
Let me just clarify the question are you saying product sales or are you talking about our downstream sales or? Yeah I should say to use your language exactly the petroleum product sales if I look worldwide they are up 5.8 million barrels a day up from a year ago level of 5.7? Yeah we are up a little bit we have seen worldwide we actually had some higher demand in the US actually some pretty good demand growth there.
We have seen some growth in diesel as well with exports and actually some growth in Europe.
So those are the two main areas but a nice quarter for us operationally as well.
Well I guess my question was just  which is a comparable number year-over-year or whether there was any asset mix in that so whether we could just look? No thats pretty comparable.
Great.
Okay thanks very much.
Yeah.
I am Sorry I didnt understand the question.
All right.
Thank you.
And next we will hear from Doug Leggate with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Good morning David.
Good morning Doug.
David I wonder if I could follow-up on the other Dougs question on margins your unit margin captures something you have told about periodically in this quarter they had a fairly nice rebound.
I am just wondering if you can walk us through any particular reasons behind that and was it just a great operating quarter how sustainable could this be.
And as I can follow-on to that you are going to have about a 1 million barrels a day of new production by your forecast between  obviously thats a fairly good churn in the portfolio.
I am wondering if you could kind of just qualitatively or quantitatively whichever you can do walk through the delta you see in cash margins for the newer projects relative to the existing portfolio please? Sure.
Lets start up with the margin and the margin capture.
In addition to some of the volume mix items I mentioned.
You actually have some fairly significant mix impacts on the realization side which kind of get massed by some of the markers.
So for example if you look this quarter versus the same quarter last year WTI is up over 4 bucks rents down over $4 but Western Canada Select it was up $9 a barrel as a marker for the Canadian crude.
So if you think about where we are exposed to Brent overseas a number of production but including the Abu Dhabi barrels would have some tie to that.
Whereas in the US a lot of our production particularly in the Permian would be closer to a WTI spot price and then of course all of our volumes in Canada.
So its not just Kearl you are talking about Cold Lake and our other production up there.
So think about it as the volumes that went up were attracting the higher margin or the higher price marker crudes.
The volumes that declined happened to be the ones that were Brent based and again a big change in those prices did not have much of an earnings impact.
So you see a nice change on both the volume mix side as well as on the price side.
So if kind of back to again and we have been talking about in the last couple of Analyst Meetings growing the liquids and liquids linked volumes LNG prices were also very attractive in the quarter and we were able to capture those by having some increased volumes in Qatar.
So Id say kind of on a go-forward basis this is probably more typical than what we have seen in the past again given from the mix changes I mentioned.
If we look at the barrels that we are going to be adding on equivalent basis going forward I wouldnt give any specific cash margins on those barrels but if you recall back at the Analyst Meeting some of the discussion I think Mark Albers provided in his comments we did talk about that the volumes coming online were going to be generally accretive to our average unit margin and given the fiscal regimes we would be in those projects also accretive to earnings.
So I think again as we go forward over the next year or two when we start up these projects we expect to deliver the profitable growth that we talked about in the analyst meeting and we certainly look forward to these projects coming online over the next three years.
Thanks.
A very quick follow-up could you give the absolute asset sale gain in the quarter versus the housekeeping point and I will leave it there? Yeah sure if you look at on an earnings basis the absolute gain on asset sales in total was just over $400 million and that was all in the upstream.
So the absolute I just gave you the numbers here for that I know there is going to be interest in the upstream the absolute value of the asset sales on earnings was about $400 million in the first quarter of this year that compared was lower than and compared to about $800 million in the fourth quarter of last year and we didnt have any asset sales in the first quarter.
So you got about a 400 positive delta quarter-over-quarter and almost 400 delta sequentially on the negative side.
The other thing I will mention to kind of put the first quarter asset sales into perspective on an absolute basis I mentioned we have 400 million in positive.
We had about 200 million of negative tax items and other reserves.
So if you kind of think about outside the normal operations of the business we probably had a net absolute value in the upstream of about $200 million.
Thats really helpful.
Thanks a lot David.
And from Jefferies we will hear from Jason (Inaudible).
Hi thank you.
Hello David.
Hey hello Jason.
David I wanted to ask about the PNG LNG projects and congratulations to Exxon for bringing the project on ahead of schedule that something that hasnt been achieved in that business in quite a while.
Thank you.
Wanted to ask about the pace of ramp up David you have made reference to first commercial cargos by the end of the quarter from the first train and start-up production from the second train in several weeks.
Would you expect that you could potentially be achieving full production by year-end from both trains from that project? Its first of all thanks for the comments on the project start-up the team is very proud of.
As I mentioned bringing that in early and it looks like certainly within the budget that we had talked about and so we do look for ahead of planned production and cargo deliveries.
If we look out towards the end of the year we will certainly be ramping up both the first train and the second train and assuming all that continues to go well we would expect to see these things ramp up pretty good across the coming months.
So its a little early for me to give you a definitive answer.
But I would say its likely that by the time we get to the end of the year we are going to be running at some pretty good operating rates.
Okay great.
And if I could ask you second one David its obviously pretty early days just in terms of sanctions on Russia.
But have you had any effects on your ability to invest in the multiple areas where you participate with Rosneft as a partner in Russia? With regards to Russia off-course we will comply with all sanctions but I can tell you on the latter part of your question all of the activities that we had originally planned for this year are underway and proceeding as planned.
Great.
Thank you David.
Thank you.
And next well here from Asit Sen with Cowen &amp; Company.
Thanks good morning David.
Good morning Asit.
How are you? Good thanks.
So on PNG LNG as we get closer to the start I was wondering if you could provide some early thoughts on some incremental operational items? First wondering if you could talk about the condensate ratio second any thoughts on train three expansion potential and finally any thoughts on LNG contract and strategy related to the pricing slope and or your spot exposure? Sure.
On the condensate ratio I really couldnt give you a specific number for the expectation there obviously its a very attractive stream.
When we look at Train3 we are still evaluating a number of opportunities to expand the plant some of those relate to our own exploration success and other opportunities that we have on our own operated acreage as well as potential other sources of additional gas.
So that planning and looking and analyzing and discussing that process is ongoing dont have a definitive outcome for you.
But as I mentioned in my prepared remarks if you look at the plan as it sits today the cost per MTA in todays market is very competitive and off-course any additional capacity we take advantage of the existing infrastructure and even be more attractive so we are certainly looking at that.
If you look at our contracting strategy we entered into long-term oil index price contracts about 95% of the production is already sold under those contracts customers being in Japan China and Taiwan.
So those contracts are locked up and then youll have of course a little bit left over for some spot sales.
Thanks very helpful.
Okay.
Thank you.
And from Wells Fargo we got Roger Read.
Yeah thanks.
Good morning.
Hey Roger.
Just to come back to the margin discussion and maybe as a better way to understand some of the moving parts going forward.
I gather the expansion of liquids or shrinking of the gas and what that should mean from margins as well as the edition of the LNG barrels but I was wondering underlying cost.
Can you give us any kind of view of whats going on there? I mean are we dealing with cost are going to go up but your margins go up faster cost should hold flat while margins should improve from mix in price maybe a little more detail on that if you could? You know as we look at the overall profitability as you mentioned margins are doing better with the mix that we talked about on both the oil and the gas side.
In terms of OpEx we are not seeing any significant upward pressure across the portfolio.
If you look at that on an absolute basis off-course OpEx is up with startup of some of our big projects Kearl would be a good example on that as we progress from the startup phase last year and to lining up production and ramping up this year you get some benefit of that.
We did see some lower exploration expense in the first quarter this year as you recall in last year in the second half we booked some fairly heavy exploration expense mainly attributed to our business in Russia and that was a little lower this quarter but as expected.
So Id say overall when you think about the margin capture and the profit capture again its the mix that weve talked about in particular as we ramp up these projects across the quarter.
I think the other thing I might add is on the unconventional side we continue to make good progress driving cost down in the areas that we are operating as weve talked about before the combination of ExxonMobils technology and XTOs operating experience.
We are really starting to see the leverage we get by combining those particularly as we continue to acquire attractive acreage as I mentioned in the Permian would be a good example of that.
So across that portfolio that trend continues to be positive in terms of reducing cost and improving capital efficiency.
So that part of the business is also doing well.
Okay great thanks.
And then a follow-up question.
Recent headlines indicated Argentina is going to actually be importing some crude obviously you are a major mover and shaker in Vaca Muerta shale.
I was wondering have you seen any indications from the Argentinean government that they are willing to be I dont know a good term flexible in terms of helping to accelerate activity down there? Ill take the last part of your question first.
We continue to have ongoing discussions with the government about fiscal terms and stability and I dont have anything definitive to report on that but those discussions are ongoing.
We have seen some positive signals out of the government recently in terms of improving export and import conditions and what we are doing there.
These are certainly positive steps that could lead to an attractive business environment.
But its all part of progressing the programs and determining commerciality.
Obviously there is a huge potential resource in Argentina called the Vaca Muerta.
We continue to have an active program there I think weve got a total of six wells down.
Weve been drilling vertical wells in prior to this year we are starting to drill our first operated horizontal wells.
First one is down and second one is drilling and well be getting the third one down shortly.
Again without being specific I can tell you that the data so far from our drilling and delineation is encouraging but its still early days to determine actual commerciality.
But if you get the combination of good fiscal terms of stability and good resource development that generally leads to a commercial resource development for you.
So we continue to actively pursue that but again for us its a very large resource we got in at a very low entry cost and very low commitment.
And so that allows us to really go about this in a disciplined manner and really utilize some of the expertise XTO has to help us explore and delineate the resource without having to spend a whole lot of money upfront.
So again we are encouraged and that piece of the business is moving along very well.
Great thank you.
And next well go to Faisal Khan with Citi.
Hey good morning its Faizal from Citi.
Good morning Faizal.
Thanks David.
If you could  you talked a little bit about sort of the increase in profitability in the upstream business you also discussed LNG sort of prices.
Can you remind us how much of your total LNG volumes are exposed to the spot market? You know I dont have a total global number on that.
I think probably what would be more indicative is if you look at  if you take the U.S.
aside of course and you look at our total LNG volumes.
Most of those are going at oil index prices but the rest of them by and large are going into the Asia Pacific rim.
And so the spot prices there are fairly close to the oil index prices and so you are getting a nice benefit there.
As well the occasional cargo that goes into Europe goes into the spot price but those are attractive as well.
So regardless of how the cargo is going either directly or indirectly  most of them or probably all of it about 5% are either oil indexed or getting the equivalent type prices.
Okay.
I guess I was just trying to understand the commentary given that oil prices havent moved all that much sequentially quarter to quarter but it sounded like that was a typically strong point for you in the quarter.
Thank you.
It was and a lot of it is the mix on where these cargos get delivered and whether they are going to Europe or they are going to the Asia Pacific rim or whether you have a little higher proportion going into your fixed contracts versus your spot.
So we did see a little uplift on those prices as you know not all those contracts are the same in terms of how they look back and what the formula is.
But if we look across for example our LNG realizations out of Qatar and you are just looking quarter-on-quarter this year to last year we were up a little over a $1 a KCF.
Okay.
So again a nice piece of business.
Yeah.
And thanks I appreciate that detail.
And then just back to Russia for a second I believe you guys have some sort of asset swap sort of arrangement with Rosneft that sort of protects you in case some of the investments get stranded in Russia.
Can you just walk us through a little bit of that in case there are sanctions as there are [Inaudible]here in the U.S with the sort of assets that Rosneft has swapped into with you and that sort [Inaudible]you guys put together? Yeah.
I really cant comment on the terms and conditions of those pieces of business other than yeah we have the projects that we have in Russia and they farmed into some of our properties on a normal farming basis just like anybody else would.
But any discussion of contractual details or commercial arrangements really couldnt comment on.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks David.
I appreciate the time.
Thank you.
And from Barclays well hear from Paul Cheng.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Hi Paul.
How are you doing? Hi very good.
Dave two quick questions.
One you told about the over  benefit in the first quarter.
Can you give us or quantify whats the volume and also the dollar value and also at the end of the first quarter whether from an inventory standpoint you are roughly [Inaudible] or underneath? Sure.
If you are looking in the first quarter relative to the first quarter last year.
Can we look at relative to the  to your production actually? Sure.
I mean we are about 15 kbd over lifted in the quarter yeah on an absolute basis were about 15 kbd over lifted and I would estimate that to be about worth about a $100 million.
Okay.
And that at the end of the first quarter are you [Inaudible] balance at this point? Yeah.
If we look at where we are just at the end of the first quarter I think we are over lifted just a little bit so we are not completely in balance but we are fairly close.
Okay.
Second question on Permian right now you are running at 10 rigs.
Is there any color or insight you can provide on what this [Inaudible]going to [Inaudible]look like over the next two or three years.
You just add two should we assume that you will continue to ramp up the program there.
And also whether you can tell us the $90 000 barrel per day production whats the mix between light oil condensate NGL and natural gas? Yeah.
Let me start with the first part.
We are of course ramping up activity in the Permian.
We are doing it like we always do in a very disciplined approach you dont want to get too far out in front your headlight.
So we have been building that rig count over the first last few quarters I did mention the additional acreage that we picked up in a very attractive area in the Wolfcamp.
So as we move on I would expect the trajectory to be the same but I dont have any specific count for you.
Again in a lot of these areas we are still delineating we are still appraising we are still experimenting with how we go about drilling and completing wells and that sort of thing.
But I think directionally given the quality of the acreage that we have and the results we have had to date I think it would be a reasonable expectation that we would likely grow that rig count over the course of the year I think that will be logical.
But again always in a manner that keeps in mind the long term development of these resources and not getting out too far in front and doing something that you regret later.
So its all about assessing what weve got we are very very pleased with our acreage and then ramping up that production as is appropriate and leading towards that outlook we gave you in the Analyst Meeting that showed a nice way up between now and 2017 in total North Americans liquid production but the Permian seems to be a big part of that.
In terms of the on split on the liquids versus NGLs versus condensates I dont have that split for you Paul.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And from Credit Suisse well hear from Edward Westlake.
Hey yes.
Good morning David.
Three very quick tail end questions.
People have said and thanks by the way for the helpful color on Asia LNG and well done on the execution of some of the key projects.
Some of the people have shouted out a gas marketing benefit in given the cold winter in the U.S did you guys have any something there that we should think about? Well I mean we benefited from the higher gas prices but other than that we certainly dont do any trading if thats what you are looking at.
So let me if that was the question let me be clear all of our earnings uplift comes from the production and sale of our gas we dont do any trading.
Okay.
Good.
And then switching to the international chemicals I mean obviously 4Q was weak and youve seen a bit of a comeback in Q1.
Maybe just talk a little bit about you shouted out lower other expenses maybe just a bit of shout on whats happening there.
Sure.
If we just as so we werent from the fourth quarter into the first quarter this year we didnt have some significantly lower maintenance expense you might recall in the fourth quarter.
It was pretty high we had some turnaround activity going on in Singapore and thats all behind us and thats the biggest driver in that other bucket.
So its not a sort of fee change in demand that you see in the chemical chain? I wouldnt say a fee change but I would say that we are seeing some encouraging signs the integrated chemical chain or seeing some pickup in demand polyethylene sales have been good and we continue to see some nice demand pickup there.
We did also see some pickup which was seasonal between the fourth quarter and the first quarter in our specialties business.
But on the other hand aromatics demand is weak strictly in this so there are some offsets.
But I think generally speaking we have seen a little better demand we have been able to sell the increased production out of Singapore so that part of the business is going well.
So I think as you kind of go from fourth quarter to first quarter in the chemical business lower maintenance as we move into the  from the first quarter to the second quarter as you are probably aware we are heading under a higher maintenance period.
The chem plant for example came down in early April and is down for a couple of months turnaround so we will see that impact.
But a really nice first quarter operations on the chemical side I think our capacity utilization particularly in North America where of course we get a nice margin benefit I think we were running about 2% or 3% on a capacity utilization better than industry.
So thats not only good in total but on the margin those couple percent really really ring the cash register for you on those sales.
So good quarter for us in the chemical business.
And just on the cash flow statement working capital contribution in the quarter? Our working capital contributions I recall just under $2 billion about $1.8 billion and that was just a change in payables.
Right.
I think not a real big effect if you think about total cash flows a number less than $2 billion in the quarter but it was payables driven.
And then one bigger picture question.
They always talk about Shell but I mean obviously youve been doing a lot of offshore exploration as well.
When do you think you will get to the point where you can sort of update us in terms of actually getting after to sort of developing some of these deep water fields that youve got in the portfolio? Yeah.
I think as-soon-as we have a little better indication exactly on what weve got in some of these areas one that I can mention is Tanzania where we have had significant success and our planning is underway as we speak not only with our partner in Block 2 Statoil but also with BG and Ophir broadly across Tanzania.
So we are working at evaluating potential sites for an LNG facility and we have made a recommendation to the government and studies are progressing you know to really determine what would be the optimum development plan for our block and across that area.
So I would say all of that is progressing as you would expect for a resource of that size.
But I cant give you a definitive development plan or timing yet.
Julie is another deepwater project thats well underway and well start drilling there this year.
Weve got more drilling to do in Romania where we had a very nice successful initial well there.
So a lot going in some very attractive areas but probably still just a little early to be talking definitive development plans or startups or FIDs or that sort of things.
Thank you.
And next from Morgan Stanley well hear from Evan Calio.
Yes good afternoon David.
More housekeeping from me exploration expenses much lower in the quarter like 338 versus normal.
Is that just timing event or is there any exploration spend trending over there.
I wouldnt say there is any lower trend its really particularly if you look quarter-on-quarter it was really just timing of expenditure particularly in Russia and some other areas but the program remains on track on schedule.
And I think youll probably see a little more normalized kind a trend as we go out into the year.
Great.
On the asset again and you gave just color earlier the included income.
Was that in international upstream gaining more? That was in international upstream.
Got it.
And maybe just lastly from me with cash builds equaling asset sales for you in the quarter what was the consideration to for holding the buyback flat sequentially.
And then how do you what do you need to see you think to raise it.
Thank you.
Yes I wouldnt.
No change in our strategy with regard to shareholder distributions in general.
You saw we got a nice 9.5% bump in the dividend this quarter continuing a nice trend that youve seen the last few years.
So growing that dividend and making sure its reliable and consistent continues to be at the top of the list for shareholder distribution.
The buyback continues to be [out].
But the cash we have and although we do look at it on a quarter-by-quarter basis we are always thinking into account cash flow projections and business and thats sort of thing.
So again on a company our size plus or minus the $1 billion not a big number.
I do think that its noteworthy if you look at the free cash flow for example in the quarter particularly relative to the last few quarters we did generate a total of $16 billion put a bunch of that into the business funded the both the dividend and the buyback and still had $2 billion over half we paid down debt and half we increased cash.
So again if youre looking kind a sequentially across the last few quarters very strong quarter in cash flow consistent with the strong quarter in earnings.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And from Raymond James well go Pavel Molchanov.
Thanks for taking the question.
One more on the cash allocation by my math this will the first quarter that your dividend payout $[40] billion equals your share buyback.
Is that deliberate and do you see the Q lines kind a continuing to cross that line? I would say that was a coincidence.
Its not a there is not deliberate effort to match those out or more change any ratios to thats sort.
Okay.
And this maybe most relevant for your German acreage but in the context of the Ukrainian crisis and lot of rhetoric in Europe about ramping up shale development any sense that permitting in Germany or elsewhere in Europe is starting to open up? No I dont have any indication of that.
There is a lot of discussion going on as youre all aware but nothing definitive nothing different than whats been going on.
As you know we have a very attractive acreage position in Germany and weve been in discussions with the regulators for a while on the potential of that resource and those in fact the discussions are going but nothing is specific to report on today.
Okay thank you guys.
Thank you.
We have one question left in the queue and that will come from Peter [Hudson] with RBC.
Good afternoon.
Just two quick follow ups.
Kashagan you said no volumes is expect kind of expected anyway in 2014.
But I wonder whether you could say what do you had in your plans for 2016 and what those still are? And also on the upside you are talking about Tanzania.
Is taken quite some time since the recommendation has gone in about the location of the plant facility.
But still nothing is come out.
Do we have a timing of when we might get that as the next catalyst in that area? And then finally the downstream you stress the words on the international downstream that was a least quite a lower than the number of people had expected profitability levels back to the sort of early 2009.
One of your competitors took a big impairment on the refining assets in Asia and are being very clear about the weakness structural weakness in that market.
Is there something that youre seeing such as that and expect to continue out into the medium and long-term as well.
Thank you.
Let me take those in order here.
In Kashagan as I mentioned in the outlook we showed in March we did not a value for 2014.
We did have some volumes in 2015.
I dont want to give a specific number here today but we did have assumed some production volume in 2015.
In Tanzania we dont have any final determination on the site but I will tell you the discussions are ongoing and going well.
Nothing out of the ordinary and the plans for that are progressing at an appropriate pace.
So I think I will stop there.
So we look at the downstream on the international side yes you did see some weak earnings there overall.
We had a positive impact in Canada if you saw the IOL results out this morning very nice business there.
Were running obviously vantage crews into this refinery.
And that keeps the business just going well.
Outside of Canada the rest particularly in Europe and Asia-Pac were weak.
The biggest driver there is the margin.
You had some surplus refining capacity come online in that area of the world last couple of years.
And the advance are a little weak so you got some capacity expansion and excess of demand growth.
We do see some weakness there.
We are doing a number of things to improve our profitability there and improve our competitiveness.
Weve been spending sometime on logistics and expanding feedstock flexibility working to increase exposure to high value product yields and less exposure to lower margin products continuing to work on operating expense and maximizing the logistics benefits we get both from the location of our refineries particularly in Europe but also that integration full integration with the chemical business and the lose business which is doing quite well.
So I think if you look at that business its weak its been weak for a little while.
These are always cyclical business both in Europe and in the US and in the Asia-Pacific rim.
So you wouldnt want to take current results and draw a long-term trend.
Were doing what we can controlling what we can control.
And really its about making sure your refineries and your plans for that matter in any region are the most competitive in that region.
And thats what benefits you over the long term.
When you talk about a potential impairment we follow US GAAP with regard to impairment and we look at that as appropriate but from our perspective and this preference from company to follow IFRS accounting rules when we look at the US GAAP accounting we dont see any exposure to that in that part of the world.
Great thank you.
Yes one of the things you might recall just quickly when you look across both the downstream and the chemical segment bear in mind the significant advantage we have on an ROCE basis to the rest of the industry.
So when you look at the denominator when you look at the capital employed in our business both on the chemical side and on the downstream side our capital employed tends to be in order of magnitude lower than the others.
So that helps generate the ROCEs but also gives you feel for how much capital is on the book.
And then the other thing of course we benefit from is the level integration we have.
So we even as refining cycle is one way and chemical is on other one you get some offsets and when theyre both on an upswing thats where you see the benefit of that integration so.
Across the business we continue to do well to generate the highest returns in the business and just dont have any long-term concerns.
Okay thanks very much.
All right.
Thank you very much.
And Mr.
Rosenthal there are no other questions at this time.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does concludes todays presentation.
We do thank everyone for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Exxon Mobil Corporation Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the conference over to Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
David Rosenthal.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's Second Quarter Earnings Call and Webcast.
The focus of this call is ExxonMobil's financial and operating results for the second quarter.
I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.
Before we go further I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Moving to Slide 3.
We provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results.
Global economic growth improved modestly in the second quarter.
U.S.
economic activity recovered after contracting in the first quarter.
China's growth rate strengthened due to increased exports and government stimulus while Europe's economic recovery remained moderate.
Energy markets delivered mixed results.
WTI prices increased by more than $4 a barrel narrowing the discount to Brent while Western Canadian Select prices also strengthened.
U.S.
natural gas prices decreased compared to the first quarter.
Global industry refining margins strengthened while strong chemical commodity margins were offset by weaker specialty margins.
Turning now to the financial results as shown on Slide 4.
ExxonMobil's second quarter earnings were $8.8 billion or $2.05 per share.
The corporation distributed $6 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and our share repurchase program.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding were $3 billion.
CapEx was $9.8 billion in the quarter and $18.2 billion year-to-date down 17% from the first half of 2013.
Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $12.8 billion including proceeds associated with asset sales of $2.6 billion.
At the end of the quarter cash totaled $6.3 billion and debt was $21.8 billion.
The next slide provides additional detail on second quarter sources and uses of funds.
Over the quarter cash increased by about $500 million from $5.8 billion to $6.3 billion.
Earnings depreciation expense changes in working capital and other items and our ongoing asset management program yielded $12.8 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included net investments in the business of $6.7 billion and shareholder distributions of $6 billion.
Other financing activities increased cash by $400 million.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $3 billion in the third quarter of 2014.
Moving on to Slide 6 and a review of our segmented results.
ExxonMobil's second quarter earnings of $8.8 billion increased by $1.9 billion from the second quarter 2013 primarily reflecting gains on asset sales and higher earnings across all business segments.
In the sequential quarter comparison shown on Slide 7 earnings decreased by $320 million as lower Downstream and Chemical earnings and higher corporate and financing expenses were partly offset by higher Upstream earnings.
Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remains at $500 million to $700 million a quarter.
Turning now to the Upstream financial and operating results and starting on Slide 8.
Upstream earnings in the second quarter were $7.9 billion an increase of $1.6 billion versus the second quarter of 2013.
Realizations increased earnings by $580 million primarily driven by higher liquids realizations.
On a worldwide basis crude oil realizations increased by $4.48 per barrel.
Worldwide natural gas realizations decreased $0.39 per thousand cubic feet as higher U.S.
gas prices were offset by lower international realizations.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $200 million due to a net underlift primarily in West Africa and lower gas volumes.
Excluding the underlift impact volume/mix was a positive factor of about $50 million reflecting higher-margin production growth primarily from North America and Papua New Guinea.
All other items increased earnings by $1.2 billion mainly due to gains on asset sales in Hong Kong.
Moving to Slide 9.
Excluding the impact of the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry oil-equivalent production decreased by 2.3% compared to the second quarter of last year.
Liquids production was up 8 000 barrels per day.
Increased U.S.
liquids production and [indiscernible] volumes were mostly offset by a scheduled maintenance in Canada and Kazakhstan base decline and unfavorable entitlement and divestment impacts.
Natural gas production was down 604 million cubic feet per day as lower weather-related demand in Europe and expected fuel decline were partly offset by new production from PNG LNG.
Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on Slide 10.
Upstream earnings increased $98 million versus the first quarter.
Realizations reduced earnings by $200 million.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $620 million reflecting expected lower seasonal demand in Europe scheduled maintenance and underlift impacts primarily in West Africa.
All other items had a positive impact of $920 million primarily driven by net gains on asset sales.
Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel were $23.07 excluding the impact of noncontrolling interest volumes.
Moving to Slide 11.
Excluding the impact of the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry volumes were down 288 000 oil-equivalent barrels per day or about 6.9% sequentially.
Liquids production was down 77 000 barrels per day mainly due to scheduled maintenance in Canada Kazakhstan and the North Sea along with unfavorable entitlement impacts.
Increased U.S.
liquids production provided a partial offset.
Natural gas volumes were down 1.3 billion cubic feet per day reflecting lower seasonal demand in Europe and cutter [ph] Downtime partly offset by the addition of PNG LNG volumes.
Moving now to the Downstream financial and operating results starting on Slide 12.
Downstream earnings for the first quarter were $711 million up $315 million from the second quarter of 2013.
Margins decreased earnings by $330 million driven by lower non-U.S.
refining margins.
Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $280 million reflecting reduced planned maintenance activities.
Other items increased earnings by $370 million primarily due to the absence of Dartmouth Refinery conversion costs and lower maintenance expenses.
Turning to Slide 13.
Sequentially second quarter Downstream earnings decreased by $102 million primarily due to unfavorable volume/mix effects and higher maintenance activities partially offset by higher margins.
Moving now to the Chemical financial and operating results and starting on Slide 14.
Second quarter Chemical earnings were $841 million up $85 million versus the prior year quarter mainly due to favorable volume/mix and ForEx effects.
Stronger commodity margins were offset by weaker specialties margins.
Moving to Slide 15.
Sequentially Chemical earnings decreased by $206 million primarily due to lower specialty margins and higher planned maintenance activities.
Moving now to an update on year-to-date cash flow growth as shown on Slide 16.
Strong free cash flow of $14.8 billion represented an increase of $12.1 billion compared to the first half of 2013.
Cash flow from operations and asset sales of $29 billion more than covered the $14.2 billion invested in the business and $11.7 billion distributed to shareholders with remaining cash used for other financing activities and addition to our cash balance.
This year-to-date free cash flow growth reflects our strong operational performance ongoing asset management program and a disciplined capital allocation approach.
As highlighted in our March Analyst Meeting we are starting up a number of major projects that will add significant profitable volume growth.
Our world-class project execution capabilities are enabling us to make significant progress and achieve key milestones.
One of these milestones was the PNG LNG project startup in April which was months ahead of schedule.
We have now ramped up to full production through both LNG trains and are currently producing close to 1 billion cubic feet of gas per day.
Through July we have already loaded 15 cargoes for delivery to customers in Asia.
The project was completed below the $19 billion budget announced in 2012 and produces LNG at a unit cost that is one of the lowest in the region.
This achievement is a good example of how ExxonMobil creates value through technology applications and leading project execution capabilities.
Learnings will be applied to other LNG projects that we plan to progress.
In Angola the CLOV project of which ExxonMobil owns a 20% interest started operations in June.
Production is now ramping up and expected to reach 160 000 barrels per day.
Offshore Sakhalin Island the top side of the Berkut platform has been installed onto the gravity-based structure at the Arkutun-Dagi field.
The operations set a world record for installation of the heaviest integrated topside structure weighing over 42 000 tons and using the world's largest ocean-going barge to carry and then set the structure.
Berkut is now the largest offshore oil and gas production platform in Russia.
The facility will start up later this year and will add up to 90 000 barrels per day to Sakhalin-1 oil production.
Let me now provide a quick update on Kashagan.
The project partners have agreed to work towards a progressive transition from the current venture model to a consolidated joint venture company operating under a single corporate management system integrating the existing processes and tools from the venture entities.
An experienced ExxonMobil executive has been appointed as the Managing Director of the operating company.
Regarding the pipeline issues the current assessment is that both oil and gas pipelines need to be replaced.
The North Caspian Operating Company is now developing a full replacement plan.
Turning now to Slide 18 for an update on our exploration activities.
In Argentina we drilled and successfully completed 2 ExxonMobil-operated horizontal wells in the Vaca Muerta formation.
The Bajo del Choique X-2 well flowed at an average rate of 770 barrels of oil per day while the La Invernada X-3 well will be flow-tested during the third quarter.
Our active program continues with additional wells planned to be drilled in the second half of the year.
In Tanzania Statoil and ExxonMobil made an additional discovery in Block 2.
The Piri-1 well discovered gas in a high-quality reservoir confirming an additional 2 to 3 TCF of gas in place.
6 gas discoveries in Block 2 have been made to date with total resource in place estimated at 20 TCF.
ExxonMobil Statoil BG and Ophir completed an evaluation of potential sites for our common onshore LNG plant and made a location recommendation to the government of Tanzania.
Drilling operations are also currently underway on 2 blocks in the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
At Pirmam we have successfully drilled to target depth and are preparing to test the well in the third quarter.
In Alqosh we are drilling ahead and anticipate reaching target depth in the third quarter.
In Romania we have spud the Domino-2 well in the Neptun Block in the Black Sea.
Data collected from the well will aid in the development planning for the gas field discovered in 2012 by the Domino-1 well.
We will then move on to additional exploration drilling in the block.
Turning now to Slide 19 and an update on our Downstream business.
During the quarter we achieved notable investment milestones to increase high-value product sales.
We commissioned the Clean Fuels project at the Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery in Saudi Arabia.
The project reduces sulfur levels in gasoline and diesel by more than 98% to meet more stringent fuel standards in the kingdom.
The project included new hydrotreating and sulfur recovery facilities and started up successfully and on budget.
In China we completed the expansion of the Tianjin lubricants plant to increase the supply of high-value Mobil-branded lubricants.
Work is also underway to significantly increase the blending capacity at the Taicang lubricant plant with expected completion by the end of 2015.
Together these 2 projects will increase our local capacity by 75% and help meet the growing demand for high-quality lubricants in China.
We also recently approved a project to install a new 50 000 barrels per day delayed coker unit at our Antwerp refinery in Belgium.
The unit will convert low-value residual oil from our Northwest Europe refineries into higher-value transportation fuel products such as diesel.
This is another example of selective investments we are making at our competitively advantaged sites further strengthening our industry-leading portfolio.
Startup is planned for 2017.
Turning now to Slide 20 and an update on our Chemical business where we are also progressing several projects to grow high-value product sales.
We received all final regulatory approvals and started construction of a multibillion-dollar ethane cracker at our existing fully integrated Baytown Texas complex and associated premium product facilities in nearby Mont Belvieu.
The steam cracker will have a capacity of up to 1.5 million tons per year and provide ethylene feedstock for further chemical processing at 2 new 650 000 tons per year high-performance polyethylene lines.
This project is made possible in large part by abundant affordable supplies of U.S.
natural gas for energy and chemical feedstock.
The expansion will enable us to economically supply rapidly growing demand for high-value polyethylene products used in a variety of consumer and industrial applications.
Startup is planned in 2017.
We also recently approved expansions of our specialty hydrocarbon fluid facilities in Antwerp and Singapore.
These projects will upgrade refinery streams into higher-value specialty chemical products to serve rapidly growing demand in extended-reach drilling hydraulic fracturing and other industrial applications.
These investments underscore the benefits of our business integration and technology advantage to capture advantage feedstocks and increase high-value product sales.
Startups are planned in 2015 and 2016.
I would like to conclude today's presentation with a summary of our year-to-date performance.
ExxonMobil's strong financial and operating results reflect our ability to grow cash flow and provide robust shareholder returns as we presented during the Analyst Meeting in March.
Total earnings year-to-date $17.9 billion reflecting solid operating performance across all of our businesses and our ongoing asset management program.
In the Upstream production of 4 million oil-equivalent barrels per day is right in line with our plans.
Actions we took to improve Upstream profitability and grow higher-margin production increased unit earnings to $22.19 per barrel up from $18.03 a barrel in 2013.
In the Downstream and Chemical businesses we progressed attractive investments to strengthen the portfolio and continue to leverage integration benefits.
Our strong operating results combined with our disciplined capital allocation approach generated robust free cash flow of $14.8 billion an increase of $12.1 billion compared to the first half of 2013.
This strong performance enabled us to maintain industry-leading shareholder distributions.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> David what have the impacts of sanctions been on your operations in Russia? Yes look Paul I know our activities in Russia are a matter of great interest to you and everybody else on the call and rightfully so.
But what I can tell you as of this morning is that we are waiting for further details on the sanctions in order to better understand how we need to comply.
But I have to tell you given that we simply don't have sufficient information I'm just not in a position this morning to comment any further on the impact of the sanctions.
LLC</strong> Okay.
The CapEx in Russia is that financed from within Russia? I was thinking that given the scale of your operations in Sakhalin maybe it's kind of an internally -- an internal Russian financing operation? Yes I really don't have the details of that.
We finance our operations in a number of different ways.
And I don't really have a specific comment on Sakhalin or the rest of our activities.
LLC</strong> So essentially the status is that we're -- you're waiting for more clarification on any limits that may be placed on I guess investment and operations? Yes and as you know what's been in the press has been people's thoughts and expectations but we really just haven't seen the detailed written sanctions.
And so until we have those and have a chance to assess them and evaluate them again it just puts me in a position this morning where I really can't make any specific comments.
LLC</strong> Understood.
And then my follow-up is totally separate.
The construction started at Baytown you highlighted that I think is advanced against schedule isn't it? And is that fully permitted and obviously final investment decision and everything else? And what is the expected completion date? Yes that project is right on our plan.
We do have all of our permits in place.
Construction has started.
We put that picture in the slides this morning to kind of show we're digging dirt and the project's underway.
Even throughout the permitting process we were well underway getting all the engineering lined up all the contractors all the supply chain so that once we had the permits we were ready to go.
So no change to what we told you at the Analyst Meeting.
We're on schedule so far and we do expect to have that project up and running sometime in 2017.
We'll go next to Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of questions please.
The promise of improving on operating cash flow is obviously a big theme from your Analyst Day.
We don't really see any substantial margin change this quarter with the startup of PNG and I guess Kearl ramping up.
So I'm just wondering if you can frame for us how you see the -- what the drivers of that change in cash flow are in terms perhaps of how the margin could change for your new portfolio of assets which I guess will be about a quarter of the company in 2017? And any color you can give qualitatively if necessary but just to give some comfort that that turn is coming? And I've got a follow-up please.
Yes sure Doug.
Let's talk about that a little bit as we look at how things have really evolved over the last say 12 months.
We have seen some pretty significant increase in our unit profitability and our ability to capture changes in the realizations as they come along.
If I look at where we are so far in the first half of '14 on Upstream profitability relative to 2013 we're up over $4 a barrel on unit profitability.
And if I go back and I take out all of the asset management asset sales related gains in all the periods unit profitability is up right at $2.
So I think you're starting to see the impact of the trend that we talked about in the Analyst Meeting of reducing our exposure to lower-margin barrels and barrels where we don't have quite the upside potential.
And you're just now starting to see some of the projects that we've talked extensively about coming online.
I mean Papua New Guinea LNG is an example.
It's just started up but it's one of several projects to come on in the next couple of years as we talked about at the Analyst Meeting all of which are accretive to average unit profitability and average unit cash flow.
So I think in our production volumes we're starting to see the benefit of that.
Again it's early.
We've just started up the project.
We have a number of projects yet to come over the course of the year.
Of course Papua New Guinea will be ramping up.
We'll have the Lucius project coming up later in the year.
And I might give you an update on that as you know at the time of the Analyst Meeting and when we put out our F&amp;O review we had a 15% interest in the Lucius project.
That interest is now up to 23% -- a little over 23% through a normal redetermination exercise as well as our exercising our preemptive rights on the Apache sales.
So that project will be starting up later this year and again we'll have about 23% of those barrels.
Hadrian South will also start up at the same time.
So again the projects we talked about are on schedule and they're coming online.
And they will be accretive to those to the unit profitability we talked about.
There's a number of other things that you see as we progress through and looking at the year-to-date cash flow including an active asset management program and you saw the impact of that.
So as I kind of look back really at the first half and kind of staying away from the first quarter versus the second quarter and looking at the 6 months we are spot on the outlook we gave you on production in the Analyst Meeting.
As you've seen in our supplement U.S.
liquids production is up fairly significantly and we continue to grow that production as we said we would.
That will also add to the improving margins.
So cash flow's good.
Free cash flow is dramatically better than last year.
We're continuing to provide the shareholder with strong returns.
We raised the dividend again as you know almost 10% in the second quarter.
So as we kind of sit back and we look at the first half results and compare to what our plans were and compared to last year we're very encouraged and very confident that we'll continue to deliver the growth that we had talked about and continue to trend up on unit profitability and the cash flow.
So from our perspective everything's right on track and we look forward to continuing to deliver the commitments we've made to the shareholder.
Research Division</strong> I'll make my follow-up a very quick one hopefully.
So assuming the spending level does hold around the $37 billion number all things equal it's the age-old question for you guys: You're going to have a lot of free cash flow.
How are you thinking about the dividend nowadays as opposed to stepping up the buyback? Because when we traveled recently I think your message was "well that cash flow will go back to shareholders." So if you could help frame the importance of one over the other as you stabilize the underlying production base that would be helpful.
And I'll leave it there.
Sure.
Thanks Doug.
As you mentioned at constant prices yes as we deliver the plan that we outlined at the Analyst Meeting we do expect to see a continued increase on our cash flow generation.
And keeping the CapEx at the levels we discussed would by definition improve free cash flow again just as we've seen dramatically here in the first half.
In terms of the capital allocation no change to our prior approach.
We're going to stay disciplined on the capital.
We're going to fund our best projects.
And I think as we've talked about in the Analyst Meeting and folks are beginning to recognize our opportunity portfolio is quite extensive at this point and that's going to allow us to be selective.
So we'll continue to be disciplined on the capital side.
We will continue to pay a very consistent and increasing dividend over time and I think you've certainly seen evidence of that over the last few years.
And after you accomplish those 2 things the rest of the cash flow will flow back to the shareholder through the share buyback program.
So no change in approach no change in how we're doing our capital allocation but again we are certainly looking forward to continued success in our project ramp-up continued success in upgrading the value of our molecules in the Downstream and Chemical and delivering that profitable growth that we talked about a lot in the Analyst Meeting.
So thank you.
We will go next to Ed Westlake with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> David very small question first just on asset sale gains in the quarter if you shout out the actual number in this quarter if you have that? Sure.
In total the gains from asset sales on an absolute basis were about $1.7 billion $1.6 billion of that in the Upstream and the other $100 million in the Downstream and Chemical.
Research Division</strong> Let's talk bigger picture about the Permian.
Obviously at the Analyst Day you spoke about 1.5 million acres.
Do you have a breakdown of how much of that is kind of CBP how much is that is Midland? [Audio Gap] Delaware Basin for more the application of horizontal drilling? Sure.
I'll start out by saying if you look at that whole 1.5 million acres it is spread throughout the Midland basin and the Delaware Basin.
We're in a number of different areas and that really gives us the opportunity to do a number of things to grow our production there including a lot of things in the conventional fields water floods CO2 floods.
We've got 65 workover rigs still running in the Permian in addition to the other rigs that we have drilling exploration wells.
So we have a lot of exposure to both conventional and unconventional again across -- broadly across the basin in Texas and in New Mexico.
As we look at the various areas that I know people are interested in we certainly have some very good acreage in the prime areas for the Wolfcamp and we're just getting started in there.
The Bone Springs is another one that we're working on.
So when you look at this ramp-up in growth that we've seen to date and you've seen the numbers of the significant growth in liquids in the U.S.
year-over-year we are just now beginning to scratch the unconventional plays and getting some of those wells down and see what we've got going on.
We've got about 5 rigs drilling horizontal wells today in again the Wolfcamp the Bone Springs and a number of areas.
We have brought 93 wells online this year.
That's up almost 70% from last year about this time.
So a lot of activity a lot of growth but just scratching the surface of the potential in that area.
So we're excited to have the opportunities that we have across the basin across the platform and in particular the wide variety of things we have to work on in that play.
So it's not just unconventional.
It's a number of resource opportunities and you'll continue to see us ramp up activity there and see that production.
Again as we talked about at the Analyst Meeting that is a big-time focus area for us as is the Bakken where we're having tremendous success as well and the Woodford Ardmore area.
So I can tell you sitting here mid-year the opportunity is there.
We're developing it and we're seeing that production increase right in line with our expectations.
Research Division</strong> And if I can be very sneaky: Is it fee acreage or is it more recently sold in the Permian? I'm thinking about the royalty position.
Some are starting to disclose where they are on that.
Oh yes we -- no we've got -- most of our acreage is fee acreage.
And as you know that's a big help on the royalties.
We'll go next to Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for you on the production profile.
I know you kind of confirmed that you're on track to meet your full year target.
2Q came in a bit light compared to what we were looking for.
I know you referenced some maintenance and European nominations were weak.
Is it fair as we kind of move into second half to think that 2Q is a low point? I know you'll have CLOV ramping up and maybe some of that maintenance coming back online.
Or any color you can give us on how to kind of think about second half of the year? Yes sure.
If we look at the first half in particular if we look sequentially where the volumes came down quite a bit.
Just on the liquids side downtime was worth 66 000 barrels a day for us from first quarter to second quarter.
So we had a very heavy maintenance load up in Canada; in Kazakhstan at Tengiz; and a number of other places in North Sea for example.
So while we did see the benefit from projects at PNG and Kearl they were masked by again this planned maintenance seasonal maintenance but it did have quite an impact on us.
As we typically do going forward into the second half that maintenance gets done and those things come back.
And the other impact we had sequentially again was a sharp reduction in gas sales.
I think our demand in Europe was probably worth over 150 000 oil-equivalent barrels a day on the gas side.
And then we also had some downtime.
So I'd characterize -- if you're looking at the second quarter characterized by a extremely heavy maintenance load and your typical seasonal decline in Europe volume coming off a low base because of the low winter.
So the offset of that of course is PNG LNG starting up.
The increase you've seen in the higher-margin U.S.
liquids volumes.
They just weren't enough to offset these other factors.
As we head into the second half of the year you will see these maintenance items come back up as they typically do and then the project startups that I talked about: full ramp-up of PNG LNG; and then the other projects that I mentioned Lucius and some of the other ones.
So we would certainly expect to see the benefit of both of those factors coming out of the second quarter.
And that's why I really wanted to focus a little bit of time this morning on how we're doing year-to-date because I think the real key measure of our performance and whether or not we're delivering on the targets that we established at the March Analyst Meeting is we are right on plan.
In fact we're a little ahead in some areas like U.S.
liquids production for example; PNG LNG a little ahead.
Some other things are a little behind European demand for example on the gas side.
We continue to ramp up Kearl and that progress is also looking good as we head into the second half of the year.
So again if we look past the quarter-to-quarter fluctuations and focus on where we're at year-to-date and what we're expecting in the second half I can assure you we are spot on to deliver the outlook that we gave you.
Research Division</strong> The second question.
One of your European counterparts has just announced the -- I guess the initial steps to form an MLP.
And it seems like Exxon is flushed with assets that would probably fit very nicely into one and really highlight the underlying value that's probably not reflected in the stock.
I'm just curious if that is even on the radar screen? Well I'd say kind of generically everything's on the radar screen.
We are just constantly looking at all of the things that are out there all the options we have to realize full value from all of our assets including our midstream assets.
The one thing I'd remind you if you recall back in the 2011 and 2012 time frame we actually sold a number of our midstream assets and realized extensive value for those.
And those are reflected in the very strong gains on asset sales and cash flow we generated.
Now if you look step back and look at MLPs: Most companies are using those as a means to raise cash and finance growth or reduce their ownership costs or exposure.
Those aren't strategic drivers for us.
In our case when we look at our midstream portfolio these are strategic assets to us.
We think we are monetizing the value of those whether or not you would assert that they're adequately reflected in our share price yet.
We are certainly monetizing those and maximizing the value in the integration of our full value chain and also as part of our logistics and integration between the Upstream Downstream and chemicals.
So you probably won't be surprised to know that we've taken a hard look at this and look at the assets and the opportunities but we're -- we like what we have.
We like the integration benefit.
And in fact if you've seen some of our recent announcements we're actually investing more dollars in that part of the business.
We mentioned the Edmonton rail project and a few other ones.
So midstream assets are strategic to us.
We think we're getting full value for them as part of the integrated business model that we have but I wouldn't want you to ever think that we're not aware of and looking at everything that's out there that others are doing and some things others may not have thought about yet.
Our next question comes from Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess maybe come back a little bit on the Permian question just because we did see the -- I believe there was an asset swap that you did during the quarter.
And since in general we're seeing a lot more activity heading that direction maybe could you give us an idea a little bit of sort of relative size? I know you don't like to get into a lot of details but kind of relative size; and as we think about growth opportunities maybe of the Permian relative to the identified projects in the Gulf of Mexico if there's any sort of I don't know additional detail clarity something there you could offer us? Yes.
We did sign an agreement in the second quarter to do a swap that basically added about -- additional 26 000 net acres in the Permian.
And virtually all of it it was in the Midland basin which of course as you know is prospective for the horizontal drilling that we talked about.
If you add that to the acreage we talked about that we picked up earlier this year we've now added 50 000 60 000 prime acres right in the sweet spot of where we want to be.
So that's good.
And that's one of the reasons why we've increased rigs in that area.
I mentioned the 65 workover rigs that we're running.
And I think we've got 11 rigs running on the exploration and delineation and evaluation side so certainly ramping up activity there and very encouraged by the results we're seeing.
It's a very very active area for us.
Now in terms of activity relative to other areas I have to also say the Bakken has -- is an area where we're also ramping up production quite significantly and you see that in our results.
We've got a lot of activity there.
We've got 12 rigs running.
That's up from where we've been in the past.
Operated production was up 26% in the second quarter.
So again we're continuing to ramp up.
The other play we've talked about is the Ardmore and we've got higher rigs running there as well.
One of the things if I just kind of think about adding all of that up and looking at our liquids plays production across the Permian Bakken and Woodford Ardmore in the second quarter was over 200 000 barrels a day.
And that was up about over 25% from a year ago and up quarter-to-quarter.
So we're continuing to work that.
Comparing those opportunities to the Gulf of Mexico we're fortunate that we've got opportunities in both of those areas.
We do have major projects coming on and starting up.
I mentioned Lucius which is the oil development there starting up before the end of the year.
The gas piece of that project for us Hadrian South will also start up and bring on additional volumes.
We continue to work on Julia and that's progressing well.
And then there are a couple of other projects that we also have an interest in.
So that's coming through.
We've also picked up some additional very attractive exploration acreage.
Recently we were awarded the 3 blocks that we were the high bidder on right over there on the trans-boundary area bordering up against Mexico.
So we've got those 3 blocks awarded to us there in the gulf and we're hoping that'll lead to some opportunities down the road beyond that.
So both of those areas are looking good.
The Gulf of Mexico never delivers 100% success rate to anybody and we've drilled a couple of dry holes ourself.
But if we step back and look across the last several years and what we've got on the plate going forward we like what we have.
And we're looking forward to getting these high-margin volumes up and running here later in the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then it kind of segues into what my other question was going to be.
Mexico clearly they've made progress on the legislative side.
We still need to see what the actual rules are going to be and get a good feel for timing but can you talk a little bit about what Exxon sees as the possibilities in Mexico over the next oh I don't know 3 to 5 years as this develops? Well we're certainly encouraged by what we've seen to date.
And we're certainly respectful of the process of deliberation that's going on and as they work through their legislative process and we're monitoring that closely.
We have a long history in Mexico and we are certainly anxious to see how all this comes out and what opportunities might be available for us along those lines.
Again as I mentioned a minute ago we do have those 3 blocks awarded to us right there on the boundary of the Mexican blocks in the deepwater gulf.
And so we'll see if that can help generate opportunities but we're encouraged today anxiously awaiting the -- how all of that finalizes and all the details come out over time.
And then we'll pursue any opportunities that are attractive to us but we certainly like our position.
Our next question comes from Doug Terreson with ISI.
Research Division</strong> So for clarification how does the $1.6 billion of Upstream asset sales that you mentioned a minute ago reconcile with the $1.2 billion other figure that you highlighted on Slide 8? And do you have any geographical segmentation for either of those results? Sure.
So if you're looking at the $1.2 billion that we mentioned that was kind of the delta quarter-on-quarter okay? And -- because we had a number of asset gains last quarter and then last year.
So if you're looking at the total picture there and again there are other items in the earnings rec but just to be clear in the Upstream the total value of the asset sales in earnings was $1.6 billion in the quarter.
And then if you look quarter-over-quarter that's about $1.5 billion with an offset of a couple of hundred million dollars in some other things like startup expenses and that sort of thing.
If you're looking at the sequential comparison we had about $400 million of gains on asset sales in the first quarter this year so the delta there is about $1.2 billion in earnings.
So I hope that sorts it out for you.
And then we talked separately in the call about the impact on the cash flows.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly over the years ExxonMobil and its peers have employed fairly substantial portfolio management programs to support returns on capital.
And with the decline in returns across the sector over the past 4 5 years the pace has accelerated for some companies and with positive effect on returns and their values in the market.
So my question is with ExxonMobil's returns following what the industry did over the last several years why wouldn't the company be using portfolio strategies -- portfolio management more rather than the same or less to enhance its returns profile? That is if you think that it's not.
So really any updated thinking on portfolio management strategy in light of the industry context is appreciated David.
Yes yes thanks Doug.
I would say there's really 2 items to talk about in return -- in regard to the return performance here over the last couple of years.
First with regard to asset sales they're not linear.
We had a number of asset sales in '11 and '12.
And I think the combination of those 2 years yielded about $20 billion in cash flow very strong.
Last year was less of a year.
This year we're off to a pretty solid start between the first quarter and the second quarter and in particular what we've generated here with our asset sales.
So the program is ongoing.
We don't make an announcement in advance of what we're going to do.
We find that gives us a little better negotiating strategy when we do actually sit down and talk about selling assets.
So we don't have any stated objective.
We don't have any target that we feel we must make but we're certainly able to take advantage of anything in the market that gives us a chance to realize value for our shareholders.
Fortunately for us we don't have to sell assets in order to make a dividend payment or another distribution because of the cash flow we generate.
And again reference back to that chart I showed you.
I think one of the other things to keep in mind when you look at Upstream ROCE over the last few years particularly in our case and I can't speak for others.
But one of the aspects of these very large legacy plateau-volume nondeclining-volume projects however you want to call them is all the CapEx is upfront.
And so there as you're building these projects and particularly in our case I mean we talk about bringing on 1 million barrels oil-equivalent a day of production between '13 and '17.
By definition you've got a lot of steel in the ground to produce 1 million barrel of oil-equivalent a day.
And until that capital starts up that's nonproductive capital.
So that I think at least for us has been a big driver in terms of ROCE.
And as you know as those projects crank up Papua New Guinea being a perfect example you go from nonproductive capital in the ground to productive capital and in this case highly productive capital.
So again part of bringing all of these projects online part of ramping up the production is the earnings the cash flow and the ROCE that comes along with that.
And then on the Downstream side of course we continue to have industry-leading returns and continue to make incremental investments there to at least maintain if not increase that advantage.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Dave on Kearl phase 1 the ramp-up has been -- I think probably is lower than what the investor has been expecting.
From you guys standpoint internally that -- when do you think all the startup issue will be fixed and then you will be running at a sustainable rate towards the full capacity? Is it going to take another year 6 months? Any kind of rough time line that -- internally that you guys is forecasting? Yes Paul let me give you a quick update on Kearl because we have seen a continued ramp-up in the production.
I did -- I mentioned that in the second quarter although on the surface it looks like production was flat at about 66 000 barrels a day first quarter and second quarter.
But recall we did have some planned maintenance there in April that took us way below that number.
I can tell you as we came out of that April downtime for maintenance production picked up quite well.
And in fact we achieved record production in the month of June of almost 80 000 barrels a day.
So we've not quite reached the lined-out production and our expectations but we are making progress.
A number of the issues that you are aware of are being resolved and we're working on that.
Again I have to stress that although we're certainly a little disappointed in the ramp-up over the last year from what our original expectation was the technology is working fine.
We've actually been able to run each of the 3 froth treatment trains above their designed capacity.
That's very encouraging.
And so the objective for us now is to get all 3 of them running simultaneously on a consistent basis at or above their designed capacity.
And when we achieve that that's when you really see that volume change.
So we're encouraged at the capability of the assets that we've put in place.
We're encouraged with the -- with how the technology is working.
We are working on the ramp-up and look to improve that.
I can't give you a specific date on which we'll achieve 110 000 barrels a day or some number greater than that but we are making progress and we're looking forward to continue that progress.
I can also say on the other side of the Kearl initial development the expansion project is going very well.
I'm pleased to say for another quarter that the project is on schedule and on budget which on the backs of the Papua New Guinea LNG project very unusual in our industry for somebody in my position to sit here on an earnings call and tell you the projects are on budget and on schedule.
So acknowledged that the ramp-up in Kearl first phase hasn't been quite what we were expecting but again want to confirm that we're making progress and we're encouraged with the results we've seen so far this year.
Research Division</strong> Dave you guys have some very decent success on the shale oil.
Do you have a number you can share what is your total shale oil production in the second quarter average? And comparing to the full year 2013? And whether you can break it down between the black oil condensate NGL and gas? I can't break down the split between oil NGL and gas but the numbers I gave just a minute ago on the call across the Permian the Bakken and the Ardmore are pretty indicative of what we're doing.
Although not all of it in the Permian as I mentioned is unconventional oil.
But I think without a specific number again when you look at the numbers that we had in the supplement to the press release you see the 38 000 barrels a day increase in U.S.
liquids year-over-year.
And we look at how things are going again in the big three the Bakken the Woodford Ardmore and the Permian we're ramping up to that level that we talked about in the Analyst Meeting and we continue to move forward.
And I'll continue to give you an update on a quarterly basis.
Research Division</strong> Can I just sneak in a quick question a final one? There's a article I think out there talking about Exxon is evaluating to have a major expansion in one of your Texas refinery.
That seems to be very uncharacteristic or quite different than what Exxon historically has been building or their refining strategy in the U.S.
I want to see whether you can comment on that.
Paul the first thing I'd say is I'm not going to make a specific comment on any rumors or speculation that are out there in the press.
We are regularly looking at our portfolio around the world.
I mentioned the investment we're putting into the Antwerp plant which you might say "Why would you be putting money into Europe given its current weak spot on the margin side?" But again that's consistent with our strategy of upgrading molecules very nice project to take what is currently a low-value resid strain and upgrade it into very high-value diesel and other project -- and other products.
So when we look at the U.S.
when we look at Europe when we look at Asia Pacific we're always looking at opportunities and what we can do to either upgrade any molecule that's flowing through our system how we can take advantage of already-advantaged assets like our refining circuit and improve that.
So the -- for us to be looking at many different things should not come as a surprise.
But rather than mention anything specifically and coming back to the strategy that we've articulated I think I can really go back to what we said at the Analyst Meeting: You look at our Downstream strategy.
It's all about expanding feedstock flexibility; increasing high product yields -- high-value product yields; reducing operating costs; taking advantage of logistics like we're doing in Europe that I mentioned in my prepared remarks; or pressing even more of the value we get from integration.
So I would say there's no change in that strategy per se but wouldn't comment on any specific item that you might have read in the press somewhere.
Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On Russia I appreciate the point that the sanctions have not yet been fully clarified but can you confirm whether the Arctic exploration prospect with Rosneft is still set to spud in August? Pavel I -- again I can understand the interest in the question but I really have to come back to what I said at the opening.
Until we have a chance to look at the sanctions read them assess them evaluating -- evaluate them it just wouldn't be appropriate for me at this point this morning really to make any comments specifically on any of our activities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then on the -- you guys recently applied for a approval for the Gulf Coast LNG export terminal with Qatar.
Any sense of when you're expecting that approval to be given? I don't have a specific expectation.
I think one of the things that's helpful for us is we went in a pre-FERC filing process for a while.
We've been working on this so this isn't brand new for us.
I don't know exactly what the expectation is in terms of approvals or a number you have to get from the FERC of course from the DOE et cetera.
But I think if you -- if we kind of look across -- how this thing might progress through the approval process and if we can get to a position where we can FID this you might be looking at some time frame for production around 2019 again without breaking it into its components.
But nice opportunity for us.
And we are certainly looking forward to an efficient process in terms of getting everything approved and getting our DOE approval for export to non-FTA countries and moving on with that project.
But it's just one of many LNG opportunities we have in the portfolio.
We're fortunate to have a number of things we can be working on around the world in various points of development and this one is certainly one that we're working on real closely.
Our next question comes from John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Just a couple of quick ones Dave.
With the PNG gas is that all contracted sales at this stage? Because you had some spot cargoes initially.
Yes we've been basically -- because the project has started up months early the current cargoes that I talked about they're basically by definition going in on a spot basis.
And we're pleased with our ability to place those cargoes at attractive prices.
As we get down to later on and the contracts all kick in about 95% of the production is contracted on long-term contracts tied to the price of oil.
And that is certainly part of -- if you'll recall back at the Analyst Meeting when we said we would take the percentage of our total Upstream portfolio production from about 63% or 64% liquids or liquids linked up to about 69%.
This is just an example of that but yes those -- the cargoes that we're placing now are basically spot but into the market.
But again we've been able to place them and pleased with how that went and then really looking forward to getting this project continuing on.
And again just very pleased with the startup and very pleased that we were able to bring that project in under a budget that was 2 years old.
The industry's gotten used to those annual updates of budgets on LNG projects and costs going up annually.
And again we're very pleased that -- to bring this thing in early and under our budget.
Last one for me is on your tax rate.
Your effective tax rate was around -- maybe you said something but I missed it.
Yes let me give you a little more color on that.
You did see an effective tax rate around 41% or 42% or so.
That is down from last year and also a little bit down from what we saw in the first quarter.
The real impact you're seeing there is just a combination of the mix of our businesses Upstream Downstream Chemical; geographic; some of our portfolio management activities; the expiry of the Abu Dhabi onshore concession.
Of course as is typical asset sales tend to have a lower tax rate than earnings from your operations.
So all of that kind of drove us a little low here in the second quarter.
I can tell you without giving a specific guidance and a specific number but a normalized tax rate going forward ought to be somewhere in the mid 40s compared to upper 40s of prior history somewhere in that order of magnitude just to give you a feel for how that impact might roll through going forward.
Our next question comes from Guy Baber with Simmons Investment Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick one for me and more of a point of clarification.
But I wanted to ask about the U.S.
liquids performance relative to your internal expectations.
That's an area that's outperformed our model.
You've given us some great detail on the call so thanks for that.
But wasn't sure if you'd said that the U.S.
liquids production was tracking in line with the internal plan or it was outperforming? So just wanted to clarify there as we try to think through the ultimate potential of your LRS portfolio in light of some of the longer-term guidance you gave at the Analyst Day previously.
Yes Guy thanks for the opportunity to clarify that a little bit.
We are slightly ahead of our internal expectations for the year in the U.S.
on liquids.
I mentioned in total relative to what we talked about at the Analyst Meeting we're kind of spot on so -- but the puts and takes kind of think of -- about it as still maybe a little bit behind on the Kearl ramp-up but I addressed that earlier but slightly ahead in the lower 48.
We are very encouraged with the results we're seeing.
We're very pleased with the additional opportunities.
We are adding rigs.
We are putting some additional resources into those areas.
But bottom line to answer your question yes we're a little bit ahead of where we even thought we'd be internally so far this year.
And our last question comes from Allen Good with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly and I'm sorry if I missed it but on the U.S.
natural gas production it looks like declines have been slowing over the past few quarters.
This quarter we actually saw sequential growth.
Can you talk a little bit behind the moves there and what we may expect for the rest of the year and maybe into next year as well? If we look at the gas business yes we're sequentially up just a hair but really about flat down year-on-year which is also consistent with what we talked about at the Analyst Meeting.
So you are seeing that kind of year-on-year decline as we move those resources more into the liquid side.
If we're looking sequentially I wouldn't read too much into that.
We are about flat.
It's probably just timing of frac-ing and completions and bringing wells on to sale.
I would say kind of as a follow-up to the prior question everything we're doing on the gas side is per the plan and that's a broad statement as well as in the U.S.
So the second quarter we had some good performance but again I wouldn't want to give an indication that our full year outlook on the gas side is any different than what we might have said at the Analyst Meeting.
We are seeing the bump up of course from the early startup of PNG but then on the other hand we came out of a very warm winter in Europe and those volumes were down fairly significantly.
So I think what I would just say to wrap up your question and the call: Think about all the things we laid out for you in -- at the Analyst Meeting both strategically and the strategic choices we're making; and upgrading our portfolio high-value higher-margin higher-unit-profit products into the market that's across all of our businesses; selective investments to continue to press those strategic advantages.
And then zeroing in on Upstream production volumes right on what we had expected and maybe a little better in a couple areas.
And again if you look at that year-to-date free cash flow chart and you look at the progress we've made in a number of areas we're -- again we're very pleased with how our first half is turning out so far this year.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Rosenthal I'll turn the conference back to you for closing remarks.
Well I would just like to thank everybody for participating on the call today and your questions and look forward to talking with you all again in about 3 months.
So thank you very much.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the ExxonMobil Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Todays call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
Jeff Woodbury.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen good morning and welcome to ExxonMobils third quarter earnings call.
The focus of this call is ExxonMobils financial and operating results for the quarter.
And Ill refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.
Before we go further I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statements shown on Slide 2.
Turning now to Slide 3 let me begin by summarizing the key headlines from our third quarter and year-to-date performance.
First ExxonMobils financial results reflect the strength of the integrated business model which creates unique competitive advantages and allows us to generate long-term shareholder value regardless of market fluctuations over the business cycle.
Second year-to-date cash flow from operations and asset sales fully covered our net investments in the business and robust shareholder distributions.
And third we continue to meet our operational and projective development objectives.
Upstream production volumes for 2014 remain on track to average 4 million oil-equivalent barrels per day by year end as the company delivers new production from project start-ups and work programs.
All of which are enhancing our financial performance.
Now moving to slide 4 we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results.
Global economy showed mixed results in the third quarter.
In the U.S.
the economy continued to expand at a moderate pace however Chinas economic growth tapered slightly while the European economy showed further sign of weakness.
As you know crude oil prices decreased sharply and Henry Hub gas prices also weakened.
The WTI spread to brand narrowed whereas global industry refining margins were essentially flat as stronger European margins were offset by weaker margins in the U.S.
And finally chemical commodity and specialty margins strengthened during the quarter.
Turning now to the financial results shown on slide 5.
ExxonMobils third quarter earnings were $8.1 billion or $1.89 per share.
Corporation distributed $5.9 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and our share repurchase program.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding were $3 billion.
CapEx was 9.8 billion in the quarter and just over $28 billion year-to-date down 14% when compared to the first 9 months of 2013.
Cash flow from operations in asset sales were $12.5 billion and at the end of the quarter cash totaled $5 billion and debt was just shy of $22 billion.
Next slide provides additional detail on third quarter sources and uses of funds.
Over the quarter cash decreased by $1.3 billion from 6.3 billion to $5 billion.
Earnings depreciation expense changes in working capital and other items in our ongoing asset management program yielded $12.5 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included net investments in the business of $7.9 billion and our shareholder distributions of $5.9 billion.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstandings are expecting to continue at $3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Now moving to slide 7 and a review of our segmented results.
ExxonMobils third quarter earnings of $8.1 billion increased by $200 million from the third quarter of 2013 as you can see higher downstream and chemical margins were partly offset by lower upstream liquids realizations and higher corporate and financing expenses.
In the sequential quarter comparison shown on slide 8 earnings decreased by $710 million.
Lower gains on upstream asset sales were partially offset by higher downstream and chemical earnings.
Our guidance for corporate and financing expenses remains at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.
Turning now to the upstream financial operating results starting on slide 9.
Upstream earnings in the third quarter were $6.4 billion a decrease of $297 million versus the third quarter of 2013.
Realizations decreased earnings by $670 million driven by lower liquid prices and in this regard on a worldwide basis crude oil realizations decreased by $10.48 per barrel.
And worldwide natural gas realizations decreased by $0.42 per thousand cubic feet as lower European realizations were partly offset by higher U.S.
gas prices.
Notably favorable sales mix effects increased earnings by $340 million.
Higher margin production growth in Papua New Guinea Angola and North America as well as the net over lift were partly offset by higher planned maintenance activities lower entitlements and fuel decline.
Moving to slide 10 excluding the impact of the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry our oil equivalent production decreased by 1% compared to the third quarter of last year.
Importantly liquids production was up 14 000 barrels per day increased production from onshore U.S.
work programs Canada and Angola were partly offset by divestment in tax in Iraq and Canada as well as scheduled maintenance in U.S.
Nigeria and Russia.
Natural gas production was down 319 million cubic feet per day as expected field decline in the U.S.
and unfavorable entitlement impacts from pipeline gas in Qatar were partly offset by new high margin production from Papua New Guinea LNG.
In short our volumes performance demonstrates the progress being made to high grade our portfolio mix with higher margin liquids and liquids linked gas production.
As previously indicated we remain on track to produce 4 million oil-equivalent barrels per day in 2014.
Turning now to sequential comparison starting on slide 11 our upstream earnings decreased $1.5 billion dollars versus the second quarter.
Realizations reduced earnings by $850 million with worldwide crude realizations down $7.29 per barrel and natural gas realizations down to $0.56 per 1000 cubic feet.
Again favorable sales mix effects increased earnings by $460 million reflecting profitable growth in Papua New Guinea Angola and Canada and a net overlift partially offset by lower seasonal demand in Europe.
All other items reduced earnings by $1.1 billion primarily driven by the absence of the prior quarter Hong Kong power divestment gain.
Upstream after tax per earnings per barrel were $18.65 excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes.
Moving on to slide 12 volumes were essentially flat versus the second quarter.
However liquids production was up 17 000 barrels per day due to growth in Angola and U.S.
partly offset by higher planned maintenance in the U.S.
Nigeria and Russia.
Natural gas volumes were down 155 million cubic feet per day reflecting lower seasonal demand in Europe partly offset by a full quarter of Papua New Guinea LNG volumes.
Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results starting on slide 13 downstream earnings for the quarter over $1 billion up $432 million from the third quarter of 2013.
Higher refining margins increased earnings by $820 million whereas volume and mix effects added another $100 million.
All other items decreased earnings by $490 million which mainly due to unfavorable foreign exchange impacts.
Turning to slide 14 sequentially third quarter downstream earning increased by $313 million higher non-used refining margins increased earnings by $310 million positive volume and mix effects due to lower maintenance were offset by unfavorable foreign exchange and another effects.
Moving now to Chemical financial and operating results shown on slide 15 third quarter chemical earnings were $1.2 billion up a $175 million versus the prior year quarter mainly due to high commodity product margins.
Positive volume and mix effects were more than offset by increased planned maintenance activities.
Moving to slide 16 sequentially our Chemical earnings increased by $359 million due to higher commodity and specialty product margins.
Moving now to an update on our year-to-date cash flow growth shown on slide 17 strong year-to-date cash flow from operations and asset sales of $41.5 billion more than covered the net $22 million invested in the business and $17.6 billion distributed to our shareholders.
Mainly cash is used for other financing activities including debt reduction.
Overall free cash flow of $19.4 billion represented increase of $12 billion compared to the same period in 2013.
This year year-to-date free cash will growth reflects our strong operational performance ongoing asset management program and disciplined capital allocation.
Turning now to slide 18 Id like to provide an update on project startups that will deliver profitable growth.
We remain on track for a record startup year and planning to add 300 000 net-equivalent barrels per day of production capacity that is indicative of the diversity of our resource base.
We continue to demonstrate our world class project execution capabilities and have made significant progress during the year.
For June three major projects were started up as you know Papua New Guinea LNG came online a few months ahead of schedule and reached full capacity in July.
In Angola the CLOV reached full capacity in third quarter just a few months after first production and in Malaysia Damar started up in the first quarter.
Recently we achieved several additional project milestones.
In Indonesia the second well pad at the Banyu Urip project started up adding another 10 000 barrels per day of early production.
Banyu Urip is now producing nearly 40 000 barrels per day.
Construction of the central processing facilities as shown in picture is near complete and uploading offshore storage vessel which recently towed to its location for a final hookup.
The project will reach full fuel capacity of 165 000 barrels per day in 2015.
In Malaysia the tap is to enhance to oil recovering project which is the first large scale UR project in the country was completed.
Project is utilizing a water alternating gas injection process to sweep remaining oil reserves to producing wells increasing overall recovery.
Also the Qatargas II maintenance project was completed enabling the venture to maintain 10 million tons of annual LNG production for the years to come.
Project added well capacity a new onshore facilities for sulfur handling.
In the fourth quarter we also expect to start up several additional major projects closing out our 2014 plans.
In our offshore Sakhalin project in Russia the first production well at Arkutun-Dagi is currently being drilled offshore facility hook up and commissioning activities are nearing completion following the installation of platform top size this summer.
Startup is anticipated around year-end and the field is expected at add 90 000 barrels of oil per day at peak production.
In the Gulf of Mexico hook up and commissioning activities for both the Hadrian South and Lucius developments are underway.
At Hadrian South we finished drilling the two subsea wells earlier this year.
And installation of the subsea facilities for tieback to the Lucius far is now complete.
Startup of both projects is expected before year-end.
In Canada the Cold Lake Nabiye project is moving into the final stages of completion.
Hydro testing and commissioning activities are occurring in support of plant startup and steam injection is expected around the end of the year.
This project will add another 40 000 barrels per day to Cold Lake production.
I would now like to turn to slide 19 for an update on U.S.
onshore liquids growth; we are generating significant cash flow by growing high margin liquids production in the U.S.
primarily in unconventional place.
In the Bakken our resource base is now approaching 1 billion oil crude and barrels and gross operated production is up more than six fold since we first entered the play in 2008.
The Bakkan remains our most active conventional play and is the liquids growth engine in U.S.
Gross operated production has increased 38% year-on-year reflecting higher activity levels.
Currently running 13 rigs up from 10 in the third quarter of 2013 net increase new wells brought online by 25% year-on-year.
We continue to achieve strong results and increased efficiencies through our development drilling in the core areas.
Optimizing completions and leveraging pad development in this regard drilling and completion costs have been reduced by 25% since 2011.
We also successfully employed our proprietary extract technology to reduce costs by eliminating the need for multiple plugs normally required for fracking.
In the Woodford shale were running 10 rigs gross operated oil equivalent production in the liquids rich Ardmore Marietta area has increased by 25% year-on-year driven my more completions strong well performance and the move to pad development.
Year two well completion times have decreased significantly reducing costs and increasing the number of wells drilled per rig year.
Although rig counts have remained basically flat we have increased the number of new wells by 33% year-on-year.
In 2014 we also increased drilling activity in the Marietta basin timed with the completion of infrastructure there.
Were encouraged by the initial work in Marietta which has an even higher proportion of liquids in the Ardmore area.
And lastly 8% year-on-year on a large legacy production base reflecting tripling the number of rigs we had in the third quarter of 2013 along with approximately six conventional productions.
We continuously look for opportunities to add attractive acreage 4 000 net acres in the heart of the expanding Wolfcamp play as shown on the map in blue.
Turning now to slide 20 for an update on our exploration activities.
In Romania drilling activities at Domino-2 are complete; the well was drilled to gather more information on the 2012 Domino discovery to assess the size of the resource and its commerciality.
Domino-2 is being followed by the Pelican South-1 wildcat which is currently being drilled.
Additional exploration targets are also planned.
In Tanzania Statoil and ExxonMobil made a seventh discovery in block 2.
Giligiliani-1 well discovered gas in the western part of block 2.
The well confirmed an additional trillion cubic feet of gas in place bringing the total estimated resource in place up to 21 trillion cubic feet.
In Argentina drilling and testing continue in the Vaca Muerta where we have drilled and successfully tested 2 ExxonMobil operated horizontal wells.
The Bajo del Choique X-2 well flowed at an average initial rate of 770 barrels of oil per day and is currently on the long-term test.
And Ill note that this is the highest unconventional oil production rate test in Argentina.
The La Invernada X-3 well began testing at September with encouraging initial results although still clinging up.
Our active program continues with additional drilling and testing later this year and into 2015.
And finally in Russia we successfully drilled the University-1 well in the Kara Sea.
I can confirm that the well did encounter hydrocarbons however results are under evaluation it would be premature to comment any further at this time.
Well was safely plugged and abandoned and the rig has departed to location.
So in conclusion todays presentation provides a summary of our year-to-date performance ExxonMobils strong financial operating results demonstrate the value of our integrated business model and unique competitive advantages.
Total earnings were $26 billion reflecting solid operating performance across all of our businesses and our ongoing asset management program.
And the upstream production of 3.9 million oil-equivalent barrels per day remain in line with our plan as we add new production from project start-ups and work programs.
We continue to improve our production mix with unit profitability increasing from $18 per barrel in 2013 to just over $21 per barrel year-to-date.
A strong operating results combine with our disciplined capital allocation approach generate a robust free cash flow of $19.4 billion an increase of $12 billion compared to the same period in 2013.
This favorable performance enabled us to maintain industry leading shareholder distributions at $17.6 billion.
That concludes my prepared remarks and now wed be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Woodbury [Operator Instructions].
And well first go to Ed Westlake  Credit Suisse.
Yes and may I say welcome on behalf of [Indiscernible] to the new role.
Thank you Ed.
So obviously your net income margins probably surprised most people they seem to go up as the oil price pulled back.
Youve got new projects obviously coming on-stream and I can see that your exploration expense was a little bit low which is kind of non-cash.
But can you give us some color as to why you think net income per barrel went up in the U.S.
and international? Little surprised.
Yeah I mean we broadly say Ed that it starts with the integrated business model.
Youre all very aware that weve got a very cyclical nature of our business and our business model is focused on creating shareholder value by participating through that whole value chain.
So it provides robust earnings performance despite the cyclical nature.
If you think about just the overall upstream unit performance as I said were up year-to-date versus 2013 by about $3 per barrel.
Half of that is asset management impacts another half improved profitability primarily due to improved liquids mix as well as higher profitability around our gas projects really good progress by the organization in improving the higher margin production as I said in the presentation.
Okay and a second unrelated question just around Kearl I mean obviously that is a big project and there is the Kearl expansion and potential de-bottlenecking maybe just give us an update of the latest status and a bit more detail there thank you.
Sure thanks for that Ed.
Kearl as weve said many times is a long life asset its advantaged.
Obviously its advantaged because of the prior technology that weve implemented where it foregoes the need for an upgrade.
Overall Id say that were making progress quarter-on-quarter on Kearl.
Currently were consistently producing over 100 000 barrels of oil per day as we ramp up production there; were clearly identifying opportunities where we can further enhance the facility reliability.
I will say that we did take a turnaround in September for planned maintenance and all of these learnings are being fully integrated into the expansion project.
As you know we talked about the importance of capturing the learnings from the initial development and that was a key element of their investment decision to progress right into the expansion.
Likewise as we get more and more comfort with the operability of the initial development those learnings are being integrated in the expanse project as well.
So overall were really pleased with the asset as I said; its a long life asset thats going to provide very stable productions.
And quite frankly Ed were in our sweet spot right now we have  this is what we do very very well in terms of our project execution and then optimizing our operations to make sure that we maximize the value  Thank you.
Well now go to Phil Gresh JPMorgan.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Phil.
Just kind of following up on the question about the margin lift in the quarter and past couple of quarters just kind of wondering how you would think about how we should think about the next year or so.
And whats the potential benefit you could see in particular from cost levers.
As weve seen the oil price come down what leverage do you think you can pull around cost and/or CapEx? Yeah Phil thats a great question I mean clearly the market has seen some changes with prices.
I dont think any of us should be surprised given the oversupply and continued economic weakness.
Ill go right back Phil toward the value of our integrated business model which really does position us well to capture shareholder value; it is the cyclical nature of the business.
Quite frankly the market controls the price and what we need to focus on are the variables that we do control.
And to your question those include things like effectively managing our development and operating costs maximizing our reliability and then optimizing the value of the molecules through the integrated business model.
All along that that has been a fundamental main stay of our corporation.
And then as a key element of how we manage that and its always around optimizing that the cost structure within our assets that we are maximizing the value from the resources.
And just as a clarification could you tell us how much of the 2015 CapEx is locked in at this point what kind of flexibility you have? Yeah so just a little bit more about the CapEx if I could step back a moment as you all know our CapEx has grown through years and it peaked in 2013 at about $42.5 billion.
And that was largely driven by a deliberate decision to progress several high value upstream research projects upstream resource projects that were ready and matured to move forward.
And now were trailing down to what I consider a more of a normal spin pattern of just shy of $37 billion.
Now the upstream has dropped off a little bit more than the down  its dropping off little more than that as the downstream in chemical are increasing their spend pattern.
But you can appreciate a lot of these projects that are in current progress that if that CapEx profile will continue into the future.
Our guidance is no different Phil in terms of about just shy of $37 billion a year for the next couple and we continue to invest to the cyclical nature of our business.
Okay.
And then my second question would be you obviously have a very strong balance sheet and stronger free cash flow generation arguably stronger than most of your peers.
So youre in a pretty unique position to be potentially more aggressive in this period of weaker oil prices.
So maybe you could comment about how you would think about that bigger picture whether its the buyback program or opportunities with the portfolio? Yeah Phil I would tell you I think you assess it up pretty good clearly the financial flexibility we have with our current debt levels in our triple credit rating position us very well to respond to potential investment opportunities whether that be additional resource developments investment in our downstream or chemical business that provide us advantaged benefits to the industry.
It really requires us to be able to maintain a very disciplined approach to capital allocation through the business cycle while at the same time providing industry leading shareholder distributions.
So if you think about our capital allocation approach its first and foremost invest in all of our attractive business opportunities that are accretive to average unit profitability and returns.
Second is to continue to pay our reliable and growing dividends and Ill remind everybody that our dividends have grown about 10% a year over the last 10 years.
And then lastly is to return the cash to our shareholders through our share buyback program.
As weve said in the past our operating cash flows remain the primary source of funding for both of our capital requirements and our shareholder distributions.
But well access the financial markets when and if needed to meet commitments or capture opportunities.
Thank you.
And well now hear from Doug Terreson ISI.
Good morning Jeff.
Good morning Doug.
So my question regards to margin and profitability improvement as well.
And you covered the mix of effects on new projects in  Abu Dhabi but you also mentioned asset management.
So my question is whether these benefits that you guys are getting from asset management or of the strategic or operational variety.
And so just some clarification on what you mean by that? Yeah so as you know asset management has been a core component of how we manage our business.
Were constantly looking across the portfolio to assess how we could maximize the value of our assets either through development or finding alternative means to go ahead and monetize those assets.
So as a result as you know we have had a very healthy program in terms of our divestment activities.
In terms of our unit profitability as I said year-on-year 2013 2014-2013 the part of that increase in unit profitability was associated with our asset management efforts.
By the way the example Doug let me just remind you over the last 10 years for instance in our downstream we have reduced our refining capacity by more than 1 million barrels a day.
Associated with divestment of about 20 plus refineries weve divested over 200 fuel terminals 38 blending plants and 6000 miles of pipeline.
So its a very active program to make sure that were maximizing the value to shareholder but also positioning us strategically to continue to perform at an industry leading pace in the future.
Let me ask you one other question about this.
So the companys always done really well optimizing cost but has there been and has always been a pressure on your cost for that reason but is there a maybe a step up in the effort to deliver sustained cost improvements that also may be affecting the results over the last few quarters? We always focus on cost management our cost structure Doug.
Id tell you that regardless of where we are in the business cycle that is a fundamental part of our D&amp;A is how do we become even more efficient than weve had historically? And thats not only through the highly qualified people we have working here at ExxonMobil but also the application the technologies that we have in order to position ourselves in a even a more effective manner to increase the value of those molecules.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
And well now go to Evan Calio Morgan Stanley.
Hey good morning Jeff.
Good morning Evan.
Yeah this is somewhat related to the cash flow question and discipline.
What drives you to forward the 4Q buyback guidance at 3 billion given the sequential commodity price drop or seasonality refining and that should do cash in 3Q and maybe in general what would commodity price do you need to slow the fly wheel or buyback or what the balance sheet just kind of underwrite that through any potential downturn? Evan I would fall back on what I indicated previously on our capital allocation approach.
Its a decision that we manage internally around whether our cash requirements in order to invest in the opportunities that we have in our portfolio.
Its making sure that we continue to return cash to our shareholders through the dividend.
And then we make a unique decision internally around how much additional cash are we to go ahead and distribute to our shareholders  stock buyback program.
At this moment its a quarterly-by-quarterly assessments in those kind of an up and down overtime.
Is that how its approached? Yeah Evan Id say its probably much more continual than that but generally speaking there is if you will a decisive point on each quarter to decide what were going to do in the next  near future.
And moving on well hear from Asit Sen Cowen and Company.
Thanks and good morning.
Good morning Asit.
So two unrelated questions first thanks for the color on U.S.
onshore liquids but wondering if you could quantify your production during the quarter if you could from U.S.
and conventional.
Yeah you bet Asit.
Let me just share with you the largest part of our unconventional U.S.
liquids growth is in the Permian Bakken and Woodford.
And in total those are producing in excess of $210 000 barrels a day now.
And as I said in my prepared comments it is it has really been a significant progress over the last several quarters.
Id give you a little more color to that by saying that about 40% of that is in the Bakken 35% in the Permian and the rest is in the Woodford.
Great progress I couldnt be more proud of the folks there at XTO and the success theyve had here in the recent past.
Thanks very helpful.
And second on LNG could you comment on how global LNG pricing adjust to lower oil prices in comparison.
There is a four to six month lag but I wonder if you could comment on that? Yeah I mean broadly speaking the specifics of our LNG commercial agreements are confidential but let me use Papua New Guinea as an example a majority of the Papua New Guinea volumes are contracted in excess of 95%.
They are linked to a crude price and as crude price varies so does that LNG.
Thank you well now hear from Blake Fernandez Howard Weil.
Good morning Jeff thanks for taking the question.
Over the past six months or so youve announced a couple of investments in the downstream in Europe which seems a little bit countered to what weve seen from peers.
Were basically trying to reduce their capital employed in the area.
And Im just curious if Exxon is maybe taking a different view on the macro longer-term.
Or if its a scenario where you feel you have superior assets where over time maybe just capacity rationalization occurs.
And youre last standing with an unattractive asset? Yeah.
Blake thanks for the question and the interest in that area.
Clearly we are stepping out and distinguishing ourselves but let me step back just a little bit and talk about the European portfolio and then the downstream investments.
I mean clearly Europe is disadvantaged by overcapacity.
And some of which is driven by the lower cost feedstock in the U.S.
and the Middle East.
This sector will continue to rationalize existing capacity.
ExxonMobils European assets though are advantage versus our peers due to the more efficient operations.
And the integration that we have with our chemicals and lubricants manufacturing businesses.
So youll see us continue to invest in the business cycle in order to enhance our advantage position.
Now specific to those investments they are always focused around key areas like lowering our raw material costs increasing our higher value product yields expanding logistics capability and flexibility.
And then our main stay of reducing the operating cost structure.
Ultimately to high grade the products to capture market demand.
So if I focus specifically by way of example on the investment in the Antwerp delayed coker thats around investing in conversion capacity to take lower product lower yield product such as the fuel oil and convert it to disciplined advantage where we have higher volume and more margins.
Thanks.
Ill take one more if I could you may not be able to answer this but you mentioned the discovery in the Kara Sea which University-1.
If Im not mistaken Ive read some press article suggesting that Rosneft may decide to pursue the additional drilling on their own due to the sanctions and what not.
Im just kind of curious how that would unfold with regard to your relationship there.
And participating in future interests? Right well Blake thanks for the interest.
Clearly this is an important area for the industry in total.
And we certainly appreciate the interest.
Let me first start off by just recognizing the success of the well I mean were extremely proud of what the organization has achieved in an extraordinarily remote arctic region both from a logistics and a drilling perspective.
The team successfully completed the well with the utmost concern for safety and the environment.
And that really does speak to the strength and capability of the organization.
As I said in my prepared comments I can confirm that we encountered hydrocarbons but this is a very large area.
This acreage is over 31 million acres.
Weve got one penetration in that so it is premature to make any assessment or really say anymore at this point.
We are currently evaluating results to assess the Woodford plants well move forward on.
I will remind you that ExxonMobil has a very longstanding and successful business in Russia built on an affective and mutual beneficial relationship with the Russian partners.
Moving on well hear from Jason Gammel Jefferies.
Thanks very much.
Two questions for me Jeff.
The first on the accelerated drilling onto North America I know that Exxon is a company that will invest throughout the pricing cycle but I was just wondering if the number of rigs that are being employed in this place is going to be affected by the change that weve seen in pricing conditions just over the last several weeks.
Essentially what level of onshore price would you need to see before you can perhaps start laying down rigs? And then the second question one of your primary competitors just this week successfully IPOed  MLP with pipeline assets.
And theres evidently a pretty big value gap between what the stock market is willing to pay for those assets through MLP and an integrated oil stock.
Have you considered any form of MLP type of transaction with your pipeline assets? Yeah Jason thanks for those questions.
Let me first start with the unconventional as I said really good progress I gave a lot of details about it very proud of what the XTO organization is achieving up there.
Let me say that these near-term price fluctuations are not going to have an impact on our operational activities.
We test all of our investments across a range of economic parameters including price.
And Ill just say at a high level that our current drilling programs and inventory are fairly robust in this price environment.
So were very confident with the drilling activity as I indicated we are picking up rigs so that we can continue to progress our resource development activities.
And it is a very significant part of our growth opportunity and importantly our improvement in overall profitability.
More specifically on the master limited partnership question.
I talked a little bit already about our asset management program that is a fundamental aspect of how we do our business.
And its around making sure that were making the right choices there that are maximizing value for the shareholder.
We have through the course of that process; we have really divested or monetized all of our non-strategic assets.
So weve been doing a lot of work youre hearing some folks do today.
The remaining assets that weve got in place are very strategic to the integrated model that we have between the upstream downstream or on chemical business.
The MLPs are generally used as a financing mechanism to raise cash and fund business growth as you know with our financial flexibility we have very low cost to capital.
While I will never say no I would tell you that just the cost benefit tradeoffs for MLPs running attractive for us given our low cost to capital.
Very helpful.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you Jason.
Your next question comes from Roger Read.
Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Roger.
Just maybe going along with that sort of capital allocation and other questions that have come on here.
So CapEx plus or minus 37 billion or maybe I should say minus 37 billion here going forward.
You just made the comment a lot of the non-strategic assets have impaired.
If we do find ourselves in a lets say $80 to $85 oil environment between the share repurchase program at around 3 million a quarter the CapEx at 37 billion.
And maybe not as many assets left to sell at least from a non-strategic or non-core standpoint.
How do you balance all of that what gives is it CapEx that gets pulled back is it the share repurchase or is the ? And I dont want you to walk away from this thinking that there wont be any other divestment opportunities because it is a continual process.
Think of it as an ongoing upgrade of our overall portfolio whereby we continue organic exploration identify higher up value assets we continue to high-grade our down streaming chemical facilities.
So its an ongoing process that will likely continue to yield periodically divestment opportunities  Okay thanks and taking another look at your lower 48 unconventional opportunities and ranking those in terms of returns or growth plus returns to some of your other opportunities how do they scale up or maybe as you just said what is your best return opportunity today and where they fit in relative to that? Yeah I would tell you Roger that they all are very strong.
Theres a lot of variability even within a given resource area depending on where you are in the trend.
And I would tell you that ExxonMobil has prime acreage in all three of the areas that I talked about as well as some others.
So we are very well positioned and as you saw with the Permian basin we continue to look for opportunities to high-grade the overall portfolio on those basins so very strong inventory that we continue to high-grade and look for opportunities for progressing the investment opportunities in each one of those fields.
So we would not expect any change in our operational plans thank you Roger.
Moving on well hear from Allen Good Morningstar Investment Research.
Good morning just another follow-up question on the lower 48 unconventional as you mentioned youve been pretty active in Permian acquisitions.
I just wonder whats Exxons thought as far as whats the right size Permian position that you eventually want to get to to get that to scale.
And is there a preference for Permian acquisitions to relative to Woodford and Bakken or is it just been a case of value? Yeah Allen its always a case of value for us.
I wouldnt say that we are excluding any opportunity in the US or internationally.
Now we have found a number of opportunities to high-grade the portfolio in the Permian recently but we continue to keep very well alert to other opportunities that may come up.
And maybe even with the current decrease in prices we may have additional opportunities that well find they are complementary to our business and can increase our overall underlying value.
And I would take that  Id extend that beyond the U.S.
weve leveraged the expertise within the U.S.
unconventionals to position ourselves strategically for other unconventional opportunities globally.
Great thanks.
And just one on the downstream Exxon obviously has a very large downstream global footprint can you give us any color on what youre seeing as far as the demand side given the slide weve seen in oil prices.
And a lot of concern out there is Im not saying on the supply side but weak demand.
I was just wondering if youve seen any changes in the demand patterns of late given the lower prices.
Yeah well I mean as I said in the presentation we did some margin improvement but generally demand has been fairly strong within the U.S.
particularly in our chemicals business.
But in Europe Asia Pacific demand has been down and thats really a function of building capacity faster than demand as well as economic weakness.
But youve got to step back from a chemicals perspective for instance were expecting demand to grow at 1.5% above GDP.
And were a long-term business where we invest for the long-term and its all fundamental to energy outlook and demand projections.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng Barclays.
Hey Jeff good morning.
Good morning Paul.
Well first just want to add my welcome to the Investor Relations.
Thank you Paul.
Several quick questions on the page 11 of your presentation the other is a negative $1.1 billion comparing to the second quarter.
In the second quarter theres about $1.6 billion of the other sales gain related to the Hong Kong power.
And your exploration expanse is lower so then maybe adding another 100 million 150 million in earning.
So thats about $300 million to $400 million of other benefits.
Can you help us with that in terms of what that benefit may be the nature? Yes so youre looking at Paul the sequential earnings reconciliation? Thats correct.
Yeah so as I said in the presentation that was down about $1.1 billion and I would at a high level say that its asset management is down about 1.3.
Its a net effect of the absence of Hong Kong power as well as other acquisition activities that occurred during that period as well as I think you appropriately pointed out that other operational items were positive by about $160 million due to lower OpEx primarily in exploration as well as some minor for ex-benefits.
So youre saying that there was a swing is 1.3 so that means we have about 300 million or so sales gained in this quarter? Yes thats correct.
Well now hear from Ian Reid BMO.
Hi Jeff.
Good morning Ian how are you? Yeah very good.
Can I ask you a quick question about Papua New Guinea? Now youve got the first part of the project or at least phase 1 fully on-stream what is your thinking about adding the third train utilizing the additional gas which a joint venture has discovered in the region.
And also potentially processing third party gas or building another train to process third party gas.
Can you just kind of outline Exxons thinking about that? Sure Ian thanks for bringing up Papua New Guinea because its another very successful accomplishment for the organization.
I would tell you that everything is on the table in terms of what we do there.
Obviously first and foremost is that in terms of our priorities is to make sure that we are very comfortable the operating structure as I said started up early.
We got up to peak production is operating very very well the project team and operations organization has done a remarkable job there.
Youre aware that theres some  we maintain an active exploration program in Papua New Guinea.
We have picked up some additional resource; there are some other exploration opportunities that were considering.
And I would tell you that the next step would be to consider  and has been under review the economic viability for incremental trends here at the LNG plant.
It was designed in order to easily tie in additional trends so were very well positioned.
And as you can appreciate the incremental cost expand the PNG facilities is going to be much much more competitive than other Greenfield site.
So in summary Id say that were very pleased with the resource the overall potential and performance of Papua New Guinea.
Weve got some additional resource out there with the successful Pnyang discovery.
And were looking for opportunities to add to it and that can come either through additional resource development or as you indicated processing third party gas.
Okay thanks.
And just one further thing on the Russian sanctions how is that affecting your Sakhalin developments and also the LNG project which youre progressing with ? Yeah very good.
I feel to mention that when we were talking  [indiscernible] loss of PSE volume as result of rising oil prices can you provide some sensitivity on earned up there and how much production you get back if oil stays around $85? Well Jason I dont have the specific numbers at the price that you stated but I would tell you that sequentially in our sequential earnings that there were some positive effects to associated with PSE volumes.
It was under 10 000 barrels per day second quarter to third quarter.
Got it ok thats all for me.
And well now hear from Ryan Todd Deutsche Bank.
A question you already touched on CapEx and CapEx outlook a few times during the call but if we take step back and look a number of your European peers theres been kind of a clear trend and may be for a variety of reasons clear message and strong efforts towards capital constraint deferral of certain projects and free cash flow going forward from that point of view? Its been a bit more muted here in the U.S.
may be how if theres been a shift in your approach to project economics and relative returns and profitability as you like your go forward portfolio and the potential of the constrain more CapEx or prices impacts there whatsoever? We always are our ends are set well in advance as I said earlier our investment full range of economic parameters including price so that we have the comfort that were going to end up regardless of the type of price fluctuations that we feel like the program is robust.
Or any great business model is that we invest into these business cycles and weve got the financial projects if we need some additional capital.
Specifically on Tanzania you guys have discovered enough lot of gas to date can you give us any thoughts in terms of timing in terms of your expectations and go forward plans there? Yeah.
So on Tanzania a very good progress between Statoil and ExxonMobil as I said certain gas discoveries now over 21 TCF in place.
There is a consortium that has come together they have evaluated potential sites for common onshore LNG facility and we have made plans on site location.
Studies are progressing to determine the development it really is in really early stages and its really too early to determine a specific startup date.
Overall design capacity or even the capital investment but fundamental for us environment is to ensure that an investment of this scale and complexity is to generate an acceptable return for our shareholders.
And our next question will come from Paul Sankey  Wolfe Research Good Morning just to confirm me to  on this CapEx question we keep coming back to is an interesting number again to be clear about peak of CapEx in 2013.
And then you said next years interesting variation in your spending for example even in the latest quarter we had downstream in chemicals.
And beyond that beyond the 37 net CapEx in the longer term future given that youve highlighted to the extent to which you reached to peak in 2013 as a function of recapitalizing the upstream? Right Paul so as I said we grew up $42.5 million in 2013 and again I want to make the point that the resource opportunities that we had before us and the maturity of those and the confidence that we had that we would generate very favorable returns for our shareholders likewise it is a conscious decision to bring our upstream spending down to a normal spend pattern.
And as we communicated in early this year in our Analyst meeting we were projecting not to pull down to just south of $37 billion over the 2015 to 2017 period.
And yes there is this larger increase in the downstream and chemical business and that is focused on like I talked upon Antwerp focused on making strategic investments that are going to better advantage our downstream facilities relative to industry such as the North America ethane cracker at Baytown.
Level of CapEx what do you mean by that? How do you define that normal level? Well if look at the resources going forward Paul its based on our judgment when those resources are going to be ready whether it be the definition of the resource the definition of the development concept the regulatory or when we believe they are ready to move forward and we have an optimal development thats really what I mean by normal looking at our portfolio as opposed to when we saw these really large projects that came to provision together that  And just coming back to the PSE question obviously if prices were to stay here you spoke about two Q3 obviously it is relatively minor oil price shift at the moment you are guiding to $4.1 million barrels a day next year.
I assume that youre continuing with the guidance like that in the Analyst meeting but the obvious expectation be that that number would come in higher as a result of lower oil prices even though I know theres a different coalition around economics but broadly speaking that would be what we should work towards right? I think Paul I would  in March at the Analyst meeting.
Again we look at the range over a period of time its going to drive what the prices do and we make our best judgment as to where were going to fit in that in order to give you that guidance.
So if you think about what we said back in Analyst meeting we said that we would grow from about $4 million barrels a day up to $4.3 million barrels a day.
1 million oil-equivalent barrels a day by 2017.
And doing so we are adding up the and Ill mind you that a large part of that 95% plus was liquids and liquids linked gas production.
So it will change our production mix by about 64% liquids and liquids linked to just south of 70% in 2017.
So in summary Id say our guidance on volumes is still consistent with what we shared with you in March.
Thank You Paul.
Moving on we will hear from Alastair Syme Citi.
Hi Jeff couple of very good questions can you maybe highlight little bit about how much youre spending on the U.S.
shale piece is that something youd be willing to  and secondly just picking up on the comment you made about Qatar [indiscernible].
Our next question comes from John Herrlin Societe Generale.
Yeah thank you.
Most of the things been asked Jeff but regarding the shale economic thresholds in North America with the Bakken it sounded like you have a different kind of completion its not plug and perf its somewhat different.
Can you elaborate a little bit more and also with that completion are you also doing similar thing in Argentina? Yeah good question John.
I would tell you that as I said in my comments the XTO expertise that we built up in the unconventionals is being leveraged globally.
And we are continuing to grow our capability there.
As I shared in my prepared comments the improvements that weve seen not only in reducing overall cost but improving the productivity of if you will the manufacturing process of drilling these wells.
But a key element of that has been the application of technology.
And as I said in my prepared comments one of the benefits that weve used in Bakken has been this completion technology which is proprietary ExxonMobil technology called the XFrac.
And that allows us to avoid putting a whole bunch of plugs in the well and makes it a much more efficient and safer operation for completion installation.
And to close on your question about Argentina Id broaden that and say that that all of these learnings and theyre conventional to apply elsewhere within our portfolio.
And once again its its just another leading performance in our capability and that positions us very well to compete for resources.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you John.
Well now hear from Guy Baber Simmons &amp; Company.
Thanks very much for squeezing me in here.
Two quick ones for me first question around exploration but generally speaking can you just remind me what percentage of the total capital budget this year is allocated to exploration appraisal activity.
And then optimally where would you like to see that percentage longer-term just to sustain the long-term opportunities that reserve maturation but also how comfortable you maybe in flexing that down at any point in the cycle for any given year.
So thats number one just thoughts on the exploration budget.
And then secondly just if you could quickly talk about the balance sheet but you mentioned your excess financial markets if need be and your net debt to total cap obviously low compared to most peers.
But actually high relative to where its been at the last 10 year period.
But could you just remind us of your target leverage ratios and framework also.
And just where youre comfortable in taking the leverage? Yeah.
Guy let me first with the second after your first question about whether we would flex down our exploration.
I would tell you that we are opportunity driven we got  in the well weve got a very robust inventory.
Its a  were very well positioned to compete as I said earlier its all around how do you upgrade the value of overall resource base.
So from an expert we have really got to be focused on the horizon around high grading our portfolio specific to our budget we dont break that type of information out in terms of risk.
Components within the exploration budget but Id like you to think about our exploration activity as a means to further high grade our overall portfolio.
On the second point on our leverage ratio there is no target.
Weve been fairly consistent over the last couple of years.
Weve maintained the triple A credit rating.
I want you all to think about it our focus is around value.
Its not always  or not a focus around market share or volume its around value how can we create greater value? And well use that balance sheet to achieve that objective when we think its appropriate.
Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov Raymond James.
Hey thanks very much.
Just one more for me on Russia if I may you touched on the policy sanctions related uncertainty on relation to the Archadeck.
Are there any other uppered or reduced because of the sanction rules? Yeah so you may recall a number of joint ventures throughout Russia we talked about the Kara Sea.
We also have a venture in the Black Sea and West Siberia and then lastly a number of ventures within the Russian arctic ship.
And if you think about the sanctions they deal with specifically deepwater unconventional resources and arctic activity.
So the joint ventures I just summarized for you are included within the scope of the sanctions.
So have all the activities in those JVs been suspended as a result? Well we have  we are fully complying with the sanctions and regulatory requirements.
And we do have one follow-up question from Paul Cheng Barclays.
Hey Jeff  we need to know your investment in Europe refining.
Do you have any plan to do a safe system? Second question I think in your comments you were saying that you have a spec in the quarter and also at the end of the third quarter from the inventory underneath or overneath.
Thank you.
Thank you Paul.
On your first question around investments I would just say broadly that we regularly evaluate our global portfolio where we have offered investment.
As Ive already discussed with areas targeting on things like expanding our feed logistics or reducing our cost structure.
We have a lot of  and generally speaking Paul as a matter of practice we just dont want to comment or speculate on any particular opportunities or investments maybe not be considering.
When theyre ready we will and weve made a decision.
Well go ahead and ensure that more broadly.
The second question was around over lift.
And Ill just if I can Ill refer back to our quarter-on-quarter upstream earnings reconciliation.
And if you remember there was a volume mix component about the positive $340 million.
And first and foremost there was a fairly sizeable component associated with project high margin project and program activity of over $500 million.
And as I said during my prepared comments it really highlights the progress that were making on our unit profitability in the higher value volumes.
Not for the sake of growing volumes but for the sake of capturing value.
There was an over lift component that was positive.
And then there was an offsetting decrease in a number of various such as entitlements decline downtime and some asset management.
That does conclude todays question and answer session.
Mr.
Woodbury at this time I would like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Well to conclude thank you all for your time and your interest this morning.
Certainly very good questions and I do look forward to further dialogue with you all in the near future thank you.
And that does conclude todays conference thank you all for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to this ExxonMobil Corporation Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Todays call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
Jeff Woodbury.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen good morning and welcome to ExxonMobils fourth quarter earnings call.
As you know the focus of this call is ExxonMobils financial and operating results for the fourth quarter and the full year of 2014.
I will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our Web site.
Before we go further Id like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Turning now to Slide 3 let me begin by summarizing the key headlines from our fourth quarter and full year performance.
ExxonMobil delivered earnings of $32.5 billion in 2014 and fourth quarter earnings of $6.6 billion.
These results highlight the value of ExxonMobils integrated business model which enables us to produce solid financial performance throughout the commodity price cycle.
Corporation generated cash flow from operations and asset sales of over $49 billion in 2014 and free cash flow of $18 billion an increase of over $7 billion from 2013.
We completed a record of eight major upstream projects during the year and achieved our full year plan to produce 4 million oil equivalent barrels per day.
Moving to Slide 4 we provide an overview of some of the external factors impacting our results global economic growth moderated in the fourth quarter expansion in the U.S.
continued but growth slowed relative to the third quarter Chinas economy decelerated while Europe and Japan showed continued signs of economic weakness.
As you know energy prices declined sharply in the fourth quarter and U.S.
refining margins decreased significantly while chemical specialty product margins improved on lower feed and energy costs.
Turning now to the fourth quarter financial results as shown on Slide 5 ExxonMobils fourth quarter earnings were $6.6 billion or $1.56 per share.
Corporation distributed $5.9 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and share purchase to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $3 billion were used to purchase shares.
CapEx was $10.5 billion in the fourth quarter whereas cash flow from operations and asset sales were 7.7 billion and at the end of the quarter cash totaled $4.7 billion and debt was $29.1 billion.
The next slide provides additional detail on fourth quarter sources and uses of funds.
Over the quarter cash decreased from $5 billion to $4.7 billion.
Earnings depreciation expense changes in working capital and other items in our ongoing asset management program yielded $7.7 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included net investments in the business of $9.1 billion and shareholder distributions of $5.9 billion debt in other financing increased cash by $7 billion.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $1 billion in the first quarter of 2015.
Moving now to Slide 7 for a review of our segmented results ExxonMobil's fourth quarter earnings of $6.6 billion were $1.8 billion lower than the year ago quarter.
Lower earnings in the upstream and downstream and higher corporate expenses were partly offset by higher chemical earnings.
Results were favorably impacted by approximately $1 billion of non-cash effects that included U.S.
deferred income tax items and the recognition of the 2012 award by the International Chamber of Commerce for expropriated Venezuela assets.
And the sequential quarter comparison shown on Slide 8 earnings decreased by $1.5 billion primarily as a result of lower upstream and downstream earnings.
Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remains at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.
Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results starting on Slide 9 upstream earnings in the fourth quarter were $5.5 billion down 1.3 billion from the fourth quarter of 2013.
Realizations decreased earnings by $2.4 billion as worldwide crude oil prices declined almost $32 per barrel.
Notably favorable sales mix effects increased earnings $400 million driven by a higher margin production growth from the U.S.
and major projects in Canada Angola and Papua New Guinea.
All other items increased earnings by a net $640 million including adjustments to deferred income tax balances and recognition of the gain from the Venezuela ICC award received in 2012.
The ICC award was recognized given the favorable fourth quarter ruling of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes.
Moving to Slide 10 excluding the impact of the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry oil equivalent production decreased by 0.7% compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
Liquids production was up 80 000 barrels per day driven by major new projects and work programs.
However natural gas production was down over 650 million cubic feet per day as reduced entitlement volumes lower weather-related demand primarily in Europe and field decline were probably offset by major projects in Papua New Guinea and Malaysia.
In short our volumes performance continues to demonstrate the progress being made to high-grade the portfolio mix with higher margin production.
Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on Slide 11 upstream earnings decreased $948 million versus the third quarter.
Realizations decreased earnings by $2.2 billion driven by sharply lower worldwide crude prices which declined over $27 per barrel.
Volume and mix effects improved earnings by $140 million reflecting higher margin volume growth.
All other items had a positive impact of $1.1 billion including the previously mentioned deferred tax items and Venezuela ICC award.
Upstream after-tax earnings per barrel for the fourth quarter were just over $15 excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes and is down due to lower crude prices.
Moving to Slide 12 volumes were up $223 000 oil equivalent barrels per day or 5.8% sequentially.
Liquids production increased 117 000 barrels per day from higher entitlement volumes improved facility uptime and work programs.
Natural gas production was also up 639 million cubic feet per day driven by a higher seasonal demand primarily in Europe.
Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results starting on Slide 13 downstream earnings for the quarter were $497 million down 419 million from a year ago earnings increased $40 million due to stronger marketing and non-U.S.
refining margins mostly offset by weaker U.S.
refining margins.
Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $20 million and all other items decreased earnings by $480 million primarily from higher maintenance activities and unfavorable tax effects.
Turning to Slide 14 sequentially fourth quarter downstream earnings decreased $527 million lower U.S.
refining margins partly offset by stronger marketing and non-U.S.
refining margins decreased earnings by $360 million.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by a further $20 million and all other items reduced earnings by $150 million reflecting higher maintenance activities partly offset by foreign exchange favorable foreign exchange and other effects.
Moving now to the chemical financial and operating results starting on Slide 15 fourth quarter chemical earnings were $1.2 billion up 317 million versus the prior year quarter primarily driven by higher non-U.S.
product margins on lower feed costs.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $60 million and all other items primarily unfavorable foreign exchange effects reduced earnings by $110 million.
Moving to Slide 16 sequentially chemical earnings were essentially flat as stronger specialty product margins were offset by volume and mix effects and increased maintenance activities.
Now Id like to provide a summary of our full year results shown on Slide 17.
2014 earnings were $32.5 billion or $7.60 per share.
Corporation distributed $23.6 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases to reduce share outstanding.
Of that total $12 billion were used to purchase shares.
CapEx in 2014 was $38.5 billion which is down $4 billion from 2013 and is also down $1.3 billion from our 2014 guidance.
Cash flow from operations and asset sales remain strong at over $49 billion which included $4 billion from asset sales.
Moving now to the full year cash flow statement as shown on Slide 18 during the year cash decreased from $4.9 billion to $4.7 billion.
Earnings depreciation expense changes in working capital and other items and our ongoing assets management program yielded $49.2 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included net investments in the business of $31.2 billion and shareholder distributions of $23.6 billion.
Debt and other financing increased cash by $5.4 billion to fund our commitments including working capital requirements.
Moving on to Slide 19 and a review of our full year segmented results.
2014 earnings were essentially flat with 2013 results.
Higher upstream and chemical earnings were offset by lower downstream earnings and higher corporate expenses.
Turing now to the full year comparison of upstream results starting on Slide 20 upstream earnings of $27.5 billion were up $707 million from 2013.
Realizations reduced earnings by $2 billion as crude oil prices declined almost $11 per barrel.
Importantly favorable sales mix effects increased earnings by over $500 million reflecting investments and higher margin assets and our continued focus on profitability.
Volume contributions from major project startups in U.S.
onshore liquid plays partly offset by lower weather-related downtime and unfavorable entitlement impacts.
All other items primarily asset sales and deferred tax effects increased earnings by $2.2 billion.
Upstream after tax earnings per barrel for the year was $19.47 up a $1.44 from 2013 despite declining crude prices.
Moving to Slide 21 as indicated volumes ended the year on plan at 4 million oil-equivalent barrels per day excluding impact of the Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry volumes were down by 1.7% or 71 000 oil-equivalent barrels per day from 2013 reflecting lower gas demand in Europe and asset sales.
Of note liquids production was up 44 000 barrels per day or 2%.
Volume growth from work programs and major projects in Canada Angola and Papua New Guinea were partly offset by field decline and divestment impacts.
Our natural gas production was down 691 million cubic feet per day driven by lower weather-related demand entitlement and divestment impacts and field decline partly offset by major project volumes in Papua New Guinea and Malaysia.
The full year comparison for downstream is shown on Slide 22.
2014 earnings were over $3 billion down 404 million from 2013.
Lower refining margins reduced earnings by $230 million volume and mix effects mainly driven by refinery optimization activities increased earnings by $480 million.
All other items primarily unfavorable foreign exchange and tax impacts decreased earnings by $650 million.
On Slide 23 we show the full year comparison for chemical results.
2014 earnings of $4.3 billion increased $487 million from last year.
Higher commodity product margins partly offset by lower specialty margins increased earnings by $520 million.
Positive volume and mix effects on higher demand were offset by all other items driven by increased maintenance activities.
Moving now to an update on our cash flow growth shown on Slide 24 as mentioned annual cash flow from operations and asset sales was $49.2 billion while net investments in the business totaled $31.2 billion.
Resulting free cash flow of 18 billion increased 7.3 billion compared to last year and supported total shareholder distributions of $23.6 billion.
Debt and other financing along with a reduction in our cash balance provided additional funds to meet our commitments.
Moving next to the fourth quarter business highlights beginning on Slide 25.
Over the past year ExxonMobil completed a record eight major projects demonstrating a world-class project execution capabilities.
We added more than 250 000 barrels per day of net capacity across a broad range of resource types and geographies.
The higher margin production from these projects underscores our focus on delivering profitable growth.
We completed several projects over the last quarter.
In Russia at offshore Sakhalin the first well at Arkutun-Dagi field reached target depth in December with first production in early January.
The early gross production from the field is expected to reach 90 000 barrels and will bring total gross production at Sakhalin-1 to more than 200 000 barrels per day.
Arkutun-Dagi is the last of three fields to be developed by the Sakhalin project the other two fields Chayvo and Odoptu began production in 2005 and 2010 respectively.
In Canada initial steam generation at the Cold Lake Nabiye development started late December followed by injection into the reservoir in early January.
After steam soaking the first bitumen production is expected later this quarter.
Production will increase over the balance of the year with gross rates expected to reach 40 000 barrels per day.
Nabiye is an expansion of existing Cold Lake field which started up in 1985 and produced almost 150 000 barrels per day in 2014.
In the greater Hadrian area of the Gulf of Mexico the Lucius project was essentially completed in December with first production in January.
Gross production from Lucius is expected to be around 80 000 barrels of oil and 150 million cubic feet of natural gas per day once the wells have fully ramped up.
The Hadrian South subsea production system of flow lines were installed and connected to the Lucius far host in late 2014 and will be brought online once Lucius production is stabilized.
Hadrian South is ExxonMobils deepest subsea tieback at more than 7 600 feet.
The early gross production from Hadrian South is expected to reach approximately 300 million cubic feet of gas from two wells.
In offshore Abu Dhabi Upper Zakum is one of the world's largest oil fields with a resource estimate of 50 billion barrels.
Together with our joint venture partners we're progressing the field redevelopment to raise gross production capacity to 750 000 barrels per day.
The joint venture is utilizing extended reach drilling from four new artificial islands and deploying proprietary ExxonMobil technology.
Civil works are now essentially complete on all islands drilling is ongoing from two of the islands and first production started in November of last year.
Facility additions and drilling will continue over the next three years to reach the targeted production plateau.
And finally the Kearl expansion project in Canada continues to track ahead of schedule.
Site construction activities are now largely complete and commissioning activities are ramping up.
The project incorporates the learnings from the initial development phase and will double Kearl's production capacity to 220 000 barrels per day for the next several decades.
Turning now to Slide 26 for an update on our broad exploration program drilling operations are ongoing at the Pelican South wildcat well in the Neptune block offshore Romania.
Following this well additional exploration targets in the area will be considered.
In Argentina we successfully drilled and tested two ExxonMobil operated horizontal wells in the Vaca Muerta.
The La Invernada X-3 well flowed at an average rate of over 600 oil equivalent barrels per day and is currently on a long-term test.
It is among the best producing wells in the Vaca Muerta.
Our active program continues with additional drilling and testing in 2015.
Recently we have also added high potential acreage to our diverse exploration portfolio.
ExxonMobil expanded its presence in the Canadian North Atlantic by 1.6 million gross acres capturing three blocks offshore Newfoundland and Labrador.
These blocks are in a proven oil-equivalent hydrocarbon basin with recent industry discoveries.
This new opportunity will build on our 17 years of success with Hibernia Terra Nova and the ongoing development at Hebron.
ExxonMobil also recently added significant acreage in West Africa building upon a strong position that stretches for Iberia to Angola.
In Cte d'Ivoire we added 2.3 million gross acres by successfully completing negotiations of production sharing contracts on two Deepwater Frontier blocks.
These captures marked a return of ExxonMobil to Cte d'Ivoire where we produced the country's first oil 30 years ago.
In Equatorial Guinea we've completed PSC negotiations to acquire an interest in another offshore block encompassing 160 000 gross acres.
The PSC is subject to final government ratification.
This additional acreage builds on almost 20 years of ExxonMobil operations in Equatorial Guinea.
And in the UK North Sea we were awarded a 50% working interest and two licenses.
They are part of a proven hydrocarbon province in our producing fields.
ExxonMobil and Shell bid jointly for these licenses which cover more than 250 000 gross acres.
So in conclusion our full year results underscore the value of our integrated business model.
In 2014 ExxonMobil earned $32.5 billion and we achieved our full year plan to produce 4 million oil-equivalent barrels per day.
We maintained our disciplined capital allocation approach by selectively investing in attractive opportunities thereby improving our production mix.
Unit profitability increased from just over $18 per barrel in 2013 to about $19.50 per barrel in 2014 despite lower prices last year.
Corporation generated free-cash flow of $18 billion an increase of over $7 billion when compared to 2013 and we maintained strong shareholder distributions totaling $23.6 billion.
In summary we delivered on our commitments and we remain resilient through the cycle.
Finally Id like to mention two upcoming events.
First in mid-February we'll be releasing our 2014 reserve replacement data.
And second as many of you may know our upcoming Analyst Meeting will take place at the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday March 4th with a live webcast beginning at 9:00 AM Eastern Time.
We will provide an update to our business strategies and our investment plans during the meeting.
Presentation will be led by ExxonMobil's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rex Tillerson.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I would now be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Doug Terreson with Evercore ISI.
Jeff because the Company is so diverse and functioning geographically your commentary on global economic activity has always been pretty helpful and based on your remarks at the beginning it seems like economic trends in the OECD and China weakened materially during the second half and specifically in the fourth quarter so my question is whether or not you have additional color or updates in those areas and also any commentary and/or color on economic activity trends that you are seeing in the non-OECD as well? I would say broadly speaking I'll pull back on our overall assessment of what demand will be doing across the globe particularly in Asia Pacific.
We are forecasting that demand and of course as I've said previously that demand assessment that we do on an annual basis really underpins our business strategies and our investment plans.
So as we look forward we see oil demand growing at about 0.8% per year that's underpinned by transportation and chemical needs.
In the gas sector we see gas demand growing by about 1.5%-1.6% per year and that's primarily underpinned by power generation and industrial demands.
Now overall demand growth is largely underpinned by the non-OECD growth so when you think about our business the scope of our business and how we lay out our business strategies and our investment plans they really are focused on the long-term expectation around energy demand.
And then also specific to the Company how much of the $1 billion non-cash effect was related to the arbitration ruling with Venezuela and also was this entire amount accounted for in the upstream? So Doug on the nearly $1 billion about 70% of that was associated with the adjustments to our deferred tax accounting and then about 30% of that is associated with the Venezuela award and that was in the non-U.S.
component of the upstream.
Well take our next question from Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
So just to start off on the CapEx side last quarter Exxon indicated that it did not plan to cut its CapEx in 2015 versus its initial target.
So I know youve given a more broad update at the Analyst Day but just generally speaking has your view changed at all or are you still deciding at this stage and obviously you pulled a buyback lever there so just kind of wondering more broadly how youre thinking about that? Sure Phil and I can certainly appreciate a lot of interest given this climate that we are in right now.
Id tell you that right now we have no CapEx guidance but as you may recall we had signaled a further reduction in CapEx to under $37 billion in 2015 as we normally do well provide an update on our -- both our business strategy and our investment plans next month as I indicated.
As you are aware we have been reducing our capital spend since 2013 due to several reasons including the completion of several major projects our ongoing intense focus on capital efficiency and of course our disciplined investment planning given the economic parameters.
I guess Phil Id like to emphasize a couple of points recognizing that I am asking you to hold off until next month.
First regardless of where we are in our business cycle this organization has a very strong culture of driving down our cost structure whether it be self help in our operating cost or capital efficiency in our project execution.
We expect to lead the cost curve in capturing savings especially in downturns like were experiencing today.
Second we challenge all of our investments to ensure that we are creating long-term shareholder value through the cycle and remember we are price takers we dont assume price growth into the future but we really focus on those things that we can control like cost liability and of course our project execution.
So Phil well keep a close eye on our cash flow maintain our investment discipline and of course our commitment to the growing dividend and where necessary well leverage our balance sheet to meet our commitments as appropriate.
And then a question on the buyback I mean obviously it could have been any number between 0 billion and 3 billion.
But just wondering kind of why you specifically picked what you did? Are you trying to kind of target a certain leverage level assuming the strip or just how youre generally thinking about it and more specifically just kind of wondering what would make you change it up or down from here again? Sure Phil.
Obviously its a number of factors our share of buybacks have always been the flexible part of our capital allocation program.
The buyback pace has been determined each quarter considering the Companys current financial position our CapEx requirements our dividend requirements as well as our longer term business outlook and well continue to manage our business in a prudent manner throughout the cycle as we have said many times and that buyback decision will be really an outcome of our cash flow management.
So Id just again emphasize that we remain committed to our investment program and of course paying our growing dividend.
Well go next to Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Jeff its actually Jason Smith on for Doug.
Good morning.
Just coming back to the one-time items in U.S.
refining your earnings looked a little bit weaker than your peers that have reported so far you called out some year-over-year tax and maintenance impacts but it seems like that was not part of your 1 billion could you maybe give some color around those and maybe quantify the absolute impact for the U.S.
and I am just curious if there is anything else going on in U.S.
refining beyond that? Sure.
Let me just give you a broad summary on the U.S.
refining.
Fourth quarter our downstream earnings were impacted by lower realized refining margins and a negative crude lag impact as well as hard maintenance activities at some of our largest refineries in the Gulf Coast.
While earnings were marginally negative over the quarter our full year results were solid at just over $1.5 billion despite the pressure on refining margins and a heavier maintenance year than normal.
Overall our U.S.
refining footprint is just very well positioned to benefit from advantage feed stocks and from the investments that we have made that focus across a number of areas to further advance our profitability in those assets such as feedstock flexibility logistics capability increasing the higher value product yields and reducing our fundamental cost structure and most important capturing the most value from our integrated business model.
And maybe just on PSC impacts youve gave some color on the sequential improvement I think it was 78 000 barrels a day positive and with oil down significantly from 4Q can you maybe just give any color around the incremental impact that that price is down? Yes you can appreciate that each of our contracts are unique and associated with the commercial arrangement.
Itd be really tough to give you a rule of thumb because we do have in that category price impacts youve got spend impacts we have temporary volume impacts that are associated with the fiscal agreements.
Broadly speaking youre correct to assume that lower crude prices will provide an uplift as you saw in the sequential comparison but that impact is largely complicated by the multiple contracts cost recovery and other effects that we have in our operations.
Well go next to Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
My first question maybe CapEx from another angle net debt is up $7 billion in the quarter I know you reduced the buyback guidance yet I mean how willing are you to flex the balance sheet through a down cycle maybe discuss limitations on that side which would either take that lower to the buyback lower reduced CapEx? And maybe just lastly on CapEx I presume you already have a 2015 CapEx number and its more of a guidance question or just function how does that work? Thanks.
Evan so Id get you to think about it from a its fundamental in how manage our cash in the consideration and balance of all the variables that we need to address the inflows our commitment to fund investment plans as well as our dividend -- I dont have any specific guidance for you and debt capacity or plans as you know our operating cash flows remain the primary source of funding as evidenced by the reductions that we have taken in CapEx and as you have heard the reduction planned in the first quarter on share buybacks.
Well continue to be disciplined in our investment approach throughout the cycle but we wont forego any attractive opportunities.
We have a significant debt capacity but we will maintain our financial flexibility and we will assess the cash and our funding options under arrange at outcomes and take a balanced approach to meet those obligations as I indicated.
So in short Ill come back to this message throughout our discussion that we remain committed to investment program that delivers on attractive return but also to pay a reliable and growing dividend.
And maybe second is part of the smaller issue just a question on the quarter is there an asset sale loss and I missed that which would affect the lower tax rate for the quarter if you can talk me through that please? So the lower tax rate that youre focusing on really have three components one would be the gains on deferred tax items that I mentioned already.
The second would be changes to the portfolio mix given the income streams that we get from our U.S.
and non-U.S.
And then third would be ongoing asset management activities.
But I will tell you that Evan that our guidance of our effective tax rate is still consistent or about the mid 40%.
Well take our next question from Paul Sankey will Wolfe Research.
Just could you update us on whats going on in Russia from your point of view if anything and further to that which I know is a JV that was very important to your longer term result and production plan can you talk about how you would define the attractive opportunities that youve mentioned I assume youre referring to M&amp;A and whether youd be more attractive to oil I would assume as opposed to gas reserves more attractive maybe in the new world order to U.S.
reserves and maybe within the U.S.
if you could set us in a toll about what you would consider and how you would define an attractive opportunity? That would be great thanks.
Let me starting at Russia broadly speaking I mean there is really nothing new to report on that as you all know that sanctions are still in place and we will continue to fully comply.
As we said previously that it does not apply to Sakhalin-1 which Ill just take this opportunity to say that weve had extraordinary success really thanks to a very talented organization and a highly effected joint venture.
We are very pleased with the successful start-up of our Kutendagi but in terms of the rest of the business we just need to wait to see how the sanctions play out.
I will remind you that ExxonMobil does have a very long standing and successful business in Russia that Id say is built on an effectively mutually beneficial relationship with our partners.
On the second item around attractive opportunities in M&amp;A.
Broadly speaking and we've talked previously about our asset management program and you would really think about it on for the full scope of how we have high-grade our portfolios through asset management and that maybe obviously have a ongoing component of divestments of non-strategic or lower value assets but also bringing in through acquisitions some new opportunities.
And those maybe bolt on acquisitions than may be new entries that are synergistic to our business.
But Paul we stay very alert to value propositions we're watchful where we can capture opportunities to high-grade our portfolio whether it be oil whether it be gas onshore offshore.
But I will be clear that the real focus here is creating value and we will pursue only those acquisitions that we think that have ultimate strategic value and are accretive to our longer-term returns.
Yes I guess within that you are primarily interested in long-term reserves right? I mean obviously you don't want to buy someone's decline curve so it becomes a question of 2P and 3P I assume? Yes.
So Paul if we focus on -- again if we can get synergistic benefits like some of the bolts ons that we have brought into XTO over the last couple of years have been very beneficial.
But they do have a very significant component of development potential where we can apply our resource capability expertise and how to develop that our proprietary technology and our strong balance sheet.
But yes we don't want something that's already on decline that doesn't have potential we're really looking for something that really can upgrade our overall portfolio and add future potential.
We will go next to Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Just on I am trying to get a sense of again this CapEx question again.
How much of your say upstream spends is kind of locked in for 2015 and how much wiggle room do you have in 2016 I appreciate this maybe something for the Analyst Day but just trying to get a sense of the levers that you could pull if your revenues are much lower this year? Yes sure.
I would tell you that as we look at our overall investment program we've been -- we focus on every asset that we have got regardless of whether it's as you have indicated a longer-term investment which is quite frankly a core component of our investment program as well as the shorter cycle investments and study work nothing is really sacred in there.
But as I indicated we have very strong culture of driving those cost structures down we have been very actively engaged with our service providers and we fully expect to capture savings in across the spectrum of our business from rig rates to labor and services as well as commodities.
But I would be clear Ed that we're probably in the very early innings of this effort.
There is a lot of strong reaction to the current price business climate and we think that with that it presents a number of really good opportunities to capture incremental savings lower the overall cost structure of the business as well as position us with some other opportunities as we go forward.
The thing that I would really point out that distinguishes us is that as we've said many times is that we can invest through the business cycle and it presents some opportunities that we will able to lower that cost structure and prove our overall longer-term returns given the financial capability that we have.
And then a quick quarter question.
Asia natural gas production and Australasia as well down ticked in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter I appreciate there is lots of different demand drivers across a big business but is there anything specific you would call out for that step down? I would say that a component of that had to do with demand in Australia but remember that there was a very healthy increase associated with Papua New Guinea over the year sequentially you don't see as much of an increase there was a slight increase in Papua New Guinea though.
But in Asia there was well say a much larger business but that was also down generally? Yes it was generally at some facility performance downtime.
The first question in terms of Venezuela I know you mentioned the arbitration ruling can you just kind of confirm that that finalizes this process or is there any additional legs to kind of move forward on there? Yes.
Blake on Venezuela there is actually two separate arbitration proceedings one was International Chamber of Commerce that I mentioned that we recognized the award on.
The second was the World Bank's International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes.
What we recognized was the first one I will note that both of those decisions did confirm that the Venezuela government failed to provide fair compensation for the assets that were expropriated.
We will recognize the second ruling at the time that we receive payment and when all legal proceedings have concluded.
I hope this doesn't get too in the weeds but the second question is on the impact of the strong U.S.
dollar.
I am just curious if you could talk around how that's impacting your business with the rapid moves we've seen and may be what's then embedded in the quarter as a result of FX? Yes in terms of ForEx as you are probably very aware that it has offset impacts across our business in the upstream it primarily ends up being a margin benefit due to local denominated OpEx whereas in the chemical and downstream it tends to have a negative impact due to our dollar denominated crude payables.
So in quarter-on-quarter it was a slight hurt to earnings of under $50 million although sequentially it actually was a positive of over $200 million.
We will go next to Brad Heffern with RBC Capital Markets.
I was wondering if you could just go through Exxon's current thoughts on the global LNG market you have several potential projects that havent FIDd yet you think may be the global market needs to take a pause at this point? Well Brad again as we talked a little earlier our investment plans are really founded on our outlook for supply and demand.
We still as I said projected gas demand to grow about 1.6% per year to now in 2014 and that really provides the business case for our LNG projects.
Broadly speaking our existing LNG facilities are a key component of our portfolio very important part of our margin generation.
As we see demand grow in the future we expect supply will grow in line with that demand.
Obviously these are capital-intensive projects so we'll need to ensure there is a sufficient price structure in place to underpin those investments.
We have gotten a number of projects across the globe that are in place.
They are positioned to go ahead and compete for that demand profile.
And just thinking about gas in a different way certainly in the U.S.
you've been somewhat minimizing gas drilling over the past couple of years and the market certainly has its own challenges right now but has the downturn in oil caused you to think any different way about what's specifically your drilling for in the U.S.? Not really I would tell you that it's still based on our demand projections we've got significant drillable gas potential within the U.S.
and as you know this generally a short cycle type investment.
We can get on capacity pretty quick.
So we are very well positioned to do that should the demand grow and the prices support it.
I would also say that from a chemical perspective our chemical business is very well positioned to take advantage of the lower commodity prices.
Particularly in U.S.
our manufacturing sites are highly flexible and can run across a wide range of feedstocks from ethane all the way to gas oil.
We'll take our next question from Jason Gammel with Jefferies.
Thank you.
I actually got a follow-on to both the questions that were just asked just in terms of how you are managing the lower 48 business in the pricing downturn Jeff are you keeping a relatively steady rig count or have you being laying down rigs the way that the rest of the industry has as well.
Yes well that's a good question Jason.
Id cast it from a -- if you will a historical perspective that we've taken a very measured pace in how we've developed our lower 48 unconventional resources.
You did see over 2014 a number of operators really ramp-up their rig counts significantly we did grow our rig count and in fact we are up in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter but at a very measured pace to make sure that we didn't outrun our headlights.
We wanted to makes sure that we had a good understanding of the resource performance and importantly we wanted to make sure that we are fully integrating all the earnings back into our advanced program.
So we've been very measured how we've moved forward going forward we'll consider all the factors including the business condition infrastructure capability as well as our demand projections.
But going forward we've got I just want to reinforce that we do have a very robust inventory of opportunities even in this price environment.
And my second question is on the LNG business.
Can you remind us how much just as a percentage of your overall LNG output is committed under long term contracts and how much is actually put into the spot market.
And then on the spot market are you seeing significant demand weakness that potentially would even lead to reducing sold utilization? So on the LNG business I'd say that a majority of our LNG or current LNG is under long term contracts very few that have spot sales.
Of course we did take some spot sales with Papua New Guinea given the early startup.
And also note that in our LNG contracts we have potential to divert cargos as well which gives a lot of flexibility.
Well take our next question from Asit Sen with Cowen and Company.
Two unrelated questions.
First on the issue of supply chain cost and your prior success with that.
I was wondering if you could quantify annual third partly cause globally for the organization.
Some of your peers have highlighted multibillion dollar opportunities for this reduction.
And also any high level thoughts on recently announced oil service industry consolidation? Has anything changed on the ground for Exxon? Broadly speaking -- I dont have specific numbers.
As I said previously we are as a mainstay in how we manage our business.
Were constantly working on that cost structure.
We are very active with our service providers.
As I indicated were probably in the early innings of that.
Weve seen -- we are seeing decreases in rig rates and labor and service costs as well as starting to see some commodity changes as well.
But watch that space.
More is to come in that area.
On the second question remind me? I said was there And on the oil service industry consolidation any thoughts on that or things have changed? No there is really nothing I have to say on that.
We access all the service providers and competition is good and we have a very strict standard on what we expect from in terms of quality performance and service costs.
And just my follow up is on U.S.
onshore.
Last quarter you had highlighted that Bakken was Exxons most active and conventional play with I think 13 rigs running.
Could you update us on activity levels currently and perhaps provide update on Woodford and Permian as well? Yes so across the three main liquid plays that weve got were producing in excess of 220 000 barrels a day gross and were running currently about 44 rigs.
Id say were active in all three of them.
That rig count has if you compare back to what I said last quarter has increased but very-very encouraging list of opportunities and were making great success in integrating our learnings and driving down the cost curve.
Well take our next question from Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Two quick questions.
I dont know whether you have any number you can share.
In your prior calls when were looking at the contract is there a number you can share in terms of the send maybe for the contract is over two years still remaining? In other words I'm trying to understand that what is the percent of your supply cost that if we do see a substantial deflation in the industry cost structure it's going to see a rapidly quick pass flow into you? Paul I dont think I have any guidance on that.
Okay.
And secondly that -- youre saying that in the downstream you have a crude lag purchase.
In fact that is negative? Thats correct.
Can you quantify how big is that? Well broadly speaking from a crude lag -- I want to be clear Paul.
When we see a decrease in prices like were seeing right now we have a negative crude lag effect.
In the fourth quarter absolute it was just over $600 million.
And likewise in an environment where price is increasing youd have the opposite effect.
Do you think the -- nice [ph] oil economy so why we have such a big negative crude effect? And also that I thought the price finalization were made to your Saudi contract in a declining oil price environment.
So itd actually be a favorable positive impact.
So I get that.
I'm just totally wrong on that then? So the crude lag effect is primarily associated with pipeline supply contracts standard terms to how the pricing is done.
Okay.
Can you speak also -- this 600 primarily in U.S.
then I presume? Thats correct.
And that -- is there any other tax impact in the quarter other than say the $700 million U.S.
deferred tax in the upstream? Paul is your question relating to our overall performance or specific to a segment? Yes you can say looking at all the other segment that we know that you have $700 million of the U.S.
tax benefit in the upstream.
Is there any other tax negative impact or positive impact in the other segment? That is an essence the most of it.
Well take our next question from Allen Good with Morningstar.
Maybe if I could tackle the cost improvement question from a different angle.
Is there any area that Exxon has identified based off trends of the past two years where you think you may have more opportunity to cut cost relative to other areas.
And I guess I'm thinking more along the lines of project type and in specific regions relative to the other ones? I think broadly speaking -- we always feel like weve got opportunity to become cost efficient.
From a capital prospective its around upfront planning for execution to make sure that were most effective in utilization of services as well as commodities.
In terms of our day to day operations our fuel costs are big a component.
You have to manage that appropriately.
In terms of energy efficiency of your facilities.
As I commented on the capital program Id say that nothing is really sacred.
We continue to identify additional opportunities to make our cost structure more efficient.
And then on asset sales I would assume that you guys are more opportunistic on that level and I think you probably recall -- you said the approach of the -- if it's worth more to us or more to the buyer we'll sell.
And could you give me around your asset release interest that you may have you may have seen six months ago declined into today and should we expect maybe the asset sale slowdown over the next year to 18 months? Weve got such diverse portfolio of assets I really couldnt characterize for you whether time -- the interest is increased or decreased.
Assets are so unique in their own right and recognize that we're -- these are years of planning to assess when the right time is to go ahead and monetize that asset in a different means.
Weve been very successful in capturing incremental value from our assets that we dont believe longer has a strategic fit for business.
So Id leave at that.
Well take our next from Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank Maybe one follow-up question on U.S.
liquids production.
It was quite strong in the quarter -- strong sequentially and strong year-on-year.
Can you talk a little bit about what assets are primarily driving that growth? Is this kind of your big three onshore plays that you are talking about or is it a little bit of everything? So this is a good opportunity to really talk more about it.
In terms of our fourth quarter versus the third quarter performance were up quite significantly on our volumes primarily driven by our projects.
Quarter-on-quarter projects are up about 130 000 oil equivalents barrels per day.
Those volumes are coming from Angola primarily the Coak [ph] project in Canada associated with the Kearl project in Papua New Guinea associated with our LNG project.
We had an increase in project volume associated with Malaysia to Loakim [ph] and Damar as well as we had a very nice build in our U.S.
work program due to our active drilling program in the three main liquid plays.
The other thing I'd point out is that we've also made great progress.
The team has done an outstanding job in reducing our downtime in our facilities.
2014 was a very successful year and that brings very high value volume to the bottom line.
And then maybe one more LNG.
I guess a couple of quotes on LNG which is -- is there any risk to the pricing in terms of your exiting LNG contracts in the current environment from periodic reopeners in the contracts? And would a longer duration of this moderate environment change the pace or effort at all around U.S.
LNG exports? No again these are very large capital intensive projects.
The investment is underpinned by our long term gas demand projection and that's really the business case.
As I've said earlier our existing LNG projects are a very significant part of our margin generation.
We will take our next question from Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
Just maybe follow-up on a couple of things that have been hit here already.
But as you look at the major projects that you outlined in the earlier presentation just curious what the sort of incremental '15 impact is? A lot of these projects started at the end of '14 and roll into '15.
If you could give us an idea of maybe the volumes impact there? Yes so for our 2014 program just to recap we added about 250 000 oil equivalent barrels per day.
As we look forward for 2015 we will need to provide you an update at the March Analyst Meeting.
Well I guess I was just wondering for the ones that were highlighted in the presentation or we just -- it's the March event we'll wait for that I guess is? Yes for 2015 -- I shared with you how those investments in the presentation will ramp up to their peak production.
As I said Arkutun-Dagi ramping up to 90 000 barrels a day Nabiye ramping up to 40 000 barrels a day Hadrian South ramping up 3 00 million cubic feet per day.
Beyond that we'll be more specific in next month's Analyst Presentation to have a discussion about it.
Okay.
And then earlier in some of the Q&amp;A you had mentioned specific to dealing with the cost structure and it sounded like to me both internally and your third parties.
Any comparisons contracts you can do with previous downturns in terms of contracts that you have fixed here? An another way of asking the question any change in the flexibility Exxon has to address the cost structure today versus several years ago or in prior downturns we've had? No I wouldn't highlight anything that's changed.
As I've said a couple of times it's a very intense focus on capital efficiency and lowering our cost structure in our business across the areas that I talked about previously.
So no particulars on rig contracts or anything like that that that are more onerous than prior times? No.
And I don't want to get into the specifics on our commercial arrangements but we've got a very large sizable operation and that positions us well to go ahead and work with our providers to put in place a very effective cost structure.
Jeff just got a question on your pre-sanctioned pre-FID projects.
A couple of your partners have been talking about pushing these out due to carrying some cost pressures and waiting for lower service cost et cetera.
Specifically thinking about projects such as Tangese and some of the Austrilasian and Canadian R&amp;D projects is that something which you're also kind of factoring into with your longer-term production and your CapEx outlook in terms of pushing these kind of more marginal projects down the road a little bit? Well it'd be a consideration.
Broadly speaking we've got a very large and diverse inventory of opportunities.
We are very careful as we move these things forward that one not only have they reached technical maturity but that we have tested the economic viability across a full range of economic parameters including commodity price.
So while we don't forecast a -- or expect a price growth in order to make these investments go forward we want to make sure that we go into this eyes wide open and that we have a good handle on how robust these investments are.
So when we do have these commodities -- volatilities like we're seeing right now we're comfortable about the investment plans that we have in place.
Quite frankly our investment program is really driven by a long-term projection and we just don't overreact to volatility in the market.
But we're mindful.
We're mindful about implications on the business climate implications on our cash flow management and then the overall supply demand projection.
So all of those variables are considered in how we set up our investment plans but given that it's based on a long-term projection of demand and they have been tested across a range of economic parameters there won't be a whole lot of change.
I'm not suggesting that there will be no change but there won't be a whole lot of change to our investment plans.
Okay all right that's understood.
Can I just ask a quick question on chemicals? Your numbers there seem to be holding up pretty well.
I'm just wondering what you are thinking about chemical demand in particular outside of the U.S going forward because you're going to be seeing very much lower in [indiscernible] prices now.
So what do you feel about the kind of pricing and demand side of that business? Very well positioned.
It's a great business.
We've got the chemical facilities positioned throughout in North America.
We're benefiting from the lower feed costs.
We've got advantaged assets there in the Europe and Asia Pacific our steam crackers really benefit from the lower price environment we're in right now.
Particularly our newest cracker in Singapore which can process an unprecedented range of feedstocks ranging from crude oil including crude oil which is the -- really an industry first.
Yes I am just wondering about how the industry dynamic you're seeing out there in terms of demand and pricing -- I know you're well positioned but what are you seeing in terms of Asian demand European demand.
Yes Ian our global demand is expected -- based on our assessment it's expected to grow above GDP driven by Asia.
We'll go next to Alastair Syme with Citi.
Can you just come back to the deferred tax benefits and just explain what's going on? A comment please? Yes so we periodically will review our deferred tax accounts to make sure that we've got the right reserves in place and sometimes that results in an adjustments which you're seeing this quarter.
It's not related to commodity prices in anyway? No it's just a prudent review of our deferred tax accounts.
Okay.
And my second question -- some people have eluded to that -- this is the lag effect on pricing.
If could just discuss on LNG what the typical lag effect is and how -- when do you think we'll see bottom prices given where oil prices are today? Well there is a crude lag effect on our LNG contracts.
We're going to discuss the specifics of those.
So you will see some impacts going forward.
It really does vary by contract.
Okay but it's sometime the first and second quarter will be reasonable even? Well it depends on what prices do.
We'll take our next question from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
First on the balance sheet is it still the case that you are targeting maintaining AAA credit rating? And if so how much debt do you think you can take on and still keep the AAA? Yes so as I said earlier Paul we don't have any specific guidance on debt capacity or our plans.
We will asses our cash and funding options around a range of outcomes and we'll take a balanced approach to meet our obligations.
But as I indicated we have significant debt capacity but importantly we'll maintain our financial flexibility.
Okay.
In relation to your top three U.S.
liquids play if you said that the rig count has actually increased from three months ago can you name any geographic areas either North America or otherwise where the rig count has dropped in the last three months? Well I'd just say broadly speaking at the level that we'll share with you all our overall rig count globally is running just under 100 rigs.
About 60% of that is in the U.S.
and we continue to assess the value proposition of maintaining a rig activity.
I'll leave it at that there.
We'll go next to Guy Baber with Simmons &amp; Company.
You highlighted the improvement to your underlying upstream margins through 2014 despite a lower year-on-year commodity pricing environment which you all have been very focused on for some time and I think was a very important accomplishment for you guys.
Setting aside the commodity -- as we look to 2015 I was just hoping you could comment on just bigger picture expectations for the trend in underlying upstream margins and what do you think perhaps the biggest drivers and biggest opportunities may be.
And I'm thinking evolution of maybe project mix and ramp ups costs or focused portfolio moves just wondering if there is anything specific you could share there that we should be focusing on? And then I had a quick follow up.
Good question Guy.
I'd say I appreciate the recognition of the progress that we've made over 2014.
And I'd say that that's a result of several factors.
One is this intense focus on capital efficiency and lowering our cost structure too has been the higher margin production that we've been adding to the portfolio due to our major project activity and our U.S.
onshore drilling activity predominantly in the three main liquid plays that we've talked.
Both have been a significant uptick to our overall unit profitability.
Thats very helpful.
And then my follow up was with 2014 now on the books I was just wondering if there is any update you could share on base portfolio decline how that performed versus expectations? And then big picture did Exxon expect an increase in global decline rates just for the industry given some base spending thats perhaps being cut? And then is that an important component of your oil price kind of fundamental outlook? So our overall base decline in 2014 was about 3%.
We have continued to offset that with our work program activity as well as the major project adds.
Obviously in our unconventional you see a higher decline rate earlier on and then it flattens out and that will have an impact and we offset that with a very active work program.
Well go next to Paul Cheung with Barclays.
Just two very quick follow up.
Do you have underlip or overlip in the quarter for your upstream production versus the sales versus the production? So the overlipped and underlipped we have a -- my recollection was that we did have an underlip in the fourth quarter relative to the third quarter.
How about that versus the actual production? Well thats what it is.
Underlip versus the production.
Do you have -- can you quantify what is that number? Sequentially it was about 90 000 barrels.
Okay and Paul I'd just highlight though while we see that variability on a quarter to quarter basis Ill just note that it was essentially flat year-on-year.
And that do you have -- and I think that -- very little asset sales.
Just wondering is there any asset sales gain in the quarter? For the quarter on the asset sales it was very small Paul.
It had some small upstream assets in the fourth quarter and very small downstream as well.
And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
To conclude Id like to thank everybody for your time and your questions this morning.
As you know our business model is designed to be successful in a business climate known for commodity price volatility and thats really why it always comes back to the fundamentals.
Prudent cash management operational reliability and efficiency there's intense cost control.
I talked about it a couple of times and obviously excellence in project execution.
And we really do look forward to sharing more with you in March with an update on our business strategies and our investment plans.
So until then everybody take care and well see you in March.
Thank you.
That does conclude todays conference.
We appreciate your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to this ExxonMobil Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
Jeff Woodbury.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's first quarter earnings call.
My comments this morning will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our Web site.
So before we go further I'd like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Turning now to Slide 3 let me begin by summarizing the key headlines for first quarter performance.
ExxonMobil delivered earnings of $4.9 billion.
These solid financial results demonstrate the value of our integrated business in a lower commodity price environment.
Regardless of our current market conditions we remain focused on business fundamentals and competitive advantages that create long-term shareholder value.
Upstream production volumes were more than 2% higher compared to year ago quarter benefiting from new developments in Papua New Guinea Canada Angola Indonesia and U.S.
onshore liquids plays.
ExxonMobil's downstream and chemical businesses had strong performance across all regions driven by lower feedstock costs and improved demand coupled with our competitive product and asset mix.
Moving to Slide 4 we provide an overview of some of the external factors affecting our results global economic growth continue to moderate in the first quarter of 2015.
U.S.
growth slowed relative to the fourth quarter where as China's economy decelerated further and growth in Europe and Japan remain weak.
However there are recent indications that growth maybe improving particularly in Europe.
As you know energy prices continued to decline in the quarter leading the lower cost to supply in the downstream and stronger global refinery margins on hard demand.
Meanwhile chemical gas cracking margins softened on lower product realizations but remain advantage relative to liquids cracking.
Turning now to the financial results as shown on Slide 5.
As indicated ExxonMobil's first quarter earnings were $4.9 billion which represents $1.17 per share.
The corporation distributed $3.9 billion to shareholders in the quarter to dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding and of that total $1 billion was used to purchase shares.
CapEx was $7.7 billion which is in line with our plan.
Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $8.5 billion and at the end of the quarter cash totaled $5.2 billion and debt was $32.8 billion.
The next slide provides additional detail on sources and uses of funds.
Over the quarter cash increased from $4.7 to $5.2 billion.
Earnings adjust per depreciation expense changes in working capital and other items in our ongoing asset management program yielded $8.5 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Users included net investments in the business of $6.8 billion and shareholder distributions of $3.9 billion debt and other financing increased cash by $2.7 billion.
Yesterday the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.73 per share a 5.8% increase from the last quarter.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to remain at $1 billion in the second quarter of 2015.
Moving on to Slide 7 for a review of our segmented results ExxonMobil's first quarter earnings of $4.9 billion were $4.2 billion lower than the year ago quarter.
Lower upstream earnings were partially offset by stronger downstream results.
In the sequential quarter comparison shown on Slide 8 earnings decreased by $1.6 billion as lower upstream and chemical earnings were partly offset by stronger downstream results.
Guidance on corporate and financing expenses remain at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.
Turning now to upstream financial and operating results starting on Slide 9.
Upstream earnings in the first quarter were $2.9 billion down $4.9 billion from the first quarter of 2014.
As you can see slightly lower realizations decreased earnings by $5.5 billion where crude declined by almost $54 per barrel and gas was down more than $2.60 per thousand cubic feet.
Favorable volume and mix effects increased earnings $340 million driven by growth from new developments.
All other items added another $250 million primarily due to favorable tax effects.
Moving now to Slide 10 oil equivalent production increased 97 000 barrels per day or 2.3% compared to the first quarter of last year.
Liquids production increased to 129 000 barrels per day or 6% benefitting from new projects work programs and favorable entitlement impacts partly offset by maintenance activities.
Natural gas production decreased to 188 million cubic feet per day or 1.6%.
Field decline and divestment impacts were partly offset by volume adds for Papua New Guinea and LNG in higher entitlements.
Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on Slide 11 upstream earnings were $2.6 billion lower than the fourth quarter.
Realizations decreased earnings by $2.4 billion as crude declined almost $22 per barrel and gas decreased more than a $1.20 per thousand cubic feet.
Favorable volume and mix effects improved earnings by $260 million driven by a higher LNG facility utilization entitlement impacts and growth from new developments.
All other items reduced earnings by $500 million reflecting lower benefits from tax items in absence of the Venezuela ICC award partly offset by lower operating costs.
Now moving to Slide 12 sequentially volumes were up 194 000 oil equivalent barrels per day or 4.8%.
Liquids production increased 95 000 barrels per day on new project growth and entitlement effects partly offset by fuel decline.
Natural gas production was up $594 million cubic feet per day driven by stronger seasonal demand in Europe and higher LNG facility utilization partly offset by fuel decline.
Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results starting on Slide 13.
Downstream earnings for the quarter were $1.7 billion an increase of $854 million compared to the first quarter of 2014.
Higher refining and marketing margins increased earnings by $1 billion positive volume and mix effects added another $70 million and all other items decreased earnings by $260 million including higher maintenance activities and unfavorable foreign exchange effects.
Now turning to Slide 14 sequentially first quarter downstream earnings were up $1.2 billion stronger global refining margins increased earnings by $900 million while unfavorable volume and mix effects reduced earnings by $70 million.
All other items added $340 million primarily from lower expenses and maintenance activities.
Moving now to the chemical financial operating results starting on Slide15.
First quarter chemical earnings were $982 million down $65 million versus the prior year quarter.
Higher margins on lower feed stock and energy costs increased earnings by $240 million.
Favorable volume and mix effects added another $30 million and all other items reduced earnings by $340 million mainly due to unfavorable foreign exchange effects.
Moving now to Slide 16 sequentially chemical earnings decreased by $245 million on lower commodity product margins.
Positive volume and mix effects were more than offset by other impacts.
Moving next to the first quarter business highlights beginning on Slide 17.
In our upstream business we continue to pursue attractive investments to commercialize our unparalleled resource base.
As discussed during our recent analyst meeting 2015 will be yet another active year for new developments including seven major project start ups which will add another 300 000 barrels of oil per day to working interest capacity.
We reached several milestones over the last few months starting in Canada first pitchman production was achieved from the Cold Lake Nabiye expansion which was completed on schedule and on budget.
Nabiye produced 12 000 barrels per day in March with volumes expected to increase to a peak of more than 40 000 barrels per day by year end.
Over it's expected 30 year life span Nabiye will develop 280 million barrels of recoverable reserves.
In the Gulf of Mexico we initiated production from the Hadrian South subsea development in late March.
And I highlight that one of the Hadrian wells recently tested at 200 million cubic feet of gas per day representing one of the highest production rates on record in the Gulf of Mexico.
Daily gross production from Hadrian South is expected to reach approximately 300 million cubic feet of gas and 3 000 barrels of liquids from two wells.
In Angola block 15 we successfully started up Kizomba Satellites Phase 2 project notably ahead of schedule and below budget.
This capital efficient project is a subsea development tied back to the existing Kisomba B and Mondo FPSOs and leverages available always for processing storage and off loading.
Project development were 190 million barrels from three fields and gross production is expected to reach 70 000 barrels of oil per day helping to boost total block 15 production to 350 000 barrels per day.
In Asia the Banyu Europe development is more than 96% complete in commissioning activities are well underway.
The project's crude transport system which includes on shore and off shore pipelines connected to a floating storage and off loading vessel has been installed and first lifting in April.
To implementation of early production concepts Banyu Europe is now producing 75 000 barrels of oil per day growth.
Early strong well performance enables continued use of existing early production facilities along with the ramp up of the central processing plant.
We expect to reach peak field production of more than 200 000 barrels per day by year-end.
The Kearl expansion projects in Canada continues to progress ahead of schedule.
All major construction activities are now complete and are focus has shifted to commissioning and pre-start up activities.
Facilities start up is now expected by mid year.
So with respect to our exploration program we continue to pursue a diverse set of opportunities.
In Romania additional drilling is ongoing in the deep water Neptune block and data collected from these wells are being integrated into development planning for the area.
Drilling operations in the Kurdistan region of Iraq are continuing and we drilled and tested the Pirmam well and are evaluating these results additional drilling is planned in the next several months.
And then offshore Guyana we are drilling the Liza wildcat which is the country's first deepwater well.
Lastly in the Gulf of Mexico we were the apparent high bidder on 11 new exploration blocks in lease sale 235 further strengthening our acreage position.
The plan to utilize our advance seismic imaging capability to enhance opportunity evaluation on these blocks.
Turning now to Slide 18 and an update on our downstream investments which further strengthen our advantage portfolio.
Here again during the quarter we achieved several milestones.
We completed the lube basestock facility expansions at our refineries in Singapore and in Baytown Texas building on ExxonMobil's leading technology and our worldwide manufacturing footprint.
These investments will help supply high performance lube basestocks to meet global demand growth.
In Canada commissioning is underway at the Edmonton Rail Terminal a 50-50 joint venture in Imperial Oil and Kinder Morgan.
The terminal will have a capacity of 210 000 barrels per day and will provide logistics flexibility to support efficient cost effective market access for our grown Canadian oils sands production.
This facility will also enable us to deliver additional advantage crude to our refinery system.
Ramp up of loading activities is expected over the next few months.
Finally we also continue to extend our operating cost advantage by improving energy efficiency of our facilities.
We have recently funded and started construction of a new 84 megawatt cogeneration plant at our Singapore refinery which will enable to shutdown of less efficient power generation facilities and reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
Upon start up the unit will add to our total 5.5 gigawatts of gross cogeneration capacity around the world.
And this is another example of ExxonMobil's commitment to optimize manufacturing operations improve energy efficiency and to reduce both environmental impacts and operating costs.
So in conclusion ExxonMobil's results underscore our continued focus on business fundamentals and our competitive advantages regardless of market conditions.
In the first quarter the corporation earned $4.9 billion demonstrating the value of our integrated businesses in a lower commodity price environment.
In the upstream we increased production from new developments while in the downstream in chemical segments delivered strong results across all regions.
Resulting cash flow from operations and asset sales were $8.5 billion generating positive free cash flow which highlights our disciplined capital allocation approach.
Corporation distributed $3.9 billion to shareholders and we remain dedicated to creating shareholder value through the cycle.
Now that concludes my prepared remarks and I would now be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Woodbury.
[Operator Instructions].
We will go to Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I will try two if I may.
The first one is on the I wonder about expression the upstream capture rate specifically I'm looking at the very strong international gas prices this quarter which seem to hold up a lot better relative to the oil benchmarks and I guess the mix significant of there are lot of moving parts obviously but the mix also saw you as gas production decline.
So I'm wondering if you can just help those two specific issues on whats going on with the margin and whether you expect that strength to continue.
And I've got a follow-up please.
Doug we generally don't provide forward guidance on the commodity prices.
In the first quarter our total gas realizations were about $6.11 and as you know thats a combination of our flowing gas as well as our LNG sales and those LNG contracts have mixed fiscal terms that will in many cases are benchmark to liquid prices obviously some type of lag affect associated with the market conditions.
So the strong European gases or international gas driver is really more of a lag effect how should we think about it? Well I think it from a LNG perspective if you remember from our prior discussions it is a very significant part of our portfolio and we've been adding significant liquids linked volumes over the years and certainly is a factor for how our realization will change overtime.
I will maybe try and follow-up one offline to get into details.
But my follow-up is maybe a little aspirational in terms of whether you will answer or not but at our conference in November you -- and I guess multiple times since you guys have described Exxon as positioned for this type of environment as it relates to M&amp;A.
Obviously we've seen one very large transaction already.
I am just curious if you could kind of qualify how you see the market in light of that comment and specifically for the Mozambique LNG is on your radar given that you've held an advisory there with the government over in recent years and I'll leave it at that.
As we've discussed previously think about it more broadly as asset management which is a key component of our ongoing business and we regularly assess our portfolio for higher value opportunities throughout the cycle.
And as you have seen in our financial results that includes an ongoing program of marketing assets where we believe they have greater value to others but likewise we keep very alert to opportunities on the horizon per acquisitions and that maybe bolt-on acquisitions as I said in the past that provide natural synergies to existing operations that we can capture incremental value from or larger acquisitions that fundamentally will provide strategic value for us in the long-term as you know we're not going to signal specifics as to what our intentions are but we keep very much alert to maybe opportunities for additional shareholder value.
I'll remind you that given that financial strength that we have -- we can invest through our cycle including in resource development opportunities investments in our manufacturing business as well as potential acquisition targets.
Our next question comes from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
On the quarter itself it looks like production was little higher than what we were expecting some of that was the PSEs but I think some of that was the underlying projects here.
And as I think about Angola Gulf of Mexico starting up you've got some ramp towards the backend of the year as well.
So I'm just curious as we think about the balance for the year could there be some upside to the base case production guidance or are we not thinking about of the turnarounds.
Anything you can do to provide some color on shape of production over the course of the year would be very helpful.
Yes so just from a production standpoint I'd tell you that our guidance that we provided in the analyst meeting last month remains the same about 4.1 million barrels per day.
We started the year very strongly as you highlighted we added significant volumes with a quarter-over-quarter or sequentially associate with the new projects that we've brought on which as you appropriately pointed out or continue to ramp up.
As I said in my prepared comments we've got seven new major projects starting up throughout the year and this is part of our significant investment program that we had implemented several years ago that's where our CapEx peak up several years ago as we wanted to progress these mature assets to capture long-term value and we're seeing the benefits of it today.
Important in all that Neil is not only new projects but our continued focus on the base making sure that we've stronger liability and we're continue to integrate our learnings into productivity improvements.
And then if you could comment on two kind a top of minder news topical subjects here.
The first would be any comments around Exxon Torrance and how we should be thinking about the ESP and timing there? And the second as relates to Russia which I know you've spend lot of time and how we should be thinking about the impact assumptions on longer term growth from those operations? Sure Neil.
On Torrance just to benefit of the group the Torrance refinery in February experienced an incident which resulted in the damage to the electrostatic precipitator and I'll say up front that we certainly do regret the incident and -- obviously going to be very diligent and understanding what the issues were what earnings we can take from it and how do we incorporate that into our global business? But this precipitator is a mission control device that removes fine particles from exhaust gas.
There are several investigations underway both the state and federal level.
Neil at this time we really can't estimate when the investigations will be completed and when the site may return to full operations.
As I indicated we have our own investigation that's in progress.
I'll say that we are diligently working to ensure a continued supply to our customers some of the units at the refinery are operational and we're producing both gasoline and distillates but we continue to evaluate in parallel with the investigations continue to evaluate options to reinstate our capacity there.
With respect to Russia broadly speaking there is really nothing new to report at this point as you know the sanctions remain in place and we will continue to fully comply -- I don't want to speculate when those sanctions will conclude but I'll remind you that they do not include or soften one operation which recently we're very pleased with the successful start of the third field our Arkutun-Dagi.
And also say that we have had a longstanding and successful business in Russia that's really built on our effective and I think mutually beneficial rate relationship with our Russian partner.
I guess the other point I'd leave you with is that we have a very diversified portfolio with Russia just being part of that and it provides great opportunities for us to continue to grow shareholder value over the years.
We will go next to Guy Baber with Simmons &amp; Company.
I was hoping you could discuss Kearl performance a bit his quarter.
It looks like some significant improvement relative to where it ran last year and if you get of actually approach max rate there for the quarter.
So could you talk about what you're seeing there and then could you also address confidence levels in a quick sustainable ramp up for the Kearl expansion.
I mean what that timeline looks like and some of the benefits of applying learning from some of the struggles with ramping up Kearl 1.
I appreciate the question.
As we've said in the past Kearl is an advantage long life asset one that has significant future potential as you look at how we further optimize the base.
As you highlight we have continued to improve on our reliability towards our operating targets and were fairly consistently producing at the 110 000 barrels a day growth.
We are a bit short of that in the first quarter given some plant maintenance that we took but nonetheless it's important to say that were achieving higher rates we've implemented some facility enhancement opportunities and we expect to see better reliability going forward.
As I said in my prepared comments the expansion is progressing ahead of schedule when that expansion comes on we will get further economies of scale with the full operation.
And as I have said previously were fully integrating the learnings from the initial development into the expansion real-time such that we will expect to see better ramp up on the expansion versus the initial development.
I would also highlight a couple of other things first that were making additional investments to maximize logistics flexibility and as I mentioned in my prepared comments the Edmonton Rail Terminal is going to provide additional flexibility.
And that takes to my second point that it really is fully integrated with our manufacturing business and were capturing integration value throughout if you will the full value chain from upstream downstream in our chemicals business.
Also I was hoping to get a general comment on what you all are seeing on the capital spending front when it comes to securing cost reductions and managing the CapEx according to the internal plan.
It looks like it's tracking well to start the year from advantage point and more specifically the upstream non-U.S.
spending was the lowest this quarter it's been since 2009 I believe.
So could you just talk about that a little bit and is that just reflective of major project phasing or is there been perhaps some significant cuts to the international CapEx and areas that are little bit less visible perhaps to the base or elsewhere that you can talk about? So let me take your first question in the broadest concept and as we talked previously regardless of where were in the business cycle the organization stays very focused on driving down that cost structure whether it be in operating cost or a focus on capital efficiency in our major projects.
Across our spend were actively engaged with the various service providers and were making some really good progress in capturing those savings from raw materials to services to our rig rates to our just fundamentally our construction costs.
I will highlight just make a point that we have a very effective global procurement organization that is focused on capturing the lowest lifecycle cost and I think it really does advantage us from managing that from a global perspective.
I think it's also worth noting that our efforts go well beyond just trying to reduce cost from our service providers as we do think such as continuing to integrate our learning curve benefits into our designs and execution plans I've shared with you in my response to prior question that real-time we've been able to integrate our learnings in the Kearl initial development into the expansion project.
We continue to enhance our set of opportunities including through commercial terms as well optimizing our development plans and we continue to leverage what I'd say as the collective ingenuity between our service providers and our own people in identifying and pursuing more cost effective solutions.
And I'll note that given our financial capability were able to accelerate equipment and commodity purchases in the softer market which I think provides a real cost advantage to our project portfolio.
Today since the price decline I would say that the drilling and related services have been most responsive to the current market and we've captured about an incremental 20% reduction in our well cost from the lower 48 to unconventional place in terms of our spend level.
I would tell you that there is no new guidance.
We've signaled $34 billion target for 2015 we are making good progress and capturing the savings as I said that was incorporated into that spend level.
But this organization tends to over perform and I expect that we'll see further savings beyond what we had envisioned.
Our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
So over the macro maybe another aspirational question.
Excellent touches more barrels than any U.S.
producer any refiner for that matter.
Any color on demand trends you are seeing or is there broadly any change or shift in the longer commodity down cycle view that was spoused at the spring Analyst Day? Evan let me see if -- I just give you some thoughts on a broader picture.
Currently we'll range in anywhere from the 1.5 to 2 million barrels a day over supply.
General feeling is that as you get into the second half we'll see more conversions towards a balance supply demand.
But as we all know there was a significant inventory build in 2014 due to the oversupply and that is continued year-to-date.
And that storage will need -- that storage overhang will need to be or top overtime.
While we may converge in the second half of the year I'd tell you that there is still a lot unknowns and one of them being is how the unconventional production levels in the U.S will trend over time despite the fact that weve seen significant reductions in rig counts.
My second question if I could on PNG as Total finalizes development plan for its proposed second facility I think it's this quarter.
Is there a potential for Exxon to recover more costs or improve your overall PNG LNG economics with a bigger integration of the two projects or infrastructure? Just broadly speaking and it's for a reason PNG Evan because it really does spotlight the successful organization we have for our project execution in commercializing our resources.
What a great success story with location that had limited infrastructure.
The project was a significant feet for the organization in terms of being delivered on time and on budget ramped up very quickly it's been held at design rates and we're just very pleased with the outcome.
As you think beyond that ExxonMobil and its partners continue to assess additional resource opportunities.
As you reflect on whether you can pull together enough resource in which to underpin a subsequent train thats part of what's being considered amongst the joint venture.
I would tell you that will be the most cost effective option compared to another Greenfield development.
Of course we are very well positioned there and we are open to options to try to reduce the overall cost structure for in general resource development was in Papua New Guinea.
Given the economics superior economics you had on the Greenfield facility I presume a Brownfield expansion would be relatively high kind of within the rankings at your relative potentially upstream projects.
Yes most definitely.
We'll go next to Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
I think you pretty adequately address Guy's question on the capital cost trend.
But I was hoping you may elaborate a little bit more towards the operating cost side.
Many of your peers have enacted hiring freezes and headcount reduction et cetera.
And while I know we're not get a specific absolute dollar fig from you.
I was just wondering if you could talk maybe about some trends we could expect to see on the operating cost side from just capital trends.
Sure Blake I would tell you that comments what I made earlier were really reflective of both our operating costs and our capital costs.
The point I would emphasize for you is that really regardless of whether we're in the high price cycle or in a lower price cycle that we're in right now.
The organization has remained focused on the fundamentals.
And you've heard us say before that we're price takers.
And we really focus on those things that we control.
And those things that we control are things such as cost our reliability our productivity and it's how we structure the organization in the most efficient way.
I'd tell you that we are very well positioned we never lose sight of those fundamentals but we're also very well poised that when we get into a down cycle like this that we can capture additional savings and as I alluded to previously that given our financial capability we're also able to invest during the cycle and capture a lower cost structure on resources that we had plan to commercialize in the future.
So I think very well positioned we've got a very capable organization that keeps their eye on the fundamentals through the cycle and I think we're as I've said in the past we got to lead that cost curve.
The second question is for you Jeff.
The recent decision to increase the dividend obviously an interesting time to enact that obviously demonstrates confidence.
But noticing in the debt balance has increased about $11 billion from year ago levels.
I'm just curious if you could talk a little bit about how you're thinking about shareholder returns and using the balance sheet to continue levering up dependent on how long as down cycle would remain? I think it's good question Blake.
When you think about from a perspective of our capital occasion nothing has changed and we have maintained a very disciplined capital allocation approach throughout history in the highs and the lows with the focus on a long-term horizon.
We remain committed to our shareholders to invest in attractive business opportunities that are accretive to financial performance and to continue paying a reliable and grown dividend.
Across that business cycle I'd say that we manage the cash by as we've said before returning the access to our shareholders to share repurchases or borrowing the fund our investments.
But I think what you've seen with the increase in the dividend -- we're continuing the stock purchases underscore our commitment to shareholder distributions.
And I think it also demonstrates the confidence that we have in our integrated business model.
Our next question comes from Asit Sen with Cowen and Company.
So two quick questions.
First on LNG utilization I think in your prepared remarks mentioned utilization improving a little bit could you elaborate is it primarily related to PNG ramp up or is there anything else going on? So LNG utilization is broadly defined by several operational commercial factors.
I mean including maintenance reliability of our facilities and then market and commercial considerations.
And then shifting gears to the Permian Jeff last year Exxon added about 65 000 net acres in the core Wolfcamp.
How do you see opportunities evolving in this current macro-environment and on that could you update us on activity and volume relative to last quarter please on the Shell plays? So broadly speaking as I said earlier when we're talking about M&amp;A that we keep alert to where we got opportunities to build the portfolio with a creative assets so those opportunities come along -- we'll go ahead and consider them.
We're making great progress as you heard in our analyst meeting in terms of cost efficiency improvements productivity improvements not only from our drilling completions but also initial well rates.
So we really good progress we get great opportunities in the Permian and in the Bakken.
Just broadly speaking in the three key plays that liquid plays that we've in unconventional we're running just south of 40 rigs right now that's been trending downward in part commensurate with the efficiency and productivity improvements that we've been able to capture.
And do you see -- how do you see this evolving in the balance of the year trending down through the year end? We have been trending downward like I said because we've been able to maintain real-time capture of additional benefits.
So I wouldn't translate that into a linear relationship with activity levels.
We'll go next to Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Obviously just moving to Holland Groningen's been in the news again.
I'm just trying to understand what sort of decline did you assume that the Groningen field was going to have say over the next to 2017 in your planning numbers.
And how do you assess the risk that it might actually be lower and then I have a follow up.
Ed when you referred to decline I think you're referring to the production constraints that have been post.
And obviously you laid out a sort of corporate production objective for the firm Groningen's a part of that.
So was just trying to get a sense of what was already in the numbers -- so if it does get worse we can sort of quickly estimate the impact.
So first let me start with the impacts in our operating performance here both quarter-over-quarter as well sequential actually Netherlands was up due to higher demand but that was offset by some constraints.
I'll be clear upfront Ed that we did incorporate the advertise restrictions into the volumes projections that we shared with you last month.
So if they get worse then that would be a negative delta? It really is a function of what happens due to changes in demand throughout the year but certainly there is more extreme restrictions that will have an impact.
And then a broader question which is more demand related obviously Exxon has refining chemicals upstream businesses around the world.
You've started to see some demand estimates from the main agencies to be revised upwards but apart from the sort of chink of light that you saw in Europe your opening comments were little bit down based on the global economy.
So just trying to gauge I guess whether you think that the recent increases in some of the demand estimates are real or not and if not what might be the reasons things like tertiary rebuilding? So from a downstream perspective we did see margin improvements but due to several different reasons if you think about in Europe there was some capacity that was brought off line within both Europe and Asia as well as due to lower crude prices as well as some planned and unplanned maintenance that was taking capacity off the system.
And then lastly there was some fundamental demand improvement in a number of products like gas distillate fuel oil.
We saw similar benefits in the U.S.
as well.
Going into the future I would be bit reluctant to extrapolate that beyond this quarter.
The earnings performance what about demands or both? You are talking about? Global demand for products.
Global demand.
Let me start with the chemicals business.
Our projection on global demand for the chemicals business is thats going to continue to grow greater than the GDP about 1.5%.
Refining demand will I think is function of what happens in the economies.
Our next question comes from Jason Gammel with Jefferies.
I just wanted to ask specifically about the international upstream earnings most of your peers have quantified the effect of the change in the UK tax laws within their releases and I appreciate that you have addressed the variance that has occurred in the other section but I was hoping to get the absolute amount from you.
So let me give you a little bit more color on just the tax rate.
As you seen in our supplemental information we had effective tax rate of little over 33% and thats about a 12% drop quarter-on-quarter.
And as you would appreciate the effective tax rate is an outcome of our business results across the geographies in which we operate within now most of that drop was really due to the portfolio mix of income across our business segments and our geographies about 3% of that was associated with one-time tax items primarily the UK tax rate change which amounted to about $200 million positive impact on earnings.
Another question thats completely separate topic just in the current oil price environment haven't seen a lot of deflation yet.
Are you expecting to make any FIDs this year? And if you could address Hadria North specifically? So Jason I would encourage you go look at our recent financial operating review if you look at that you will see that we have a list of projects that we anticipate that will start up post 2017 and that will give you a sense for the next tranche of development opportunities that are currently in play.
And many of these are in development planning stages or even some in pre-FID.
And that will give you a sense for whats on the horizon.
We don't broadcast planned FIDs in the future but we do give you a pretty detailed list of whats out there that we are working on.
Maybe if I could just put it another way have you seen enough cost deflation in the deepwater yet to maybe accelerate your investment potential in that area or have you seen very little in terms of cost deflation? Frankly I will tell you Jason that we are never really satisfied with the cost structure and we will always continue to work on it but as you can appreciate there are lot of factors and as I indicated earlier we have seen a where I consider early innings of reductions in services like rig rates we expect that we would be able to do a lot more.
And as I alluded to previously that also includes an expectation within our organization that will be able to further optimize these development plans to maximize shareholder returns.
But I'd tell you that we got a very very large diverse resource base to work on it allows us to be very selective in what we decided to pursue.
And when we decide when we get to an FID stage it's been tested across a range of economic considerations since that was confident it's going to be accretive to overall financial performance.
Phil Gresh from JP Morgan has our next question.
One question on the quarter you talked about the benefit from lower tax rates I know you'd proceeds from assets sales as well.
So just wondering if there any one-time benefits from assets sale gains? As you say in our materials that we sent out there was about just under $500 million cash flow benefited associated with assets sales.
That translates to about a 50% reduction in the number if you unwind the remaining un-depreciated investment that we have on our books.
And those proceeds are really result of sales really across tour upstream and downstream businesses.
And then you've talked about a fair number of investment you're making Europe to high grade your refining capacity to this lift.
I guess maybe just give us an update or remind me when thats supposed to be coming online.
And then on the U.S.
side what opportunities might there be to debottleneck or add new capacity here over the next few years if you think that thats a decent return project.
Phil I guess you're referring to our Antwerp coker? Yes exactly.
So really good progress on that investment opportunity I'd tell you that it's progressing towards 2017 start up.
And then on the U.S.
do you see any opportunities there to debottleneck capacity or add new capacity in any of your refineries in the next few years? No we regularly evaluate our portfolio book in the U.S.
internationally for where we can capture additional value for earnings growth.
I'd tell you that while I'm not in a position go ahead and give you any indications specifically that we keep very mindful of where we can capture additional value and primarily falls in fork here is one is trying to further improve our flexibility of our feedstock.
Two is opportunities that we can further reduce our cost structure.
The third one would be in areas where we can increase our higher value product yields.
And then lastly as you saw with Edmonton Rail Terminal improving our overall logistics flexibility.
We'll go next to Douglas Terreson with Evercore ISI.
So my question is also on Groningen there is been a lot of commentary about the issue surrounding seismic conditions and property in the area.
My question is whether or not we could kind of get a little bit more color on the situation.
Meaning it sounds like when you answered Ed questions a few minutes ago that the implication for production maybe negligible.
But I just want to make sure I heard that correctly.
And then also there is also been talks of some financial penalties too.
So in commentary that you could provide that would help us sort this out would be appreciated.
Yes so most of the information as you know is been digested in the media.
Just broadly speaking the original target was about 42 billion cubic meters in 2014 thats been originally reduced down about 36 billion cubic meters and then in the first half 2015 down to 16.5.
It's still very dynamic issue.
Our understanding is there will be some further guidance from the government coming out in July.
But broadly speaking as I refer to it previously our production guidance has been incorporating the reduction production constraints that had been advertised externally.
But it is having an impact and I dont want to mislead to anybody.
We'll go next to Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
Maybe a follow up on an earlier comments that you made on Canadian crude.
How big is the rail terminal that you are working on up there and how much crude can you actually move out of there by rail once it up and running.
And can you give us any difference is obviously been very tough out there in terms of heavy barrels any thoughts does in the crude terminal in terms of ways in which might be other optimize pricing going forward? So the capacity of that terminal was just over 200 000 barrels a day 210 000 barrels to be exact.
You emphasize a point I made earlier that it's part of our integrated businesses.
It's a key element for us to connect our upstream business to our refining and chemicals business throughout the Gulf coast and the Mid-Continent.
And then maybe a quick follow-up on gas decline as well.
We saw a relatively steep decline in U.S.
gas lines quarter-on-quarter and really there is a lot of quarter-to-quarter volatility.
But can you give us an idea of generally a good assumption for what you would assume for annual decline rate in U.S.
gas? I would say just to your point our gas activity is been fairly limited in the U.S.
We have really transitioned a lot of our drilling activity in lower 48 to liquids place obviously because we see the value proposition stronger but I really backup and highlight the point that there is a real opportunity in the U.S.
to commercialize this gas if we were to remove some of the barriers that we've got before us and we've got as you all are aware we've got an investment pending in Golden Pass to convert that terminal to LNG export facility.
We think were well positioned with infrastructure we think it is a great opportunity for United States if we could increase the export options for the U.S.
producers is going to create additional investment it's going to create additional jobs and bottom-line it's going to improve the economy.
So I think the call to the government would be one of really taking advantage of the opportunity that the U.S.
has to really build energy security not only in the U.S.
but more globally by providing if you will free-trading.
Roger Read with Wells Fargo has our next question.
I would like to follow-up a little bit on some of the volume guidance and the entitlements in a fairly significant amount of barrels that came back in.
And as you think about the 4.1 million barrels for the full year the outperformance in Q2.
Is there upside based on entitlements or would you say your projection based on expectation in the future curve as oil pricing et cetera that we should think as 4.1 is really the right number.
I would tell you if you go back to the analyst presentation we had assumed just for the sake of the presentation itself we assumed Brent price of $55 per barrel and of course flow that into our production sharing contracts to give you a sense for what we would expect in terms of volume and that is target of 4.1 million barrels per day obviously if prices up or down is going to have an impact.
It's really -- I really don't have a rule of thumb for you when it comes down an entitlement impacts which as you know include many different factors including the commercial structure as well as expenditure levels and obviously price.
But we had assumed a price forecast is comparable to where were right now.
And then back to the OpEx cost reductions is there any guidance you can provide us on or any help you can provide us in terms of how that work its way into this system or whether or not most of that has been captured during the first half of this year or so Q1 and in the Q2? In fact the guidance I gave you Roger is that were going to see further capture opportunities as we progress through the year.
So should we think majority is come through or minority morality? We have been able to capture savings in the first quarter but as I alluded to not all parts of our cost structure have responded in the same level and we will continue to progress those and we expect increased savings over time.
We will go next to Brad Heffern with RBC Capital Markets.
Most of my questions have been answered but I will try more on macro one.
Obviously Exxon is always prior to itself on investing with more long-term demand view point.
Do you think that with the current down cycle we've taken enough CapEx out of the industry that were going to face more of supply demand squeeze going forward maybe later in the decade or early in the 2020? Thats a hard one to really answer.
I would step back and just think about the overall energy outlook that we publish annually.
We are fairly confident given the range of variables that we test that were looking at about a 35% growth in energy demand between 2010 and 2040.
Fundamentally that is how ExxonMobil sets its investment plans.
And obviously we continue to test that not only annually but periodically in terms of how the business more broadly speaking is investing whether thats going to be sufficient to meet that energy growth over time there are a lot of variables in it including you may recall that inner energy outlook it really does require a very healthy progress on energy conservation.
But broadly speaking it's hard for me to say whether the current level investment will cause any shortages in the future.
We'll go next to Anish Kapadia with TPH.
I have couple of questions first one was to get your thoughts on Tanzania LNG.
I saw that you went non-concern on the last exploration well with Statoil and it didnt think that featured in any of the four projects you highlighted on the slide in the Analyst Day.
Just wondering if this is something thats going to drop to the back of the queue that you've prioritized in this kind of environment and your CapEx cut back.
Not at all Tanzania for the benefits of the people are on the phone Block 2 today we have participated in seven gas discoveries we think total resource and places in excess of 20 TCF now.
There is a lot of work to do in a Greenfield development like this we Statoil and ExxonMobil have been progressing development plans for the initial discoveries.
And then there is a broader consortium that has been looking at the potential for onshore LNG facility.
We would tell you that upfront planning is progressing.
I will confirm that there was one well we do not participate in.
But I wouldnt use that as an indication of our lack of commitment.
I think what's important here as we go forward is we get better definition of the project.
But equally important you all know that LNG projects are capital intensive and what we need to ensure is that we have a stable fiscal regime with appropriate terms and conditions to underpin that type of investment.
And one follow up question on the -- going back to the acquisition market what we're seeing is.
It seems like lot of the U.S and E&amp;P companies we integrated pulling out of international investing more in U.S see a similar trends with some of the NOCs.
So just wondering are you seeing more value internationally and less competition and for actually for assets now relative to the U.S market.
Well I think broadly speaking it's a good observation broadly speaking I think when capital becomes constraint that by definition that provides additional opportunities.
I would say that from our perspective it's the value proposition that we bring that we hope that resource owners will look to and that is our strong balance sheet our leading return on capital employed our operational expertise the technology that we bring to resource development.
I'll say that we have one of the best if not the best project execution organizations.
And then we've got a leading downstream and chemical business thats fully integrated with our upstream and I'd say that as a package those characteristics provide if you will the winning proposition for resource owners.
Our last question today comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Can I go back to the balance sheet? You've always said maintaining triple A is critical given that you are not currently funding the dividend and the buyback from cash flow.
What do you think is the cushion that you have in billions to lever up and still maintain the triple A? I'd say that triple A is really an outcome of our financial strategies.
As you heard us say previously that operating cash flows our primary sources of funding for both of our cap departments and shareholder distributions.
We maintain a very strong focus and prudent approach to cash management throughout that cycle.
We have as you know significant debt capacity.
But we'll maintain our financial flexibility and we'll continue to be very disciplined in how we invest and what we choose to invest in but we're not going to forgo attractive opportunities and I think thats a key differentiating factor for ExxonMobil that we got the capability to respond when we need to respond.
And we're very mindful of our cash balances and how far we want to take our investment program.
Can I ask you just a little bit on that have you looked at what the credit agencies might say if you take on an additional 5 billion to 10 billion over the next year 1.5 years? We're very -- obviously we look at all the variables when we talk about our cash management and our financing capability we keep the very mindful look at what our comment mature in the future but I'll tell you that we're very comfortable and we're very mindful about where we're in terms of our debt.
But I've just not going to quote any specific numbers.
With no further questions in the queue I'd like to turn the callback over to Mr.
Woodbury for any additional and closing remark.
First and foremost I want to say thank you for your questions very good very insightful and I think it really brings with more color to our business.
So to conclude I just want to thank you for your time and we're very much due appreciate your interest in ExxonMobil.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen again that's does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
Good day everyone and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
Jeff Woodbury.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen good morning and welcome to ExxonMobil's second quarter earnings call and Webcast.
My comments this morning will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our Web-site.
Before we go further I'd like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Now turning to Slide 3 let me begin by summarizing the key headlines of our performance.
ExxonMobil generated earnings of $4.2 billion in the second quarter.
We are delivering on our investment and operating commitments across our integrated portfolio.
Corporation's results demonstrate sound operations superior project execution capabilities and continued discipline in both capital and expense management.
Downstream and Chemical earnings increased significantly from the second quarter of 2014 driven by higher margins continued strong demand and the quality of our product and asset mix.
Upstream production volumes of 4 million oil equivalent barrels per day were 3.6% higher compared to a year ago quarter and liquids volumes were up nearly 12%.
Growth was underpinned by an increased level of new development start-ups over the last 18 months largely in Africa Canada Indonesia Papua New Guinea and the United States.
These results underscore the resilience of our integrated portfolio and the benefits of our disciplined capital allocation.
In the first half of 2015 the Corporation generated cash flow from operations and asset sales of $17.9 billion with free cash flow remaining positive despite challenging market conditions.
Moving to Slide 4 we provide an overview of some of the external factors affecting our results.
Global economic growth improved in the second quarter of 2015.
The U.S.
rebounded after contracting slightly in the first quarter.
Europe improved marginally amid concerns on Greece China's economy stabilized while Japan's growth tapered.
Crude oil prices partly recovered during the quarter while natural gas prices declined further.
Refining margins continued to strengthen in both the U.S.
and Europe.
Chemical commodity margins also improved while specialty margins weakened.
Turning now to the financial results as shown on Slide 5 as indicated second quarter earnings were $4.2 billion which represents $1 per share.
Corporation distributed $4.1 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $1 billion was used to purchase shares.
CapEx was $8.3 billion which is in line with plans.
We have remained focused on structural improvements through capital efficiency as well as the capture of additional cost savings in a softer market.
Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $9.4 billion and at the end of the quarter cash totaled $4.4 billion and debt was $33.8 billion.
Next slide provides additional detail on sources and uses of funds.
For the quarter cash decreased from $5.2 billion to $4.4 billion.
Earnings adjusted for depreciation expense changes in working capital and other items and our ongoing asset management program yielded $9.4 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included net investments in the business of $7.1 billion and shareholder distributions of $4.1 billion.
Debt and other financing increased cash by $1 billion.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to be $500 million in the third quarter of 2015.
Moving on to Slide 7 for a review of our segmented results ExxonMobil second quarter earnings of $4.2 billion were down $4.6 billion from a year ago quarter.
Lower Upstream earnings were partially offset by stronger Downstream and Chemical results.
Gains on asset sales were $1.2 billion lower than the second quarter of 2014 reflecting the absence of the Hong Kong power and Canadian asset divestments in the Upstream segment.
I'll also note that our corporate effective tax rate was 45% up 4 percentage points compared to the year ago quarter and up 12 percentage points sequentially.
This higher tax rate reflects the relative mix of income across geographies and tax regimes as well as a one-time increase in the corporate income tax rate in Alberta Canada.
In the sequential quarter comparison shown on Slide 8 earnings decreased by $750 million as lower Upstream and Downstream earnings were partly offset by higher Chemical results.
Guidance for corporate and financing expenses remains at $500 million to $700 million per quarter.
Now turning to the Upstream financial and operating results starting on Slide 9 Upstream earnings in the second quarter were $2 billion down $5.9 billion from the second quarter of 2014.
Sharply lower realizations decreased earnings by $1.5 billion where crude declined by almost $46 per barrel and gas was down almost $2.40 per thousand cubic feet.
Note that favorable volume and mix effects increased earnings $330 million driven by production growth on our new developments.
All other items were negative $1.7 billion and this was driven by the absence of divestment gains from Hong Kong power and Western Canadian assets which represented $1.6 billion.
Also the higher income tax rate in Alberta Canada resulted in a negative $260 million non-cash deferred tax adjustment.
Lower operating costs provided a partial offset.
Moving to Slide 10 oil equivalent production increased 139 000 barrels per day or 3.6% compared to the second quarter of last year.
Liquids production increased 243 000 barrels per day or nearly 12% benefiting from new projects or programs and favorable entitlement impacts.
Natural gas production decreased 622 million cubic feet per day or 5.8% driven by regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands.
Volume adds from the Papua New Guinea LNG and Hadrian South projects along with entitlement effects offset build decline.
Now turning to sequential comparison starting on Slide 11 Upstream earnings were $824 million lower than the first quarter.
Realizations increased earnings by $600 million as crude was up almost $11 per barrel while gas declined about $1 per 1 000 cubic feet.
Unfavorable volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $420 million driven by lower seasonal gas demand in Europe regulatory constraints in the Netherlands and maintenance in the U.S.
All other items reduced earnings by $1 billion mainly driven by unfavorable tax and foreign exchange effects and lower gains from asset sales.
Upstream unit profitability for the second quarter was $5.77 per barrel excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes.
Earnings per barrel for the first half of 2015 was $6.74.
Moving to Slide 12 sequentially volumes were down 269 000 oil equivalent barrels per day or 6.3%.
Liquids production increased 14 000 barrels per day on new project growth and work programs partly offset by maintenance entitlement effects and field decline.
Natural gas production was down 1.7 billion cubic feet per day driven by lower seasonal demand in Europe and regulatory constraints in the Netherlands.
Moving now to the Downstream financial and operating results starting on Slide 13 Downstream earnings for the quarter were $1.5 billion up $795 million compared to the second quarter of 2014.
Our margins increased earnings by $1.1 billion.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings by $80 million.
All other items reduced earnings by $230 million driven by higher maintenance activities.
Turning to Slide 14 sequentially Downstream earnings decreased $161 million.
Stronger refining margins mainly in the U.S.
increased earnings by $140 million whereas higher maintenance activities reduced volumes and increased expenses by $160 million and $140 million respectively.
Moving now to the Chemical financial and operating results starting on Slide 15 second quarter Chemical earnings were more than $1.2 billion up $405 million versus the prior year quarter.
Our margins increased earnings by $340 million.
Favorable volume and mix effects added $20 million.
All other items increased earnings by $50 million mainly due to asset management gains partly offset by unfavorable foreign exchange effects.
Moving to Slide 16 sequentially Chemical earnings increased by $264 million.
Lower margins decreased earnings by $10 million.
Positive volume and mix effects increased earnings by $40 million.
All other items added $230 million as asset management gains were partly offset by higher maintenance.
Moving next to an update on our exploration and project activities on Slide 17 we continue to focus on pursuing a diverse set of high-quality resource opportunities.
In Guyana ExxonMobil made a significant oil discovery on the 6.6 million acres Stabroek Block well which was drilled approximately 120 miles offshore encountered more than 295 feet of high-quality oilbearing sandstone reservoirs.
We are encouraged by these results and we're assessing commercial viability of the resource as well as evaluating additional potential on the block.
In Romania drilling continues in the deepwater Neptun Block with five wells drilled to date.
The potential for commercial development will be assessed after completion of the drilling program.
In the Kurdistan region of Iraq drilling activities on the [Al-Kush] [ph] Block are underway and anticipated to finish later this year.
Turning now to the status update on our new development projects in Canada the Kearl expansion project started up ahead of schedule in June and is currently producing more than 100 000 barrels of bitumen per day.
This development of the Kearl resource enabled us to draw significant learnings from the initial development project and capture lower capital costs and operating efficiencies.
From Kearl production averaged 130 000 barrels per day in the second quarter and is ultimately expected to reach 220 000 barrels per day.
Erha North Phase 2 in Nigeria is another example of a capital efficient development.
This subsea project utilizes existing processing facilities and avoids the need for an additional FPSO vessel.
Deepwater drilling and subsea equipment installation are progressing with start-up expected later this year.
And at the Banyu Urip development in Indonesia we continue to experience favorable well performance and production is now more than 80 000 barrels per day.
The central processing facility is expected to start up in the next few months which will enable the project to reach peak production of more than 200 000 barrels per day by year-end.
In the U.S.
Lower 48 onshore we have maintained a measured investment program to unlock the value of more than 15 billion oil equivalent barrels.
ExxonMobil is a leading producer onshore and the largest producer in the United States.
Through our XTO affiliate we operate in all major U.S.
unconventional oil and gas plays.
Longer-term gas investment is paced with anticipated demand growth whereas near-term emphasis is on the development of 2.4 million net acres in the liquids rich Bakken Permian and Woodford Ardmore and Marietta where investment opportunities remain attractive in phased price environment.
Net production in these three areas was about 240 000 oil equivalent barrels per day in the second quarter up more than 20% from the second quarter of last year.
Throughout the commodity price cycle ExxonMobil has a relentless focus on reducing costs and improving efficiency in our operations while maintaining high operational integrity.
We regularly assess our performance relative to the competitors and strive to be best in class.
So as this chart illustrates our efforts deliver results.
XTO is a leader in exploration and development costs per barrel of crude reserves added just one metric of many that are considered.
This position is enabled by our disciplined and measured approach to resource development deployment of proprietary technologies and our intense focus on efficiency and productivity.
We also demonstrated the capability to respond quickly and a rapidly changing environment and to date have captured incremental savings of about 30% drilling and completion cost from the peak in 2014.
These savings include market benefits as well as ongoing structural cost efficiencies and productivity improvements across our operations.
So I'd like to conclude this morning's comments with a summary of our year-to-date performance.
In short the Corporation is delivering on its investment and operating commitments.
Through midyear ExxonMobil earned $9.1 billion benefiting from our integrated business which captures value throughout the commodity price cycle as demonstrated by our Downstream and Chemical results.
In the Upstream production increased to 4.1 million oil equivalent barrels per day up almost 3% year on year and remains in line with our plans.
Volume contributions from successful new developments underscore our superb project execution capabilities and reputation as a reliable operator.
Our operational results combined with continued capital discipline generated cash flow from operations and asset sales of $17.9 billion and free cash flow of $3.9 billion.
Our commitment to our shareholders remains strong as the Corporation distributed $8 billion to shareholders through midyear.
So regardless of industry conditions we remain focused on what we control and are driven to create shareholder value through the cycle.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I would now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to Phil Gresh with J.P.
Morgan.
First question is one asking the CapEx what your latest thoughts are for the budget for this year and then as we look ahead post 2015 at the Analyst Day you said sub-$34 billion it was a bit vague a lot of your peers have been talking about reducing their sustaining capital cost as you look ahead.
So just wanted to get any thoughts from you about perhaps where CapEx could go over the next few years if you have any updates.
I'll tell you that we have no new guidance on our  so our CapEx guidance for 2015 remains at $34 billion but having said given our ongoing focus on capital efficiency and the very successful capture of market savings in the current business climate I think it is fair to say that there is a downward vector on that number.
And that type of focus and efficiency will be carried on into the subsequent years.
I haven't said that also note that we continue to invest in the business and we have a very attractive inventory of high-quality opportunities and given the financial flexibility we've got we can garner some real benefits during the down cycle in a softer market environment.
Sure okay.
Second question is on the acquisition environment seems like others have been talking about the bid ask spread maybe starting to improve a bit here maybe you could just talk about what you're seeing are any attractive opportunities starting to pop up on your radar screen and just more broadly as you think about the portfolio are there places where you think inorganically you'd like to shift the mix every time and I'm specifically thinking about short cycle? Let me just broadly speak on acquisition or what we like to say as asset management I characterize it for us as businesses as normal.
We always keep alert to value opportunities not only to pick up what we believe is strategic and high-value opportunities but looking for means to create greater value from our existing portfolio.
So we keep alert in terms of what we would target.
If you step back and think about the diversity of our resource base we're very well covered across all of the resource types.
We're always interested in expanding those positions or further high-grading them.
So I wouldn't suggest that as we consider opportunities for picking up additional assets that we're more focused in one area or the other we're always looking for high-grade in the portfolio.
And Phil that also includes our exploration program.
It is designed to identify higher value opportunities to be added to the resource base or maybe to displace what we see is not as relatively significant as the exploration program can add to.
Next we'll go to Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Sorry my line cut out there for a minute so I hope this question hasn't been asked already but there's two things I wanted to hit this morning Jeff if I may.
First one is on tax.
I'm trying to understand the extent of I guess the mess on the internationally Imperial we're all looking at anyway and we're noting what Imperial did with their tax charge related to the change in the Canadian tax regime.
So I wonder if you could address that issue first and then I have a follow-up please.
So if you look at our tax in the second quarter of 2015 relative to 2014 we're up just over 3%.
I'd say that about 5% of that were associated with one-time tax items the largest piece being in the Alberta tax that I mentioned in my prepared comments.
The rest of the closure on that down about 1% is really due to the portfolio mix of income across our various business segments and geographies.
If you look sequentially Doug we're up almost 12%.
And again the mix effect adds about a 6% increase and the one-time items add about 6% 4% due to the Alberta tax increase and then just under 2% associated with the absence of the first quarter U.K.'s tax rate change.
In absolute terms Jeff order of magnitude it looks to us like that was somewhere around $0.10 or $0.12 in the quarter of non-recurring non-cash.
Is that sum about right? Say a little bit more Doug on how you're coming up with that.
So I think the $320 million was what Imperial took that alone is $0.08 right? The Alberta as I said in my prepared comments Doug was about $260 million ExxonMobil share.
Okay alright.
I'll go back and look at that.
My follow-up is really on the Downstream.
I mean obviously I realize for commercial reasons you don't want to talk about Torrance explicitly but when we look at the can of results that other West Coast operators have had and the relatively weak year at Downstream that you had it kind of strikes me that you probably have some  there's probably some merit in giving us some idea of what the likelihood of Torrance coming back on line is without all the additional cost of importing gasoline and so on.
So to the best that you can at this point Jeff can you give us an order of magnitude in terms of timing as to when you expect Torrance to get back to where it ought to be? I think first if I could Doug just to comment on your statement about a relatively weak Downstream in the second quarter now I'd first say that we've seen significant margin improvement relative to last year.
Second as I commented on we did have a very heavy maintenance period in the second quarter of 2015 and that had the downward impacts I referenced in my prepared comments.
In terms of Torrance I think you probably know Doug that some of the units in the refinery are operational that reduced rates.
We are producing gasoline by importing components and blending with refinery production and I'd also say we're also producing distillates.
We are progressing repair of the electrostatic precipitator as well as pursuing interim options.
It is difficult to provide you a time at this point given the definition work that's underway as well as the regulatory review that's underway.
As we get closer to defining that timeline we'll look for an opportunity to share that broadly.
I appreciate you there.
You've at least taken a stab at the answer.
Thanks Jeff.
We'll go next to Blake Fernandez with Howard and Weil.
Question for you on the gas volumes which were fairly weak I think you pointed out in the press release 622 million cubic feet down year-over-year.
Could you highlight the Netherlands component of that maybe give us an update of for one what contribution the Netherlands had in that decline and then maybe some timing or outlook on when that may come back? The Netherlands was as you could appreciate a large component.
It was about 600 million in the second quarter relative to the prior year prior quarter.
Okay and any thoughts on when that may return to market? The Netherlands on a quarter to quarter basis was also say with the regulatory restrictions that the government has placed on the asset and that will return over time but it's going to be a constrained cap on what we can produce from the resource.
Okay fair enough.
The second question for you on Slide 11 you highlighted some of the sequential decline.
I guess I know the benchmarks were up I know you've got some issues with tax and whatnot but that $1 billion waterfall on other category can you kind of highlight what is in there besides tax and then also if you could maybe highlight some of the LNG impacts? I know pricing got clearly weak this quarter.
So on the $1 billion other component this is the [indiscernible] and about 60% of that had to do with tax 15% or so was Forex and the rest is a number of other puts and takes.
On your comment about LNG let me just broadly say that our natural gas realizations had a negative effect of about $300 million.
So to square that with the $600 million increase in realizations we had about $900 million positive due to liquids and $300 million due to negative gas realizations.
We'll go next to Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Let me follow up on CapEx and the down-cycle approach your peers appear or at least are more vocal in cost-cutting and laying off employees increasing asset sales and reducing the forward CapEx guidance to close their funding gaps by almost extensional upstream struggle.
So I mean your releasing call has been different.
Is that just stylistic or does it mean a different approach by Exxon through the down-cycle any comments there? I would back up and just talk fundamentally.
Culturally the organization is designed to constantly focus on capital efficiency and cost management okay.
What we are looking for always Evan is to drive the cost structure down in the business okay and when we have a down-cycle like we're seeing right now we further are well-positioned to quickly lead that cost curve in capturing market savings.
Now on top of that we've got that financial flexibility to invest through the cycle and that does very much very well position us to capture those market savings in the down-cycle.
So in short I'd say it is a focus regardless of where we are in the cycle.
Likewise on staffing I mean you mentioned common staffing.
I mean first and foremost I want to highlight that our people are our greatest asset and they really drive the success of this Company.
Therefore we take a very measured approach managing our headcount given the cyclical nature of the business and the need for us to be ever more productive and in doing so we keep an unrelenting focus on capturing organizational efficiencies to keep the organization right sized again given the likelihood of business volatility.
So if you look at our employee headcount it has been coming down consistently since the merger of Exxon and Mobil where we were at about 125 000 employees today we're at just over 80 000 employees.
And you may recall during Analyst Meeting that the Chairman talked about some this and he gave some examples by way of steps that we've taken well in advance of the down-cycle in order to do exactly what the numbers are depicting.
Right and your CapEx appears to be trending at least below guidance so far this year.
My follow-up on the Downstream and maybe as it relates to the U.S.
Upstream I mean can you discuss like crude transfer pricing assumptions between North American Upstream and refining? I mean it would appear that refining with offset may not be entirely market-based kind of understating refining and transferring some of that to your Upstream any color there would be helpful.
I mean it is very much market-based.
I mean as you know that our integrated sites have the capability to run at very very wide range of feedstocks.
I can't get into the specific pricing at all but we have very competitive capacity within the U.S.
we're the largest in the Gulf Coast and mid-continent.
As you know our capacity increase is greater than our overall U.S.
production.
So we're also out there picking up supplies that meet our systems needs.
Our mid-continent and Gulf Coast refineries have increased processing of advantaged North American crudes.
Currently about 45% of the slate was North America in 2011 and currently we're at about 70% in 2014.
The key point I want to emphasize here is that we get intrinsic value given the integration of our operations between Upstream Downstream and the Chemical business allowing us to really focus on optimizing the value of the molecule.
Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse has our next question.
This is just a philosophical question.
I mean Jeff you've got a great balance sheet and you've just reduced the buyback.
Are you worried about future deterioration in cash flows due to the macro is this just a decision that's just made quarter to quarter without thinking about the implications? I know people are chattering in the market this morning that you're trying to conserve cash for M&amp;A so maybe just a comment there and then I've got a detailed comment on the results.
Ed just go back fundamentally our business plans and our investment strategy comes from our perspective on the long-term that we share with you all in our energy outlook.
That's what really sets our business strategy and our investment outlook.
Now stepping back from that we maintain a very robust balance sheet as you say and we have the significant inventory investment opportunities over 90 billion barrels of high-quality resource a very strong inventory of Downstream and Chemical opportunities but we manage the cash flow looking at the current business climate as well as the future outlook and we have a high degree of confidence in what we expect supply/demand to do in the future.
Fundamentally we're committed to our shareholders to continue to provide a reliable and grown dividend and I think the continued buyback is evidence of the confidence that we have in the integrated business model.
You mentioned the LNG impact which was helpful.
Obviously Asia LNG prices might come in the spot market particularly not contract come under where the pressure is.
All of these Australian projects try and fight their way into market and they all have commission cargoes and some spot with them.
Can you sort of give us a sense of how much flexibility in the overall contract structure your customers have to sort of say we're going to take minimum amounts of volumes to maximize our advantage to take some perhaps the cheapest bulk cargoes that are available? I'm just trying to get a sense of is there a little bit of the margin or price risk and volume risk even to your sort of existing LNG business and it's fine for you to say no there's not a big risk I mean that could just be the answer.
Sure.
I'd just remind you that a majority of our LNG is under long-term contract.
So we have very little spot risk and we've got diversion capability in the existing contracts to allow us to capture a greater value there.
So if Asia says no you can put it into Europe or do something else from the Middle East.
Yes.
We'll go next to Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
So it's pretty clear that there is a path to grow production through 2017 with some of these large capital projects that you talked about and seeing indications of production growth here in 2015 one of the questions investors frequently ask is how does Exxon grow production post 2017 which we'll probably get some line of sight on at the next Analyst Day when you roll forward past 2017 but any initial color about how you think about growth especially if the forward curve proves correct post 2017 would be valuable? I'd say first and foremost just step back a moment and remind everybody that based on that very sizable high-quality resource base we've been talking about we've had a very significant Upstream investment program in place now for some period of time whereby from 2012 to 2017 we had committed to our shareholders to bring on 32 high-quality long-life assets.
We're about halfway through that in terms of starting them up.
We had a very substantial tranche of them starting up in 2014 with eight.
This year we have another seven starting up.
As you go into 2016-2017 we've got the rest of them coming on.
The information that we had shared back at Analyst Meeting we would grow capacity by about 1.1 million oil equivalent barrels per day and recognizing that those projects are starting up in 2017 we're just at the early stages they would ramp up into 2018 and thereafter.
We also shared Neil in our F&amp;O review the list of projects that we've got on the table right now for 2018 forward.
These are all in different stages of progress some are in development planning some are in [beat] [ph] but that is the list that we are working on to bring to an FID decision.
Some of these that we're working to further optimize in the current price environment some may have some opportunities to enhance the commercial terms but as we get closer to FID's decisions we'll signal where we are.
As you indicated we'll provide another update in March of next year which will take us beyond the 2017 horizon.
But all that said I want to reinforce that we've got this very robust inventory of investment opportunities and I don't want to focus just on the Upstream the Downstream and Chemical business as well and that positions us well to be very selective on what we want to progress and when we want to progress and it gives us the capability on those other assets or investment opportunities to keep working on them to make sure that we're capturing the greatest value from it.
Thanks Jeff.
And then the follow-up is on that point about Chemicals it was one of the few places in the quarter where we saw a real upside to our numbers.
Just wanted to talk about what you're seeing from the macro in the Chemical space clearly margins having compressed as much as some would've thought given the move down in Brent and then just how you're thinking about growing that business on a go forward.
So just broadly speaking as you can appreciate there are structural differences in the Chemical business.
U.S.
natural gas natural gas liquids provide for very strong margins and advantage polyethylene.
In Europe Asia-Pacific the liquids fees energy prices have been hard and we were at the bottom cycle in Asia-Pacific but we saw in the first half material improvement due to lower fees and energy costs.
Specialty margins have declined over the past few years with capacity additions exceeding demand growth but demand growth remains robust.
So as we've said before our long-term business we have a positive outlook for global demand expecting to exceed GDP by about 1.5% or said in another way growing by more than 50% over the next 10 years of which about two thirds of that will be in Asia.
So very well positioned to participate as you see that we're making some important investments like the expansion of Baytown that allows us to continue to participate in the high value polyethylene market given the very low feed cost we have here in North America.
We'll go next to Allen Good with Morningstar.
I appreciate the comments on the whole savings in the U.S.
Lower 48.
I wonder if you could offer what Exxon is seeing as far as cost savings internationally free the projects under construction maybe some currently in the development phase and maybe even offshore as well do you expect to capture some of the cost savings there and what would be some of the timing on that relative to what you've seen so far in the U.S.? I would tell you Allen that let me break it up between capital and expense and to answer your question right now yes we are capturing cost savings across our global portfolio.
On the cost side I just want to keep on emphasizing cost management is a fundamental driver in the success of our business no doubt about it and throughout that business cycle our organization has a strong culture of driving down the cost structure and then when we're in these down cycles we expect to lead the cost curve and capture additional market savings so ongoing structure improvements and additional market savings in the down-cycle.
So we're very well positioned and one of the things that allows us to react very quick as I mentioned last quarter is that we've got a global procurement organization that is always focused on capturing the lowest lifecycle cost and they are absolutely critical in managing our overall cost structure.
As you can appreciate Allen savings vary significantly by region and type of service.
By way of example our base metals are down as much as 40%.
Engineering services and construction labor is down 10% plus.
Rig rates are down across the board both land and floater.
On floater the day rates of mobilization costs are down anywhere from 25% to 40%.
So we're well positioned to capture that both on the cost as well as the capital side.
Great thanks.
One more question maybe a bit premature but certainly made headlines of late along with the Iran deal it seems that some of your peers have become interested I know there's been some headlines suggesting Exxon as well what would you need to see in Iran as far as milestones for you potentially become interesting and doing business there? Allen I'd just say that we'll continue to monitor the circumstance and I want to be really clear that we'll remain in full compliance with existing sanctions.
As you know there are multiple sanctions that apply to U.S.
companies.
That's all I can really say about that right now Allen.
We'll go next to Asit Sen with Cowen and Company.
Two questions.
Thanks for the additional color on Lower 48.
I'm wondering if you could give us the breakdown in the production and rig activity by the three main unconventional plays and talk about how you expect things tracking in the back half of the year.
So really good growth there I mean from a net production basis as I said we're producing about 240 000 barrels a day over 20% increase quarter on quarter versus the prior year.
Permian is about 120 000 barrels of that Bakken just over 80 000 barrels and Woodford is about 40 000 barrels.
And rig activity please? So our rig counts have come down just a little bit.
From the first quarter we're down about 10 rigs so we're currently running 34 rigs in those three plays.
We've been able to continue to high-grade the activity.
I think as we showed in the Analyst Meeting we continue to capture both cost efficiencies and productivity improvements.
A lot of what we learned in these plays are being quickly shared to make sure that we're integrating all those learnings into our forward execution plans but very pleased with the positions that we've got in those assets and we've got a very sizable inventory of drillable prospects.
So would you think that there would be upside to the incremental 2017 target? I think it was 150 000 barrels a day.
Would you given efficiencies? I mean we are keeping a measured pace as we said previously.
If you think back over the ups and downs when everybody was really picking up a lot of rigs we took a measured pace and made sure that we were going at a pace that we can fully capture the benefits of the learnings that we were realizing.
Likewise in the down-cycle our rig counts haven't come down as significant as you've seen in the industry because we've been able to capture those learnings the economics of these investments are still robust.
So I would give you a response of a measured pace that with a very attractive inventory of opportunities we'll keep moving forward and anticipate as we showed in the Analyst Meeting a growth in our unconventional liquids volumes.
Great.
And my second question is on LNG.
Spot LNG market has been surprisingly strong over $8 near-term would be 15% oil equivalent.
Just wanted to get your thoughts on that is it seasonality or something else and could you update on the demand pattern that you're seeing in Asia? Broadly speaking I mean as you can appreciate there's a lot that goes into this.
As we've said gas demand has grown at about 1.6% per year.
LNG capacity will probably triple from 2010 to 2040.
So you're seeing a general demand growth that's underpinning obviously underpinning realizations.
There are a lot of other country-level dynamics like alternatives nuclear power fuel switching from coal to gas all those variables really play into this 1.6% per year that I mentioned.
Paul Cheng with Barclays has our next question.
Two questions if I could if we're looking at your very sizable total resource which is over [indiscernible] do you have a rough estimate that what's the percentage of that resource base already passed all the regulatory hurdle and with today's technology will be able to produce and earn a 10% after-tax [indiscernible] way of return a $60 to $70 barrel price any kind of color you can provide? I would tell you I'd actually think about it differently Paul and that the resource base is in various stages of development planning.
Some assets clearly as I indicated previously to Neil some of those assets are currently on the table right now in development planning and pre-feed some of the assets are probable reserves in our possible or static resources or under various stages of development planning in order to ensure that we are defining the most attractive returns for those resources.
And some we make it to the point Paul that we have a better alternative to monetize that may include divestment.
But it's a dynamic resource base that is constantly being upgraded with new additions pulling things out that we don't see as creating a value for the Corporation.
And I'll give you one example by way of illustration.
You think about the sizable Julia resource and how we've optimized that to a much smaller initial development in order to de-risk the overall resource size that's the type of optimization that I'm talking about and based on that derisking it will there position us on future investment opportunities.
Great.
Second question just some quick number I think in a number of segments that you have some asset sales gain.
Can you just give us what is the asset sales gain in the second quarter by segment and breakdown between U.S.
and international and also tell us what is the Kearl current production in Phase 1 and Phase 2 separately? So in terms of the earnings impact from our asset sales in the second quarter it was about $490 million.
A majority of that Paul was in the Chemical business.
In terms of Kearl it's in total as I said is producing about 130  or in the second quarter it was producing about 230 000 barrels per day.
The Phase 1 or the initial development was around 100 000 barrels and Phase 2 was around 30 000 barrels.
Jeff do you have the latest number in July in the last couple maybe a week or so on Kearl? On Kearl no I don't have anything to share at this point.
We'll go next to Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
Guess one question hasn't really been asked I'd like to get out there oil prices this low last time we had sustained lower for longer situation lot of mergers in the space.
I know you don't want to talk about anything specific but as a general sort of commentary on maybe the bid ask spread that's out there the type of assets that might be interesting to axe on if you could give us any clarity on that? Roger that was similar to an earlier question.
As I said earlier I would just say that we keep alert to where we've got value propositions and the way I clarify that is you know bolt-on acquisitions that have natural synergies with our business long-life assets that we think that our expertise in operating experience will bring intrinsic value associated with it it's not focused on a specific resource type but it's really focused on where we think that our unique experiences can add value that others can't see.
And on the bid ask spread maybe how that's  if it's changed at all if there's anything you can add there? Roger I really don't have much to add on there.
I mean that's really a function of the transactions.
I mean that certainly staying in a lower price environment is going to encourage both buyers and sellers to find closure.
Okay.
And then as kind of the unrelated follow-up in Guyana the big discovery is there any sort of timeline at all we can be thinking about at this point for the next appraisal well and then if that goes how you think about some of the other things including the I guess border dispute with Venezuela et cetera? As I said we're certainly very encouraged by the first well.
It is one well in a very very large block.
We are currently evaluating that well and we're laying out if you will the plans moving forward.
You can expect the intent for us to not only further appraise the discovery but pursue other opportunities on the block.
I want to be clear though that we follow all the laws within the host countries and international law that we're operating on this block on a license from the government at Guyana and the border matters are really a function or should stay with the governments to address through appropriate channels.
We'll go next to Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
Maybe if I could one follow-up on costs I know you've talked about cost control efforts a couple of times already but maybe not on the CapEx side but if we look on the OpEx side or the expense side of the Company a lot of your competitors have talked about percentages in terms of year-over-year decreases and OpEx or targets in terms of absolute numbers that they think they can pull out of the business I mean any guidance you can give us in terms of maybe where your cost structure might be year on year or how much you think you might be able to pull out on relative to the 2014 basis? Obviously our objective is to make sure that we're capturing all those opportunities both structural and market out there and at the same time ensuring that we maintain the high integrity of our operations.
I think Ryan the ultimate measure here is our industry-leading unit cost performance that we've seen over the last several years and while it's still early I don't want to go too far with this.
We are seeing the unit cost on a downward trend year-to-date almost 9% down from where we were last year but that's about as far as I'll quantify at this point.
Obviously this is a key element to ensuring that we remain a leader in unit profitability as well.
Good thank you.
And maybe one question on LNG and thoughts over on the business we've had a number of questions on spot pricing and trends but if you look at  you've got a decent queue of potential development projects that could happen at some point over time can you talk about maybe what would be the threshold that you would need to move forward on some of these projects? Is it local permitting is it an effort on reducing costs in the industry and getting costs down to a place that's competitive is it a wide bid ask spread between buyers and sellers right now any thoughts in general I guess on your asset portfolio on LNG on the development side and what you're seeing in the market? Sure.
Broadly speaking as you know LNG is a key component of our portfolio and it's an important part of our margin generation.
As I said earlier we've got a very good inventory and including in that inventory is a number of LNG projects and it's all based on our assessment.
As I indicated that gas will grow by about 1.6% per year between now and 2040 and more specifically LNG demand will triple from 2010 to 2040.
So that is the value proposition we're pursuing.
We've got a number of projects moving forward concurrently.
We're going to be very selective in what we invest in.
To your question about what does it take to make it go forward it's all the things you mentioned it's making sure that we get a competitive cost structure that we've got stable transparent fiscal terms to underpin a very capital intensive investment and that's why we're progressing settlement at the same time.
I would tell you that kind of the brownfield type expansions are probably going to be the lowest cost LNG add.
By way of example our Papua New Guinea project just a phenomenal outcome started up ahead of schedule very very good reliability very well-positioned to compete in expansion should we identify sufficient resource having the assets that we have in the U.S.
positions us very well Alaska West Coast of Canada continue to progress.
Those opportunities will require more of what we were talking about in terms of cost in terms of fiscal terms regulatory environment.
So in short what I'd say Ryan is that the demand projection is there obviously we've got the capability to participate in that and we're very well-positioned with a very good inventory of high quality opportunities to meet that demand growth.
We'll go next to Brad Heffern with RBC Capital Markets.
Just looking at the Downstream business there have been a lot of press reports and/or regulatory filings about a potential substantial expansion of Beaumont.
I was wondering if you could comment on that provide any color around the thinking there? So just again taking a portfolio look Brad we regularly evaluate our assets our various business lines for where we can grow earnings or optimize the long-term value of it and in the Downstream business it's focused in the following areas; expanding our logistics expanding our feedstock reducing our overall cost structure and importantly increasing high-value product yields.
You'll see that one of those areas or one or more of those areas will underpin the investment projects that we have communicated have been through FID such as the [indiscernible] investment.
As it pertains to Beaumont we typically assess those activities.
I understand that that may include some discussions with the regulators.
It doesn't indicate that we have made a decision and when we get close to an FID and we've made that decision we'll communicate that accordingly.
Okay I understood.
And then looking in California on the Upstream side I was curious what the impact during the quarter was given the planned pipeline downtime and what the outlook is there? Good question Ryan.
I mean as you all know the planned All American Pipeline was down due to a failure of the line in the second quarter.
We've looked for options to go ahead and keep our facility on without that pipeline running or until we are able to find an alternative export route as while it will be shut down.
Before it was shut down it was producing somewhere around 30 000 barrels a day.
In fact that was a 2014 number.
So we'll keep focused on it we'll keep working with the regulator as well as the All American Pipeline to identify the earliest restart.
We'll go next to Anish Kapadia with Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt Co.
First question is just looking at some of the great projects again that surpass 2018 it seems to me like you focused on three key areas or things if you like which is getting more challenged over the next few years so when you look at international LNG seems to be a little more competition coming in from domestic U.S.
LNG.
When you look at your oilsands projects they are relatively high cost and impacted by potential carbon pricing and higher taxes coming through.
In Nigeria clearly a difficult political environment there and tax uncertainty.
Just wondering given those as kind of your key areas how comfortable are you with those areas and the potential growth there? Anish we're in the risk management business.
Everything that we do has a level of risk that we've got to judge whether it would be geopolitical risk economic risk technical uncertainty and that is the world we live in and I think the organization has demonstrated over the years that it's got the expertise and the capabilities to take on these more challenging resources and convert them into value propositions for our shareholders.
So the areas you talked about I mean take a look at Papua New Guinea LNG I mean no infrastructure we were able to build that into a very successful project that's going to supply an important part of LNG demand in the future.
We have a good track record in all these areas we're very good at capturing the learnings and transporting those learnings into our future resource development activities to make sure that we maximize return and as I said to Paul earlier if we don't see the value proposition there we will find other ways to monetise that asset  Okay great.
And just a follow-on in terms of your future projects I'm just thinking how you think about delaying projects in an attempt to in this kind of falling kind of service price environment to capture lower prices is that something that you're actively kind of looking to do or would you just go ahead with the projects as it kind of make sense in terms of the economics at the moment? I mean remember these projects that you referenced earlier are multi-year projects they happen over a period of time and we are looking for not only the market savings but I'll stress again the structural savings.
Let me use an example of what I'm talking about.
We went forward with both the Arkutun-Dagi and the Hebron developments concurrently because we saw a very consistent development option and the tremendous benefit that we'd get by learning curve advantages.
So both GBS we used a comparable design shop for both of them we used the same GBS contractor we used the same topside contractor and we captured that immediate learning curve benefit.
On top of that in a lower price cycle as I said earlier we're very well positioned with the global procurement organization to be first in line in capturing those market savings and given our long-term investment and our expectation of what demand is going to do we're very confident that over the timeframe  the things we're investing in today some of them we won't see production on for five or 10 years.
We're very confident in our demand projections in our ability to turn that into accretive financial performance.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
When I hear what you're saying about costs and potential M&amp;A and knowing what you said in the past about the Permian it feels like that's the best opportunity for you to combine the overlap that you have with the potential to drive out costs.
I think you've highlighted that it's a very fragmented zone.
And I would also think that the Bakken is similar.
But you really don't have a lot in the Eagle Ford.
So my assumption is that essentially the Permian would be the most attractive place for you and then the Bakken to take advantage of this low price environment.
Paul just broadly speaking we keep focused globally and we've got those type of opportunities in other countries that will naturally maintain a line of sight on should the right value proposition come forward.
If you want to focus in them conventional certainly the ownership structure in the Permian by way of example is very very diverse and where we can find natural synergies.
I mean over the last several years we've made a number of bolt-on acquisitions that have increased our position there and you get a value uplift when we're able to do that where it's within our operational structure.
Yes and I guess the operational structure is well suited because of the XTO separate division you have gives you the flexibility? That's correct.
One thing I'm worried about Jeff is with the replacement just in as far as I don't think you've had any FIDs this year [indiscernible] just that your business bookings last year were heavily dominated by the U.S.
could you update us on where we stand as regards with those replacements? Obviously that's an annual process and we've fully replaced our production for 21 straight years.
We've got a very good inventory that we're working on to convert to an FID decision and proved reserves as well as very active exploration program.
So we've been very successful as the history shows and I'd say that the prognosis in the future will remain the same.
Jeff do you know how many FIDs you had last year? Not off the top of my head Paul no.
We'll go next to Alastair Syme with Citi.
Thanks for your comment on operating costs earlier.
Can you give us some sort of magnitude about how much of that 9% you might feel is natural deflation in the environment like energy prices and how much is your in cost management? Alastair I'd just tell you that the organization wants to keep focused on the structural improvements as well as net market capture.
Everything is under focus constantly even when we're at $100 per barrel but I don't have any specific numbers to breakout on the benefit today.
And secondly in the Chemicals business in this environment you've seen that difference in the profitability between the base and derivative businesses? Remember it's all premised under very strong demand growth and our investments are strategically placed in order to make sure that we can compete competitively over that timeframe.
I think we're very well-positioned in both the commodity and specialties markets.
We'll go next to Guy Baber with Simmons &amp; Company.
Jeff you highlighted on Slide 18 Lower 48 onshore F&amp;D cost best in class by a substantial margin.
I believe those costs have been declining in recent years as well and likely continue to decline.
So I was just wondering if you could discuss how that positive trend for U.S.
Lower 48 F&amp;D compares to the trends that you're seeing internationally and that you've seen in recent years where it appears F&amp;D for the industry has risen considerably in some cases.
So can you just discuss your thoughts on that emergence what you're seeing and also how that might influence capital allocation and strategy long-term so specifically does it leads you to believe you need to find a way to allocate more capital to the regions where you can most efficiently add reserves which appears to be the U.S.? I think it's an excellent question Guy because I think this is just one example of what we do across our whole global portfolio.
I talked about by way of another example we've shown you the XTO example.
In my prepared comments I talked about Erha North Phase 2.
Last quarter I talked about the start-up of Kizomba Satellites Phase 2 but that's another really good example that instead of  that we sequenced the resource development in a manner that we can fully leverage the fixed investment over a period of time and what that does is that lowers our overall cost structure or E&amp;D costs globally and in a deepwater environment where we've got to be very careful that we've got very good execution plans and that we execute flawlessly.
So it's a very strong focus across the world whether it's in the deepwater with Kizomba Satellites Phase 2 and Erha North Phase 2 or we're talking about the Arctic or sub-Arctic like in Arkutun-Dagi and Hebron there is an ongoing emphasis to try to get that cost structure down.
And that's why I made the point earlier that this is something that we have to work 365 days a year it's not something that's driven by the price environment it's driven by the need to be ever more productive and to compete in a market that you know there's a lot investment dollars going in.
So we keep line of sight on where we've got cost opportunities.
Thanks Jeff.
And last one for me liquids production up 12% on the year so obviously very impressive growth major projects ramping up you get some PSC benefit obviously but it also appears like you're showing growth in some areas where you don't have high-profile major projects North Sea oil for example but it appears that reliability uptime maybe improving just across the portfolio.
Is that an accurate observation and is there any detail you can provide of how the base level of production is performing perhaps relative to expectations coming into the year because it seems to be doing better? It's another good question and you may recall back in the Analyst presentation we spent a little bit of time the Chairman showed a chart that tries to  goes to quantify the volume add that we make with our focus on reliability.
We are making very significant gains on improving overall operating reliability and I'll emphasize not only in the Upstream but also across our manufacturing business as well.
As we focus intensely on cost structure we do the same on uptime and reliability and really try to transfer those learnings quickly across the Corporation to make sure that once again we're best in class.
Our final question for today comes from John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Most things have been asked here but you've seen a lot of your [IFC] [ph] peers as well as some large cap E&amp;Ps take significant impairments.
You have a very robust resource base as you've stated.
Are there any issues for say intermediate-term projects coming off the books on a long-term basis for Exxon? There's two parts to your question.
One is if we've got resources that are in a resource base that ultimately we don't see the long-term value as I indicated earlier John we will look for ways to monetize them which may include some level of divestment.
In terms specifically of impairments as you know we live in a commodity price environment that has great volatility but as I've said several times in our energy outlook the long-term market fundamentals remain unchanged and the lifespan of our assets are measured really in decades therefore our long-term price views are more stable and quite frankly more meaningful for future cash flows and market value.
So we expect the business to more than recover the carrying value of the assets on the books.
Obviously in the course of our ongoing asset management efforts we do confirm that asset values fully cover carrying costs.
Great that's what I wanted to hear.
One last one for me which you probably won't answer Guyana insignificant you want to attach a volume sense to that? John I think it's just too early.
I look forward to that done I can have more discussion about it as well but as I said John one well in a 6.6 million acre block it's a very good start and just watch that space.
There's more to be said there I think.
With no further questions in the queue I'd like to turn the call back to our host for any additional or closing remarks.
To conclude again I want to thank you for your time and your very thoughtful and insightful questions this morning.
We appreciate the opportunity to talk about the business and really share the successes of our people that work day in and day out to make sure that we're creating shareholder value.
So thanks again and we look forward to further discussion in the future.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's call.
Thank you all for joining.
Good day everyone and welcome to this ExxonMobil Corporation third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
Jeff Woodbury.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen good morning and once again welcome to ExxonMobil's third quarter earnings call.
My comments this morning will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.
And as you know before we go further I'd like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide two.
Turning now to slide three let me begin by summarizing the key headlines of our performance.
ExxonMobil generated earnings of $4.2 billion in the third quarter.
We maintain a relentless focus on our business fundamentals including cost management regardless of the commodity price cycle.
Despite the challenging environment the corporation also continues to deliver on its investment and operating commitments.
Third quarter results reflect cyclical strength in our downstream and chemicals segments and highlight the resilience of our integrated business model.
The corporation's integrated cash flows underpin our dividend and enable investment through the cycle to grow shareholder value.
Year to date the corporation generated cash flow from operations and asset sales of $27.6 billion with positive free cash flow of $7.4 billion even amid sharply lower commodity prices.
Moving to slide four we provide an overview of some of the external factors affecting our results.
Global economic growth slowed during the third quarter.
In the U.S.
growth tapered following a strong second quarter.
China's economy continued to decelerate and the recovery in Japan remained weak.
However there is some evidence of economic stabilization in Europe.
Crude oil prices resumed their decline after improving in the second quarter whereas global refining margins strengthened during the quarter.
And in chemicals both commodity and specialty product margins also improved.
Turning to the financial results as shown on slide five as indicated third quarter earnings were $4.2 billion or just over $1.00 per share.
The corporation distributed $3.6 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
And of that total $500 million were used to purchase shares.
CapEx was $7.7 billion benefiting from ongoing capital efficiencies as well as additional captured savings in the current market environment.
Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $9.7 billion.
And at the end of the quarter cash totaled $4.3 billion and debt was $34.3 billion.
The next slide provides more detail on sources and uses of funds.
So over the quarter cash decreased marginally from $4.4 billion to $4.3 billion.
Earnings adjusted for depreciation expense changes in working capital and other items and our ongoing asset management program yielded $9.7 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included net investments in the business of $6.2 billion and shareholder distributions of $3.6 billion.
There was no net cash flow impact from debt and other financing items.
As you can see on the chart the corporation fully funded all shareholder distributions and net investments with cash flow from operations and asset sales in the quarter with a marginal decrease to the cash balance.
Moving on to slide seven for a review of our segmented results ExxonMobil's third quarter earnings were down $3.8 billion from the year-ago quarter though our upstream earnings were partially offset by stronger downstream results and lower corporate costs.
As shown on slide eight the results were comparable to the second quarter as lower upstream earnings offset stronger downstream results and lower corporate costs.
Now on average corporate and financing expenses are anticipated to be $500 million to $700 million per quarter over the near term.
Turning now to the upstream financial and operating results starting on slide nine upstream earnings in the third quarter were $1.4 billion down $5.1 billion from the third quarter of 2014.
Sharply lower commodity prices reduced earnings by $5.1 billion while crude realizations declined more than $50 per barrel and gas was down more than $2.00 per 1 000 cubic feet.
Note that favorable volume and mix effects increased earnings $110 million driven by new project developments.
All other items reduced earnings by $70 million where the absence of asset management gains were partly offset by lower operating expenses.
Moving to slide 10 oil equivalent production increased 87 000 barrels per day or 2.3% compared to the third quarter of last year.
Liquids production increased 266 000 barrels per day or nearly 13% driven by project ramp-up and entitlement effects.
Natural gas production decreased 1.1 billion cubic feet per day due to regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands and field decline primarily in North America.
Turning now to the sequential comparisons starting on slide 11 upstream earnings were $673 million lower than the second quarter.
Weaker liquids realizations reduced earnings $1.2 billion as crude prices were over $12 per barrel lower than the second quarter.
Volume and mix effects decreased earnings $30 million.
All other items increased earnings $550 million reflecting favorable foreign exchange effects lower operating costs and the absence of the deferred tax adjustment associated with the Alberta tax rate increase.
Upstream unit profitability for the third quarter was $3.88 per barrel excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes.
Year-to-date earnings per barrel were $5.81.
Moving to slide 12 sequentially volumes decreased 61 000 oil equivalent barrels per day or 1.5%.
Liquids production however increased 40 000 barrels per day as new project growth and work programs were partly offset by scheduled maintenance and field decline.
Natural gas production was 604 million cubic feet per day lower than the second quarter driven by entitlement effects weaker seasonal demand in Europe and field decline.
Moving now to the downstream financial and operating results starting on slide 13 downstream earnings for the quarter were $2 billion up $1 billion compared to the year-ago quarter.
Our margins increased earnings by $1.4 billion.
Volume and other impacts reduced earnings $280 million and $110 million respectively primarily driven by higher maintenance activity mostly in the U.S.
Turning to slide 14 sequentially downstream earnings were up $527 million.
Stronger margins increased earnings by $320 million and higher volumes from lower maintenance activity contributed another $270 million.
Other items reduced earnings by $60 million.
Moving now to the chemical financial and operating results starting on slide 15 third quarter chemical earnings of $1.2 billion were comparable to the prior-year quarter.
Improved margins contributed $210 million.
Favorable volume and mix effects added $30 million.
And all other items decreased earnings by $210 million largely due to unfavorable foreign exchange effects.
Moving to slide 16 chemical earnings were also flat sequentially.
Stronger margins increased earnings $160 million while favorable sales mix added $40 million.
Other items reduced earnings $220 million reflecting the absence of asset management gains.
Now on slide 17 we want to reinforce the importance of the corporation's focus on business fundamentals regardless of commodity prices and this focus underpins our solid financial and operating results throughout the business cycle.
Our first imperative is operational integrity ensuring safe efficient and environmentally responsible operations founded on strong risk management.
Next we work to maximize the value of our assets by increasing facility utilization and reliability.
An incremental barrel of oil produced or refined through improved reliability is one of the most profitable.
The next imperative is cost management.
Reducing our cost structure is an ongoing focus in our existing operations and new developments.
We also continuously enhance and right-size our global functional organization capturing benefits from economies of scale shared research and development programs and technologies shared services and common best practices.
We currently run ExxonMobil with about the same number of employees as Exxon had just prior to the merger with Mobil.
We are also quick to capture market cost savings.
Our global procurement organization is dedicated to capturing the lowest lifecycle costs for goods and services.
As you can see in the chart on the left we are achieving significant market savings in the current business climate.
So far this year we've achieved a net reduction of $8 billion in capital and cash operating costs.
And I'll note that this amount is in addition to the $4.5 billion decrease in planned 2015 CapEx relative to 2014 spend.
Further in the upstream unit costs are down about 10% year to date compared to last year.
And finally our longstanding track record of superior project execution is a distinguishing characteristic of ExxonMobil and results in higher-return capital-efficient assets due to a lower capital base and on-time delivery.
Turning to slide 18 through our differentiated project development capability we are unlocking the value of our deep and diverse upstream portfolio.
Excellent progress has been made on our investment plans to start up 32 major projects between 2012 and 2017.
We've started up 21 of these projects including five this year which added more than 750 000 oil equivalent barrels per day of working interest production capacity.
More than 90% of these volumes are liquids or liquids linked to LNG.
We are achieving a strong reliability from our projects including more recent startups such as Kizomba Satellites Phase 2 in Angola Hadrian South in the Gulf of Mexico and the Kearl expansion in Canada.
The Papua New Guinea LNG project continues to achieve exceptional results.
From its early startup in 2014 and quick ramp up to full capacity the project has produced nearly 9 million gross tons of high-quality LNG and has delivered more than 125 cargoes to customers.
Now since startup we have progressed low-cost debottlenecking activities to enhance production rates.
Our systematic approach has increased gross capacity of the PNG LNG project from 6.9 million to 7.3 million tons per year.
This is yet another example of ExxonMobil's constant focus on maximizing the value of installed capacity and improving profitability.
Two additional capital-efficient projects were commissioned in September.
In Nigeria Erha North Phase 2 started up five months ahead of schedule and $400 million under budget.
This subsea development ties back to existing infrastructure shown in the photo avoiding the need for another FPSO vessel.
Gross peak production is estimated at 65 000 barrels of oil per day and will increase total Erha North field production to approximately 90 000 barrels per day.
Also in September the first ever subsea compression facility started up at sgard in the Norwegian North Sea at a depth of nearly 1 000 feet.
This is a prime example of developing and applying advanced technologies to unlock previously uneconomic reserves.
At peak the project is expected to add gross production of approximately 40 000 barrels of oil and more than 400 million cubic feet of gas per day.
And finally in Indonesia at the Banyu Urip development startup of the central processing facility is expected by year end enabling gross production to ramp up to more than 200 000 barrels per day.
Moving now to exploration on slide 19 we continue high-grading our 92 billion barrel resource base through new opportunity captures and leveraging the benefits of a softer market as we progress our exploration activities.
Offshore Guyana we are conducting the largest 3-D seismic survey in the company's history to evaluate the resource potential of the 6.6 million acre Stabroek Block.
Additional exploration drilling is planned in the first half of 2016.
Offshore Nigeria we secured interests in two high-potential blocks building upon our 800 000 acre position.
These blocks are adjacent to where we made two discoveries last year.
Future developments could tie back to the nearby Usan FPSO which is operated by ExxonMobil.
And in the U.S.
Permian we acquired rights to 48 000 acres in the core of the Midland Basin adjacent to existing operations.
We have grown our operated portfolio in the basin to over 135 000 net acres from a series of acquisitions during the last two years.
Turning to slide 20 and an update on our downstream business where we are selectively investing to grow higher-value product sales we recently announced the expansion of our hydrocracker unit at the Rotterdam refinery shown in the picture to the left.
The project will utilize ExxonMobil's proprietary hydrocracking technology efficiently producing Group II premium lube-based stocks and ultra-low-sulfur diesel to meet growing market demand.
The Rotterdam refinery is fully integrated with our chemical manufacturing.
The hydrocracker project will increase production of higher-value products and further strengthen the refinery's position as a leader in the European refining industry.
Construction is expected to begin in 2016 with startup projected in 2018.
This project along with recently completed basestock capacity expansions at our Baytown Texas and Singapore refineries will further enhance our position as the world's largest producer of lube-based stocks.
Now in addition to these capacity expansions we are investing across our lubricants value chain.
At our petrochemical complex in Singapore we announced the construction of a new synthetic lubricant blending plant to extend the production of Mobil 1 our flagship synthetic engine oil brand.
This new plant will employ innovative blending technologies drive increased operating efficiency and enable us to support the growing Asian market demand for premium synthetic lubricants.
Startup has been planned in 2017.
Moving now to a discussion of year-to-date cash flow on slide 21 this graphic illustrates the corporation's sources and uses of cash.
Our integrated businesses provided $26 billion of cash flow from operations which supports shareholder distributions and funds our investments.
The scale of these cash flows and our balance sheet strength provide the financial flexibility to invest through the cycle.
Cash flow from operations and asset sales of $27.6 billion funded shareholder distributions and nearly all of our net investments in the business supplemented by a small increase in debt financing.
These investments have attractive financial returns and justify the additional leverage.
Our objective is to pay a reliable and growing dividend directly sharing the corporation's success with our shareholders.
Quarterly dividends per share of $0.73 are up 5.8% versus the third quarter of 2014.
We have also maintained the share buyback program but have prudently tapered it over the past nine months consistent with changes in the business environment and the corporation's cash requirements.
Share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are expected to remain at $500 million in the fourth quarter of 2015.
And finally year to date the corporation has generated $7.4 billion free cash flow reflecting the performance of our integrated businesses and our disciplined capital allocation approach.
So I would now like to conclude this morning's comments with just a summary of our year-to-date performance.
In short the corporation is delivering on its investment and operating commitments.
Through the end of the third quarter ExxonMobil earned $13.4 billion reflecting the benefits of our integrated business model which captures value throughout the cycle as demonstrated by our strong downstream and chemical results.
Upstream production volumes increased to 4 million oil equivalent barrels per day up 2.7% year on year.
Volume contributions from a portfolio of new developments underscore our project execution excellence and reputation as a reliable operator.
We remain on track to achieve our production target of 4.1 million barrels per day for the full year with additional project ramp-up and seasonal gas production increases throughout the fourth quarter.
Solid operating results combined with continued investment and cost discipline generated cash flow from operations and asset sales of $27.6 billion and free cash flow of $7.4 billion.
Our commitment to shareholders remains strong as the corporation distributed $11.5 billion through the end of the third quarter.
So regardless of industry conditions we remain focused on what we control and are driven to create shareholder value through the cycle.
This concludes my prepared remarks and I certainly would be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Woodbury.
Our first question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you everyone.
Good morning Jeff.
Good morning Doug.
A couple one housekeeping and one strategic question if I may.
Just on housekeeping.
This quarter I guess the number that jumped out to us was your tax rate and I'm just trying to understand.
Is that just a mix effect or is there anything thing unusual going on there that we should be aware of? Put another way if we had a sustained low oil price environment I'm guessing we would expect that the tax rate would remain at depressed levels.
Is that fair? Yeah well the tax rate if you think about it from a quarter-on-quarter perspective Doug it's down just shy of 12% and there are two components.
One as you said is the mix effect across our business segments and geographies same as what you've heard from us the prior quarters.
There was also a one-time tax-related item that reduced the tax rate by about 3%.
So we're still consistent with our guidance that assuming the current commodity prices and our existing portfolio mix we would anticipate an effective tax rate between 35% and 40%.
If you unwind the 3% one-time impact in the third quarter that takes you up to 35%.
And if you look at year to date our effective tax rate is about 37%.
So our guidance of 35% to 40% is right on.
To be clear that's a consolidated rate or does that include affiliates? That's just consolidated right? That's consolidated.
Got it okay.
My follow-up is I guess I'm going to go with Guyana.
So one of your partners is suggesting that there's a reasonable potential for an early production system here and I'm just wondering.
Given as operator you're the source of all knowledge so to speak can you give us some idea as to how you're thinking internally about scale opportunity given just the embryonic nature of this whole situation? Although there's an early production system plan and I know there are a lot of embedded questions there.
But the relative importance that Exxon is giving this within your general portfolio in terms of personnel allocation and things of that nature just a broad feel as to how you're thinking about what looks like a fairly interesting area.
I'll leave it there thanks.
Sure Doug.
Let me step back first and just remind you.
The exploration program as a whole is really designed to ensure that we're targeting opportunities that will high-grade our resource portfolio.
As you heard from us earlier this year we're very encouraged with the initial result of Guyana.
As I've said previously Doug and as you seemed to imply we've got one well in an area that's very large 6.6 million acres.
We're very encouraged by the initial results.
As I said in my prepared comments we do have a very active seismic program underway that is informing us as we put together our plans for some drilling activity in the first half.
Obviously we're taking all that information real time and we're incorporating it into our thinking.
But it is really too early for us to share any specific plans.
But rest assured Doug.
We will look at the full range of development options to see how we can best monetize the resource with the objective of achieving optimized return on investment.
Thanks Jeff.
I appreciate the answer.
You bet.
We'll go next to Doug Terreson with Evercore ISI.
Good morning Jeff.
Good morning Doug.
So I have a point of clarification as well.
What was the asset sale that was highlighted on slide six? And was this $500 million after-tax amount included in the operating earnings; that is in the $1.01 per share? So the $500 million from cash flow represents a number of multiple assets.
As we've said historically Doug we have as part of a key component of our business is a very active asset management plan to high-grade our portfolio.
Sure.
So the $500 million positive cash impact really represents many different transactions that occurred over the quarter.
On a quarter-on-quarter basis it was the absence of a trade that we did third quarter of last year.
Okay I see.
And also on capital spending it's running about 20% below last year's level.
And while the gap seems to have narrowed somewhat versus the recent quarters it actually widened versus the first half in the upstream.
So my question is whether or not you could provide some color on the spending trends and also any insight that you may have on the trend for 2016 in light of the pretty significant changes that are being announced by some of your competitors; that is if you have any guidance at this point.
Sure Doug.
I'll say in short that our CapEx guidance has not been changed.
Okay.
We're still saying  have guidance for this year at $34 billion and 2016 and 2017 below $34 billion.
Of course we'll provide an update in the analyst meeting in March.
But as I alluded to last quarter and you see in the savings I talked about year to date we are seeing substantial capital efficiencies on the CapEx side.
We are running lower than our plan and it is reasonable to extrapolate that to a year-end number that will bring us below our $34 billion.
Okay.
And thinking forward Doug I'd also say that those type of efficiencies and improvements that we're capturing including market savings and a stronger U.S.
dollar will be extrapolated forward into the 2016 and 2017 programs.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
You bet.
We'll go next to Brad Heffern with RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning Jeff.
Good morning Brad.
Just following up on the past question obviously you identified $8 billion in cost savings so far.
I'm curious what inning we're in if you will as far as cost savings go.
Do you feel like you've harvested the majority of savings that you expect to have as a result of the downturn or is there a lot more to come? Brad I think just stepping back we are never satisfied with our cost structure.
We are as was clearly mentioned many times we're always working to reduce the structural cost in our business.
So I would never tell you that we're done.
Within the market capture the market benefits we continue to work actively with our service providers to identify innovative lower-cost solutions that end up being win-win solutions outcomes because they know we've got the financial capability to invest if we have the right cost structure and ultimately the right economics.
So we're actively pursuing additional opportunities and our expectation is that we'll continue to drive meaningful improvement in our cost structure while maintaining high operational integrity.
Okay thanks for that.
And then thinking about onshore U.S.
can you talk about the current rig count across your three major basins? There was obviously a big decline last quarter.
Can you talk through how much of  if it's declined further how much of that is just pure efficiencies versus the amount of activity you'd like to have? It's probably both of that.
It's both efficiency as well as an intentional effort to manage our spend given the business climate.
Right now currently we've got running about 32 rigs in our Lower 48 onshore rig activity.
That is down from our peak.
And you know in essence it's down because of the reasons I've already stated and that is we continue to see significant improvements in operational performance cost and productivity.
So while the rig count is down part of that is offset by the improvement in performance.
But the second part of it again is due to a deliberate effort to manage within our means.
Great thank you.
You bet.
We'll go next to Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning Jeff.
Hi Evan.
Just first to follow up on the CapEx on the $8 billion of cost savings year to date can you give us color of the composition in that reduction between capital and cash costs? I thought I heard you say that's in addition to the $4.5 billion step-down from 2014 to 2015.
Yes Evan.
It is in addition to the $4.5 billion.
So the $8 billion is really from our target our CapEx guidance that we had provided.
In terms of the split between CapEx and OpEx generally speaking I'd just tell you it's a little over $1 billion CapEx.
The rest is OpEx cash OpEx.
Got it; that helps as we think about 2016.
And my second question is on LNG.
I know there's a mix in contract durations within your global LNG portfolio and it changes over time as contracts some contracts reopen as had been reported.
But can you quantify the aggregate spot market exposure in your portfolio for Exxon into 2016? I can generally tell you that it's a fairly low component of our portfolio.
Remember our LNG projects continue to be a key component of our portfolio and it is a very important part of our margin generation.
And as you may have heard us say in the past when we go to FID on these big multibillion dollar complex LNG projects we typically contract under long terms our LNG volumes our proved LNG or proved reserves with a very little bit left for spot.
So less than 10% is that a fair assumption? That's a fair assumption.
Great I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Hey Jeff.
Good morning.
Good morning Phil.
Just a quick follow-up on the capital cost reduction number.
Would you say that there has been a significant impact this year to pulling forward any capital spending to take advantage of this environment that as we look ahead to next year you could actually have a good year-over-year benefit from that? Yes clearly the strength of our balance sheet and our ability to continue to invest through the cycle provides an added benefit.
Those projects that are in execution right now coupled with the capability of our global procurement organization to capture market savings allows us to leverage those benefits in the current projects.
Likewise if you rewind a bit to our discussion around the Lower 48 unconventional activity we are taking full advantage of high-grading the services that were provided.
We're very well positioned to advance certain commodity purchases but rest assured we're taking full benefit of the current market climate.
Is there any way to quantify the benefit of pull-forward plus project roll-off? No Phil it's really hard to do that.
The business is very expansive in terms of scope and scale.
A lot of those cost savings vary dramatically between asset and geographic regions.
So it's really difficult for us to go ahead and break that down further.
Okay understood.
And my follow-up question is just on the M&amp;A bid/ask spreads.
Other companies have sounded a bit more upbeat.
I know in the past you've said you think they're too wide still.
So has anything changed there in the past few months? And with respect to how wide they've been for how long has that surprised you at all given where we are in the cycle relative to past cycles? All I can really say about it is as you would envision.
The bid/ask price is really a function of a number of factors obviously including the business climate.
But also what I would tell you is the unique capability and assessment from individual investors.
Certainly as commodity prices remain low it will impact the dynamics.
I really don't have a view to share with respect to where it's going.
I would tell you from our perspective it's business as normal.
As you've heard me say several times Phil this is a key component of our ongoing business not only acquisitions but high-grading our portfolio from divestments.
I would simply just say that any acquisition will have to compete with our diverse inventory of investment opportunities.
Okay.
Thanks Jeff.
Our next question comes from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
Good morning Neil.
Hey Jeff I wanted you to comment a little bit on the downstream here.
And maybe we start off with some of the announced divestments Chalmette and Torrance.
Talk through a little bit of the strategic logic behind divesting those assets and then what we can read if any from how you think about the downstream portfolio as a percentage as the mix of the company.
Sure Neil.
Maybe I can start with just a reminder for the group that as I said a moment ago this is a very important part of our overall business activities the asset management focus.
And from a downstream perspective if you look at the last decade we have divested more than 1 million barrels a day of refining capacity something like 6 000 miles of pipeline and over 200 fuel terminals.
And I start there because it just highlights that we continue to high-grade the portfolio.
And it really talks to our effort towards enhancing our portfolio through identifying appropriate investment opportunities like you're seeing in Rotterdam in Singapore focusing on risk balancing on our portfolio and then pursuing monetization opportunities.
Obviously there are a lot of variables that go into such a decision for the downstream including our large manufacturing footprint in the U.S.
But ultimately the right decision for us was to monetize those assets and to continue to focus our investments on areas that will upgrade our existing portfolio.
Many of our sites being advantaged a lot of those investments focused on things like expanding our feedstock flexibility like you see in our plans to expand the Beaumont refinery like expanding our logistics flexibility like we talked about previously with the Edmonton rail terminal.
Expanding our higher-yield higher-value products which you're seeing with the Rotterdam refinery and the Antwerp refinery.
And underlying all of that is further capturing increased value from our integrated business model.
And then the follow-up question Jeff is a follow-up to Phil's question around M&amp;A.
And as you think about the U.S.
unconventional business you did a tuck-in here of 48 000 acres in the Permian.
Is that the right strategy for Exxon to continue to look for incremental bolt-on acquisitions of acreage that you can tuck into the portfolio under XTO or does larger-scale M&amp;A of U.S.
conventional assets create value at the right price? We think it is the right strategy.
We think everything is available for us to consider.
It will be a full range from our investment activity to the bolt-on acquisitions that you've seen us do here in the Lower 48 unconventional in the last two years to larger-scale acquisitions where fundamentally it keeps on going back to that test.
It has to compete with the investment opportunities that we have in our portfolio.
And if the view is that we can capture additional strategic value and overall our assessment is that we'll capture longer-term accretive performance then it really sets up the stage for something that we'd be interested in.
And remember we keep that financial capability so that we are agile to respond to opportunities that come along.
Makes sense.
Thank you very much Jeff.
Thanks Neil.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Good morning Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Jeff two questions if I may one a quick one just a clarification on the quarter.
Maybe I missed it.
Did you tell us what is the actual asset sales gain on the P&amp;L in this quarter and also whether there's any timing benefit value from the price realization for your downstream? On the first question Paul what I said was there really is  from an earnings impact there's really nothing for us to share.
There's nothing notable across the transactions.
Your second question can you repeat that again? Inc.</span></strong> That's part of the first question is that do you have  typically when you buy crude because of the long haul sometimes when oil price is dropping that you have a price realization benefit on the finalization.
Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Do you have that number you can share with us? Yes so quarter on quarter it's a negative about $100 million.
Sequentially it's negative about $200 million.
Inc.</span></strong> So sequentially it's about $200 million negative.
That's correct.
Inc.</span></strong> A second question is maybe more strategic.
If I look at your portfolio say broadly divide it into deepwater oil sands shale oil and LNG when you look at those buckets can you rank for us that in terms of the attractiveness of future investment within your portfolio on those buckets? In other words which one is weighing the highest and which one is the lowest in your portfolio today? Paul I'd ask you to think about it a little bit differently; that within each one of those resource types there is a range of attractiveness in terms of value.
We may have some very attractive resources in each one of those categories that would compete very effectively with other high-value resources within another bucket.
Quite frankly what's really important here that I'd ask you to think about is that we have a very diverse and deep resource base that we are able to participate in each one of those resource categories.
And within those resource categories we've got very high-value investment opportunities that will effectively compete for allocation of capital.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes that's fair.
Maybe let me ask from another angle then.
Out of the 98 billion barrels of your resource do you have a rough estimate how much of them based on today's technology and the physical term you would be able to generate more than a 10% return under a $60 Brent? On the 92 billion barrel resource base again I'd ask you think about it differently because what the organization does is we will continue to optimize our development alternatives to make sure that we maximize the return on these barrels.
So if we identify a resource that we don't think we can get an attractive return on there will be other means to go ahead and either implement a different development scheme that will reduce the economic risk and improve the return or ultimately we may choose to go ahead and monetize the asset.
So it's a dynamic portfolio that is really working towards getting the greatest value from every barrel.
And then of course we complement that with our application of technology.
I'd just use the unconventionals as a good example about how technology has really increased the value of the unconventional resources.
Another good example is in oil sands how technology is being applied to really improve the profitability and allow us to capture greater value from those resources.
So I think it really speaks to the strengths of ExxonMobil.
We have the knowhow.
We've got the excellence in how we go ahead and do our development planning how we identify value-added real-time technology to enhance our investment choices and then of course leveraging our ability to interface with the resource owners to find the right fiscal environment to go ahead and progress the investments.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay very good.
Thank you.
Okay.
Sam Margolin with Cowen &amp; Company has our next question.
Good morning.
Morning Sam.
So on the last call there was a little bit of inquiry about growth opportunities post this round of guidance in 2018.
It strikes me that sort of U.S.
gas is a really big component of your resource base without pulling much weight in income today and perhaps there's an opportunity for that slug of resource to provide some of that outer year growth.
I was wondering if you could just maybe walk us through your broader views on gas specifically any kind of path you see for that tranche of production to start contributing a little bit more to the overall income profile.
Sure.
Let's start Sam with our energy outlook.
If you think about the energy outlook gas is growing about 1.6% per year.
From an LNG perspective from where we are say 2010 to 2040 we expect LNG demand to triple from current capacity.
So that really sets up if you will the investment case.
And then globally we're very well positioned with gas assets around the globe to participate not only in the domestic market but in the LNG market.
So maybe if I can focus now on just the U.S.
for a moment we have had a constructive view that gas is going to continue to grow in the U.S.
as gas replaces coal for power generation.
Our gas resource base is also significantly underpinning our investment in our petrochemicals.
So our expansion for instance at the Baytown refinery to add ethylene lines 1.5 million tons per annum as well as a concurrent investment at Mont Belvieu to add polyethylene lines in fact metallocene polyethylene will be underpinned by an advantaged feedstock that is U.S.
natural gas.
And then furthermore it also positions us to provide a source for LNG export into the global market.
By way of example we're progressing through a regulatory review of the Golden Pass LNG export facility.
Think of it as a brownfield development because all the original investment associated with the export facility is going to be advantaging that site as we move forward into an export facility.
Okay so that brings me to my follow-up I guess.
How much of your investment evaluation process is geared around integrating some of the resources that you have in place? So for example as you see U.S.
gas here get pressured in the near term from improved economics from unconventional producers would that ever lead you to accelerate your investment in things like ethylene crackers or even U.S.
LNG facilities to promote your own position? I think it's a good question Sam.
Think about it this way; that we will time the investment in gas resource development activities to underpin value chain opportunities that we're pursuing.
That is expansion into petrochemicals.
That would be the LNG export.
We will time those resource development activities to underpin the value chain investments that we're pursuing.
Perfect thank you very much.
Great.
Thanks Sam.
We'll go next to Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Jeff hey.
Good morning.
Question for you a lot of your peers have been recognizing impairments and restructuring charges I guess partially as a function of head count reductions and OpEx reductions and then secondly resetting internal price decks.
I was wondering if you could remind me.
Is there a certain timeline that Exxon uses to reset the internal deck that they're using? And then secondly with some of these operating cost reductions that you're seeing is part of that head count related in which case we may see some restructuring charges? We don't have any plans Blake to have any restructuring charges.
As I said in the prepared comments we have really focused on right-sizing the organization through our history.
Particularly if you reference the merger of Exxon and Mobil to where we are today we're down over 30% in terms of total employees.
So we are constantly right-sizing that organization and identifying additional opportunities to improve the productivity of the organization as a whole.
So we don't anticipate any restructuring charges.
Okay.
And it doesn't sound like there's a timeline on internal price forecasts or anything like that like some companies use the third quarter or something like that.
I'll go back to talking about our  what really informs us is our outlook on supply and demand.
Okay.
Okay the second question for you very briefly a lot of companies are starting to see lower decline rates as a function of increased reliability or some of the longer plateau projects coming online.
This may be a better question for the Analyst Day but I didn't know if you're witnessing the same thing in your portfolio.
Generally speaking if you look at our 10-K we have continued to update our if you will average decline rate over the long term which is still about 3%.
That does not include uplift due to major new project developments.
But we have continued to invest in some very long-life assets that have really very long plateau production rates like Kearl like the LNG investments we've made in Papua New Guinea and in Qatar.
That gives a very strong foundation to our production but importantly a valuable foundation that contributes significant cash flow.
Thanks a lot Jeff.
You bet Blake.
We'll go next to Anish Kapadia with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
International LLP</span></strong> Hi.
My question is going back somewhat to the industry cost-cutting and CapEx cutting that you're seeing and it seems like some other companies are cutting a lot more aggressively than yourselves given the state that some of those companies' balance sheets are in.
I was just wondering.
On the back of that when would you expect that to have some kind of an impact on your non-operated production given that we might see higher decline rates coming through with the lower number of infill wells being drilled less tie-backs being put into place as projects get canceled? Anish that's a hard one to answer in terms of what others are going to do that results in volume impacts on our non-operated.
Recognize that a large part of our portfolio is driven by long-life investments.
These are multi-decade investments that are generating volumes over the long term.
Granted there is a material component that's much more shorter-cycle investments and we have seen some of the assets where we are not the operator the activity drop off significantly because of weaker balance sheets.
Of course that may present an opportunity for us.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
International LLP</span></strong> Okay thank you.
My second question was on your U.S.
gas production.
It seems like it's been fairly weak this quarter.
It's down around 9% year over year.
I think you had some benefit with Hadrian coming onstream.
I'm just wondering in terms of that trend and that decline rate.
Can you just give some kind of outlook of how you see your U.S.
gas production progressing especially in the current oil and gas price environment and how you expect the gas price environment to evolve? What does that mean for your U.S.
gas production? Thank you.
A large part  I will remind you that a large part of our gas is coming from our unconventional resources.
We are the largest gas producer in the U.S.
We have not been investing in drilling activity here very significantly primarily given the outlook for near-term gas demand.
And as I said earlier we're going to pace the investment program consistent with expected demand growth for conversion from coal to natural gas in power gen the investment in petrochemicals the regulatory approvals needed in order to export that gas and compete in the LNG market.
Unfortunately given certain regulatory restrictions in the U.S.
that does slow down the investment opportunities and I think it really points to the opportunity the U.S.
has to more actively participate in the global market.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
International LLP</span></strong> That's great.
Thank you.
You bet.
Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank has our next question.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
Maybe I can do one higher-level one first.
If we think about project sanctions and your investment in long-cycle projects right now where do you think you are in the deferral or reinvestment process? Have you seen costs come down to a level at this point on long-cycle projects where you feel like it's time to reaccelerate investment? Have you not deferred much in your view at this point? Or probably I guess what have you seen on FIDs? What FIDs could you expect going forward or do you think that costs need to come down further for you to get reengaged? Ryan I guess I would tell you that we haven't disengaged.
We've maintained an active investment program.
In addition to the 32 major upstream projects that I've talked about and then the financial  FID decisions that we've taken on some of our downstream and chemical projects we've given you some line of sight on the next tranche of upstream investment opportunities that are currently in various stages of either development planning or even in the early stages of pre-engineering if you will.
It gives you a sense for what we're working on.
I want to remind you that we are capturing real-time benefits through capital efficiency in our investment program.
Those are structural improvements that we're capturing.
Yes there are market improvements that we're experiencing as well.
But as we make the investment decisions we test those investments across a very wide range of prices including commodity prices and that's well within the current price environment.
So the investments are very robust resilient to a number of factors that can significantly influence them and that positions us very well to continue a continuous investment program not get the inefficiencies of the stop and the starts obviously underpinned by our financial capability and allows us to further capture economic uplift in the current market climate.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks that's helpful and then maybe if I could ask one more specific one.
On the last quarter you provided a little bit more granular production levels on some of your onshore assets where they were in the quarter in the Permian the Bakken the Woodford.
Would you be willing to say what those assets produced in the third quarter and maybe what your Midland Basin acreage is up to at this point? So the Midland Basin acreage as I said in the prepared comments we're up to 135 000 net acres.
In terms of production or total gross operated production from the Permian Bakken and Woodford is just shy of 250 000 barrels a day.
Bakken is leading that at over 100 000 barrels a day.
Permian is approaching 100 000 barrels a day and the rest is in the Woodford.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thank you.
You bet.
We'll go next to Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Okay.
It's getting to the top of the hour so I'll leave my contentious one for the second question.
First one you mentioned you picked up extra acreage in Nigeria.
Any signs that Nigeria is moving forward in terms of changing terms to get those attractive reservoirs actually development-flowing? I think there's a clear recognition that there are some opportunities to stimulate further investment technology application within the country.
And I think there's an earnest effort to try to put in place the right investment climate.
There is significant opportunity in Nigeria.
And as we said in the prepared comments we're encouraged by the exploration results that we've had.
But we're just going to have to wait and see where it moves.
There are a lot of issues that they're dealing with and we've got to be patient but we've got make sure that we weigh in.
But in short I'd tell you that we're encouraged by the new government and where they're heading.
And this is a small but potentially contentious issue.
Just I saw Asia gas volumes down and I hear that Petronet in India is rejecting cargoes or at least low on the take-or-pay commitments.
Just maybe talk through it's probably just a timing issue in terms of how that might affect volumes.
But talk through about any issues with Asia gas that we should be aware of just for modeling.
I guess what you're referring to is on Asia gas that we're down sequentially.
That's primarily due to some entitlement impacts associated with some quarterly true-ups as well as some decline in other impacts.
With respect to LNG contracts they're confidential as you can appreciate.
As I said earlier all of our contracts are based on a longer time horizon.
We've got various elements within the contracts to give us and the buyer some flexibility but there's really nothing more to share beyond that.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
Hi Jeff.
Good morning Paul.
Jeff I think when we met midyear you were saying there hadn't been a major upstream FID this year.
At the same time I'm seeing that you're consistently losing money in the U.S.
C&amp;P.
The two one is obviously long cycle; the other is short cycle.
I was wondering in the short cycle case why you seem to be maintaining very high levels of activity when you've got nearly a $0.5 billion loss here and whether or not that's a function of perhaps oil profits being offset by natural gas losses or if I'm missing something about the breakdown of that loss.
Thanks.
So let me give you a perspective of the upstream U.S.
business.
Paul all of our assets are managed to maximize returns through the lifecycle which is obviously on a longer time horizon than the current price environment.
As you've heard me say before we really focus on those things that we control like integrity reliability productivity importantly our development and operating costs making sure that we've got operational flexibility and as you've heard the downstream side the pursuit of higher-value product yields.
I'd say that importantly we invest in attractive opportunities through the cycle that will further enhance the profitability and capture savings in the soft market.
And as I've said before the current investment program that we have underway in the U.S.
portfolio is attractive in this price environment.
I'll also...
Based on the assumption that oil prices are higher in the future? No not at all.
So I'll remind you...
Based on the assumptions that efficiency gains will make it profitable in the future? Based on factual current data that we've got and how we manage the portfolio as well as the existing operations.
I guess what I'm looking at is maybe $0.5 billion dollar loss in U.S.
C&amp;P.
Right.
Will that become profitable in due course at these prices? Again we manage the business over a longer time horizon.
And to be clear our U.S.
upstream portfolio continues to generate positive cash flow.
Okay so it's positive cash.
So what's the problem with the earnings then? Again Paul we manage the business over the longer time horizon.
And we'll continue to do what we do very well and manage the things that we control continue to work on the operating costs and the reliability.
Yes I understand.
I'm just slightly digging around just because it's been a fairly consistent loss.
And because it's short cycle I think that's what I'm really driving at.
I would have thought that it's a short cycle business therefore the short-term performance might be better.
The increase in the loss in the third quarter was primarily driven by another reduction in crude realizations that we all experienced as well as some additional downtime and maintenance.
Got it.
Okay thanks Jeff.
I'll leave it there thank you.
All right.
We'll go next to Jason Gammel with Jefferies.
Thank you.
We're getting pretty long on the call so I'm just going to keep it to one and hopefully be fairly quick.
Jeff can you confirm that the Iraqi government has asked you to slow investment at the West Qurna project? And can you comment whether you're now at peak capacity in Phase 1 of the project and whether you'll be able to hold that level if you're not investing? On the first point Jason I really can't talk about discussions between us and the government.
Production has remained above about 400 000 barrels a day in the third quarter with continued pressure support and that has grown over the recent past.
And do you expect that you'll be able to hold it at that level? It will be our intent to maintain production levels.
Obviously that's going to require continued investment and pressure maintenance.
Got it thank you.
Roger Read with Wells Fargo has our next question.
Yeah thanks good morning.
Good morning Roger.
I guess maybe following one of the questions earlier from Ed as you look at other countries where maybe they're becoming a little more reasonable whether it's your tax structure royalty structure PSCs et cetera we've seen Canada raise taxes.
We've had Nigeria stuck in neutral for a number of years.
As you look across the rest of the globe are there any places where we're seeing some adjustments from a political standpoint that might make things more attractive over the next couple of years? I think if you look at the globe across the full value chain for the energy sector I would point to the progress being made in a number of places.
One place is Mexico.
Mexico has made significant progress opening up the door to investment.
You think about some opportunities in West Africa that have opened up East Africa.
Now of course when you open up a new area there are a lot of other issues we've got to deal with because there's limited infrastructure perhaps not a well established fiscal basis so it does take more time.
But nonetheless I would tell you from an encouraging foreign investment that there's been some pretty good progress out there that's increased the amount of opportunities that we've got before us.
Okay.
And as a follow-up to that you mentioned earlier in the M&amp;A discussion that it had to compete with your internal opportunities.
As you look at maybe a changing dynamic internationally and your exploration spending because I think of that as having to compete with the M&amp;A side given the uncertainties and the longer timeframe how is exploration spending keeping up with the overall spending reductions adjusted for efficiencies and all that? Is it going to remain a similar percentage of total CapEx? Does it need to decline in this environment? Just curious which direction you're going to go there.
Think about it as being more opportunity-driven.
It's a function of the opportunities the maturity of our resource assessments and the appropriate timing to make the investment within our obligations to the resource owner.
No percentages? Nothing to quantify it's a very large and extensive resource base that we're pursuing.
But I will again remind you that it's solely focused on how it can high-grade our existing portfolio.
So after we've done the assessments and we have a better handle on what the prospect potential is it's got to be able to compete before we'd be spending more money there.
All right appreciate it.
Thank you.
Okay.
We'll go next to John Herrlin with Socit Gnrale.
Yeah hi two quick ones.
How's Kearl going? Well thanks for asking John.
Kearl is moving along very nicely.
As you heard we got the Kearl expansion started up ahead of schedule.
All the learnings have been fully integrated into the expansion project.
It's ramping up quicker than initial development.
And through the quarter we produced in excess of 180 000 barrels a day gross.
And I'll tell you that we have produced over the 220 000 barrels a day design.
Okay great.
Next one and last one for me is you're seeing a lot of your IOC brethren reduce their risk profiles.
I think other people were getting at this.
Are you at all worried in terms of your global portfolio or the world as a global portfolio of having fewer potential partners for these large-scale projects going forward or is this an advantage because you execute well? I think a couple thoughts there.
One is is that clearly we're in the risk management business.
There's a lot of risks that we deal with one of them being the geopolitical risks another one being the economic risks associated with many multiyear investment programs on these big multibillion dollar investments.
I wouldn't say that we're seeing a back-off on interest by our typical partners in these type of investments.
I would say that there's clearly a desire for us to continue to be in a leadership role in a lot of these big investments.
We think we've demonstrated our credibility and I think that plays well not only with the resource owner but with the industry as a whole.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
All right John.
Our final question today comes from Guy Baber with Simmons.
Good morning Jeff.
Thanks for fitting me in here.
You bet Guy.
I wanted to talk a little bit about North America unconventional.
But you've highlighted efficiency gains this year have been significant and the benefits from technology improvement.
You obviously have a broad perspective across various plays in the Bakken Woodford Permian and your gas plays.
So could you just talk a little bit about which specific play you see the greatest potential for continued efficiency gains and technology application? Really just trying to get some differentiated thoughts by play in the U.S.
in terms of what the current view might be and maybe how that's evolved over the last year or so.
It's a really good question Guy in particularly the way you ended your question because it has truly evolved over the last several years.
Our prominent acreage holdings are in the Bakken Permian and the Woodford.
I would tell you that we're very very excited about all those opportunities.
Clearly the Bakken is more advanced in terms of its development although I would also say that we continue to capture additional cost and productivity improvements in the Bakken.
The Permian has got multiple reservoir objectives and I think that presents a unique opportunity to further optimize the value probably more so than the Bakken.
And the Woodford is very early stages and it's really hard to compare and contrast at this point.
But in summary rather than saying one is better than the other I'd tell you that they're all very exciting.
They're all a very important part of our portfolio and have significant value uplift potential for us in the future.
Okay.
Great Jeff and then last one for me.
The international downstream business performance was very impressive obviously but you earned more this quarter than all of last year combined.
Can you talk about the fundamental margin outlook going forward for refining particularly internationally? We've been surprised by the strength of that market this year.
And maybe the same for chemicals just given those businesses have done such a tremendous job this year of offsetting the weakness in oil prices so it's important.
Yeah.
Well as you know broadly speaking refining margins are really a function of product demand and available refining capacity not only new capacity adds but also rationalization of capacity in regions that have excess capacity.
We do not provide a forward look on margins.
But I would say that particularly in the non-U.S.
you've seen really good strength in Europe Asia very similar to the U.S.
driven by Mogas.
I think the results really underscore the strength of our integrated portfolio.
Thanks for the comments Jeff.
Okay.
With no further questions in the queue I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Woodbury for any additional or closing remarks.
To conclude I again thank you all for your time and your questions a very interesting period right now.
I think you can see from ExxonMobil's performance that we continue to meet both our operating and our investment commitments.
We are very focused on the fundamentals.
We have always been focused on the fundamentals and we have seen that as being a very important element on the success of this corporation.
So thanks for your questions this morning and we do appreciate your interest in ExxonMobil.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
Good day everyone and welcome to this Exxon Mobil Corporation Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations and Secretary Mr.
Jeff Woodbury.
Please go ahead.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</strong> Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen good morning and welcome to Exxon Mobil's fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings call.
My comments this morning will refer to the slides that are available through the Investors section of our website.
Before we go further I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement shown on slide two.
Now turning to slide three let me begin by summarizing the key headlines of our performance.
Exxon Mobil generated full year earnings of $16.2 billion and fourth quarter earnings of $2.8 billion.
These results reflect proven strategies that we've consistently applied for decades along with a relentless focus on the business fundamentals including project execution and effective cost management.
While our Upstream financial results reflect the challenging business environment stronger performance in our Downstream and Chemical segments highlights the resilience of our integrated businesses.
Exxon Mobil completed six major Upstream projects during the year.
These new developments in Canada Indonesia Norway the United States and West Africa added 300 000 oil equivalent barrels per day of working interest production capacity and contributed 3.2% volumes growth.
Strong operating performance of the base portfolio along with these project efficients delivered full year production of 4.1 million oil equivalent barrels per day consistent with our plans.
The corporation's 2015 cash flow from operations and asset sales were $32.7 billion with positive free cash flow of $6.5 billion despite sharply lower crude oil and natural gas prices.
Moving to slide four we provide an overview of some of the external factors affecting our results.
Global economic growth continued to slow during the fourth quarter across nearly all major economies.
In the US estimates show growth softening further since the third quarter.
In Asia China continued to decelerate with significant volatility in the financial sector.
And Japan experienced ongoing economic weakness whereas Europe's economy remained stable with continued tempered growth.
Crude oil prices extended declines on global oversupply conditions and natural gas prices moved lower reflecting unseasonably warm weather through the quarter.
Furthermore global refining and chemical margins weakened due to lower seasonal fuels demand and decreased chemical realizations.
Turning now to the financial results shown on slide five.
As indicated fourth quarter earnings were $2.8 billion or $0.67 per share.
Corporation distributed $3.6 billion to shareholders in the quarter through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
Of that total $500 million was used to purchase shares.
CapEx was $7.4 billion down more than $3 billion from our fourth quarter of 2014.
As a result of ongoing capital efficiencies market savings reduced activity and timely project delivery.
Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $5.1 billion and at the end of the quarter cash totaled $3.7 billion and debt was $38.7 billion.
The next slide provides more detail on sources and uses of cash.
Total for the quarter cash decreased from $4.3 billion to $3.7 billion.
Earnings adjusted for depreciation expense changes in working capital and other items and our ongoing asset management program yielded $5.1 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
The cash decrease from working capital changes includes both normal seasonality as well as the effect of the decline in crude prices on account balances and receivables and payables.
Uses included net investments in the business of $6 billion and shareholder distributions of $3.6 billion.
Cash flows were balanced over the quarter by increasing short-term borrowing by about $4 billion.
Moving on to slide seven for a review of our segmented results.
Exxon Mobil's fourth quarter earnings decreased $3.8 billion from a year ago quarter though our Upstream earnings were partially offset by stronger Downstream results whereas decreased Chemical earnings were mostly offset by lower corporate and financing costs.
In the sequential comparison shown on slide eight earnings decreased $1.5 billion due to lower earnings across all business segments.
On average corporate and financing expenses are anticipated to be $500 million to $700 million per quarter over the next year to two years.
Turning now to the Upstream financial and operating results starting on slide nine.
Fourth quarter Upstream earnings were $857 million down $4.6 billion from a year ago quarter.
Sharply lower commodity prices reduced earnings by more than $3.7 billion.
Crude realizations declined more than $30 per barrel and gas was down $2.76 per thousand cubic feet.
Favorable volume and mix effects increased earnings by $100 million.
Volume additions from new developments were partly offset by regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands.
All other items decreased earnings by $960 million reflecting the absence of prior year impacts including US deferred income tax effects and the recognition of a favorable arbitration ruling for expropriated assets in Venezuela.
These were partially offset by lower operating costs.
Moving to slide 10.
Oil equivalent production increased 194 000 barrels per day or 4.8% compared to a year ago quarter.
Liquids production was up almost 300 000 barrels per day or nearly 14% where ramp-up of new development projects work programs and entitlement effects were partly offset by field decline.
Natural gas production decreased about 630 million cubic feet per day due to regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands and field decline partially offset by entitlement effects and development project volumes.
Turning now to the sequential comparison starting on slide 11.
Upstream earnings decreased about $500 million from the third quarter.
Lower realizations reduced earnings $840 million where crude prices were about $8 per barrel lower than the third quarter and natural gas prices were down $0.40 per thousand cubic feet.
Volume and mix effects increased earnings $250 million reflecting new project and work program growth along with higher seasonal demand.
All other items added $90 million driven by tax impacts.
Upstream unit profitability for the fourth quarter was $2.26 per barrel excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes.
Moving to slide 12.
Sequentially volumes increased 330 000 oil equivalent barrels per day or 8.4%.
Liquid production was up 150 000 barrels per day reflecting new project growth work programs and entitlement effects.
Natural gas production was 1.1 billion cubic feet per day higher in the third quarter driven by stronger seasonal demand in Europe entitlement effects and new project start-ups.
Moving now to the Downstream financial and operating results starting on slide 13.
Downstream earnings for the quarter were $1.4 billion up $854 million compared to the year ago quarter.
Stronger margins and favorable volumes mix improved earnings by $610 million and $70 million respectively.
All other items increased earnings $170 million primarily driven by reduced maintenance activities and favorable foreign exchange and tax effects partly offset by unfavorable inventory impacts.
Turning to slide 14.
Sequentially Downstream earnings decreased $682 million as lower margins reduced earnings by $860 million.
Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $60 million reflecting lower US maintenance.
Other items improved earnings by $120 million primarily due to higher gains from asset sales partially offset by unfavorable inventory effects.
Moving now to the Chemical financial and operating results starting on slide 15.
Fourth quarter Chemical earnings were $963 million down $264 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
Weaker margins decreased earnings by $210 million while favorable volumes and mix effects added $170 million due to lower maintenance.
All other items decreased earnings by $230 million largely due to unfavorable foreign exchange inventory and tax effects.
Moving to slide 16.
Chemical earnings were down $264 million sequentially.
Weaker margins reduced earnings by $190 million while favorable volumes mix added $80 million.
Other items decreased earnings $160 million primarily reflecting increased maintenance activities.
Turning now to the full year financial results starting on slide 17.
Now as I mentioned earnings were $16.2 billion or $3.85 per share.
Corporation distributed over $15 billion to shareholders through dividends and share purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
And of that total $3 billion was used to purchase shares.
CapEx totaled about $31 billion for the year a reduction of almost $7.5 billion or 19% versus 2014 and approximately $3 billion below our plans for 2015.
Cash flow from operations and asset sales was $32.7 billion.
Turning to slide 18 cash decreased from $4.7 billion to $3.7 billion during the year.
Earnings adjusted for depreciation expense changes in working capital and other items and our ongoing asset management program resulted in $32.7 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales.
Uses included net investments of $26.2 billion and shareholder distributions of $15 billion.
Debt and other financing items provided $7.6 billion in the year.
Moving to slide 19 graphic illustrates the corporation's sources and uses of cash during the year and highlights our ability to meet our financial objectives.
Cash flow from operations and asset sales of $32.7 billion funded shareholder distributions and most of our net investments in the business supplemented by an increase in debt financing.
The investments we select have attractive financial returns and justify the moderate use of our strong balance sheet capacity.
The scale and integrated nature of our cash flows along with our financial strength provide us the flexibility and confidence to invest through the commodity price cycle to meet long-term energy demand.
Corporation has continued to pay a reliable and growing dividend directly sharing the corporation's success with our shareholders.
Total dividends per share $2.88 are up 6.7% versus 2014.
As you know we prudently tapered the share buyback program during 2015 consistent with changes in the business environment and the corporation's cash requirements.
In the first quarter of 2016 Exxon Mobil will limit share purchases to amounts needed to offset dilution related to our benefit plans and programs and we do not plan on making additional purchases to reduce shares outstanding.
During 2015 Exxon Mobil generated $6.5 billion of free cash flow reflecting our cost and capital discipline and the resilience of our integrated business model.
Looking forward we anticipate capital and exploration expenditures to be $23.2 billion in 2016 a decrease of almost $8 billion or 25% from 2015.
So to summarize this slide the corporation finished the year with positive free cash flow.
We have significantly lowered our capital spending plans and are aggressively pursuing operating efficiencies and cost savings as we continue to ramp up production from our major projects all of which will support cash flow moving forward.
We will provide further details on investment plans at our upcoming analyst meeting.
Moving now to slide 20 and a review of our full year segmented results 2015 earnings decreased $16.4 billion as weaker Upstream results were partially offset by stronger Downstream performance and lower corporate costs.
Turning now to the full year comparison of Upstream results starting on slide 21.
Upstream earnings of $7.1 billion were $20.4 billion lower than 2014.
Realizations reduced earnings by $18.8 billion as crude oil prices declined more than $45 per barrel and natural gas dropped about $2.50 per thousand cubic feet.
Favorable volume mix effects increased earnings $810 million where contributions from major project startups over the last couple of years as well as our work program activities were partially offset by the impact of regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands and field decline.
All other items decreased earnings by $2.4 billion.
Lower gains on asset sales and absence of prior year deferred income tax effects were partly offset by lower operating expenses.
Upstream unit profitability for the year was $4.89 per barrel excluding the impact of non-controlling interest volumes.
This reflects significantly lower commodity prices partially offset by asset high-grading including the startup of new development projects.
Moving to slide 22.
As indicated volumes ended the year at 4.1 million oil equivalent barrels per day up 3.2% compared to last year.
Liquids production was up 234 000 barrels per day or 11% benefiting from major projects in several countries work programs and entitlement impacts which were partly offset by field decline.
Natural gas production however was down 630 million cubic feet per day as regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands and field decline were partly offset by additional major project volumes in Papua New Guinea and the US along with higher entitlements.
Full year comparison for Downstream results is shown on slide 23.
Earnings were $6.6 billion an increase of $3.5 billion from 2014.
Stronger refining and marketing margins increased earnings by $4.1 billion.
Volume and mix effects mainly driven by increased maintenance reduced earnings by $200 million.
All other items decreased earnings by $420 million while reflecting higher maintenance activities and unfavorable inventory impacts partly offset by favorable foreign exchange effects.
On slide 24 we show the full year comparison for Chemical results.
2015 earnings were $4.4 billion up $103 million from 2014.
Stronger margins increased earnings $590 million while favorable volumes mix added $220 million due to lower maintenance.
Other items reduced earnings $710 million reflecting unfavorable foreign exchange tax and inventory effects partly offset by asset management gains.
Moving next to an update on our Upstream project activities.
We continue to deliver on our investment plans which are adding higher value production capacity to meet long-term demand growth.
Fixed major project startups in 2015 added nearly 300 000 oil equivalent barrels per day of working interest capacity.
We also progressed development of our high quality acreage in the Permian and Bakken at a measured pace where drilling programs added 85 000 oil equivalent barrels per day of gross production in 2015.
In the fourth quarter the Banyu Urip central processing facility successfully started up.
Current gross production is 150 000 barrels per day and continues to ramp up towards full capacity as we optimize both well and facility performance.
Looking forward construction activities continue to progress on 10 major projects that will come online over the next two years.
We expect to start up six of those in 2016 which will add more than 250 000 barrels per day of working interest production capacity.
Moving now to slide 26.
We continued to execute a paced and focused exploration program to deliver accretive value to Exxon Mobil's asset portfolio while capturing cost efficiencies in today's softer market.
In offshore Guyana the largest 3D seismic survey in the company's history is nearly complete and we will begin appraising the Liza discovery during the first quarter.
We also acquired a 35% interest in operatorship of the Canje block which is adjacent to the Stabroek Block adding over 520 000 net acres.
In the Romanian Black Sea Exxon Mobil has completed exploration activities in the Neptun block after successfully drilling seven consecutive wells since July 2014.
Based on the results of the program including a successful well test of the Domino prospect we are advancing detailed development planning and economic viability studies.
And in Argentina we are beginning a production pilot program on the La Invernada and Bajo del Choique blocks in the Neuqun province.
Program consists of five wells along with construction of production facilities and a gas pipeline.
Over the past few months we have also added high potential acreage to our diverse portfolio.
Exxon Mobil acquired a 35% interest in Block 14 offshore Uruguay capturing almost 580 000 net acres.
In Canada we were awarded interests in three blocks offshore Newfoundland and Labrador adding over 650 000 net acres.
These blocks are in a proven oil-prone hydrocarbon basin with recent industry discoveries.
And this new opportunity will build on our 18 years of success in Eastern Canada with Hibernia Terra Nova and the ongoing development at Hebron.
And in Western Canada we acquired additional working interest in our currently producing Duvernay acreage adding 10 000 net acres.
So I'd now like to conclude today's comments with a summary of our 2015 performance which demonstrates the resilience of our integrated business.
Exxon Mobil earned $16.2 billion underpinned by the benefits of our integrated business model which captures value through the cycle as demonstrated by our strong Downstream and Chemical results.
Corporation achieved its full year plan to produce 4.1 million oil equivalent barrels per day.
Volume contributions from a portfolio of new developments underscore our project execution excellence and reputation as a reliable operator.
Our results also reflect a relentless focus to reduce costs.
In 2015 we achieved about $11.5 billion in capital and cash operating cost reductions.
Solid operating performance combined with continued investment and cost discipline generated cash flow from operations and asset sales of $32.7 billion and positive free cash flow of $6.5 billion.
Our commitment to shareholders remain strong as demonstrated by our reliable and growing dividend.
So regardless of industry conditions we remain focused on what we can control and are driven to create shareholder value through the cycle.
And we will discuss our forward plans in more detail at our upcoming analyst meeting which will take place at the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday March 2 with the live webcast beginning at 9 a.m.
Eastern Time.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I would now be happy to take your questions.
Thank you Mr.
Woodbury.
And we'll go first to Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Good morning Jeff.
Good morning everybody.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Good morning Doug.
Jeff the CapEx cut is pretty material.
I wonder if you could help us reconcile Exxon's view of spending through the cycle with the extent of the cut and maybe give us some idea as to maybe just to clarify two things.
Where is really a function of the slowdown in E&amp;P spending? I mean it was already underway and does it still include the minority affiliate contribution? And I've got a follow-up please.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah yeah.
Doug first let me start with your second question first.
The CapEx guidance that we've provided for 2016 of $23.2 billion is all in.
It includes consolidated and equity companies and it compares directly with the $31.1 billion that we spent in 2015.
To answer your first question I'd first like to say that as I said in my prepared comments we were down in the year in 2015 both from 2014 performance as well as our planned guidance in 2015.
And that was primarily a continued focus on capital efficiencies market savings and a soft business climate.
There was reduced activity and then importantly timely project delivery.
If you think about 2016 it's more of the same.
It reflects prudent cash management and our continued investment through the cycle in attractive high-quality opportunities that we believe will generate long-term shareholder value.
The short of it is that we're going to continue to live within our means.
We're going maintain financial flexibility.
And we've got as you've heard us talk in the past we've got very diverse high-quality inventory investment opportunities that will continue to progress.
Thanks Jeff.
So yeah I assume that was one question with a couple of parts to it.
So my follow-up is I realize you've been fairly tight-lipped on Guyana to date.
Obviously this is a big acreage that you've had.
And there's my understanding is Fugro has already started the subsea survey which suggests that there's and early production system scheme underway.
Can you just give us a general update as to where things stand in Guyana whether there is indeed an early production system target on how you see the overall scale of the opportunity to the extent you can chat about that at this point? Thanks.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah thanks Doug.
I clearly understand the industry interest in the discovery.
As we said at the time of discovery we're very encouraged with the initial results recognizing that we only have one well in a very very large block over 6.5 million acres.
We have since the discovery moved quickly to get a drill ship contracted and onsite to appraise the discovery and we expect that to spud very shortly.
As I said the seismic acquisition is nearing completion.
The results from both the well as well as the seismic are being actively assessed to assess the full block potential as well as the commercial viability of the Liza discovery.
Obviously the objective of the first well is an appraisal well in Liza and it's intended to give us important information to size the resource as well as get a test on it to assess the key variables associated with the commercial viability.
So I would tell you that there are early studies underway on potential development options for the field but I don't have anything more to share on that.
Thanks a lot Jeff.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> You're welcome.
We'll go next to Sam Margolin with Cowen &amp; Company.
Good morning.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Good morning Sam.
In the press release you called out some of the project startups and what seemed like a net overall favorable mix effect on income.
I think that maybe Western Canada is included in the startups but not maybe a contributor to mix income enhancements.
Can you talk about Western Canada kind of the heavy levels of pressure we're seeing on heavy oil out there? And maybe frame an outlook for us.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah sure.
I mean no doubt profitability is compressed in this price environment.
As I had said before we remain very focused on the fundamentals.
And I'd tell you that the team there in Canada have done just an exceptional job in driving the cost structure down and enhancing reliability.
We are not by any means where we want to be.
In fact I would tell you that we're never satisfied with the status quo.
We will continue to work that recognizing that we feel very good about the resource potential not only in Kearl but in Western Canada in our portfolio.
We think that over the long term the asset's going be a high value.
The focus is around maintaining cash profit and maximizing long-term value in the asset.
Thank you.
And it's sort of on the other end of the same spectrum I guess is LNG which is considered by many investors to be cost prohibitive but actually has a pretty low overhead once it's operating.
Can you help us understand how that contributed this quarter and through the year specifically with PNG and some of the positive income contributions there.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Sure.
I mean Sam it's a great question.
Because LNG clearly is a key component of our portfolio and it is an important part of our margin generation.
Remember we're constructive on long-term demand.
For gas as you just saw the recent update on our energy outlook we got gas growing about 1.6% per year.
LNG is anticipated to triple between now and 2040.
So we're very well poised to participate in that demand growth over the long term.
I will tell you that for let's use PNG as a really good example.
The initial design basis of PNG was about 6.9 million tons per annum.
As we said in the third quarter the organization did a exceptional job in doing what we do very well and that is getting more out of the asset.
And we were able to get it up to in excess of 7.4 million tons per annum which has been just a phenomenal result.
And we're still going.
So it's a good example of how we really continue to manage the existing assets to reduce the cost structure and improve operational reliability to maximize long-term asset value.
Very helpful.
Thank you so much.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> You bet Sam.
We'll go next to Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Hey Jeff good morning.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Good morning Phil.
First question is just kind of a bigger picture macro question.
Obviously pricing has been tough across all end markets oil natural gas LNG.
And I'm just curious if you see a fundamental supply/demand improvement happening in any one particular market versus another over the next year or two.
So for example do you see oil recovering faster than natural gas or anything else along those lines? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah so I guess I'd say that we're price takers.
And we manage the business to create margin through self help.
We have built this business to ensure that it's durable in a low price environment.
And then any upside from that is additional return on the investment.
So the organization is very focused on really managing the fundamentals.
As I indicated we're for both gas and oil.
We're constructive on long-term demand growth and is the fundamental basis for the investment decisions that we've put in place.
And if you look near-term demand's been growing about 1 million barrels per day per year.
And although supply has been growing at a higher rate we certainly have I mean the first half of this year we're about 1.5 million barrels a day in excess of demand.
We expect that to converge in the second half as seasonal demand increases.
We got to come in balance like we have seen historically.
We do have a bit of a buildup in crude storage that will have to be worked off before you see real growth in prices.
But ultimately we're going to manage wherever we are in the price cycle to create margin by focusing on the fundamentals.
Same story around LNG.
As I said previously that we're very constructive on where LNG demand is going to go over from now to 2040.
Okay.
Understood.
The second question is just on the capital spending guidance.
Thanks for giving us the preview ahead of the Analyst Day.
I guess what I was wondering was year over year how much of that you might attribute to project roll-off or deflationary benefits versus a reduction in activity.
And just in general you came in under the 2015 budget as you said.
How much flexibility is there do you think relative to the guidance number versus that being kind of the lowest you could go? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah Phil I don't have specific numbers to quote with you.
I mean and as I said we'll talk more about our investment plans and our thoughts on volumes next month in the analyst meeting.
But a couple things to share with you.
Clearly our peak was back in 2013 at about $42.5 billion.
The drop from 2013 to 2014 was primarily a result of a drop-off on this very significant major project load that we decided to take on.
Obviously in every year we are working on capital efficiency opportunities to build into our spend pattern.
As we go forward I would tell you right now most of the drop is associated with the prudent cash management that we've got.
It's not indicative of the quality of the portfolio.
As I've said previously our portfolio is very deep and diverse across the Upstream Downstream and Chemical business.
Some of the activity that we've slowed down really provides us an opportunity to rethink near-term investments and really fully capture the market benefits going forward.
But short of that I really don't have any more specifics to share as to breaking the CapEx spend down further.
We'll continue to live within our means as we've shown historically and if we need be we'll have to tighten up if we have to further.
So you see some additional flexibility even relative to this guidance? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> We've got flexibility both ways.
Okay.
Thanks.
We'll go next to Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Hey good day.
Good morning Jeff.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Good morning Evan.
Exxon's unique relatively unique in its ability and dedication to counter-cyclically spend.
Can you discuss the decision to cut the buyback in that context and is that reduction any reflection on relative attractiveness of the portfolio value of the stock or a weaker macro outlook? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> No I mean we've got a very as I said a very deep and diverse portfolio.
Much of that investment could be moved forward in today's environment but as I indicated we have a real opportunity to go ahead and rethink some of those expenditure patterns and capture more value from those investments.
So the decision to cut the buyback doesn't at all reflect the quality of the inventory.
Quite the contrary.
I mean the inventory is very robust.
The decision on the buyback as we've said before our capital allocation approach is really focused on the dual priority of funding attractive investments and continuing to provide a reliable and growing dividend and the share buybacks have always been the flexible part of our capital allocation program.
As we continue to progress in a very challenging business climate you saw us prudently taper back the buyback program.
We will continue to evaluate the buyback program on a quarterly basis depending on changes in the business as well as the investment climate and advise on a quarterly basis when we think it's when it's appropriate.
Great.
Maybe if I can shift gears into the US.
You're currently running I think seven rigs in the Bakken and eight rigs in the Permian.
I mean maybe particularly in the Bakken what's the driver of continued activity at current prices? I mean are those economic wells or are you preserving efficiencies for an ultimate reacceleration? And maybe the same question for the Permian yet that might be kind of HBP driven.
Any color would be helpful.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah Evan it's a good question because we have a very extensive well inventory in our unconventional business particularly in the liquids plays the Permian Bakken and the Woodford Ardmore.
Once again it's a conscious decision to be measured in our investment program.
When we saw the big ramp-up in rigs back in 2014 2015 we were very measured in how we ramped up because we wanted to ensure that we fully developed the learning curve and captured those real cost benefits that translate into higher value as we fully developed these fields.
So the investments that we're making right now are economic.
They're attractive in this business climate.
We are maintaining a certain baseload of activity where we can continue to leverage some of the best service providers that we've got.
We're one of the few that can continue to invest in a down cycle.
We've high-graded all the services that we get in our unconventional business.
In fact I'd extend that globally.
And we are continuing on those learning curves and I think it just better positions us to maximize the value from these assets.
Great.
Appreciate it.
Thanks.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> You bet.
We'll go next to Doug Terreson with Evercore ISI.
Good morning Jeff.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Good morning Doug.
So on slides 25 and 26 you talked about the project portfolio and the growth trajectory longer term.
Simultaneously though when you consider that the growth is coming at the expense of returns during the past cycle not just for Exxon but for the other supermajors too it makes me wonder whether there should be more emphasis towards value creation especially when considering that the valuation for some of the big oil companies is pretty much at its lowest level of the past two decades and in some cases three decades.
My question is whether or not the issues of structure and returns and growth are being revisited internally maybe more so than in the past.
Or is that what is implied in the new spending outlook that you talked about today? And then also whether or not returns on capital which I didn't see mentioned in the presentation is still as relevant as it used to be.
So two questions.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yes.
Doug on the first one I mean your point about value creation in our investment program we couldn't agree with you more.
And I would tell you that it is never  our view has never changed on the importance of making the right value choices.
We saw back in the I'd say in the early 2000s to the mid 2010 timeframe we saw a number of major Upstream projects that got to the point of maturity that we could make a investment decision and capture unique value by progressing such a large load of major Upstream investments.
There were cost synergies that we were going to capture that ultimately was going improve the long-term return of those assets.
So we knew that by taking on such a large load it was going to impact our return on capital employed because we would build up a very large load of non-productive capital employed.
But we also knew that when those projects came onstream that they were going be accretive to our overall average financial performance.
So unfortunately as these projects are coming on the price environment has changed for us.
But nonetheless we still feel very good about the long-term financial performance of these assets.
Because remember when we make the final investment decision we're testing those investments across a wide range of economic parameters including price.
And as I said earlier our fundamental focus has been making sure that our business is viable and durable in a low price environment.
So ultimately we believe that these 30 plus major Upstream projects that had an impact rightfully so had an impact on our return on capital employed are going be accretive to our financial performance over the long term and we believe they were the right decision.
Now to your second question on return on capital employed it is still very much relevant to us.
Okay.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> We believe it is a fundamental measure that differentiates us and that's why we continue to talk about it.
We have never lost sight of the importance of that metric relative to the investment decisions that we're making.
Okay.
Great.
Maybe there will be a returns and valuation and catch-up in a more normalized environment in the future then.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> That's correct.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Thank you Doug.
Yeah.
We'll go next to Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Yeah good morning.
Congrats on obviously $11.5 billion of capital and OpEx savings.
OpEx you haven't really spoken about as much this morning.
Just maybe run through some of the actions you took to reduce OpEx over the course of last year and then the potential to cut OpEx further.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah thanks for that Ed because it is a very important story of our 2015 performance.
First let me just make sure everybody understands the number that we've been talking about.
The numbers are fully consistent with our external reporting so that you all have good line of sight.
Of the $11.5 billion I mentioned about $8.5 billion of that is operating expenses and it includes a number of things positive and negative.
For instance it includes the structural efficiencies that we were able to capture.
It includes the market savings that we've been able to capture.
Remember I've talked in the past about having a unique organization or global procurement organization that is really focused on achieving the lowest life cycle cost.
The number includes benefits in energy costs includes benefits from our asset management program as well as ForEx.
There are increases in that number.
Obviously we've been talking about all these new projects coming onstream.
With them comes an increase in operating costs.
And we'll continue to manage those assets like we do with our mature inventory.
There was also a higher Downstream load on unplanned maintenance that added cost during the year.
So simply put the $8.5 billion is a year on year comparison.
The rest $3 billion is in CapEx and includes a lot of the same actions I just talked about as well as decisions to slow down some activity to capture opportunities in this business climate.
I will note that that $3 billion only reflects the reduction from our planned guidance.
As I said in the prepared comments our year on year reduction in CapEx was $7.5 billion.
So we didn't really include the $4.5 billion in the $11.5 billion that I talked about in the prepared comments.
So in total year on year our total reduction is really $16 billion if you include the $4.5 billion.
Yeah and then in terms of the ability to drive further OpEx I mean another 10% another 15% I mean how low do you think you can get that OpEx saving? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> It's a great question Ed.
It really is because it really talks to the strength of the organization.
In this low price environment it presents opportunities too.
And the organization is never satisfied with the status quo.
The organization is very focused on leading that cost curve.
And while we may have some internal stewardship objectives rest assured that we continue to look for new unique ways to capture structural improvements which are most important because remember those are the ones that will be permanent going forward.
So there's a lot more to work on.
But I don't have any specific numbers at this point.
Okay.
I look forward to the Analyst Day.
Thank you.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Okay.
We'll go next to Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
Good morning Jeff.
Maybe if I could follow-up on the comment that you've made a couple of times now.
You've talked about how you guys are rethinking near term investments and the way you deploy capital.
I mean how much does this refer to an evolution of your views on relative attractiveness amongst various components of the portfolio in terms of does this represent at all a shift in attractiveness of onshore versus deepwater versus oil sands or LNG et cetera? Or how much is just referring to rethinking the cost structure in the near term environment in an effort to continue to push down prices? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> It's really both.
It's every investment dollar is competing.
So it's all about how do we get the most value out of those investment dollars that are being deployed throughout the business.
The organization as I indicated really views the down cycle as a real opportunity to go back and retest development concepts retest the cost structures retest the commercial terms.
And whether it's short cycle or long cycle we're going to maintain that competitive focus and make the right value choices coupled with our prudent cash management.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
And then maybe just as a follow-up on that I mean during the most recent downturn in 2008 2009 you took advantage of the environment by pushing through more counter-cyclical investment in places like the Canadian oil sands.
And I think we all realize that this downturn is different but do you see similar opportunities to leverage your strength in this environment either on the cost and project development side or maybe even on the research acquisition side? Or is your outlook different enough at this point that you feel that more prudence is necessary in the short to medium term? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Well I mean clearly given the uncertainty in prices we're going to maintain prudency.
But at the same time as I've said a couple times Ryan we really do see that this is an opportunity to capture further value in the bottom of the cycle and across all the areas I've already mentioned.
But there are plenty of opportunities that the organization's focused on to really make that value proposition.
And I'd also add that because of our ability to invest through this cycle our service providers understand that if they can provide lower-cost higher-value solutions to us then we'll continue to invest if it makes good business sense.
So having not only the organization focused on it but also our service providers focused on it has provided some unique opportunities for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Jeff.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll go next to Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
Good morning Jeff.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Good morning Paul.
Jeff I'm looking forward to seeing you all at the analyst meeting.
I know that Mr.
Tillerson's been in New York a couple of times  I should say in New York and in Miami making some statements.
I haven't personally spoken to him since last March.
The general message that you had then was certainly that we would be lower for longer.
I assume he's still making that argument.
I think that he was saying that you guys would be typically keen to make acquisitions at the bottom of the cycle but the bid/ask spreads were too wide.
He was saying less interest in buying a balance sheet that was bad.
He would prefer to buy a balance sheet that was good and I think you've said that consolidation in the Permian would be an area of interest.
Is that the latest message that we've got for example at the Miami conference? I'm sorry I wasn't present.
I was wondering if the message has changed.
Thanks.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah well I mean from a supply/demand perspective I shared some of our thoughts around expectations.
Clearly the oversupply currently and the overhang from storage is going to have a dampening effect on prices in the near term.
But Paul as we've talked in the past we continue to be focused on the fundamentals and through our self-help creating margin and that's what's most important for this business.
We invest to ensure that the business is durable at low prices.
We continue to manage the business based on our focus on the fundamentals to create margin.
From a acquisition perspective clearly I'm sure there's a tremendous amount of interest.
We remain very patient.
We keep alert to the value propositions.
But it's as I've said before anything that we see out there has got be competitive with our current investment inventory.
Sure.
I mean the bid/ask spread element is that must  I mean by just looking at the share price charts that has to be narrowing now between what you guys would see as value and what sellers would.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah.
Well I mean clearly bid/asks could be a function of a number of factors including the business climate unique capabilities and assessments of individual investors.
And certainly the longer the commodity prices are in this area code the more pressure it will put on the bid/ask.
But I think also Paul as you're probably well aware I mean the absence of any major deals absent a few couple one-offs really talks that there's still a gap to valuations.
We'll be thoughtful.
We'll make sure that anything that looks of interest is going to be value adding.
Indeed.
And then a bit of a technical question.
Does Mr.
Tillerson retire on his 65th birthday or at the beginning of 2017 typically? I mean what would be the model? I guess what I'm driving at is is this going to be his last analyst meeting? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah well I mean I'm not going to provide any specifics.
That's really at the function of the board's decision.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> All right.
Thank you Paul.
And we'll go next to Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
Good morning Jeff.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Good morning Roger.
I guess I'd like to follow-up a little more on your Lower 48.
You talked earlier about the rig count and trying to maintain spending within a reasonable level of returns but balancing that against the maintaining the right amount of service sector capability and all.
But as you look at Lower 48 volume growth which was certainly reasonable in the past year does it grow in 2016 at these levels? And I know you wouldn't necessarily start with the idea of growth but does it grow at these levels? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah.
Well I don't have any specifics to share with you right now.
But I would tell you think about this is that the choices that we are making are all based on value propositions.
The outcome of those will be volumes.
And as I indicated earlier Roger we've got a very deep portfolio of investment opportunities in the Lower 48 particularly in the unconventional business.
And we'll maintain an appropriate balance of short-cycle investments.
And when we feel like that the business climate supports it we'll probably increase the amount of activity.
I think what's important to note is that we are very well poised to flex the program up or down depending on the business climate.
Appreciate that.
The other question I had was on the share repo program understand taking it off the table for now.
If you were to get a surprise influx of cash flow just say higher commodity prices is the decision in the near term that it would likely go towards shareholder returns or that CapEx would go up? I know Exxon is not a quick trigger place like some other businesses but you do have opportunities as you've said in the Lower 48.
What's sort of the internal thinking on that front? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Well I mean if it was an influx of cash flow I would tell you that it's going to be a function of the board's decision on a quarterly basis.
I mean if we see supply and demand continuing to balance out that may be a signal for us to modify our investment plans going forward.
But as I've indicated previously Roger the board makes the decision on a quarterly basis on what level of buybacks we want to maintain and consider a whole range of factors including the business climate in making that decision.
All right.
So Powerball lottery by itself doesn't do it.
You have to have some other fundamental things helping you out.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah really.
All right.
Thank you.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Thank you Roger.
We'll go next to Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning Jeff.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Good morning Neil.
So Jeff you've had a great year here of production.
This is something where I'm sure we'll get more clarity in March.
But can you just talk about at $23 billion how you think about the level of production relative to the 4.2 million barrels a day that you outlined last year for 2016 and then which broadly speaking which regions where you would see potential changes? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah well Neil let me first just take an opportunity to acknowledge a very strong operational year in 2015.
Achieving the 4.1 million oil equivalent barrels per day which I'll just want to emphasize for the group.
It's really an outcome of our value choices that we've made.
The organization has really delivered on the timely startup of our major projects which are a very key and significant contribution to our volumes this year.
I'll say looking forward as I alluded to in the prepared comments we have 10 more large-scale long-life projects starting up over the next couple of years.
The first the next tranche of that will be six of the 10 starting up in 2016.
We maintained a very strong focus on the high-value work program as well as operational reliability.
Looking forward we will be sharing more on our near term investment plans and some thoughts on our volumes in the upcoming analyst meeting.
But I really don't have any more specifics to share with you at this point.
I appreciate that Jeff.
And then obviously one of Exxon's key advantages here is your balance sheet.
In light of some of the comments from the ratings agencies can you just talk about your commitment to your AAA rating here? And then any perspective that you can provide around how that could change as ratings agencies think about their market outlook.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah it's a good question Neil and clearly it's topical for many in the energy sector.
I mean first and foremost let me just be clear.
We get value from the AAA credit rating in our business whether it be access to financial markets or access to resources.
I mean there is a benefit that we get from it and we see it as being important.
But it is really an outcome of our longstanding effective management of the business including things like our strong balance sheet the way we have prudently managed our cash our disciplined investment and our leading financial and operating results all of which has allowed us the financial flexibility to invest through the cycle as we've been discussing.
I'd tell you that the current environment is clearly tough.
But we've managed the business to be durable on the low end of commodity prices.
We're very well positioned to continue the same level with superior performance in the future and we think that all underpins the strong credit rating that we have.
Thanks Jeff.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> You're welcome.
And we'll go next to Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey Jeff good morning.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Good morning Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Two really quick questions.
The $23.2 billion how much is related to the (1:03:59) and also that within that number how much is for the major project spending? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> You're talking about our 2016? Inc.</span></strong> Yes sir.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> CapEx guidance.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> We'll provide Paul we'll provide you more information on our spending plans in the analyst meeting.
I really don't have anything more to share at this point.
Inc.</span></strong> I see okay.
The second one then real quick.
It looked like you have $800 million on the asset sales proceed.
What is the asset sales gain in the quarter? And that also do you have it seems like that you may have some tax adjustment benefit in the quarter and that you have also mentioned I think some FX impact and also inventory impact.
Can you quantify those items in the quarter and if possible by segment also? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yes so Paul on the proceeds from asset sales which was about $800 million in the fourth quarter the equivalent earnings impact is about $350 million primarily in the Downstream.
Could you talk a little bit more about the second question just make sure I? Inc.</span></strong> Yeah it looked like that the effective tax rate is 13% in the quarter.
We understand the mix of the earning oftentimes the impact the absolute level of the tax but it does look like it's low enough that you may have some tax benefit or adjustment year-end adjustment on that.
Just curious if that's the case.
And if it is can you quantify it? What is the tax adjustment benefit and also that which segment is being impact? And also that I think in your prepared remark you have comment that some impact on the earnings on the FX and also inventory.
So just want to see if you can quantify those.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Sure sure okay.
Let me walk through them for you.
On ForEx the quarter on quarter impact is essentially nil.
I mean it's a slight negative to earnings less than $5 million.
Inc.</span></strong> How about sequentially? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> I'm sorry say that again.
Inc.</span></strong> Sequentially you're talking about right this one closest to? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> That was quarter on quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Fourth quarter 2015 to fourth quarter 2014.
The full year had a negative impact on our earnings of about $125 million.
That's ForEx okay.
On tax so yes our effective tax rate was 13% in the fourth quarter and that was down about 19% quarter on quarter.
A fair bit of that had to do with one-time tax items.
The rest about 5% was due to portfolio mix of income across the business segments and the geographies.
And that's really spread across our corporate and finance as well as some of the segments.
Inc.</span></strong> Jeff when you say that one-time tax item 14% seems like you're talking about 14% because you say 19% overall reduction 5% is due to the mix of the asset and so the one-time item is 14%.
Is that 14% spread across different segment or it is primarily in Upstream? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> It's in corporate and finance and several of the other segments.
I don't have a breakdown for you.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And how about inventory impact? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah before I leave tax I just want to be clear for everybody that assuming our current commodity prices and our existing portfolio mix we still would anticipate that the effective tax rate is between 35% to 40%.
If you look at the full year of tax in 2015 it was just under 34% and that included obviously some one-time tax effects.
Okay? On inventory Paul quarter on quarter it had a negative earnings impact of about $375 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Okay.
You're welcome Paul.
And we'll go next to Anish Kapadia with TPH.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Good morning Anish.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
International LLP</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Just had a question looking at production and declines.
If we look at 2015 it seems like underlying production was flat.
So we saw new projects that were offset by production declines.
I wanted to try and understand in terms of 2016 how much of your CapEx is going into the base business and to mitigate declines.
And so what do you see the underlying decline rate to be with the current spend? Thank you.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Anish we have an underlying decline as we included in our 10-K of about 3%.
On top of that we add major project activity.
Again I don't break it out by use and we'll talk more about investment plans in the analyst meeting next month.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
International LLP</span></strong> Okay.
And just to clarify on that so given the CapEx cuts that we've seen you wouldn't expect that decline rate to accelerate on the back of the CapEx cuts? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> No.
Remember it's a base decline rate ex-major project activity.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
International LLP</span></strong> Okay.
The second question was on plans for space for new major projects.
Given that cutback in the CapEx do you have any potential FIDs for this year that you're looking to sanction? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah on FIDs we just don't forecast FIDs in advance of the investment decision made by the corporation.
When we make that decision when the investments get to a level of maturity and we make that decision then we communicate.
I'll remind you that we have 10 major projects that will start up in the next two years as I indicated before and they will certainly...
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
International LLP</span></strong> Can I just? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> And they will certainly contribute to our base performance.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
International LLP</span></strong> I just wanted to clarify I think I might have missed it from earlier.
I mean there was a question on the impact of production from the cutback in your rigs.
What would you expect your exit to exit US onshore production to be this year? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Well as I indicated we'll share more about our investment plans as well as our thoughts on volumes in next month's analyst meeting.
We've got a very deep robust inventory of development projects in the Upstream and we'll talk more about that next month or I guess yeah next month.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
International LLP</span></strong> Sure.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
And we'll go next to Jason Gammel with Jefferies.
Oh yes hi.
Thanks Jeff.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Morning Jason.
I was hoping you might be able to just give us a little bit of the detail on those project startups that you're expecting in 2016 and 2017 just to make sure my list is correct.
And if you want to share the contribution that the 2016 startups are making towards that 250 kpd capacity that would be helpful as well.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah on the startups in 2016 of course we've got Gorgon Jansz.
We have late in the year Kashagan.
We've got Julia in the Gulf of Mexico Heidelberg in the Gulf of Mexico Point Thomson in Alaska and Barzan in Qatar.
And Jason we provide the peak level of capacity in our F&amp;O.
Great.
So that probably hasn't changed too much since that was published then.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> No and we'll provide an update to that list next month as well.
Got it.
And if I could just ask one more Jeff on the Downstream.
You've put in place a couple of projects in Europe to potentially take advantage of heavier feedstocks over time let's see Antwerp being the primary one.
I was hoping you'd talk about what you're seeing just in terms of those heavier feedstocks within Europe and how the profitability's evolving on that.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah thanks for the question on the Downstream because the organization has really performed tremendously in the year.
Our investments in the Downstream particularly in Europe are really focused on the following items one to increase feedstock flexibility The second is to increase logistics flexibility.
The third one is to increase higher value product yields.
And I'll come back to that.
And then the last and important one is fully capturing the integration value of our manufacturing facilities and reducing our cost structure.
On the higher value product yields when we talk about Antwerp or Rotterdam both are achieving the same objective.
On Antwerp we're converting bunker fuel oil into ultra-low sulfur diesel again constructive on longer-term supply/demand.
And in Rotterdam we're converting VGO into premium Group II basestocks and as well ultra-low sulfur diesel.
That's great.
Appreciate that Jeff.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Great.
You're welcome.
And we'll go next to Asit Sen with CLSA.
Thanks.
Hi Jeff.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Hi Asit.
Two questions.
One very quick one on Banyu Urip.
Nice ramp-up there.
When do you get to peak and any update on the size of recoverable resource? I think that's 450 million barrels and cost I thought you guys mentioned $3 billion.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah so the size of the resource let me just confirm your number.
It's about 450 million barrels gross.
The ramp-up we should be up at full rates somewhere in the first half of this year.
Okay and the cost I think $3 billion? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> You know Asit I don't think we've shared the cost publicly.
Okay.
Okay.
All right.
And then moving on to LNG.
Thanks for your color on the long-term LNG market.
Just wondering if you could share any read into emerging near-term trend LNG particularly response in China to a lower pricing environment? Given your comment on China deceleration I thought that was a overall comment.
And also on LNG any update on Golden Pass? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah I guess two points.
On the near-term expectation of LNG there's a number of projects some of which are already coming online that are probably going to take us above demand for a period of time say into 2020 to 2023 when the supply and demand will start coming to converge again.
So clearly I mean it's going have a pressure on those volumes that are trading on the spot market.
Just to remind everybody when we make a investment decision on these projects we lock in our investment decisions on long-term contracts.
Golden Pass we have submitted our formal application with FERC to construct and operate the project.
We're working closely with the federal and state agencies for completing the review process in 2016.
The final investment decision will be made once we've gone through the government and regulatory approvals.
Thanks Jeff.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> You're welcome.
We'll go next to Allen Good with Morningstar.
Good morning.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Good morning Allen.
I wonder if given all the changes that we've seen in the oil markets over the last call it 18 months has Exxon revised the range of prices that it uses to evaluate investment decisions? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Well I'd say Allen that we continue to see that the range is applicable given our constructive review on supply and demand.
We won't speculate on specific prices or differentials.
We certainly expect the weakness until supply and demand comes back into balance and the storage overhang is worked off.
As I've said a few times Allen regardless of what the price is doing we're going to keep on focused on those things that we control which really translates into self-help margin.
Thanks that helps.
And then deepwater offshore a very big part of Exxon's portfolio getting bigger from what you've shared today.
Can you give any indication as to what Exxon's seeing with respect to either cost savings via equipment or services or maybe even cost savings on the redesign of certain projects that will ultimately lower the breakevens and make them more competitive within your portfolio? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah really good question.
There's a lot of different variables in this one in terms of the quality of the resources and the certainty on overall potential from those resources.
Another one being how do we get the structural capital efficiency built in so that the economics are more robust.
I'll highlight a couple things.
One in 2015 you'll recall in West Africa we brought on two very capital-efficient subsea tiebacks to the existing infrastructure one being the Kizomba Satellites Phase 2 another one being Erha North Phase 2 that allows us to leverage existing knowledge and develop the deepwater resource in a much more cost-effective way.
Clearly there's a lot of opportunity to continue to standardize the subsea kit but the organization is looking at all the levers to improve the economics of deepwater.
In the Gulf of Mexico I should note that Hadrian South was another example of an efficient capital-efficient subsea tieback into existing infrastructure.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> You're welcome.
And we'll go next to Brad Heffern with RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning Jeff.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Good morning Brad.
Most of my questions have been answered so I'll keep it short.
I was just curious back on CapEx I would assume that Downstream is relatively flat sequentially and that the vast majority of the cut is coming from the Upstream side.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah we'll provide more insight on that Brad.
But as you saw in 2015 our Downstream and Chemical spending plan increased with a number of very large projects that we saw significant value chain benefit with the polyethylene trains in Baytown to the European investments that we've already talked about.
And of course those projects are continuing as you go into 2016 and start up into 2017.
So the trend is going to continue going forward.
Okay.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll go next to John Herrlin with Socit Gnrale.
Yeah hi Jeff.
A couple quick ones from me since so many things have been asked.
For the Liza offset well will we be talking about this in the second quarter conference or in the first quarter conference call? Or will it TD by then? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> So John I don't really have the specifics.
When we believe there's something that would be important to share externally we'll go ahead and share it.
I just don't know whether the first quarter will be the appropriate time or not at this point.
Okay.
That's fine.
Many of your peers Jeff are restructuring.
They're rightsizing or downsizing.
Exxon hasn't had any news like that.
So are there any plans in the work or do you feel that you have an adequately sized workforce given your business model? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah it's a good question John and I appreciate you asking it.
Let me first say for the group's benefit that one of our greatest strengths are our people.
And I think those of us that went through the layoffs in the 1980s really learned some of the hard lessons about how those layoffs significantly impaired organizational effectiveness.
I mean since then we have been very diligent at managing employee head count given the cyclical nature of the business and the need by the organization to be ever more productive and at the same time grow collective competency to meet the challenges in front of us.
In doing so I'd also say that we've been unrelenting on our focus of capturing efficiencies to make sure that we rightsize the organization again given the likelihood of business volatility.
I'd also highlight John that another benefit of our integrated business model is that we're able to be agile in redeploying personnel to segments of our business that are experiencing market strength or growth such as our Downstream and Chemical businesses right now.
All that said our employee head count has been coming down consistently since the Exxon and Mobil merger.
We're down about 35% through 2015.
Over that time period if you look at just the last five years we're down about 20%.
And I can rest assured that the organization's going to continue to be focused on productivity enhancements and making sure that we're getting all the efficiencies out of the business.
Sure.
But you haven't had anything that's knee jerk or reactionary as some of your peers of late? It's just been part of your normal plan correct? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> That's correct.
All right thanks.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Thank you John.
We'll go next to Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just one from me.
You talk about entering acreage in some new geographies particularly some frontier type of geographies.
Since the oil down cycle began have you noticed fiscal terms becoming more accommodating in any areas? And if you can provide any examples that would be great.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Good morning Pavel.
I would tell you that certainly given the downturn there are more opportunities for us to consider.
There is nothing that I can share with you specifically but it does speak to the strength of Exxon Mobil given that we've got the capability to invest through the down cycle.
We bring a tremendous amount of operational commercial and project expertise.
So it allows us to be very selective as to what choices we want to pursue with a very strong focus on placing our attention on those areas that are close to existing producing infrastructure those areas that have very high quality large resource potential.
Inc.</span></strong> Appreciate it.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Thank you Pavel.
And we'll go next to Guy Baber with Simmons.
Good morning Jeff and thanks for answering all the questions.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Good morning Guy.
I know this is a tough question to answer but I'm interested in how you think about this strategically.
But given the scale of the CapEx reductions we're seeing how do you think about the sustainability of these lower organic spending levels with respect to being sufficient to drive a modest level of production growth for the portfolio yet also replenish the resource base? Are you spending now below what you believe is sustainable? And how do you think about the balance between spending at a sustainable level versus perhaps rationing lower to limit your out spend for a period of time? Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah I would tell you Guy to really think about the decisions that we're making are really value driven.
The output is really the volumes but it's really making the choices that are aligned with creating value in the portfolio whether it be in the Upstream or the Downstream or Chemical business recognizing that we've got this integration this very strong integration across our portfolio that we can create value through the whole value chain.
So the choices are really focused on making sure that we're creating incremental value.
The volumes will be an output of that.
Got it.
That's helpful Jeff.
And then last one for me and I apologize if I missed this earlier but given your global perspective your participation in various Downstream markets across the globe can you give us the view on leading-edge global oil demand growth for 2016? Any color would be great as it's obviously a critical piece of the global supply/demand balance.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah.
Well I mean you're talking about oil demand? Yes.
Yes.
Specifically oil demand.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Yeah.
Well I talked a little bit earlier about underlying demand growth has been over 1 million barrels per day so it's been a little bit higher than what we've seen over the 10-year average.
You think about where we are today we're about 1.5 million barrels a day oversupply in the first half.
We do expect that to converge in the second half with seasonal demand growth.
So you think about the impact on prices in the near term it's really going be a function of how that supply/demand converges and of course working off the storage overhang that's been built up over the last couple years.
That's about all I can share at this point.
Got it.
Thanks Jeff.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</span></strong> Thank you.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I'll turn it back over to Mr.
Jeff Woodbury for any closing remarks.
Investor Relations &amp; Secretary</strong> Well thank you.
To conclude again I'd like to thank you for your time and questions.
I just want to step back for a moment and take stock of 2015 and say the organization really did a very significant provided a very significant result when you think about it: positive free cash flow; very effective cost management lowering our spending that had bottom line impacts benefits to the business; our excellence in project execution and our delivering long-life long-plateau volumes; the benefits of the integrated business model across the value chain; the financial strength of the organization investing through the commodity price cycle; and then of course our dividend growth continuing to share the success of the company.
And I think that just points to the strong business fundamentals based on our proven track record.
We'll talk more about this in March but we do appreciate your interest in Exxon Mobil and we certainly look forward to meeting with you next month.
And that does conclude today's conference call.
We appreciate your participation.