Hello and welcome to BD's First Fiscal Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through Tuesday February 15 2011 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at (800) 642-1687 for domestic calls and area code (706) 645-9291 for international calls using conference ID 37117544.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Mr.
Zachary Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Nagle you may begin.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our first fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The slide presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our first fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures relative to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza President and Chief Operating Officer.
Also joining us are David Elkins Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; BD Executive Vice Presidents Gary Cohen and Bill Kozy; as well as Bill Rhodes President of Biosciences; and Tom Polen President of Diagnostic Systems.
And now it's a pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Zack and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start off today's presentation by covering the key messages we'd like you to take away from our earnings call.
First I want to provide an update on what we're seeing from a macro perspective.
Healthcare utilization remains constrained due to lower levels of government spending elevated unemployment rates and higher out-of-pocket expenses.
In the U.S.
hospital admissions physician office visits and lab volumes continued to show signs of stabilization.
However we did see pricing pressure in certain medical device markets in the first quarter.
In total the market remains challenging and we continued to manage the company accordingly focused on execution around strengthening the quarter delivering on new product platforms and extensions growing in important emerging markets and delivering on our operational excellence programs.
Moving on to our performance in Q1 we're pleased with our results.
Revenue was slightly softer than we expected and EPS was in line with the company's expectations relative to where we expected to start off the year.
As we outlined on our year-end earnings call in November revenue growth was significantly impacted by an unfavorable comparison to a very strong first quarter of fiscal year 2010 where revenues were up more than 9% year-over-year.
This tough comparison included strong pandemic sales and U.S.
stimulus spending in Q1 fiscal 2010.
We continued to see solid growth in emerging markets and our initiatives around new product platforms and extensions and operational excellence programs continue to be on track with our expectations.
We see the back part of the year strengthening and we are maintaining our 2011 guidance of 4% currency-neutral revenue growth.
We are confident in our ability to deliver 10% to 12% currency-neutral EPS growth on an adjusted basis.
On Slide 5 we've outlined our Q1 revenue and EPS results.
Currency-neutral revenue declined by 1.5%.
Excluding pandemic flu and stimulus impacts revenues were up 2.8%.
Fully diluted EPS was $1.35 including approximately $0.07 related to the timing of certain tax benefits.
These benefits were reflected in our previous full fiscal year guidance.
Now I'd like to turn things over to David for a more detailed discussion of our first quarter financial performance.
Thank you Vince and good morning everybody.
I'd like to begin by discussing the key financial highlights for the first quarter.
First as Vince stated the quarter was mostly in line with our financial projections with revenue coming in a little lighter than expected.
We continue to experience some volatility in customer-ordering patterns.
However that does not change our outlook for underlying demand.
As we managed the business for these challenging times we are confident for the full year that we've delivered the EPS guidance we provided on our year-end earnings call.
Next as we outlined when we communicated our expectations for 2011 on the year-end call we experienced the bulk of the impact of our tough comparisons for 2011 in the first quarter overcoming the majority of the pandemic flu orders in 2010 and a smaller portion of the stimulus orders.
Excluding the pandemic flu and stimulus impacts BD grew 2.8% year-over-year with all three segments experiencing positive both.
I'll provide more details about segment and regional performance in a minute.
R&amp;D increased 17% as several research products were accelerated in the quarter.
This is in line with our expectations as we are continuing to invest in new products and platforms.
During the quarter the company's earnings of $1.35 also included approximately $0.07 of favorable impact related to the timing of certain tax benefits including the retroactive extension of the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit.
This $0.07 benefit will be offset during the balance of the year.
Additionally during the first quarter we completed $837 million of our $1.5 billion share repurchase plan.
Our guidance for the program in 2011 remains unchanged at $1.5 billion.
Turning to Slide 8 and our revenues by segment I'll start with the total company performance.
As I mentioned earlier revenue growth declined by 1.5% currency neutral.
However underlying growth was 2.8% excluding the impact of flu and stimulus.
BD Medical first quarter revenues decreased about 4% currency neutral.
When you normalize for the pandemic flu orders growth was about 2%.
The growth in this segment was primarily driven by Diabetes Care with continued strong sales of pen needles.
This was more than offset by a decline in pharmaceutical systems which was negatively impacted by the absence of flu-related orders and an unfavorable comparison from large shipments to a single customer in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010.
When excluding the impact of flu-related orders and the large shipment in the Pharmaceutical Systems business underlying growth in the Medical segment would be even greater.
BD Diagnostics' first quarter revenues increased 0.6% currency neutral.
Excluding the impact of pandemic flu-related orders growth was 2.8% with solid growth at Preanalytical Systems safety-engineered product and in Women's Health and Cancer in our Diagnostic Systems unit.
BD Biosciences' revenue growth was 3.5% currency neutral driven mainly by strong instrument and reagent sales in the Cell Analysis business as well as Advanced Bioprocessing products.
When you normalize for the effect of U.S.
stimulus orders in Q1 2010 which did not repeat in 2011 growth in the Biosciences segment was about 5%.
As we've discussed on our year-end earnings call U.S.
stimulus orders were a tailwind for us in 2010 and will represent a relative headwind in 2011.
Moving to Slide 9 I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the first quarter.
Overall BD's reported U.S.
revenues declined about 3%.
Excluding the impact of 2010 pandemic flu-related orders and U.S.
stimulus spending U.S.
revenue grew approximately 3% with growth in all three segments.
International revenues were roughly flat on a currency-neutral basis.
After adjusting for the impact of pandemic flu underlying growth was about 2.5% with challenges in Europe offset by solid growth in our emerging markets.
Moving to global safety on Slide 10 reported sales increased 1.4% to $453 million in the quarter.
On a currency-neutral basis revenue growth was about 1%.
After excluding the impact of flu pandemic growth growth was about 7%.
Revenues in the U.S.
declined about 2.8% excluding the impact of the flu pandemic.
Revenues increased 5.7%.
International sales were up about 9% on a reported basis.
On a currency-neutral revenues increased 7.5%.
Excluding the impact of the flu pandemic revenues increased 9.2%.
If you normalize for the effect of the flu pandemic on a currency-neutral basis safety revenues increased about 8% in Medical and about 6% in Diagnostics.
On Slide 11 we'll review our revenue growth in the first quarter where reported growth rate declined by 1.4% currency-neutral growth rate by 1.5%.
We have a favorable hedge impact as compared to prior year which was partially offset by negative currency translation and performance.
I would like to point out again that in fiscal 2011 we are no longer hedging our foreign translation exposure.
Moving on to Slide 12 our gross margin improved 90 basis points to 53%.
This is mainly due to a 40-basis-point favorable comparison from our 2010 hedging program and a 30 basis points of favorable currency translation.
Our positive performance of 20 basis points is a mix of positive operating performance of 90 basis points offset by higher raw material costs higher pension costs and our start-up costs.
Slide 13 recaps the first quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency-neutral results.
As discussed earlier first quarter revenue growth declined by 1.5% and gross profit growth declined by 1.1%.
As a percentage of revenues gross profit improved by 20 basis points for the reasons previously mentioned.
Moving down the income statement SSG&amp;A increased 1% primarily due to pension in EVEREST SAP implementation costs.
We are driving down our G&amp;A costs year-over-year and redeploying these resources to fund geographic expansion and increased R&amp;D investments.
R&amp;D increased 17% or about 100 basis points as a percentage of total revenue over the prior-year period.
The acceleration in R&amp;D is in  line with our expectations as we continue to invest in new products and platforms and prepare for several product launches.
Vince will provide more details on this later in his remarks.
Our operating income decreased 7.5% reflecting tough year-over-year revenue comparison in the quarter and the increased R&amp;D spending.
The timing of certain tax benefits along with the company's share repurchase program resulted in EPS growth of about 5% currency neutral.
Now turning to Slide 14 as we've indicated previously when you normalize for the effects of pandemic flu-related revenues the stimulus and supplemental spending in 2010 we expect the underlying growth of our business this year to be approximately 6% currency neutral.
Now I'd like to address how the flu pandemic stimulus and Japan supplemental spending will impact the balance of the year.
Our year-end earnings call we stated that flu pandemic sales from fiscal 2010 would represent about $90 million headwind for us in fiscal year 2011.
We also indicated that stimulus spending in the U.S.
and supplemental spending in Japan would add incremental headwind of approximately $40 million.
Of the combined impact of $130 million about $80 million impacted our results from the first quarter.
Of the remaining $50 million approximately $40 million will represent an unfavorable comparison in the second quarter results.
After adjusting for these tough comparisons underlying growth is expected to increase from 2.8% in the first quarter to 7% for the remainder of the year bringing the full year underlying growth to 6%.
Now moving to Slide 15 I'd like to highlight the main drivers of growth over the balance of the year excluding impact of flu stimulus and supplemental spending.
For our Medical segment we are anticipating currency-neutral growth of about 6%.
We expect the balance of the year to be driven by continued strong sales of pen needles with the next-generation safety pen needles being launched in the back half of the fiscal year.
We also continue to see great success with our Nano the world's shortest and thinnest pen needle.
Additionally we're expecting to see improvement in our Pharmaceutical Systems business which as I mentioned earlier was impacted by a tough comparison to last year.
Globally we will see an improvement in our safety sales which will be driven by Nexiva in developed markets and a solid double-digit growth in international safety.
In the Diagnostics segment we anticipate currency-neutral growth of approximately 6%.
We expect to see significant pickup in growth from our emerging markets opportunity and from our new BD MAX product launch later this year.
We expect Biosciences currency-neutral growth of approximately 7% which will continue to be primarily driven by instrument reagent sales in the Cell Analysis business including the launch of a new sorter.
Discovery Labware including our Advanced Bioprocessing business will also contribute to the growth in the balance of the year.
In our emerging markets we expect to see strong growth for the balance of the year.
Safety sales and strong growth in Latin America and Asia Pacific will also be among the primary drivers.
Turning to Slide 16 as I discussed we are maintaining our revenue growth of approximately 4% currency neutral based upon the current market environment.
We estimate that our gross profit margin will improve by about 30 to 50 basis points as we expect to see favorable change in startup costs and other efficiencies from our operational excellence programs.
We will continue to accelerate R&amp;D investment to support new product platforms and extensions.
All in we expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be between $5.45 and $5.55 an increase of approximately 10% to 12% over adjusted diluted EPS of $4.94 for fiscal year 2010.
Now as previously mentioned our second quarter results will have an approximate unfavorable $40 million impact to the absence of flu stimulus and supplemental revenues as compared to prior year.
The second quarter will also have a higher tax rate than the annual rate as previously discussed.
Therefore the second quarter top and bottom line growth will be below the full year average growth rate.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince who will provide a more detailed update on our go-forward strategy our performance and progress against our key initiatives.
Thank you David.
As I mentioned in my initial remarks in this difficult environment our strategy remains unchanged.
We are committed to accelerating growth by strengthening the core delivering on new product platforms and extensions growing in important emerging markets and delivering on our operational excellence programs.
In the next few slides I'd like to focus on these areas.
But first I'd like to briefly comment on another press release we issued yesterday.
I'm pleased to report that BD has signed a definitive agreement to acquire Accuri Cytometers an Ann Arbor Michigan-based company that develops and manufactures personal flow cytometers for researchers.
Consistent with BD's acquisition strategy this acquisition would expand our presence into the emerging affordable personal flow cytometer space.
The acquisition is subject to regulatory approvals and is expected to close during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011.
We are not disclosing the financial terms of the transaction at this time.
We estimate that the dilution will be minimal and short lived and is included in our full year guidance.
Now moving on to Slide 19 on our year-end earnings call we discussed a number of key product initiatives and milestones.
I'd like to provide an update on these key initiatives.
This fiscal year we had many exciting opportunities in our pipeline.
In our Medical segment our ReLoCo program remains on track with conventional reuse prevention and low-cost safety products launching this year.
We also plan to launch a next-generation safety pen needle at the back half of the fiscal year.
In our Diagnostics segment we have a couple of new products to launch the most notable being the BD MAX the Automated Molecular Diagnostics system.
In our Bioscience segment we plan to have a new desk-top sorter a new animal-free media supplement for bioproduction and a new serum-free media for certain stem cells this year.
In fiscal year 2012 you can expect the BD MAX MRSA and C.
difficile launches midyear in the EU.
The U.S.
launch will be toward the end of the year.
In fiscal year 2013 we expect to launch our molecular path test the BD SurePath Plus along with the Viper LT at the end of the year.
Of course we will continue to provide you with updates on our products and programs as we continue to make progress.
We continue to grow our emerging markets which account for over 20% of BD's total revenues.
Overall emerging markets in Q1 grew significantly faster than the corporate average with strong double-digit growth in key markets with China growing at about 25%.
As David mentioned timing and the flu pandemic-related sales that occurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 presented a challenging comparison in our emerging markets this quarter.
Emerging market growth is being fueled by the expansion of healthcare funding and patient access in conjunction with BD continuing to increase our investments and sales force in those areas.
We expect good performance for the remainder of the year with safety sales and strong growth in Latin America and Asia Pacific being the primary drivers.
On our year-end call we discussed a number of operational excellence programs and key milestones.
On Slide 21 I'd like to provide an update on these important initiatives.
As David stated our ReLoCo program remains on track.
This fiscal year we will begin manufacturing conventional reuse prevention and low-cost safety products in three plants on three continents.
We expect the program to break even in fiscal year 2011 and to reach steady-state savings of $50 million to $60 million in fiscal year 2013.
Our EVEREST program aimed at consolidation of our SAP systems also remains on track.
The first go-live will be in mid fiscal year 2012 and we're making good progress towards full implementation in fiscal year 2014.
On the shared services front the centers in San Antonio and Singapore are in place and will go live this quarter.
We're continuing to make investments in these centers to drive structural efficiency gains and G&amp;A reductions.
On Slide 22 before we open the call to questions I would like to reiterate the key messages from our discussion today.
First healthcare utilization remains constrained by the macro environment.
Second we're continuing to invest in driving strong growth in emerging markets and we showed good progress in the quarter.
Third we continue to invest in new product platforms and extensions.
Our product development and product launches remain on target and consistent with what we communicated on our year-end call.
Fourth we remain focused on operational excellence programs and our initiatives are progressing on plan.
Lastly based on our expectations for the balance of the year we are reaffirming the guidance for the full fiscal year 2011 that we gave on our year-end call.
Thank you.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
Let me start off with a question about the quarter you had said in the fourth quarter you expected essentially flat results.
You sort of delivered that but the press release obviously indicated you were a bit disappointed it seemed by a couple of issues which included greater price pressure in certain markets.
It sounded like EU was a little tougher and Pharma Systems was on the light side.
Can you help us understand give us a little more color on those points and think about forward how they resolve? Sure Rick.
Starting with the -- we came in slightly under flat as you saw and you noted.
It was really more volume related than pricing related.
The pricing issue was more episodic than anything else and we see on the occasional tender where a competitor throws in a significantly lower price.
But it’s not something that we're seeing uniformly across the device product lines.
And we've probably seen a little bit more of it in the international space and maybe in Europe.
So that’s the first thing.
In terms of where the shortfall was it was kind of across the businesses.
I can’t point out one particular business and say that business was off.
So we look at it more as a macro trend from a volume standpoint more than anything else and you correctly noted that Europe was challenging.
And as we look into some of the background data we see some of these governments trying to hold back and scale back on what procedures they do.
So those are kind of the macro factors.
Maybe just as a follow-up Vince maybe we could talk a little bit more about gross margin.
Gross margin was much stronger than I expected you'd guided us I think David to 52.2% to 52.4% for the year you were 53%.
Some of that with some hedging but it sounds like there were some challenges on the raw materials and pricing side.
Can you help us think through how we go from here? It sounds like your old guidance still might be conservative? Remember when we gave guidance you're right it was 52.2% to 52.4% Rick.
And in the first quarter we had significant favorable variances because of currency about 70 basis points improvement and what we guided for the full year on currency would be slightly negative about 10 basis points.
But underlying performance there's a really good story there.
What we said before is that we have about -- for the full year about 40 to 60 basis points of performance improvement for the full year.
And what you really have there is you have operating performance improvements you have ReLoCo turning positive for the full year and then that's going to be offset by some resin and the increased pension cost that we have year-over-year.
But I think the ReLoCo program the programs that we have in place on the supply chain particularly in the Medical business we continue to see good performance there on the margins.
So we're holding our guidance at 52.2% to 52.4%.
It's just to make sure it sounds like the rest of the quarters are going to be less than the first quarter is what you're saying? Well the first quarter was really driven by the currency and the hedge and that kind of disappears through the remainder of the year so you won't get that.
But what you will see in the second half of the year is a continued improvement in the operating performance.
Your next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
David the two questions on outlook just to start then I have one question for Vince.
Just thinking about outlook in the back half of the year if you adjust for stimulus and adjust for flu it's still implying sort of an organic improvement into the back half.
And I wonder if you'd comment whether that is more an economic improvement or more of an inventory restock? And then on margins operating income obviously was down to currency neutral 7.5% this quarter obviously that's very different than your guidance for the year.
So also interested in what are the major factors that really improved that profitability in the back half versus the first half? And I have just one follow up for Vince.
Well I think as we went through we talked about several other things that are driving performance in the second half of the year.
If you think through our Medical businesses we said in Pharma Systems Pharma Systems in the quarter was down and that's because it's not only the flu but also because of extra orders that we received in the first quarter of last year.
And if you remember with our Pharma Systems business if you look back on a quarterly basis it's quite lumpy.
So we're anticipating seeing some very strong growth in the second half of the year in Pharmaceutical Systems.
Diabetes business we continue to see strong growth from the pen needles and also international safety we're anticipating seeing improvements in the second half there.
In the Diagnostics business Women's Health and our SurePath has strong growth in the second half of the year and with the launch of BD MAX we'd continue to see very strong growth in that platform.
And then on the Biosciences business the tough comps remain mainly in the first and second quarter with stimulus and the supplemental orders from Japan.
And once we get beyond that we'll see good growth rates of about 8% for the remainder of the year in the Biosciences business.
So it's all those components together as Vince said it's spread across the business.
So we feel good about the remainder of the year from that perspective.
Yes so David it's not so much -- we're not forecasting a change in the macro environment.
We think the macro environment is going to be here for a while.
So what you're really seeing is as David was saying an improvement in Pharma Systems in Medical the ReLoCo product launches a new pen needle product launch and on the Diagnostics side BD MAX as an open system and you can see that on one of the charts.
There is also a microbiology instrument which is Plate Streaker and then the small sorter in the Bioscience business.
So there's a series of product launches not so much macro factors.
And David to your second question around operating margins the first quarter operating margin was less than what we had guided for the full year and that was in line with what we expected.
What's really driving that as we talked about is -- that the biggest driver there is the R&amp;D investment; 17% growth in R&amp;D that’s about 100 basis point increase year-over-year.
And as we guided for the full year on R&amp;D it’s about 10% to 11% growth on R&amp;D investments.
Also as we talked about from a SSG&amp;A perspective as well we’re anticipating that to be about flat that decreased to about -- or was a headwind of about 50 basis points.
And that’s just a phasing of some of those investments there.
And just Vince just a quick strategic question on Accuri I thought historically BD was not as bullish on benchtop flow systems.
So help me understand what Accuri offers that’s different? Has something changed in how you view -- either the U.S.
research market or is this more of an emerging research market investment? Well I’ll make an initial comment then I’ll turn it over to Bill Rhodes to talk further about it.
But we really saw a new segment begin to emerge over let’s say the last 18 months or so and that we were really focused more in core laboratories and this is a much lower cost much simpler to use flow cytometer and Bill Rhodes can explain a little bit more.
Essentially what we’ve seen is over the past three years there’s been a development in the utilization of flow cytometry in non-core facilities i.e.
making it a personal flow cytometer that life sciences researchers can use.
The obstacle that they’ve had to do that is affordability.
And essentially we see this as an opportunity for us to work with life sciences researchers around the world to in essence bring them an affordable and very high quality flow cytometers.
So it’s very much in keeping with our strategy.
And just one last comment we have seen -- you’ll see the desktop sorter at some point we’ve introduced even high-end products that are built to be more affordable take up less space and go into laboratories outside of the core labs.
Complement what we're doing in Accuri.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
One of the questions that I get from investors is is not so much the BD the new products pipeline but more this macro question of whether your end markets can support sustainable 6+ % 6% 7% revenue growth.
So it's not too much the question of what's in BD's pipeline but the strength of your underlying end markets be it U.S.
Europe the varying emerging markets in there.
Can you just help us with that a little bit in terms of the comfort level not with what you're doing internally but that there is a growth in your external markets.
In this quarter obviously is a one-quarter data point.
But help us with the comfort on long-term sustainable growth in your markets? Well if we look at the U.S.
and we say maybe GDP is growing 3%.
If we then also expect in international markets the growth that we have in emerging markets the 6% does not look like such a stretch to us.
Remember when we grow 6% it's a combination of added extra value plus volume growth.
And while you told me to move away from our pipeline but that is a big portion of how we get to the 6% growth.
So we started out the call by talking about stabilization in the markets that we're seeing from a macro standpoint.
So we do think it is sustainable.
Let me go back to the example that Bill Rhodes was talking about from a bioscience standpoint.
So it's not just in our current core-served markets that we see growth opportunities but it's also in moving into near adjacencies.
And that in addition to the other factors that I've talked about is how we get there.
So the personal flow cytometer market really didn't exist.
A couple of years ago as Bill said we started to see that trend so we expand the segments that we're moving into.
Give you another example in the Medical business in Diabetes Care where we've been so successful with pen needles and we see a worldwide epidemic in diabetes in addition to the core product line we've talked about moving into the infusion space just particularly on the disposables and working with the JDRF [Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation].
So there are a number of things that we're doing that enable us to leverage kind of core growth into higher growth.
Gary would you like to make a comment? The only other thing I would add to that is that there are number of things in the first quarter that don't really make a reliable indicator.
The flu pandemic certainly is one of them it's very strong Pharmaceutical Systems performance in the prior year which particularly hit Western Europe by the way.
A big part of that was in Western Europe.
And then there were series of other things.
There were timing on orders going into the developing world through PEPFAR and through UNICEF that didn't fall into the first quarter as we had anticipated.
There was a change in an India immunization order that was fairly sizable on a year-to-year basis.
So there's a number of things that tend to mask what the underlying performance actually was.
And as we look out for the full year growth in the emerging markets we're anticipating will remain strong.
Western Europe is not as bad as it looked in the first quarter for the reasons I had mentioned.
We had good growth in some key areas like United Kingdom which is one of the largest countries.
They actually doing pretty well.
So I think we'll get a better sense of all this as the year rolls out.
A couple of follow-on questions I've got one question on -- has flu testing picked up the last few weeks? I mean have you noticed that and so could you give a sense by how much? And then second question is you bought back more than $800 million worth of stock purchase orders you're planning to buyback $1.5 billion during the year.
Should we for modeling purposes assume that you complete that in this fiscal second quarter? Okay well let me ask Tom Polen to make a comment on the flu.
So for Q1 we did not -- we saw a very little flu in Q1.
As you just indicated we have seen flu begin to pickup over the last few weeks a bit stronger in Japan.
We're seeing the flu season accelerate in Japan but it is also accelerating in the U.S.
into a lesser extent than Japan.
Then on the share buyback? Share buyback is -- just assume that we finished the remainder spread over the last three quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Vince you mentioned that the Accuri dilution is in your numbers.
Is the revenue of this asset material enough to move BD's constant currency revenue growth in the back half or is it too small at this point? It's too small at this point.
They are selling they do have product sales but it won't move the needle on BD.
Inc.</strong> And for David so just back on the repurchase is the $228 million still the right number for the year given that you've done quite a bit obviously in the first quarter? Does that number trend down at all for the annual guidance? Yes if you look at the fully diluted shares outstanding that’s a pretty good number.
One thing recall that dilution increases little bit as the share price goes up so it might be a little south of the $228 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Larry Keusch with Morgan Stanley.
Inc.</strong> I guess two questions here.
First I think Vince you mentioned in your prepared comments you said something about some volatility in ordering patterns by customers.
So I am just wondering if you could expand on that? And then is there any update on how you're thinking about the uptick of safety in Europe given that sort of three-year transition period? And then just for David just help us understand kind of how you’re thinking about the tax rate for the second quarter since you said it is going to be higher than it was in the first? So on the volatility of customer ordering patterns the biggest impact was in the Pharmaceutical Systems business.
And as we said that’s been -- historically there’s a lot of volatility in that and so low this quarter with a difficult comparison to last year.
And Bill do you want to give any more color on that at all? The only thing I can add is it’s such it’s a little bit of a complicated picture because its lumpy.
But if you take the Pharma Systems growth of minus 12% you adjust it with pandemic and as David and Vince both mentioned it gets you to about minus 3% but if you hadn't adjust for this large order that came from a major pharmaceutical customer which was over $25 million the underlying growth for Pharma Systems in the first quarter was in the 9% to 10%.
So we’re actually comfortable where we're at in terms of core demand.
And Bill we're expecting on the back half of the year that we’re going to see some lumpiness as well with Q3 being stronger than Q4.
We got favorable comps coming in the second half primarily in the third quarter.
And Gary you had a comment you’d like to make? Just a comment on your question about safety first just for some perspective of total safety -- international was about 55% of the size of the U.S.
so a little bit more than half the size of the U.S.
and then of international almost exactly half as Western Europe and the other half is the rest of international.
We are already experiencing faster growth on safety than the average quite a bit faster in Western Europe in the first quarter relative to the total results for Western Europe.
We are expecting some acceleration of that over the remainder of the year and we're experiencing very strong growth very solid double-digit growth in the emerging markets for safety particularly Asia Pacific and Latin America and we anticipate that that will continue through the year.
So the safety contribution is pretty much across the board in the international markets and the growth increase that we're expecting in 2011 over the remaining quarters in Western Europe is not a huge increase but it's a continuing upward trend consistent with the anticipated impact of the timing of implementation of the European Union directive.
And Larry coming back to the volatility in customer ordering patterns the other piece that I had in mind when I was talking about that was the flu for diagnostics where because of the big ordering that we saw for last year's pandemic flu there was a lot of flu tests in the pipeline.
And so that was introducing a lot of variability as well.
Inc.</strong> And on the tax? As Larry stated on the tax if you recall for the full year we had guided 27% to 27.5% and the spread in that was as we talked about was because of the variability and whether or not we were going to get the R&amp;D tax credit and we said we had it built in there.
So for the full year tax credit we're expected to be around 27%.
So as you think about the first quarter sitting at 23% for us to average out 27% for the remainder of the year the tax rate in the following quarters will be north of that 27%.
Your next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
I know earlier you had said that the softness in the quarter was more volume than price and prices was kind of spotty it sounds like.
But could you maybe expand a little bit about that just in terms of the tenders that you’re seeing? Is it more in Europe or emerging markets? And to what extent have you built in additional kind of pricing headwinds as you look at the balance of the year? It was mostly in Europe and from a Company standpoint when we try to quantify it's very very small.
But we expect that we'll continue to see that kind of behavior.
So we're not forecasting significant price declines over the balance of the year.
And just in terms of who's being more price-competitive is the usual suspects -- are you seeing more of it coming from countries pushing back on price or is it just the competitive nature? It’s just the competitive nature -- it's the usual suspects.
And then David can you just go back in talking about the gross margins you had broken down the performance and I think you had said that there was 90 basis points of improvement but offset by pension and higher resin.
Could you just maybe flush that out a little bit and to what extent do you have resin price increases built in for the year? Sure Kristen.
So performance overall was about 90 and that’s being offset by about 40 basis points of resin within the quarter I'm talking Q1 now 20 basis points of pension and about 10 basis points of ReLoCo startup.
So the net performance for the quarter was around 20 basis points.
Right now what we're assuming on resins is oil in the $80 to $90 range.
So there is a little bit of risk from pricing pressure if oil goes above $90 a barrel and stays there for the remainder of the year.
But we'll keep you guys posted on that.
But right now our assumptions as we look at it we're thinking in the $80 to $90 range.
And then just kind of how long it takes for that to translate to the P&amp;L is it still like about a six-month lag if you think about...
I’d say it’s about a three to six month lag depending upon the resin.
Remember these are specific resins that we have to purchase.
And so you can't go to different suppliers in order to provide it but it’s in that three to six month.
And I would say that last year we were successful in buying in more of those resins.
This year it’s proving more difficult to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to get back to ex-U.S.
growth for a second If I just do some math based on your comment that emerging markets were about 20% of revenue and if those grew in double digits that would mean the mature non-U.S.
markets were down something close to double digits.
And I know you referenced a couple of large orders that may have negatively impacted that.
But can you maybe articulate a little bit more about whether you’re expecting that to change throughout the course of the year? And if so which markets did you see the most weakness in and what would drive them to get better over the course of the year? So Gary will take that question for you.
First thing to point out is in the quarter the emerging markets did not grow double digits mostly due to some onetime events that I briefly mentioned in the responses to one of the other questions about timing on orders going into developing countries through international organizations and unfavorable comparisons with very large Indian Government immunization order last year so therefore the industrialized markets the developed markets didn't decline at double-digit rates either.
The emerging markets in the quarter were up around 8% excluding the pandemic impact.
That’s going to accelerate over the course of the year because of the factors I mentioned these onetime unfavorable comparisons.
We’re expecting double digit growth for the full year which implies even slightly stronger double-digit growth through the remaining quarters.
And then Europe as I mentioned was down year-to-year but that had a disproportionate impact from the Pharmaceutical Systems comparison.
So it's not as extreme as perhaps you thought just assessing the information so far and the emerging market growth outlook is very positive.
Yes David we might have confused you a little bit because we did say double digit but we had some qualifiers in there in terms of those onetime events.
So on the overall top line growth if I kind of look at the 2.8% that you did in the first quarter to get to the 7% underlying growth for the full year you're talking about sort of a little bit north of 8% growth through the balance of the year.
And I know in your prepared remarks -- or answers to one of the earlier questions you referenced that you weren't expecting an improvement in the end-user markets but is all that improvement related to comps/new product introduction? Maybe you could quantify to what extent the acceleration is related to an abatement of some of these onetime factors versus the introduction of some of the new products.
Is it equally balanced or is it more weighted to one or the other? I don't have the split right off the top of my head but kind of backing up a little bit so in terms of some of the comps the two biggest areas where I think the comps are going to play a big deal one is in Pharmaceutical Systems where that's going to be very significant and the second one is in PAS where we will have easier comps over the balance of the year.
And then in terms of the headwind that we have dissipating remember that we'll still have $40 million worth of headwind in the second quarter which will have an impact of about negative 2% on the top line about 4% on the bottom line.
Then things turn much more positive.
So I can’t break it out between that and the new products but David do you've anything else you could add on that? No I think you pretty much summed it up there.
I think as we look at -- as we talked about last year we're in a period of four very tough quarters.
The last two quarters of last year and the first two quarters of this year because of the comp that the flu supplemental orders and pandemic had.
And that's why as we look forward when you adjust for all those things as we went through on Slide 15 we're really looking at the remainder of the year to be about 7%.
I think you had said about 8% data but we look at it to be about 7%.
If we do that we can get to the underlying growth excluding flu and the stimulus orders of about 6% for the year.
And as Vince said earlier we're really looking at the markets to stabilize in order to deliver upon that.
And we see it stabilizing and that's what our guidance is based upon.
Yes the biggest impacts in Bioscience is new product driven.
It's in the balance of the year.
In Diagnostics it's new products.
In the Infectious Disease business continued good growth in TriPath.
That's really the -- as we've seen already this year and then the continued growth of C.
difficile the bigger comp is as I said is in PAS and Pharma Systems.
Bill you have any other comments on Medical? No I think I just would echo the earlier comments Gary made about the international safety effort not being just in Europe.
But in Europe and Latin America we've got a good confidence on our convergence particularly in the area of infusion therapy.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citi.
A couple of questions on the new product portfolio and the launches that you laid out can you give us an update on the SurePath Plus trial? I think you're shooting to complete that by the end of the year.
And on the desk-top sorter I see you have a launch date of fiscal 2011.
But I thought that was supposed to be a calendar first quarter launch so did the timing move around there? First we'll do Tom Polen on the Diagnostic side the SurePath Plus.
So on your question on SurePath Plus so we did start the trial in the U.S.
in Q4 of last year.
And it’s progressing exactly to our expectations.
And we continue to hold that launch date in 2013.
So no change from what we announced in Q4 and it is going very well.
As far as the desk top sorter it’s still within the second fiscal quarter first calendar quarter.
We were talking about another instrument that we're going to be launching the following year.
That’s what you’re thinking about a small analyzer.
A follow-up question just in terms of Diagnostics can you give us a little bit of color on the performance of Genome TriPath and some of the other molecular products there? So Genome the path -- in Q1 we were pleased with the performance that we saw.
As Vince already alluded we saw very good growth on our C.
diff assay.
In that business we grew 15% in Q1 driven by growth in C.
difficile testing.
I think Vince obviously discussed earlier about some of our future product launches with MRSA and C.
diff coming in FY '12 and we're obviously also working on a number of additional menu items for the BD MAX platform which will eventually of course cannibalize when phasing out the Genome smart cycle product replacing it with MAX and are working on best of menu that we look forward to sharing in future quarters.
We expect to begin communicating more about our menu on MAX as the 6-color MAX approaches later this year.
TriPath? TriPath we grew worldwide.
TriPath was up 5% for the quarter.
And one thing that we have seen was -- I think we had spoken last year about some volatility in OB/GYN visits and Pap visits.
And we've been tracking both OB/GYN visits and Pap visits very closely.
And over the last two quarters we have seen that stabilize which is pleasant obviously for us to see that.
We’re not seeing a return to prior levels of testing but we're seeing stabilized flat.
And we are again seeing good growth across most markets particularly in Asia Pacific for our TriPath business where we're growing well north of 20% in Asia Pacific in that business.
On the timing on the trial? The SurePath Plus? Yes.
I just reported it.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with Macquarie Capital.
I guess maybe David if you could just expand a little bit more of the question I get the most often is around gross margins in particular with the potential with this disconnect between the euro and commodity prices.
So I know in the past there tended to be an inverse correlation which kind of helped you to some degree mitigate the impact.
And I guess that seems to have broken down a little bit.
So I know that these lag three to six months but can you maybe talk a little bit more generally about the impact you expect now that you're no longer hedged from a currency standpoint? Our guidance were really looking at assuming that really no impact from currency for the full year.
So we have some favorable comparisons because of hedge losses last year in the first quarter and a little bit in the second quarter but as we progress throughout the year we’re assuming the average euro rate is going to be about the same.
To your second point on commodity prices we are seeing pressure on commodity prices.
I think resins is something that will see more pricing pressure on but right now our assumption is that resin pricing is going to be in line with the oil in the $80 to $90 range.
I know you said that earlier I guess as we think about that -- you no longer having that offset are you potentially more exposed I guess to rising commodity prices if that’s something we see over the next year to two years than you've been in the past or are there other mitigating things that you're doing that maybe just haven’t been communicated? I think our ReLoCo program and our start-up costs as I talked about a little bit earlier start-up costs start coming down year-over-year.
We start getting positive from our ReLoCo program particularly the latter half of this year and going into next year.
And also our efficiency programs that we have that are below gross margin that we continue to drive from our shared services and our G&amp;A cost reduction programs.
And as we talked about our strategy very much from a manufacturing perspective is we're assuming that commodity prices are going to be higher going forward.
Therefore everything that we can do from a green perspective from a manufacturing supply perspective to get more efficient will make us more competitive in that type of environment.
And that's the strength of the organization.
It's what we've been successful in over the past few years doing.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Bonello with RBC.
LLC</strong> Just looking forward out into the future a bit any thoughts on some of the inhalable insulin products and just how that might impact your pen needle business? Bill Kozy will take that.
Yes we continue to track a number of potentially disruptive technologies.
I'm sure you're aware that the latest feedback from the FDA on this latest new product activity and they're going to have to go back and do a little bit more work.
We'll continue to keep our eyes on that but our position on inhalable insulin is really not changed since the last go around.
LLC</strong> Then I guess I'll call this a follow up though it's kind of cheating just on BD MAX you talked about the initial launch being as an open system.
Can you elaborate a bit on that? Sort of what kind of demand you would expect for the product is it open system and sort of where that's being sold and what kind of applications it might be used for? So we expect launch of that as an open system in Q3 of this fiscal year in Europe followed very soon after the launch of that system in the U.S.
And the way that we expect this to be used particularly in Europe where there's a much larger kind of standard market for open assay development where you have a large number of the university laboratories and even large community hospitals are basically developing their own assays.
And the way that this works is we sell the six-color BD MAX to them as the instrument.
We then provide a consumable strip that essentially has the majority of the reagents that they need to develop their own test.
They would put in their specific primers for their marker they were able to adjust some of the software algorithms to be able to optimize for their specific test and then they would be able to develop any molecular test in their own laboratory and then perform that.
You see that typically for many of the more esoteric tests.
You don't see people doing open system for GC/CT or HPV or MRSA.
They would buy a commercially available tests for those assays but many other infectious disease tests we do see the use of a home brews or open systems particularly in the European market.
And so this quite a robust market for those types of technologies today.
I think this fits in well into a category that Vince alluded to earlier.
We’ve not traditionally played in the open system marketplace this is -- many of our competitors have had offerings in that space.
The launch of BD MAX later this year will be our first entree into that new market for us.
And I think as Vince alluded to that growth is all coming as incremental new growth in a new market that we haven’t competed in traditionally.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> Just a few loose ends clearly there’s a lot of focus this morning.
I'm trying to get more comfortable with the robust second half acceleration and sales growth that you've built into guidance.
You've mentioned a lot of different variables maybe just to go back to a couple of them I think early in your prepared remarks you talked about Pharma System improvements that you've incorporated into second half guidance.
Is that more attributable to historical lumpiness favorable comps or is the actual visibility on that business getting a little bit better? Another thing you mentioned with SurePath which I know is not a huge part of the business but I think you talked about improvement three in the second half is that seemingly predicated on some sort of a rebound in utilization that’s built into your guidance? Bill will take the Pharma Systems question but we do have some pretty good visibility as to customer ordering patterns.
Bill you want to take that? Sure.
Just as a quick reminder the way that Pharma Systems business model works we tend to get advanced projections from our major pharmaceutical customers and those are followed by confirming purchase orders typically within 45 to 60 days of an actual commitment to order.
Coming back to the comments that Vince made about the third quarter one of the key drivers from a customer perspective.
Remember that from the pharmaceutical company perspective the flu ordering starts in the third quarter and we've got commitments projections on that.
Low-molecular weight Heparin also is continuing to make good market penetration particularly in the U.S.
We've got market expansion in two markets on the pre-filled platform as people convert from vials to pre-filled and that’s in Asia and in Latin America with the Asia market expansion being a nice positive impact in 3Q.
So it's those particular growth variables in addition to our European base growth business in the third quarter that are giving us some confidence around Pharma Systems in the third quarter.
So coming back to Diagnostics Tom can comment on TriPath in a second but Tom and I both said that there were a couple of other factors that were bigger drivers within that business.
In the back half of the year we have the two product launches that we mentioned which of course was the BD MAX and there is another microbiology instrument for core microbiology that we're also launching on the back half of the year easier comps on PAS then the absence of a negative situation from flu.
But TriPath I think Tom you mentioned that there's continued good growth in TriPath? There's not a significant acceleration of TriPath in the second half it’s really more the overall growth factors are more related to the factors that been just mentioned.
We are continuing to see good growth in TriPath.
And again that’s coming part from the U.S.
but much more significantly from the emerging markets.
LLC</strong> And maybe if I could just slip in one more a lot of other companies that we look at that have stimulus exposure are still seeing a good amount or I would say at least flat growth when it comes to stimulus-related revenues.
Now maybe that's because they are more research-focused or there's more of a consumable mix so there's more of a tail for that type of spending.
Could you just explain why it's a little bit different for you? Exactly what dynamic is driving the drop-off in stimulus-related revenues that a lot of others are not seeing? It's hard to comment on others but our stimulus revenues were related to a very -- two particular events one was the U.S.
stimulus and their instrument program which had a defined start and stop and then the Japan stimulus program.
Bill anything else on that? Well that's exactly right.
I mean if you parse through it and take a look at what happened there was a discrete amount of money that was made available early in the year and instruments for laboratories which we took notice of and then advantage of and the same thing on Japan supplemental funding.
So for us we had a very good run at stimulus and supplemental last year.
LLC</strong> I guess that makes sense to me but I guess to be clear then you don't get any follow-up pull-through I guess on those instruments? And then I guess also given there were instrument placements would there be some in-kind margin benefit at the gross margin line given that presumably that would actually -- the elimination of those revenues would actually lead to a favorable mix this year? Well it's Bill again the answer actually is we do see reagent pull-through because we have a higher installed base due to the fact that we were able to place that many instruments in both Japan significantly and the U.S.
And as far as margin it's a complicated formula.
You need to remember of course that we made a lot of things last year which contributed to margin.
But now we're selling more reagents.
So it's sort of a complicated way to look at it.
But at the end of the day we do see pull through on reagents.
LLC</strong> So there is some stimulus-related revenue in the form of those reagents that's in the score? Yes if you were to -- it's based upon the fact that we placed instruments because of stimulus funding.
Not stimulus funded dollars now but instruments that went in and customers now use them but more on research side and so they don't have the large reagent trails that you see on the clinical side of the business but we are getting a positive impact in those sets.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Weinstein with William Blair Not a whole lot left to go over here but are you guys sticking with your 220 million shares outstanding and the reason that I ask is obviously with a big chunk the $1.5 billion spent so early in the year you get a really nice EPS benefit from the lower share count.
But using so much in Q1 really struck us as a bit odd especially given the nice move in the stock and as of early November you guys hadn't even really started the program yet? I think the question came up earlier from Jon Wood -- we said the 228 will be favorable but there is some offset due to dilution because of the higher share price than what we had originally assumed but yes there will be some benefit from the waiting effect you get from retiring more shares in the first quarter.
And then I didn't hear if you guys specifically commented on the STD business and what was going on there? The STD business Tom Polen will take that our Viper and ProbeTec business.
Again strong performance in Q1.
We grew about a little over 8% in Q1 in that Molecular business and our forecasting continued strong performance through the balance of the year in that same range.
Yes so we were pleased with what we saw there.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Vince just thinking about the commentary around the higher raw material costs as well as the pricing pressure that you mentioned how should we think about your ability if at all to push some of the higher costs through the end market? So as I said the pricing has not been significant.
And historically we've not been a company that raises prices unless it's really been a significant situation.
So you'd see us more focused on operating effectiveness the offset the pricing than raising prices across our product lines and especially on the device side.
We may have a little bit more room in certain Bioscience product lines.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Lawson with Mizuho Securities.
Inc.</strong> Vince I wondered if you could just give us a breakout of the mix between C.
difficile and MRSA and the Genome business? We haven't broken it out but most of the growth what I would tell you Peter is coming from C.
difficile at this point in time.
And I think that's as far as I would go with it.
Inc.</strong> And then just on your commentary about China are you seeing a benefit from the hospital build-out and are you seeing increased competition in that marketplace as well? Gary will take that.
I think all participants in the broader healthcare space are seeing benefit from the build-out of hospitals.
And we planned our strategy accordingly including plans for us to expand our own organization to reach those hospitals.
Competitive-wise the circumstances are dynamic but not really changed.
We're seeing strengthening of local competitors but not in a dramatic or a step-function sense.
And much of what we're doing to ensure we can compete on highest quality lowest cost basis blends itself very well to the market characteristics in China.
So on the whole we're very pleased by the progress there.
Inc.</strong> And what’s the revenue contribution from China? We had mentioned last year the revenue in China was in the range from about $250 million in 2010.
That’s just the main line.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Choi with Caris.
Maybe first a question on Diabetes.
You guys face some difficult comps next quarter as well as in the fourth quarter.
Can you help us think about how that growth that you’re targeting for Medical will be achieved? It sounds like you’re banking a lot on Diabetes growth but is it more volume in terms of customers replenishing stocks? Or do you see the primary drivers being perhaps adoption of your new safety pen? Well there were other growth factors in Medical that Bill can touch on so it’s not primarily Diabetes Care though Diabetes has been a good actor and there are some new products there.
But Bill you want to comment on that? Sure we’ve still got some unfavorable comps to deal with in the second quarter as David has mentioned a few times and you’re exactly right on the DC comparisons Diabetes Care as it relates to 2Q and 4Q.
But the acceleration in the second half of the year is reflecting a lot of the benefits of the investments that were made over the last six to nine months in the emerging markets that Gary referenced.
And particularly we'll start to see some revenue impact from those investments in the fourth quarter of the year with China being one good example of that activity.
International safety as I mentioned earlier is also expected to have a positive finish in the second two quarters of the year with Nexiva Q-Syte Venflon Pro Safety and Intima II SAF-T launched product in China all contributing nicely and we've got all the capacities now completely lined up to support that growth.
And then one last comment on new products we've got the Nano pen needle which is gaining momentum.
We'll launch the safety products which Vince and David mentioned and then the ReKindle products all making admittedly smaller contributions to the year but incremental additions to our core revenue base.
And then maybe just quickly turning to Diagnostics in terms of the 5% growth you've targeted for the full year does that include some contribution from the ProbeTec test for HSV that you guys just filed for? Or should we think about that more as a fiscal '12 contributor? There is a very small amount of growth in for HSV this year but it's a relatively low-volume assay.
So I wouldn't even expect that and as we look forward in FY '12 and beyond while there is going to be growth related to HSV it's not going to be a key driver of growth either at the Diagnostic and certainly not the BD level.
Your next question comes from the line of Tony Butler with Barclays Capital.
Briefly Vince you've made reference to new products in the back half of the year.
And I'm just wondering to what degree of confidence do you have that BD MAX will be launched in Q3? And more over what's your level of confidence also in its initial uptick? And then I have a one follow up for David please.
I'll let Tom talk to that but I think we have a high level of confidence that we're going to get the instrument out and it's a very attractive platform.
Tom? We have a very level of confidence that it will be out in Q3.
In fact we already are shipping BD MAX to some clinical sites ourr 6-color as well as we have announced partnerships publicly for example with Lonza and we've done shipping instruments to our partner there as well.
The instrument is actually -- we are building instruments and beginning to ship them in certain places our commercial launches in Q3 and we feel very comfortable with that date.
And initial demand initial uptick? We're seeing very very high demand at this stage in Europe and in the U.S.
very high customer interest.
It's a very unique platform in the way that it combine extremely high ease of use it's basically a walkaway system for molecular but also with that open system flexibility so that customers can do many assays beyond those that are just offered by BD.
So very strong customer interest and we remain on track to launch that as committed.
And then David P&amp;L question I believe the last quarter you gave for full year 10% growth in R&amp;D expense obviously 17% in the Q1.
Is it still 10% for the full year and further will be a trend down for the remaining three quarters? Well it's 10% for the full year.
It's correct yes.
There may be some lumpiness quarter-to-quarter but 10% is the full year guidance.
So lower growth rates for the balance of the year yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Frelick with Canaccord.
Real quick on the flow acquisitions for Accuri -- Vince a few years ago you guys made an acquisition I think it was Cytopeia for custom flow.
So how does that fit in and differ with Accuri's acquisition? Now that was a sorter acquisition and we're doing well with that product.
And in fact it's the -- so that's up at the high end of the marketplace the sorters.
Though we are introducing as Bill mentioned a smaller sorter and so we're going to have a small sorter and we're going to have a small analyzer so they are very complementary.
Our final question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Just taking a follow-up just wanted to go back to the resin just to get the exposure you said $80 to $90 a barrel is kind of where you're pricing it at.
Obviously it's a little bit higher now.
So can you just quantify again for us how much resin is as a percentage of cost of goods sold? I think it was last time like around 7% but I'm not sure if that's changed.
Yes it hasn't changed dramatically.
I mean it fluctuates based upon the price of the resins as well as some of the other commodity prices.
But broadly speaking that hasn't changed dramatically.
So resins is still about 7% of the cost of goods sold? Yes approximately.
Yes it fluctuates anywhere between about $180 million to -- it's gone as high as $220 million based upon the pricing of the resins and how much consumed in any given year.
Just a follow-through from FX is that still roughly like 25% 30% of the currency from the top line with fall-through and your assumption for the full year assumes that euro kind of roughly at $1.36 is that right ? That's correct.
And remember what we saw in this quarter was there's a lot of volatility across the board on the currencies not just the euro.
So if you just think through some of those other currencies that we talked about earlier the dollar strengthened against the euro as well as the pound but then it weakened in the quarter against the yen the Australian dollar and the Canadian dollar so they kind of had counter-effects within the quarter.
And just in terms of looking at the U.S.
book of business you guys aren't seeing any concerning trends of trading down and kind of hospitals looking to use maybe instead of generation 3 and generation 2 safety needles or anything like that right? After some mix changes? No we haven't seen any significant movement in that direction that’s changed now.
That was our final question.
I'll now turn the floor back over to Mr.
Forlenza for any closing remarks.
Well thank you all for your participation today.
While healthcare spending as we've been talking this morning it provides a challenging environment we’re going to continue to drive our operating efficiency programs.
You saw the increase in R&amp;D and the investments in the emerging markets.
So we're happy to reaffirm our guidance for the full fiscal year and we look forward to updating you on progress next quarter.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's Second Fiscal Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through Wednesday May 4 2011 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at (800) 642-1687 for domestic calls and area code (706) 645-9291 for international calls using conference ID 59468691.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our second fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The slide presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our second fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza President and Chief Operating Officer.
Also joining us are David Elkins Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; BD Executive Vice Presidents Gary Cohen and Bill Kozy; as well as Bill Rhodes President of BD Biosciences; and Tom Polen President of Diagnostic Systems.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
Before we discuss the results in the quarter we would like to provide you with an update on the situation in Japan subsequent to the earthquake and tsunami.
We are pleased to report that our business operations in Japan have stabilized more rapidly than we originally anticipated following the earthquake.
Quarter volumes have returned to normal levels and customer service and distribution operations are now also operating at normal levels.
BD's manufacturing plant in Fukushima Province sustained some minor earthquake-related damage but has recently restarted the production of prepared plated media.
We expect the manufacturing of the BD Hypak prefillable syringes to resume during the third fiscal quarter.
We also have a distribution center in Fukushima which is now fully operational and immediately following the earthquake we established an additional distribution center near Tokyo which is supplementing normal distribution operations in Japan.
Our plant and distribution center in Fukushima Province are located approximately 60 kilometers from the damaged nuclear plant facility.
And because of this we contracted with a company specializing in radiation testing to assess our facility.
The test results today indicate that radiation levels in our Fukushima facilities are essentially normal and do not pose any reason for concern.
Testing will continue over the coming weeks and we will continue to closely monitor the situation at the nuclear power plant.
Overall we are very pleased with the speed of the company's recovery in Japan which is a testament to the hard work and dedication of our employees.
Most importantly we are thankful that all of our employees and their families are safe.
From a financial perspective we did see an impact on our revenue growth from the earthquake in Japan.
In our second fiscal quarter the impact to our sales growth was less than $10 million.
For the full year we anticipate this having a $10 million to $20 million impact on revenue and about a $0.05 impact on EPS which is built into the total year guidance.
About half of the EPS impact occurred in the second quarter.
As a reminder Japan accounts for approximately 5% of the company's overall revenues.
About 1% of our revenues are derived from products manufactured and sold in Japan.
Right now it is difficult to assess whether there could be further underlying risk to our business in Japan such as environmental risk that could impact our long-term operations.
We will continue to provide you with updates as the recovery process continues in Japan.
We would also like to provide you with an update on Accuri Cytometers.
As we announced in our press release on March 18 we completed the acquisition of this Ann Arbor Michigan-based company that develops and manufactures personal flow cytometers for researchers.
The financial impact of the acquisition on fiscal year 2011 earnings has been incorporated into the guidance that we provided on our last earnings call in February with the dilution being less than $0.05 to earnings per share for the total year.
The purchase price of the company was $205 million.
We see this acquisition contributing approximately 1 percentage point to Biosciences revenue in fiscal year 2011 and about 1 to 2 percentage points per year over the next three years.
The Accuri acquisition allows us to bring affordable Flow Cytometry from this estimated 1 200 research core flow labs around the world to more than 70 000 life science researchers who currently access those labs but who do not own flow cytometers.
It will allow us to eventually bring affordable Flow Cytometry to hundreds of thousands of life science researchers around the world who are not currently using flow but whose research might benefit from its power and utility.
This acquisition is an excellent addition to our portfolio and is aligned with our strategy of driving revenue growth through innovation.
On Slide 5 we've outlined our Q2 revenue and EPS results.
We are pleased with our results this quarter which I will speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
Revenues were solid increasing by 4.6%.
Fully diluted EPS came in at $1.38 growing at 7.4% over the prior period on an adjusted basis.
For the 6-month year-to-date results revenue growth was 1.5%.
EPS growth was about 5% on adjusted basis due to the difficult comparisons we discussed last quarter.
Moving to Slide 6.
I'd like to briefly summarize our outlook for fiscal year 2011 as David will provide more details later in his remarks.
As I just mentioned and as Ed stated in our press release we are pleased with our results in the quarter which were in line with the company's expectations.
The current macroeconomic environment however continues to be a challenge.
On the positive side given our presence outside of the U.S.
we are favorably impacted by the weakening of the U.S.
dollar.
As a result we are raising our reported EPS guidance to grow 12% to 14% on an adjusted basis.
However we are lowering our currency neutral revenue guidance to about 3% 3.5%.
This is a result of the challenging macroeconomic environment particularly in Western Europe.
This new guidance continues to assume higher sales growth in the second half of the year but less than before which we believe is prudent in this environment.
On a currency-neutral basis we are revising our EPS guidance to about 10% which is at the lower end of the 10% to 12% range we previously discussed.
We are also negatively impacted by increased resin cost and the earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
We continue to manage the company accordingly and we are confident we are able to deliver on these results.
Now I'd like to turn things over to David for a more detailed discussion of our second quarter financial performance.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by discussing the key financial highlights for the second quarter.
As Vince stated we are really pleased with our results.
Revenue growth was 4.6%.
We experienced solid growth in the Medical and Diagnostics segments.
Strong growth in Biosciences segment was masked by supplemental and stimulus spending in fiscal year 2010 and the impact of the earthquake in Japan this year.
We saw continued strength in emerging markets which grew at about 13% currency neutral.
We continue to control G&amp;A expenses while investing in emerging markets as well as R&amp;D which increased almost 19% in the quarter.
This is in line with our expectation as we continue to invest in new products and platforms.
The company's earnings of $1.38 benefited from favorable currency of about $0.07 in the quarter.
Additionally during the second quarter we completed $221 million of our $1.5 billion share repurchase plan.
Our guidance for the program in 2011 remains unchanged at $1.5 billion with $1.1 billion repurchased in the first half of the year.
Turning to Slide 9 and our revenues by segment.
I'll start with the total company performance.
As I mentioned earlier revenue increased about 4.6% currency neutral.
This includes less than 1 percentage point of unfavorable pricing.
For the first half the company grew 1.5% currency neutral.
Excluding the impact of sales related to the H1N1 flu pandemic and the stimulus and supplemental spending in fiscal year 2010 the company grew at about 5% currency neutral.
BD Medical's second quarter revenues increased about 5% currency neutral.
Growth was primarily driven by Diabetes Care which continued strong sales of pen needles fueled by Nano.
Medical segment revenues were also driven by strong growth in our Pharmaceutical Systems business and international safety sales.
For the first half of the fiscal year the Medical segment grew was about flat on a currency-neutral basis.
Excluding the impact of the flu pandemic into fiscal year 2010 underlying revenue growth was about 4%.
BD Diagnostics second quarter revenues increased 6.5% currency neutral.
Revenues reflected solid growth in our Preanalytical Systems safety products.
Our Diagnostic systems experienced strong growth driven by infectious disease platforms.
GenOhm growth in aggregate and TriPath growth outside of the U.S.
were most notable.
For the first half the Diagnostics segment grew 3.6% currency neutral.
Excluding the impact of the flu pandemic revenue was about 4.5% year-to-date.
BD Biosciences revenue growth in the quarter was about flat at 0.4%.
As we discussed on our first quarter conference call revenue growth was negatively impacted by a tough comparison due to the strong stimulus spending in the U.S.
and the supplemental spending in Japan in fiscal year 2010.
Additionally the segment was also negatively impacted by the earthquake in Japan.
Excluding these items underlying growth in the Biosciences segment would have been approximately 12% in the quarter.
Segment growth was primarily driven by strong instrument and reagent sales in our Cell Analysis unit.
For the first half of the fiscal year our Biosciences segment grew about 4% or 2% on a currency-neutral basis.
Excluding the impact of the supplemental spending in Japan and the stimulus spending in the U.S.
with fiscal 2010 revenue growth was about 7%.
The Japan earthquake and tsunami lowered revenue growth by an additional 2 percentage points which really brings the underlying growth of the business to about 9%.
We continue to be pleased by the underlying performance of our Biosciences segment.
Moving to Slide 10.
I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the second quarter.
Overall BD's reported U.S.
revenue growth was 4.7%.
U.S.
Medical revenues increased 4.4% year-over-year reflecting the strong sales of pen needles our Pharmaceutical Systems products and was slightly offset in our Medical Surgical Systems business.
U.S.
sales of Diagnostics products grew a solid 6% driven by infectious disease testing and Biosciences revenue in the U.S.
increased 2.5% which is impacted by tough comparison in the prior year due to U.S.
stimulus.
Growth in the segment was primarily again driven by Cell Analysis which was partially offset by our Discovery Labware products.
International revenues increased 4.6% on a currency-neutral basis.
The difficult comparison of flu-related sales and supplemental spending in Japan impacted revenue growth by about 2 percentage points resulting in solid underlying growth of about 7% internationally.
As I mentioned earlier the Biosciences segment was negatively impacted by several factors as I mentioned earlier for the fiscal year '10 as the impact of the earthquake in Japan impacted this year.
These factors together had a total negative impact of 16 percentage points on this segment.
Excluding those items the Biosciences segment had strong underlying international growth of about 15%.
For the first half reported U.S.
revenues grew about 0.8% with Medical decreasing about 1%.
Diagnostics and Biosciences grew at about 3% each.
Total U.S.
revenues grew at about 5% excluding the impact of flu in fiscal year 2010.
The total international revenue growth was about 2% currency neutral in the first half and also grew about 5% excluding the flu and supplemental impacts.
Moving to global safety product results on Slide 11.
Reported sales increased about 7% and grew to $441 million in the quarter.
On a currency-neutral basis revenue growth was about 5%.
This growth was driven by international safety sales which increased about 14% on a currency-neutral basis.
For the first half safety growth was about 3% on a currency-neutral basis.
After adjusting for the flu growth was around 6%.
This was a combination of strong international growth of 12% and a growth rate of about 3% in the U.S.
International safety sales were particularly strong in the Medical segment with the largest gains occurring in our emerging markets.
Total safety product sales in emerging markets are now approaching a level similar to safety sales in Western Europe.
In the quarter emerging markets account for approximately two-third of overall international safety sales growth.
Now looking at the company for the second quarter revenue growth year-over-year we saw gains from performance of 4.6%.
The remaining gain is due to the hedged loss from fiscal year 2010 not recurring in fiscal year 2011 as well as favorable currency.
Moving on to Slide 13.
Our gross margin improved about 10 basis points to 52.1%.
The absence of the hedge loss from fiscal year 2010 generated a favorable comparison of 70 basis points.
This was partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency translation in the quarter of about 30 basis points.
Overall performance declined by about 30 basis points.
Positive productivity and mix and favorable start-up costs of 40 basis points was more than offset by higher raw material costs higher pension costs and the impact of Japan.
Slide 14 now recaps the second quarter income statements and highlights our foreign currency neutral results.
As discussed earlier second quarter revenue grew by 4.6% currency neutral and gross profit by 4.1%.
As a percentage of revenues underlying gross profit margin as I discussed earlier decreased by about 30 points.
Moving down the income statement SSG&amp;A increased 4.1% primarily due to increased investment in emerging markets increased pension costs and our SAP implementation.
These were partially offset by savings in G&amp;A.
R&amp;D increased about 19% or 60 basis points as a percent of total revenue over the prior year period.
The acceleration in R&amp;D is in line with our expectation as we are continuing to invest in new products and platforms.
Our operating income was about flat reflecting a difficult comparison due to the flu and stimulus as well as higher resin’s cost the increased R&amp;D spending in the first half of the year and the impact of Japan.
EPS growth came in about 7.4% currency neutral mainly benefited by our share repurchase program and the impact of a favorable tax rate.
Moving to Slide 15.
Revenue in the first half increased 2.6%.
Performance and the impact of the hedge loss not recurring contributed 1.5% and 1.1% respectfully.
The currency impact in the quarter was negligible.
Now looking at gross margin on Slide 16.
The year-over-year we experienced a 50 basis point improvement.
The absence of the hedge loss that occurred in fiscal year '10 generated a favorable comparison of 60 basis points.
The impact of currency translation was also negligible for the results year-to-date.
Overall performance declined by 10 basis points.
Positive productivity and mix favorable start up were about 60 basis points and they were more than offset by higher raw material costs pension and the impact of Japan as I talked about on the second quarter.
Slide 17 recaps the 6-month year-to-date income statement and highlights our foreign currency neutral results.
Revenue growth was about 1.5% currency neutral as I mentioned earlier.
When you exclude the impact of flu-related sales and the supplemental and stimulus spending in 2010 revenue increased about 5% year-to-date.
Gross profit increased 1.4%.
Moving down to SSG&amp;A which increased about 2.5% with overall G&amp;A expense savings being offset by increased investments in emerging markets as well as SAP implementation and the pension costs.
Similar to my earlier comment on the second quarter results R&amp;D increased about 18% currency neutral due to the continued investment in new products and platforms.
We expect to moderated rate of R&amp;D growth for the balance of the year as the investment was accelerated in the first half.
We are still guiding R&amp;D to increase about 10% for the full year.
Our operating income increased 3.6% impacted by the difficult comparisons to the prior year the higher resin costs and pension as well as investments in operational efficiencies like our shared services and the effects of the earthquake in Japan.
EPS increased about 5% driven by the share repurchases and a favorable tax rate.
Now as Vince mentioned earlier I'd like to move on to revenue guidance.
We are slightly lowering our revenue guidance expectations.
We expect to grow about 3.5% on a currency-neutral basis.
However the underlying growth of the business is about 5.5% when excluding the impact of flu stimulus and the supplemental spending.
We have modified guidance due to a continuing difficult environment in Western Europe as well as the impact in Japan.
For the Medical segment we are anticipating currency neutral growth of about 3% with underlying growth at about 5%.
We expect revenue growth for the remainder of the year to be driven by continued strong sales of pen needles and strength in our Pharmaceutical Systems business along with the strong growth in international safety products as well as China.
In the Diagnostics segment we anticipate currency neutral growth of approximately 4.5% with underlying growth at about 5%.
We expect to see further pickup in growth in emerging markets and from our new BD MAX and Innova product launches.
We expect Biosciences currency-neutral growth of about 4% to 5% with underlying growth of about 7%.
Biosciences growth will be driven primarily by instrument reagent sales in our Cell Analysis business.
Including the launch as Vince will talk about later of our new desk top sorter and research analyzer.
Advanced Bioprocessing will also contribute to the growth in the balance of the year with new products launching in that business.
As I mentioned earlier the Accuri acquisition will contribute approximately 1 percentage point to revenue growth and we expect it to contribute about 1 to 2 percentage points of growth over the next three years to our Biosciences business.
Now moving to Slide 19.
I would just like to summarize our expectations for the total year.
On the top line as we just discussed we expect revenue growth of about 5% to 6% on a reported basis aided by currency.
On a currency-neutral basis we expect revenue growth to be approximately 3.5%.
On the bottom line we anticipate EPS growth of about 12% to 14% off the adjusted 2010 EPS of $4.94.
On a currency-neutral basis we expect EPS to grow about 10% driven by revenue improvement in the second half our efficiency gains a moderated rate of R&amp;D growth and the benefit from our share repurchase programs.
These items will be slightly offset by higher resin costs and the impact of Japan.
Despite the challenging environment in which we are operating we remain focused on driving both top line and bottom line growth and are confident on our ability to deliver these results.
I will now turn the call back over to Vince who will provide an update on our product launches and our emerging markets opportunities.
Thank you David.
On Slide 21 I'd like to provide an update of our key product initiatives starting with BD Medical.
We recently launched ecoFinity a sustainable disposable solution for sharps products.
Our ReKindle program remains on track with conventional reuse prevention and low cost safety products launching at 3 plants on 3 continents this year.
In addition to ecoFinity and ReKindle we are also planning to launch an extension to our flagship product Insyte Autoguard with a blood control feature and Nexiva with a diffusion tip in fiscal year 2011 further enhancing our portfolio of innovated fusion therapy products.
Within our Diabetes Care business we plan to launch a next-generation safety pen needle during the back half of this fiscal year and other innovative products beginning in our fiscal year 2012.
As I have mentioned in past discussions we continue to collaborate with the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation and we will be leveraging our expertise as a leader in insulin delivery and acute-care infusion to launch new products that will improve the patient experience and therapy outcomes for insulin pump users.
Turning to Slide 22.
I'd like to walk through some of the key initiatives in our Diagnostics segment.
We are continuing to invest in the BD Viper XTR with fully automated specimen processing.
We recently launched our HSV assay on this platform.
In the third quarter of this fiscal year we will be launching a new automated microbiology plate streaker called the BD Innova.
We're also excited about the BD MAX our new automated molecular diagnostic instrument.
We're pleased with the product or aggressive of the new 6-color MAX.
It's performing well and we're on track to launch that as an open system next month.
In fiscal year 2012 you can expect the launch of the BD MAX MRSA and C.
difficile assays mid-year in the EU.
The U.S.
launch will be toward the end of the year.
Additionally in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 we'll be launching the Trichomonas assay on the BD Viper.
In fiscal year 2013 we expect to launch our molecular path test the BD SurePath Plus.
At the end of the year 2013 we'll be launching the Viper LT our next-generation mid-volume Viper platform to replace ProbeTec.
On Slide 23 we will review the product launches for our Biosciences segment.
We are pleased to announce that we recently launched our BD Recharge media supplement for bioproduction.
Also this year we have our BD Mosaic serum-free stem cell culture medium and a new desk top sorter.
You can also expect a new modular research analyzer to come out this year.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 we plan to launch a new analyzer for CD4 testing for the developing world.
Moving on to Slide 24.
We continue to grow in emerging markets which accounted for approximately 21% of the total company's revenues in the second quarter.
Emerging market revenues grew about 13% in total over the prior year with double-digit growth in a number of key markets.
Growth in the Asia-Pacific region was driven by sales in China which were up about 30% and in the Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa region which grew approximately 18% with particularly strong results in Africa.
We are very pleased with safety revenue growth in emerging markets which was up about 27% over prior periods.
Emerging market growth is being driven by expanded health care funding and patient access and BD's products organizational capabilities and geographic reach are well aligned to meet the healthcare needs in emerging countries.
We are committed to investing in emerging markets and we expect to achieve continued double-digit growth in these markets for the balance of the year.
On Slide 25 before we open the call to questions I would like to reiterate some of the key messages from our discussion today.
First we're pleased with our results this quarter in all three of our segments.
We look forward to moving past the tough comparisons that have occurred in fiscal year 2010 which impacted our results year-to-date.
We believe it was prudent to lower our revenue guidance in this challenging environment.
We're also modifying our EPS guidance to about 10% currency neutral due to higher resin costs and the impact of the earthquake in Japan.
Second we are encouraged by the progress we are making in emerging markets.
We're building strong businesses in these markets and we believe they are well positioned for future growth.
Third we have many exciting opportunities in our pipeline and our product development and product launches remain on target.
Fourth our operational excellence programs are progressing as planned.
They're on track to deliver future savings and are already offsetting some of our near-term challenges.
Lastly we believe our intense focus on these areas positions us well to continue our track record of delivering value to shareholders and to our customers around the world.
Thank you and we will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Thanks for taking the question.
I was just wondering if you can maybe expand a little bit more on your commentary on Western Europe.
It seems that that's along with Japan one of the things bringing down the constant currency revenue growth this year.
I'm just curious if this is something that you would expect to see some significant level of improvement as you move forward especially with the safety initiatives looking out the next couple of years and whether or not new revised expectations for this year with constant currency growth really changes the way in which you've looked at the next three years which as I recall was kind of on average 6%.
So obviously you'd have to have greater acceleration in the outer years in order to achieve that.
Talking about Western Europe let's focus on this year.
Western Europe the issue in Western Europe is really one of utilization and some rationing of healthcare by the government in Western Europe.
And it's not the same across all of the countries.
Some countries are more severe than others.
But we expect well Western Europe grew about 1 to 2 percentage points in the first half of the year and we expect it to be around 2% for the total year.
So it's kind of a consistent trend we see in the last 2 quarters.
Our expectations were a little higher for Western Europe going into this year but we see the situation as stable.
We are seeing progress in safety and in fact safety grew 7% in Western Europe.
As we also mentioned on the call we're seeing higher safety growth in emerging markets and Gary can comment on that.
Biosciences had a good quarter as well in Europe.
So we're lighter than we thought in Western Europe primarily due to the environmental factors.
We expect to get a little bit better in the second half of the year.
In terms of the longer-term guidance we're in the middle of our strategic planning process.
So I'm not going to get into what we see in the out years right now.
I would rather give you an all-in answer based on our latest strategic planning which has started but will continue for the next couple of months and come back to that with a more informed answer.
But let me ask Gary to just comment on safety for a minute.
Yes.
And maybe also I'll add a little more color on Western Europe because we thought there would be some questions about it.
And probably it's not any surprise to anyone that economic environment in Western Europe is constrained relative to other areas of the world.
And we grew around 2.5% in the quarter in Western Europe and we're projecting to grow a little under 2% for the balance of the year.
There's not much of a pandemic or stimulus impact there.
So that's pretty much the same FX neutral or adjusted.
So more or less our outlook for the rest of the year in Western Europe relative to the quarter is similar or slightly more conservative than what we had in the quarter.
When you look by country in Western Europe it's really concentrated just in a few countries.
France is one of them and that has been impacted more by Pharm Systems [Pharmaceutical Systems] because all of our Pharm System sales in Western Europe are recorded in France because that's where we ship from and not because of the headquarters of the global Pharm Systems business.
In Greece our sales this year are down by half because we made a delivery decision to go from a direct to a distributor distribution model to reduce collection risks in Greece.
So that was a delivery decision anticipated from the start of the year.
And in Nordic our sales are a little bit light.
But the other countries in Western Europe were growing at a low to mid-single digit rate which is pretty much what we would expect given the economic environment there.
And as Vince mentioned safety sales are growing about 7% they did in the second quarter.
That's pretty much our outlook for the rest of the year in Western Europe and that's quite a bit above the underlying base growth rates so we are getting good contribution from safety.
And then the other side of the international story is that emerging markets are growing really solid.
As Vince mentioned we had about 13% growth in the second quarter.
That's pretty consistent with our outlook for the year in emerging markets and we're getting very strong safety growth.
As have been mentioned during the formal comments emerging markets safety in total is basically going to be around the same level as Western European safety for the year in absolute dollar terms and we're expecting mid-20% growth over the balance of the year.
So essentially what we're seeing is an economic impact in Western Europe which is being more than offset by this strong growth we're getting in emerging markets reflecting the diversity of our sales around the world.
So we just agree [ph] to the forecast a little bit on the back half of the year in Europe.
So thank you very much.
And then just real quickly I guess for David just on the higher resin costs.
Obviously it takes a little bit to see the impact of higher oil and resin flow through the P&amp;L.
You guys did not give an update on ReLoCo savings or whatnot.
But how can we think about higher resin costs going forward? Is there an ability to maybe see some acceleration of some of the cost savings with programs like ReLoCo and EVEREST that could possibly help to offset higher resin if we continue to see oil where it's at today? Yes.
I mean that's exactly what we're doing.
I think that we had some headwinds of about 30 to 40 basis points on resins.
We'd also had some headwinds of about 20 basis points from the pension.
And actually ReLoCo year-over-year is favorable.
So the reason why it's only about 30 basis points from a performance perspective as I was talking about we do have some -- the operational efficiencies are starting to deliver as well as the favorable comps that we had.
So we're really excited about the underlying operation efficiency programs and they are helping to offset the higher resins cost.
From a guidance perspective we're looking at resins.
As we said it's about 3 months before that comes through.
So we have a pretty good view of where resins will be for the remainder of the year.
And we're assuming that oil will be slightly over $100 a barrel for the remainder of the year.
Phil would you like to remind us about the projected savings from the ReLoCo and the schedule? Sure.
The ReLoCo program remains on track with the previously discussed commitments that we made expected to start delivering very positive impact in FY '12.
Additionally ReLoCo 2 is underway in the business and that will be kick started by a focus on revisit globally of all of our procurement activity.
As you would expect everything from base raw materials to our supply chain activities.
So to your question about next steps designed to offset some of this challenge ahead we're underway with that planning and we're probably about 6 to 9 months away from any detailed discussion about that.
On ReLoCo 2.
ReLoCo 2 is new as far as I can remember.
Is that the first time you're mentioning it? That's the first time we're mentioning it.
You're right.
Your next question comes on the line of Amit Bhalla with Citi.
I wanted to ask you a couple of questions on the Diagnostics business.
Can you give us a little bit more detail on molecular testing performance and also comment about the strong overseas performance of Diagnostics systems? I think that was up 11% constant currency.
Sure we'd be happy to do that.
I'm going to ask Tom Polen to comment.
Amit this is Tom Polen.
So in molecular I'd really break that into 2 areas.
Our GeneOhm business we saw a very strong growth both internationally and in the U.S.
As Vince had mentioned we're up 22% for the quarter in GeneOhm driven both by double-digit growth in both MRSA and Cdiff testing there.
Our GC/CT Molecular business the Viper and the ProbeTec was up 4.5% globally driven by solid performance primarily in the U.S.
As we think about internationally certainly we saw particularly as Gary had reflected in Safety we saw very very strong growth in the developing markets in the Diagnostic Systems business particularly in our TriPath women's health business as well as in our infectious disease core Microbiology business.
And can you comment also about just what you're seeing out there? And discretionary patient testing volumes are you seeing a pickup that's are starting to take place that's reflected in these growth rates? We're not seeing any specific increase in overall patient test volumes but I would say we are seeing an increase in some sub segments of testing volume such as screening for MRSA and Cdiff.
We see that segment of the market continuing to grow particularly as it converts from traditional methods over to molecular diagnostic methods.
Tom do you want to comment maybe on the U.S.
market from the standpoint of overall testing and then women's health? So from a -- overall both the diagnostic systems and the PAS business we see overall lab testing volumes relatively flat year-on-year in the second quarter and...
Overall OB/GYN business maybe off a little bit better than they were before.
So women's health we specifically track OB/GYN and overall Pap volumes.
We see those in the U.S.
down about 4%.
We saw our U.S.
TriPath business consumables were down about 2% for the quarter driven by that overall trend.
And that overall trend of 4% down on overall Pap testing is really driven by a change that was made last year in the recommended testing intervals for women for Pap testing.
And as I mentioned earlier internationally we see very strong double-digit growth for cervical cancer screening particularly in the developing markets.
And that's bringing overall TriPath globally to about 5.5% for the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
Let me start with the guidance if I could.
Obviously appreciate currency helped but really the underlying business basically did pretty well in the quarter a little better on almost every front than we expected.
Second the easier comps.
It sounds like Japan has resolved listening to you.
ReLoCo is kicking in.
I still am not quite sure I understand why the extra incremental conservatism.
If I view it as just a very conservative stance given all the moving pieces? I'll let David comment on that.
Yes there's just a couple of things.
If you think about it from an EPS perspective the underlying performance is up about $0.05.
What we're happening to absorb on the bottom line is Japan's about $0.05 for the full year as well as resins being about another $0.05.
So that's around $0.10 that we're absorbing.
And remember through our operational efficiency programs we're able to offset the lowering of the top line guidance because the operational efficiency gains were actually getting into business.
So to really just summarize for the full year from a guidance perspective we're really incorporating impacts of Japan and the higher resin costs.
And that's why the underlying EPS is around the bottom end of the range around 10%.
Yes.
Maybe on a sort of strategic basis Vince.
You guys are doing a great job operating efficiency.
It seems like there's a lot in the pipeline but there's still sort of a long-term growth challenge not just for Becton but for all companies.
Do think that Becton needs to be even more aggressive on the acquisition front and/or even more aggressive in stepping up R&amp;D to meet that challenge? So I don't think we have to be more aggressive in stepping up R&amp;D.
I think we're making excellent progress on our R&amp;D programs and I think you will see in the short run that moderation of the spending and it will come in at about 10%.
And we'll continue to aggressively fund R&amp;D as I look forward but in line with the step ups that we've been doing.
On the acquisition side our acquisition strategy hasn't really changed.
We're still looking for things that are strategically complementary to where we are today generally plug-in acquisitions.
We're being very systematic.
We're looking at all three of our businesses areas for new opportunities and I think we're developing an increasing business development capability.
So it's something from a capability standpoint we will be working on over the next couple of years and acquisitions will continue to be part of our strategies as we move forward.
Okay.
Let me make one more.
If you looked at the next couple of quarters I appreciate the concerns that you highlighted David but what could go right? If we're talking after the next quarter and after the fourth fiscal quarter and if you would do -- Becton would perform better where would that come from? Would it be -- is it rolling at the products? Is that the cost reduction? Is there something specific that we could think about? I think the two things we're most excited about as Vince highlighted are the new product launches that we have.
I mean the underlying performance the Biosciences business has been phenomenal and with the number of launches that we have going there the BD MAX platform and the opportunities we see from expanding the menu there is very exciting for us.
And as we talked about with the emerging markets as Gary highlighted as well as Bill Kozy highlighted for the Medical business I'd say that those are some of the areas that we're very very excited about.
And then lastly as Vince talked about on the last call it's our operational efficiencies our ability to get these shared services centers up and running to takeout overhead costs so that we can continue invest in these new opportunities.
It's what's enabling us to move forward and why we're excited about business.
Yes I'd be specific Rick.
I would just add on the emerging markets side.
For us it's not just China which is doing very very well or India which is doing well but Latin America is going well and we see other parts of Asia now as opportunities.
So I think you're going to see us as we look out continuing to invest in those markets and building capabilities and I think that provides a platform for upside.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
It's actually Kim in for Mike.
So my first question is on the U.S.
side of the business.
I don't think that you commented broadly on the health of your U.S.
markets and utilization trends in the quarter.
You did indicate that pricing was off just under 1% worldwide and I'd be curious if you break that out U.S.
o U.S.
and whether that's changed at all over the last couple of quarters.
So I can't break it out but there's not big differences between the U.S.
and the other developed markets.
In terms of utilization in the United States we're indicating pretty much a stable situation.
On the lab testing side we really haven't seen much of a change.
I think Tom commented that the lab volumes were around 1% up somewhere there for general testing and that's where they have been from our perspective.
We haven't seen much change in doctors’ visits or anything so we're really looking at a pretty much a stable business.
In the U.S.
we had good Diabetes Care performance.
We had good Pharm Systems performance which helped our Medical business and Diagnostics.
Our Infectious Disease business did well.
You might recall that last year was a very light flu season.
We had a bit of a flu season this year.
So a little bit of a tailwind there.
But as we mentioned that TriPath was a little soft because the intervals but GenOhm did very very well.
And then lastly Biosciences and maybe I'll ask Bill Rhodes to comment on Biosciences in the U.S.
because I think they have an excellent quarter.
Thanks Vince.
Kim this is Bill Rhodes.
Yes we had a good performance in the U.S.
In terms of utilization we saw our clinical reagent sales do quite well.
And of course the bulk of our products through Cell Analysis are in the research markets and doing quite well with that.
So the opportunity last quarter and the opportunity going forward in the U.S.
frankly is continues to be and is quite good.
Okay great.
And just a quick follow-up you had a number of areas outperform relative to our expectations in the quarter.
You put up nearly 7% organic growth after we adjust for the items in the quarter which is well above the outlook for the year.
So I'd just be curious if there were any specific onetime orders that might have helped in any of the business segments in the quarter.
I'll have Bill Kozy comment because in Medical Pharm Systems continues to be lumpy and it was a strong quarter.
But Bill maybe you want to comment? Sure let me.
This is Bill Kozy.
In terms of the onetime sales impact related to global Pharm Systems we had about $7.5 million of some onetime sales events.
It's a combination of some inventory replenishment and some validation testing and clearing back order a bunch of miscellaneous topics.
But clearly about $7.5 million that won't repeat.
So that's pretty much it.
Our next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
This is actually James in for David.
My first question is a follow-up on the increased pressure you're seeing in Europe.
Could you try to break down how much of this is related to volume and how much might be the price? And then specifically last quarter you mentioned that you're seeing some slight escalation in pricing pressure in pockets of different world markets.
I wonder if you could comment on how that's developed? Well we said that pricing is less than 1% for the company.
And the way you think about that is that in some of the more mature product lines and you'll see it more on the device side you're going to see more pressure because you've got more and more competition.
And you see that in Europe with its tender system but you also see some of that in the United States as well.
Where we have differentiated products and I'll give an example like the launch of the Nano Pen Needle where we had some great clinical data.
The customer feedback is fantastic you can actually go out on a premium.
So that's kind of the breakout Biosciences with the new technology we tend to see less theirs as well.
So it sounds like on the pricing front not a big change relative to last quarter.
It's not a big change.
Okay.
And then secondly just on R&amp;D spend from a long-term perspective.
Obviously 2011 is an investment year.
But if we look at where spending is going to end up this year it's probably going to sit slightly over 6% of sales which is certainly a step higher than it's been historically.
Over the long term do you think that this is the appropriate level of investment or could we see some moderation in the future as project timing starts to be a little bit less intense? I don't see us going back below 6% of revenue.
Again we did have some big clinical trials.
But I would also expect as some of the things come through the pipeline some of the longer-term things that we're working on we're going to see some significant clinical trials for those as well.
So I think if you use 6% around that number or maybe a little tiny bit above that you'd be in good shape.
Your next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to go back to a comment you made in our prepared remarks regarding TriPath outside the United States being a source of growth in Diagnostics systems.
Could you expand a little bit more on what the key drivers are there whether you've entered new markets what you're seeing from a marketer perspective and any change on the reimbursement front that might have contributed to the strength in the quarter? Sure.
Tom Polen will take that.
Dave this is Tom Polen.
So I'd say specifically what we're seeing is in many of particularly the developing markets what we're seeing is a transition from traditional Pap testing to the liquid-based cytology technology which of course is what we offer in TriPath.
And we certainly are investing from a channel and market development perspective to help drive that growth.
So it's primarily a technology shift through an improved method for doing cervical cancer screening.
I'd say the other thing that we also see is particularly in areas of Asia-Pacific to a lesser extent in Europe and Latin America increasing focus of maybe the government on expanding the screening programs for women to help improve the early diagnosis of cervical cancer.
And I just want to add a point to that that cervical cancer is the leading cause of death among young women in many developing and emerging countries.
And the way you saw the world respond to HIV in particular a decade or little more than a decade ago we're starting to see some building momentum towards dealing with this particular source of mortality among young women in developing/emerging countries which complements what Tom had indicated.
And we're well prepared based on our experiences working with international organizations on dealing with infectious and non-communicable diseases on what business models are most appropriate to be able to address such needs and opportunities.
So we're really at the beginning of that.
Tom? I'd just add one of the governments that is really leading in that that's forefront very aggressively expanding cervical cancer screening is Japan.
And we see very strong performance there in that market.
And Tom in some of your comments regarding the investment for market development and education from a competitive perspective is that something that you see BD leading the charge on? And how is your performance from a share perspective been in those markets when you compare it to some of the more developed markets like United States? Certainly in several of those markets Japan being a good example we do see ourselves taking a lead in helping to develop those markets.
And we are from a category position perspective we certainly see that we're gaining gaining ground in the developing world.
And in general this is Gary again.
From the standpoint of focus and experience that educational element the collaborative element of working with government's international agencies we're deeply experienced in those areas.
It's a particular area of sense of purpose for the company to collaborate on addressing to help the needs of the society not just to try to push product or technology into the country.
And we've been doing that for over a decade in the infectious disease area and those same type of principles are being applied to non-communicable diseases which also aligns the trends that are happening globally.
The UN's got a major summit on non-communicable diseases in September.
These are all areas we're involved with as a trusted partner.
Okay.
And I know you sort of touched on Europe a number of times from a revenue perspective but maybe you could sort of talk about anything you're doing on the cost side.
Well I understand that Europe represents a relatively large percentage of revenue.
That obviously is a relative contribution.
It's going to go down if the emerging markets grow faster and you start to penetrate some of these opportunities more fully.
How are you thinking about Europe from a cost perspective? And at what point do you start thinking about running that business more for cash rather than growth? Well I don't think we're going to think about it running it for cash.
We think we have growth opportunities.
And as new things come to our pipeline we think they're not just U.S.
opportunities or emerging market opportunities.
We think we're going to have opportunities in Europe with them as well.
Gary has been very proactive in addressing some of these issues.
Even as we were entering into this year.
We reorganized Europe and changed the organizational model and took some costs out.
But at the same time knowing some of these things that we're working on such as the women's health and cancer we're investing in some policy work.
We still think that there's an opportunity for safety in Europe even though we're talking a lot about how fast the emerging market piece is picking up and all of that's true.
But to grow in Europe and increase the growth rate as we come out with the GenOhm products which you're starting to get traction.
It's not just the product it's the market development efforts.
So it's not just the cost basis in Europe which as I said we are attacking it's also some market development efforts.
Your next question comes from Larry Keusch with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.</strong> David on the hedging program for the company.
Obviously the weak dollar's been a benefit and as you mentioned you picked up roughly $0.07 in EPS from the FX benefit this quarter.
But given what the dollar has done I'm just wondering if you have any sort of thoughts as you think about 2012 and perhaps directionally the dollar going the other way what you might think about your hedging program? Well Larry I think the first thing is we continue to see as you know significant volatility in the currencies.
And just the change in the currencies from Q1 to this quarter's pretty significant.
I think the notable thing this quarter about the dollar's weakness is really wasn't the euro that was driving the currency improvement.
It was a lot of the other currencies particularly Japan Brazil Australia and Canada.
So it's those other currencies that we have exposure to.
I think it's the dollar's weakness versus those currencies that really had driven it.
As far as any longer-term comment I think it's anyone's guess there's a lot of moving variables particularly see what Bernanke says later today.
But I think there's too many variables to make any kind of comment right now on where we think exchange rates are going to go longer term.
Inc.</strong> Okay perfect.
And then just a question on GenOhm.
Obviously you mentioned multiple times it did very well and there was specific comments about MRSA and Cdiff.
I'm just wondering is there something different that you're seeing out in the market? Could you point to because we've had all these deferrals in patient procedures that perhaps patients are sicker and more susceptible to somebody's HAIs as they come into the hospitals saying that's prompting more testing.
Just any color as to what's going on above and beyond.
Obviously you mentioned the market development activities.
Tom you'd like to think that? This is Tom Polen.
So I'd say we certainly continue to see hospitals and states recognize that MRSA and Cdiff are significant issues.
And particularly I'd say more recently we're seeing growing Cdiff is growing at a faster rate than MRSA.
That's really been on the radar of healthcare practitioners.
I'd say it from a broader macro market trends and what we see happening already and look forward to seeing in the future is.
But at this point we do see 11 states have already passed comprehensive HAI prevention laws including mandates for targeted screening.
We've got another 31 states that mandate HAI reporting and there's at least 5 states that are in active discussion to mandate screening.
The other thing that you may have seen which isn't impacting essentially the quarter but we see it as a positive sign moving forward is earlier this week CMS did come out and recommend to implement pay for reporting metrics in 2015 for MRSA and Cdiff.
And that recommendation is part of the federal pay for reporting and value-based purchasing program.
We certainly think this recommended performance incentives for hospitals to reduce HAI is a very positive move.
And should that proposal be accepted we expect that hospitals will need to scale up for MRSA and Cdiff reporting in 2013.
So of course we also see us well-timed with the launch of our MAX platform.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with Macquarie.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Could you maybe just give me a quick -- I'm not sure if I missed it.
I'm sorry if I did lots going on.
But the updates on the top line and the bottom line guidance could you give an outlook for kind of what you expect for gross margins given the changes around FX and organic growth rates? No we didn't but I'll be happy to provide that.
For the full year we're anticipating our gross margins to be at the bottom end of our guided range it's about 52.2%.
And really currency will be neutral for the full year.
And performance will be slightly positive about 30 basis points.
So that takes us from about 51.9% last year to 52% to this year.
True underlying performance is increasing about 70 basis points.
We also have favorable comparisons because of the improvements we're making on the ReLoCo program and that's being muted a bit by the resin and pension as well as Japan is hurting our margins.
So the key takeaway there is the underlying performance is actually doing really really well.
And it's some of these one-off things that are muting at this year and that's where we're getting the 30 basis point improvement year-over-year.
Okay perfect.
Thanks for the clarification.
And then just one more kind of on guidance.
From a cash flow standpoint any exchanges in that range? Is there any change on your cash flow guidance? No cash flow remains strong and we're holding our $1.9 billion for the full year from a guidance perspective.
So cash flow is right in line with our expectations.
And then if I could just one markets with some quick guidance questions.
Was there any market share shifts in STDs? I know you said that grew some I know oftentimes there are certain contract wins in certain geographies et cetera.
Anything like that going on in this particular quarter? Oh I'll ask Tom to comment on it.
This is Tom Polen.
So no share shifts on a global basis in STD testing no.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Bonello with RBC.
LLC</strong> I have a couple of questions on the Biosciences outlook.
One I'm wondering it was helpful to get the growth that you're expecting from the acquisition but I'm wondering if you can talk a little bit bigger picture about what you think the bench top flow market opportunity might be.
How big of a market is that and sort of what are the competitive dynamics in that market today? And then two if you could provide any color on the potential for the other new products that you're launching in Biosciences such as the desk tops order and the research analyzer.
Sure Bill.
I'll ask Bill Rhodes to comment on those things.
Bill and it's Bill Rhodes.
Glad you asked.
The personal Flow Cytometry space the best way to put color around it in terms of market opportunity is really to talk about we're developing the market.
Accuri was a leader in that.
So the way we look at it is how many people around the world and how many laboratories can we move that technology into? And as Vince said in the introduction there are hundreds of thousands of people and laboratories around the world.
So we see that as great opportunity.
It makes Flow Cytometry affordable.
It's a powerful tool.
There are 70 000 or so life sciences researchers now who are accessing core laboratories in order to do that type of work who now have an opportunity to do that within their own labs and then there are hundreds of thousands of others.
So we obviously see this as a very substantial market that we're developing around the world.
And it also makes it affordable for emerging markets where Flow Cytometry can be used but has not before been affordable.
In terms of the desk top sorter.
.
.
Before we go how about the competitors Bill? I'm sorry.
In terms of competitors there are certainly other companies that are in this space or trying to be in this space with relatively lower cost instruments and technology.
Although to be perfectly frank Accuri was the leader and remained the leader at the time we acquired them in being at a price point and technology capability that we think is excellent from around the world.
The other companies that are involved are companies like Millipore through Guava Partech which is a small company in Germany and several others.
You'll probably note that we've talked about this Bill that Life-Tech has a product called the Attune.
There are a variety of companies that see this as an opportunity area with the leaders in Flow Cytometry around the world so we see this as our space.
So but then moving onto the desk top sorter.
Again it's personal Flow Cytometry for cell sorting making it available to the world.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Bill just a follow-up on Accuri is this a transaction where you think you can get back to your cost of capital in say three years or have you assumed the longer discount horizon? Just basically you commented this is our space.
Is this a necessary poll [ph] you needed to fill? So more of a defensive type of strategy over this asset.
Yes this is Vince.
As Bill mentioned as the leader of Flow Cytometry this was a natural move for us into a new segment of Flow Cytometry that was developing.
So it's a smaller market today.
The reason we see that it's not just the price point on this instrument and the performance.
Bill's group has done some interesting strategic planning work that shows other applications from other areas of science that appear to be potential application areas for us with this new instrument.
So as the technology leader in this space we have to be there.
And I think that's what Bill was talking about.
As we see genomics and other things starting to bud up with Flow Cytometry to create new value.
Now in terms of capital small acquisition like this it's not something that returns capital in the three years but in the first three years.
But certainly it's setting us up for enlarging the Flow Cytometry market significantly and bringing new capability.
That's the way we're thinking about it.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks Vince.
And one follow-up for Dave on the resin side.
We talked about cost offsetting some of that pressure.
Are we at the point or when do we get to the point to start putting in some opportunistic price increases similar to what you guys did in FY '09? Is there a pressure point you think about in terms of when you start you need to start increasing price? We continue to evaluate that.
It's not just the resin costs as you rightfully pointed out it's also other commodity costs that are currently increasing.
And that's why our efficiency programs are so important and also some of the things that we're doing on the greening of BD and trying to get these resin cost out of our products is another thing.
So our reliance on the use of these commodity type products were looking to decrease do that.
But as you know Jon traditionally as we look at prices as we launch new products that's where we look to get the premium for the better product that's out there.
But we'll continue to evaluate that and keep you guys updated.
Yes.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Weinstein with William Blair.
Another question on TriPath.
You mentioned in the U.S.
it's down due to some interval changes there or recommendation on interval screening.
How far into the structural change in the demand curve are we there? Does it get worse from here? And is there any chance this affects other women's health test if women are not coming in for this basic testing and maybe putting off other testing as well? This is Tom Polen.
Good question Brian.
So we certainly see this interval change went to affect last year.
And as you look at OB/GYN office visits and even Pap testing last year you saw more significant declines last year from that interval change.
So more in the 10% to 15% depending on the quarter of comparison last year.
So we're actually seeing the slope now start to come to a smoother level as that interval changes.
It's now getting into a full year of its cycle impact.
All right.
And then another one here for Tom.
What percentage of the market do you think is converted to molecular MRSA and molecular Cdiff testing at this point? We would say it's still certainly less than 20% at this point in time.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> I guess one more margin question.
You guys continue to see a higher mix of emerging market revenue.
What's the trade-off if any of having a higher mix of emerging market revenue at the gross margin and operating margin line? Is it materially different from other geographies? No it's not materially different.
When we look at our operating margins in those areas in emerging markets versus developed well they're basically the same.
And so we've been able to sell value and do it very effectively.
LLC</strong> Okay and then if I could go back to Pharma Systems for one more loose end.
As it’s been discussed a couple of times you guys had a very good quarter in U.S.
Pharm Systems.
You highlighted the $7.5 million order I think in response to Kim's question.
How should we think about it? Was that incremental relative to what you had incorporated? The full year guidance is it demonstrative of potential improvement in this business? Or is that simply consistent with what you're expecting in the inherent lumpiness of this business? I'll let Bill Kozy answer that.
Yes this is Bill Kozy.
I think the comments I made were onetime events related to the third quarter.
We can't see these types of events on a -- excuse me the second quarter.
Excuse me.
We can't see these recurring but they're unanticipated and they just go with pharmaceutical needs related to inventory or validation testing of new potential products.
So it's not a constant flow of these types of things.
Yes it's up and down.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And last loose end.
Moving forward is this -- will we not be breaking out H1N1 and stimulus anymore? Is this the last quarter for that? I hope so.
Your next question comes from the line of Tony Butler with Barclays Capital.
Thanks very much for your patience.
Tom there's a lot of commentary around Pap line decline in the decay curve in the U.S.
Are you just shifting investments from the U.S.
to non-U.S.
assuming that pickup in demand? Is that exactly what's happening on the cost side? And if we ask methodically get to some steady state in the U.S.
is there any way to consider reinvesting in the U.S.
to maybe gain share? Thanks a lot.
So we have not reduced investments in the U.S.
in our TriPath business.
So we do see that this interval shift is something which is happening now but will stabilize in the future.
Internationally we are significantly investing in our channel in those markets but it's not coming for specifically within the TriPath portion of the Diagnostic business.
As we think about shift in category position over time we really look forward to our SurePath Plus product which is in clinical studies which we really see as a breakthrough technology that offers potentially significant improvements in sensitivity for detecting cervical cancers.
That is that product continues to progress to our expectations in clinical trials and we're on track to launch that in FY '13.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Goldman with CL King.
Inc</strong> I wanted to go back to a little bit the discussion of emerging markets in safety devices.
A couple of questions on it.
First to the extent you have the sales in the emerging markets could you just remind us what percent of those sales are products manufactured in the same market? And then second the opportunity in the emerging markets are obvious enough.
What I don't have a great visibility on is what threats you might face in the emerging markets? There do seem to be a number of local manufacturers now in China and perhaps you can give us some detail on where they are in their own corporate development and when they might pose a real threat to you in those markets? So Gary can comment on those issues both the competition in emerging markets and we don't get into the details of our sourcing.
But Gary maybe you want to throw your comments there.
Sure this is Gary.
First in terms of where we manufacture we manufacture safety devices safety engineering devices in many different plants around the world.
U.S.
Singapore Europe Brazil and China.
So we have a fairly diverse portfolio of manufacturing locations and it varies by business unit.
It varies by device type.
Many of those are global sourcing facilities or at least regional in some cases.
They are specific to the country again depending on the device.
In terms of competition I would say in general we're keeping a very close eye on emerging market competition.
We see local manufacturers strengthening over time.
Was really two things that are happening.
The lower quality manufacturers we expect will drop by the wayside over time and there will be consolidation among manufacturers towards the leading manufacturers in emerging markets.
And there's a few -- there's one that's particularly strong in China.
There's one that strong in India.
We as part of our efforts around projects such as ReLoCo and given how close we were working in the emerging markets we set our sights as being competitive on every aspect.
On cost certainly on quality.
And we tend to be differentiated in our institutional knowledge that we bring to the market in terms of training to upgrade Medical practice.
That's actually harder to copy than the products themselves because based on many decades of knowledge that also comes from us having been the underlying pioneers in most of these categories.
So as we look at competition in emerging markets we look at it from a total perspective of both product price quality but also of our ability to bring necessary knowledge into the market which is very much valued by the customers and government that we're working within those markets.
And we seek to be competitive in all segments.
So today a lot of our business in emerging countries is in the top-tier hospitals.
But our strategy taking us into mid-tier or lower-tier hospitals over the coming years also to be fully competitive with where the local competitors tend to be stronger which is in the lower-tier hospitals.
So I hope that give some color to the questions.
Something we watch very closely and we anticipate that they'll continue to emerge.
But BD's gone a long time being very effective at low cost high quality and innovation around these core device categories.
Your next question comes from the line of Jaimin Patel with Greenlight Capital.
It's Vinit Sethi along with Jaimin.
A couple of specific questions.
One is are you expecting the tax rate to maintain itself from the second quarter level of 27.4% for the rest of the year? And the second question was are there any changes to what you're expecting in terms of the selling and admin percentage for the year? So first on the tax rate Vinit.
What we're seeing is from a guidance perspective it's going to be at the low end of the range that we originally provided.
So it's going to be about 27%.
So we'll see some improvements there particularly from our mix of business and a lot of that's driven particularly if you think about the dollar and its weakness we're not a curse we have more profits coming from lower tax jurisdictions.
So we'll get some benefit from our mix of business so that's why around 27%.
As far as the SG&amp;A there's no real change in our guidance from an SG&amp;A perspective.
We continue to invest in the emerging markets and we got these product launches so we want to make sure we put the resources behind that and we're making very good progress on the G&amp;A side of things with our shared services as well as our Functional Transformation that we have going on to take cost out there.
So that's enabling us to invest in those growth drivers.
Okay.
And so all in with the currency movements and then the negative issues like the resin costs in Japan all in there's not much operating leverage impact one way or the other from the overall higher revenue? The operating margins overall we're guiding in that 22.7% to 22.9% range.
So really hasn't changed that dramatically.
Okay got it in.
And then finally...
I think the story there is again we're being hit by things that are impacting our operating margins.
The resins Japan those are all negative pressures this year.
And we've overcome that with our efficiency programs that we've put in place.
Right.
And then I guess the final question on that is at this stage why don't you expecting whether it's some of the R&amp;D investment of this year whether it's Japan resins other sort of investing things.
At this stage why are you not expecting to be able to get through that in terms of operating margin leverage? So when would you expect to start showing kind of the improvement all the way down to the bottom? Well I think there's a couple of things that we talked about on previous calls.
One is that this is the year where we're getting to the breakeven point on our ReLoCo programs and we'll start to see benefits next year and in particular fully in 2013.
As we also talked about from a pension perspective we're hopeful where interest rates are going that that'll stop being a drag as we go forward on the business.
And those are probably the two biggest items.
Also the last one is our SAP implementation.
The big go live for us is next year in North America.
So we still have another year of investment in that in '12.
So the operating leverage is more towards the 2013 as we start some investments occurring as we go into next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Lawson with Mizuho Securites.
I just wondered if you could talk further on the Biosciences business.
Beyond flows where else are you seeing the opportunities? I'm sorry it was Peter? Bill Rhodes.
So remember of course the Biosciences is not only our Flow business but includes our advanced Bioprocessing business as well as Discovery Labware.
So moving -- and there are opportunities in our flow business to address new markets that are contiguous with flow.
What I'll answer is that our Advance Bioprocessing business is releasing two products.
Has in fact released one and is releasing a second product this year which is really to provide reagents to support pharma and biotech companies.
And within [ph] we're looking at cell therapy enablement that's one of the more exciting areas for growth.
And then just a question for Tom on GenOhm.
I wonder if you could give us the contribution to revenues either in the quarter or the full year and the mix between C.
difficile and MRSA.
We wouldn't breakout specifically MRSA or Cdiff independently.
But we again we see both having strong double-digit growth in the quarter.
And the total number for GenOhm? For the quarter we are at...
For the full year we're guiding around 20% increase in GenOhm for the full year.
Correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
And just the OB/GYN channel did you see any better pick up at the initial weeks of Q3? We don't comment on that.
No.
We're still seeing that OB/GYN business were down.
I think Tom said earlier in the call around 4%.
So not much change.
You're welcome.
So I believe we have no more questions.
I want to thank everyone for their questions today.
We are pleased to report a strong quarter.
We look forward to updating you at the end of next quarter.
Thank you very very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's Third Fiscal Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through Tuesday August 2 2011 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at (855) 859-2056 for domestic calls and area code (404) 537-3406 for international calls using conference ID 82566570.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our third fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The slide presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our third fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedule and in the slides.
A copy of the release including financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Starting the call this morning is Ed Ludwig Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Also joining us are Vince Forlenza President and Chief Operating Officer; David Elkins Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; BD Executive Vice Presidents Gary Cohen and Bill Kozy; as well as Bill Rhodes President of BD Biosciences; and Tom Polen President of Diagnostic Systems.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Ed.
Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
Before we discuss the results of the quarter I would like to take a moment to discuss the announcement issued last week regarding the leadership change in our organization.
As you may already know the Board of Directors elected Vince Forlenza to succeed me as Chief Executive Officer effective October 1 2011.
Vince will also become a member of the board at that time.
I will remain Executive Chairman of the board through June of 2012.
Vince's election is the culmination of a careful long-term succession plan and the process which was conducted by the board with my full support which began in 2009 when Vince was named President.
Over the past 30 years Vince has distinguished himself as a leader.
He has had an outstanding career that has spanned strategic planning marketing international technical business development general management and executive leadership roles.
His experience and achievements eminently qualify him to lead this company and our leadership team into the next phase of growth.
It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
I'm honored to have been elected by the board to succeed Ed as Chief Executive Officer when we begin our new fiscal year.
I've had the privilege of working with Ed for 28 years and I believe he's done an outstanding job over the past 12 years as CEO.
Ed has led the company through both prosperous and challenging times always ensuring that we maintained our purpose of helping all people live healthy lives.
He created a strong platform for growth and we will continue to build off the key initiatives Ed put in place during his time as Chief Executive Officer.
Now moving on to Slide 4.
I'll start off today's presentation by carrying a few of the key messages from our third fiscal quarter results.
As Ed stated in our press release we were pleased with our results in the quarter.
Revenue growth came in at 4.8% currency neutral.
Strong international safety revenues and emerging market growth were partially offset by our results in Western Europe.
We continue to see softness in Western Europe due to various austerity measures and lower health care utilization.
Moving on to Japan.
I would like to provide a brief update since our last earnings call subsequent to the March earthquake and tsunami.
We're pleased to report that our business in Japan is fully operational.
We restarted the manufacturing of the BD Hypak prefillable syringes in early May which was ahead of schedule.
We are still evaluating the longer-term impact on the company but we believe that the bulk of the challenges are behind us.
For the full year we are reaffirming that the impact of Japan will be approximately $50 million on revenue and about $0.05 to EPS.
This was already built in to the total year guidance we have provided you back in April.
I would also like to briefly discuss the newly announced planned acquisition.
Last week we announced that we had signed a definitive agreement to acquire Carmel Pharma a Swedish company that manufactures the PhaSeal System.
This is the leading closed system drug transfer device for the safe handling of hazardous drugs that are packaged in vials.
This system minimizes the risk of exposure to potentially harmful liquids and vapors from toxic drugs such as those used in treatment of cancer.
The expected dilution of the acquisition for the fiscal year is approximately $0.05.
This is not built into our total year guidance because the deal has not yet closed.
We expect the deal to close prior to the end of the fiscal year.
We believe this is an attractive market with sales of approximately $100 million with historical growth rates at about 10% a year.
Annual revenues for the company last year were approximately $45 million.
This acquisition is a key safety platform which is aligned with our core strategy and operating capabilities and demonstrates our commitment to drive revenue growth through innovation.
Additionally we are pleased that a couple of key products were launched in the third quarter and I will spend some time discussing those launches later in my remarks.
On Slide 5 we've outlined our third quarter revenue and EPS results.
We're pleased with our results this quarter which I will speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
Revenues were solid increasing by 4.8%.
Fully diluted EPS came in at $1.51 growing at 13.8% over the prior year.
For the 9-month year-to-date results revenue growth was 2.6%.
EPS growth was 8.1% on an adjusted basis.
Moving to Slide 6.
I'd like to briefly summarize our outlook for fiscal year 2011.
David will provide more details later in his remarks.
We were favorably impacted by the weak U.S.
dollar due to our strong presence outside of the U.S.
As a result we are raising our reported revenue growth guidance to approximately 6% which is the higher end of our previously communicated range of 5% to 6%.
We are also raising our reported EPS guidance to 14% to 15% from 12% to 14% on an adjusted basis.
The current global macroeconomic environment continues to be a challenge most notably in Western Europe.
We had stated on our Q2 conference call that we believe the growth rate in Western Europe would be approximately 2% for the total year.
However our results year-to-date indicate that the growth rate for the year will be closer to 1%.
As I mentioned earlier this region continues to be impacted by various austerity measures and lower health care utilization.
We continue to manage the company accordingly but we believe that it is prudent to lower our currency-neutral revenue growth guidance to approximately 3% as we do not anticipate these conditions will abate in the near term.
We believe the company has fared well in this environment.
Based on our financial results year-to-date we remain confident in our ability to deliver on our bottom line and we reaffirm our currency-neutral EPS guidance of about 10%.
Now I'd like to turn things over to David for a more detailed discussion of our third quarter financial performance.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by discussing the key financial highlights for the third quarter.
As Vince stated earlier we are pleased with our results.
Revenue growth was 4.8% currency neutral.
We experienced solid growth in all 3 of our segments.
We saw continued strength in emerging markets which grew at about 13% currency neutral.
Our gross profit margin also improved by 100 basis points with 50 basis points being driven by performance offsetting some of the headwinds we faced in the challenging macroeconomic environment and higher resin cost.
As a percentage of revenue R&amp;D spending was moderated as we accelerate spending in the first half of the fiscal year.
The company's earnings of $1.51 benefited from favorable currency of about $0.11 on a year-over-year basis.
Additionally during the third quarter we completed $215 million of our $1.5 billion share repurchase program which brings the year-to-date total to about $1.3 billion.
Our guidance for the program in 2011 remains unchanged at $1.5 billion.
Turning to Slide 9 and our revenues by segment.
I'll start with the total company performance which I will discuss on a currency-neutral basis.
As I mentioned earlier revenue increased by 4.8%.
This includes about 1 percentage points of unfavorable pricing.
For the 9-month period the company grew 2.6%.
Excluding the impact of the sales related to H1N1 flu pandemic and the stimulus in supplemental spending in fiscal year 2010 the company grew about 5%.
BD Medical's third quarter revenues increased 4.9%.
Growth was primarily driven by Pharmaceutical Systems International Safety and solid growth in our Diabetes Care business.
For the 9-month period the Medical segment grew 1.7%.
And excluding the impact of H1N1 flu pandemic in fiscal year 2010 underlying growth was about 4.6%.
BD Diagnostics third quarter revenues increased 4.8%.
Revenues reflected solid growth in our Preanalytical Systems Safety products.
Diagnostic Systems experienced strong growth driven by both women's health and cancer and our infectious disease product offerings.
For the 9-month year-to-date results the Diagnostics segment grew 3.9%.
Excluding the impact of H1N1 flu pandemic revenue growth was 4.7% year-to-date.
BD Biosciences revenue growth in the quarter was 4.3%.
Revenue growth was impacted by tough comparison to the strong stimulus spending in the U.S.
and the supplemental spending in Japan in fiscal year 2010 which is approximately $9 million.
Additionally the Biosciences segment was negatively impacted by the delays of research funding for high-end instrumentation in Western Europe.
Segment growth was primarily driven by instrument reagent sales in the Cell Analysis unit and this was partially offset by Discovery Labware softness in the U.S.
For the 9-month period our Biosciences segment grew 2.7%.
Excluding the impact of the supplemental spending in Japan and the U.S.
stimulus spending in fiscal year 2010 revenue growth was 7.1%.
Now moving to Slide 10.
I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the third quarter.
Overall BD's reported U.S.
revenue growth was 5.7%.
U.S.
Medical revenues increased 9.2% year-over-year reflecting strong sales of Pharmaceutical Systems products.
U.S.
sales of diagnostics products grew 3% reflecting solid growth in infectious disease and molecular diagnostics which was partially offset by the softness in women's health and cancer due to suggested increase in intervals and pap testing.
Biosciences revenue in the U.S.
increased 1.4% which is impacted by tough comparisons of prior year period due to stimulus spending in the U.S.
Softness in our Discovery Labware products were due to weakness in core consumables also impacted results in the U.S.
Excluding the difficult comparisons due to the stimulus spending in fiscal year 2010 Biosciences revenue growth in the U.S.
was 4%.
International revenues increased about 4.1% on a currency-neutral basis.
The Medical segment grew by 2.1% impacted by geographic mix in the Pharmaceutical Systems business.
Specifically this was due to strong Pharmaceutical Systems sales in the U.S.
related to a shift in multiple customers sourcing from Western Europe to the U.S.
We experienced solid growth in both Diagnostics and Biosciences segment growing at 6.7% and 6.2% respectfully.
The Diagnostics segment was driven by strong growth in Women's Health and Cancer platform as governments are expanding programs for cervical cancer screening in the developing markets.
The Biosciences segment was driven by Cell Analysis instruments and reagents in Asia-Pacific Latin America and EMA.
For the 9-month year-to-date results reported U.S.
revenues grew 2.4% with Medical and Biosciences increasing about 2% and Diagnostics increasing about 3%.
Total U.S.
sales grew at about 5% excluding the impact of H1N1 flu-related sales in fiscal year 2010.
Total international revenue growth was about 2.8% currency neutral for the 9-month results and about 4.8% excluding the flu and supplemental impact.
Now moving on to Slide 11.
Global Safety results reported sales increased 11.8% and grew to $479 million in the quarter.
On a currency-neutral basis revenue growth was 7.6%.
This growth was driven by international Safety sales which increased about 14% on a currency-neutral basis.
U.S.
sales were up about 3.7%.
For the 9-month period Safety growth was 4.5% on a currency-neutral basis.
After adjusting for the flu growth was almost 7%.
This was a combination of strong international growth of 12.6% and growth rate of 3.5% in the U.S.
International Safety sales were very strong in the Medical segment particularly in emerging markets.
Emerging markets now account for over 3/4 of our overall international Safety growth in the quarter.
Looking at the total company third quarter revenue growth year-over-year currency contributed about 5% to our growth and performance contributed 4.8%.
The remaining gain is due to hedge loss from the fiscal 2010 not recurring in fiscal year 2011.
Moving to Slide 13.
Our gross margin improved 100 basis points to 52.7% with currency contributing 50 basis points of the improvement.
Positive productivity and mix coupled with lower start-up costs contributed to about 120 basis points.
This was partially offset by higher raw material costs and pension expense.
For the total year we don't see currency having an impact on our margins as we anticipate having unfavorable currency impact in the fourth quarter.
Slide 14 recaps the third quarter income statement and highlights our current foreign currency neutral results.
As I mentioned earlier third quarter revenue grew 4.8%.
Gross profit increased by 5.7% and improved 100 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
Moving down the income statement line SSG&amp;A increased 9% primarily due to increase in investments in emerging markets pension expense and our EVEREST SAP implementation costs.
We also experienced an increase in our deferred compensation which is offset by gain on the interest income line.
Additionally we recorded a European receivable reserve and incurred higher legal costs in the quarter.
The aforementioned items account for about 6% of the growth in SSG&amp;A.
R&amp;D increased 5.7%.
The moderation of R&amp;D spend is in line with our expectation as the investment was accelerated in the first half of the year.
Overall our operating income increased 2.5% impacted by the SSG&amp;A costs.
EPS growth came in at 13.8% currency neutral benefited by our share repurchase program and an improved tax rate.
We expect our cash flow for the fiscal year to be approximately $1.8 billion versus the previously communicated $1.9 billion.
This is primarily driven by higher inventory levels than our previous estimate.
As Vince mentioned earlier we are slightly lowering our revenue growth expectations.
We expect to grow approximately 3% on a currency-neutral basis.
When excluding the impact of the flu supplemental and stimulus spending the underlying growth of the business is about 5%.
We have modified guidance due to the ongoing challenges that Vince mentioned earlier in Western Europe.
For the Medical segment we are anticipating growth neutral of about 2% with underlying growth of 4%.
In the Diagnostics segment we anticipate currency-neutral growth of approximately 4% with underlying growth at about 4.5%.
We expect Biosciences currency-neutral growth of about 3.5% with underlying growth of about 6.5%.
Slide 16 summarizes our expectations for the total year.
On the top line we expect revenue growth of about 6% on a reported basis aided by currency.
On a currency-neutral basis we expect revenue growth to be approximately 3%.
On our bottom line we anticipate EPS growth of about 14% to 15% off the adjusted 2010 EPS of $4.94.
We are reaffirming our currency-neutral EPS growth of about 10% despite lower sales and higher resin costs.
I'll now turn the call back over to Vince who will provide an update on our emerging market opportunities and our product launches.
Thank you David.
Moving on to Slide 18 I'd like to discuss our emerging market opportunities.
We continue to see strong growth in emerging markets which accounted for approximately 22% of our total revenues in the third quarter.
Emerging market revenues grew about 13% in total over the prior year with double-digit growth in a number of key markets and across all segments.
Growth in the Asia-Pacific region was led by sales in China which were up about 27%.
We're very pleased with Safety revenue growth in emerging markets which was up about 28% over the prior year.
We continue to invest in growing markets that are aligned to BD's capabilities and we expect to see continued strong growth in these markets.
On Slide 19 I'll provide an update on our key product initiatives starting with BD Medical.
In the second quarter we announced the launch of our BD ecoFinity Life Cycle Solution program.
In the third quarter on May 20 we launched the first products from our ReKindle program.
The suite of products is called the Emerald portfolio of products.
The first 2 products that were launched with the BD Emerald and the BD Emerald PRO.
The BD Emerald is a conventional syringe that combines high-quality performance and reduced environmental impact and is produced in a more sustainable manner using 30% less material than other BD syringes.
The Emerald PRO is a disposable syringe with passive reuse prevention technology for broad usage applications.
Based on initial market response we feel encouraged that the Emerald portfolio of products will be a success.
As I mentioned on our Q2 conference call we are also planning to launch an extension to our flagship IV catheter product Insyte Autoguard with a blood control feature.
This product recently received FDA clearance.
We are also planning to launch Nexiva with a diffusion tip.
Both of these products will be launched before the end of the fiscal year 2011.
In our Diabetes Care business we plan to launch a next-generation safety pen needle in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 and other innovative products throughout the year.
On Slide 20 I'll walk through some of the key initiatives in our Diagnostics segment.
We are continuing to invest in the BD Viper XTR with fully automated specimen processing.
Last quarter we launched our HSV assay on this platform.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year '12 we will be launching the Trichomonas assay on the BD Viper.
At the end of fiscal year 2013 we'll be launching the Viper LT our next-generation mid-volume Viper platform.
In the beginning of the third quarter of this fiscal year we launched the new automated microbiology plate streaker called the BD Innova.
We were also excited about the 6-color BD MAX which was launched as an open system in May.
As I mentioned in our previous conference calls in fiscal year 2012 you can expect the launch of the BD MAX MRSA and C.
difficile assays midyear in the EU.
The U.S.
launch will be towards the end of the year.
In fiscal year 2012 we expect to launch our molecular pap test the BD SurePath Plus which is in the data analysis phase of the clinical trial.
On 21 we will review our BD MAX molecular platform which as I just mentioned was launched as an open system in Europe and in the U.S.
during the third quarter.
We are very pleased by the very positive customer interest that we've received so far and we expect BD MAX to be an important contributor to our Diagnostics business growth over the next several years.
We are also investing to rapidly broaden the BD MAX menu of clinically important assays.
We are complementing our internal R&amp;D pipeline with the range of assays being developed in collaboration with several leading assay development partners.
You can expect to see additional menu expansions in the future.
On Slide 22 we will review the product launches for our Biosciences segment.
We announced our BD Recharge media supplement for bio production in the second quarter of this year.
In the third quarter we launched our new 8-color research analyzer the FACSVerse.
Our desk top sorter the FACSJazz was released as a limited launch in Q3 complementing our BD Acurri C6 the 4-color analyzer.
Both instruments are intended to expand and develop the personal Flow Cytometry market and make Flow Cytometry more affordable and widely used.
In the fourth quarter we expect to launch our new cell culture medium Mosaic.
As we look to fiscal year 2012 we plan to launch a new analyzer for CD4 testing for the developing world in the fourth quarter.
Turning to Slide 23.
I'd like to highlight a few of the key operational excellence programs we're working on and the progress we're making.
One key program is ReLoCo.
As we mentioned last quarter the program will be cost neutral this year and we are on track to realize $50 million to $60 million in savings by fiscal year 2013.
This program is a key element of our strategy in the Medical Surgical Systems business unit.
We plan to drive these efficiencies through our business where appropriate through our ReLoCo II program.
We'll provide more details on ReLoCo II on our conference call in November.
Another key operational excellence programs is EVEREST.
As a reminder this is our global Enterprise Resource Planning initiative designed to optimize processes and refresh technology.
We believe this will drive operating effectiveness and improve service to our customers.
The program remains on track with our first go-live mid-fiscal year 2012 for North America.
Three additional phases will follow with a full implementation early in fiscal year 2014.
We will be in the investment phase of this program for an additional 2 years but it will deliver long-term savings and provide the foundation for our IT infrastructure.
We continue to look for further efficiencies in our P&amp;L and remain focused on SSG&amp;A.
Currently we are creating 4 shared service centers to consolidate back-office transactions in HR finance customer service and procurement.
Last year we announced our shared service center in San Antonio which consolidates work for North America.
We've made significant progress in that location and have about 140 associates in place.
We're also consolidating transactions in Asia-Pacific with a shared service center in Singapore.
We're pleased with the progress we have made so far.
The efficiencies created through our new service centers further enable us to continue to invest in our growth opportunities.
Before we open the call to questions I would like to reiterate some of the key messages from our discussion today.
First we're pleased with our results in the third quarter.
We are navigating through a challenging time for the global economy.
While we are not immune to the various effects of the macro environment we do believe we have the programs in place to continue to succeed in this environment.
When excluding the difficult comparisons to fiscal year 2010 we are still seeing top line growth of about 5% and 10% growth on the bottom line.
As we look forward we don't see the environment changing and anticipate similar results for fiscal year 2012.
We will provide additional guidance for fiscal year 2012 on our conference call in November.
Second we continue to see strong growth in emerging markets and we will continue to invest in growing markets in line with our capabilities.
Third we are committed to aggressively managing our cost base while investing in innovation.
We believe we have demonstrated this through recent and planned acquisitions such as Acurri and Carmel Pharmaceuticals and by continuing to invest in the various products in our pipeline that I discussed earlier in my remarks.
We continue to drive operational efficiency programs aimed at gross profit improvement such as ReLoCo and ReLoCo II.
We will also continue to manage G&amp;A costs by streamlining various processes.
Lastly we remain committed to deliver significant value to shareholders through dividends and our share repurchase.
Thank you.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to see if you could go into a little bit more detail on Europe.
It sounds as though either things worsened materially in the third fiscal quarter relative to where performance had been in the first half of the year or your previous guidance had contemplated an improvement in Europe in the back half of the year that you're not seeing materialize.
Could you maybe comment on which of those is more the case and then whether in fact if things worsened in Europe is it the beginning of a deterioration of trend there? Sure.
We'd be happy to give you some more color on that David.
Just a little bit of housecleaning before I do that.
I mentioned in my remarks SurePath Plus was going to launch in fiscal '12.
I meant to say fiscal 2013.
That was the first thing.
The second thing and David this is not directed at you.
But we're changing the way we're doing the questions a little bit.
We're asking you to stay to one question.
We haven't been able to get to the questions at the end of the call and so we're going to do that.
I'm going to hold people to that.
But David as regards Western Europe we are seeing slower growth than we anticipated when we guided you last time.
And Gary is going to give you a little color around that.
It's in a few particular areas.
Gary you want to comment? Sure.
Yes.
This is Gary Cohen.
And I think that the general look at Western Europe masks to some degree what's actually occurring and what we're seeing.
There's been a few analysts who have commented that some of the other peer companies see slightly different trends.
And if you strip it apart a little bit you'll see it's not as different as it may first appear.
In the quarter our weakness in Western Europe was pretty much concentrated in France which is disproportionally impacted by the Pharmaceutical Systems business which had the combination of 2 factors going on.
One is the sales mix shift in part to the U.S.
and the second is some overall weakness in Pharmaceutical Systems in Europe.
Based on the way we transact all of our Pharmaceutical Systems sales in Europe are registered in France.
So it has a disproportionate impact there and France is a much larger country relative to the others.
All the other countries were up year-to-year.
In some cases up mid- to high-single digits.
In other cases flat- to low-single digits.
And on the overall basis we would say flat- to low-single digits characterizes what the ongoing sales trend is in Western Europe.
The other business that was impacted is BD Biosciences which had some what we believe to be short-term trends in research funding that are negatively impacting our reported sales.
Other than Pharmaceutical Systems and Biosciences all the other businesses were up and reflect more of what you might see in the mainstay Medical device market that would be reported by other companies.
In a moment I think we'll ask Bill Kozy and Bill Rhodes to comment on Pharmaceutical Systems and Biosciences but that's where it was concentrated and among countries it was concentrated in France.
So why don't we ask Bill Kozy to comment on Medical first.
Yes.
This is Bill Kozy.
In terms of Medical performance in Western Europe I'm not going to repeat what Gary said.
It's concentrated very much on the challenge of the Pharmaceutical Systems business in France.
Our Diabetes Care business growth was solid and so was our Med/Surg growth for Western Europe.
So most of the impact did come just as Gary described from the Pharma Systems activity.
And this is Bill Rhodes.
In Biosciences we look very carefully.
It turns out that in the U.K.
in particular France and a little bit in the Benelux region we saw an impact of customers seeing delayed research funding coming in to be able to complete their purchase of larger analyzer systems.
But our view and our thought with our customers and those in-country is basically a delay not a major trend.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
First question here.
David just wanted to follow up on your comment around the fourth quarter assumptions.
I believe you said that negative gross margin for currency.
A little confused here.
Would you mind elaborating on that a little bit? Maybe you can give us some background into which rates you're using.
Yes it's comparison to the fourth quarter of last year.
What we're saying overall for the year.
When you do the math as far as the impact on currency to gross margins it'll be neutral for the full year.
So within the quarter there'll be slightly negative to offset the positives that we've had year-to-date.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citigroup.
I was hoping that maybe Tom Polen could give us some detail on the segment performance specifically within Diagnostics and the Women's Health portion.
And can you also comment on just your view on diagnostic volumes across the markets? This is Tom Polen.
So overall as Vince had indicated for the quarter we're up 5.7% if we look specifically at our women's health TriPath business that had a strong quarter 7.8% TriPath growth for the quarter.
We continue to see as it relates to that business' secular pressures on pap testing volumes driven by changes in the testing intervals.
So in the U.S.
our U.S.
sales for TriPath were down 1% in the quarter driven by that dynamic.
And internationally we continue to see strong double-digit growth in most markets as countries continue to both expand access to cervical cancer screening programs and we also continue to upgrade customers from conventional pap to our liquid-based cytology technology.
In terms of overall diagnostic volumes and sample volumes I think we would continue to observe pretty flat overall testing in the U.S.
and of course that varies within segments of the market with molecular testing volume certainly much higher than that and pap volumes lower than that.
Your next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
David a question perhaps on next year's operating income.
I know you're not going to speak specifically to guidance but if you think about sort of the headwinds and tailwinds this year operating income growth grew slower than revenue.
I know '12 is still an investment year for the company and '13 is probably year of greater leverage.
But as you think about what you know today can operating income grow at or faster than revenue heading into fiscal '12? And just related on Carmel the dilution of $0.05 seems heavier to me given the $45 million of revenue.
So maybe just those 2 comments and how they affect operating income next year.
David we'll comment on the operating income in November when we break out all the components.
It's probably best to wait until then to do that.
But as Vince said on the call as we think about this year 5% top line growth and 10% bottom line growth given all the levers and even with the investment that we have in our SAP and EVEREST programs next year we still believe that we can continue to get that margin expansion.
And I'll turn it back over to Vince for the acquisition.
So I think there's 2 things.
One is the transaction costs that you're seeing there is driving a piece of that.
And then there's some dilution from the operating income and then there's an inventory step up on intangibles.
So those are the 3 main components.
We do expect it to be slightly dilutive next year then turn around after that.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Maybe 2 items.
One David it still wasn't clear why fourth quarter gross margin would be negatively impacted by FX when you'll have a significant FX tailwind on the top line.
So if you could maybe just explain that.
And then second I just want to make sure your preliminary commentary on FY '12 is clear.
You were saying 5% to 10% -- 5% top 10% bottom.
Is that off of a 555 to 570 reported base or are you adjusting that base for FX and the steel dilution and some other number we should be thinking about? So on the first question if you think through most of the hedge loss that we had was in the year-to-date numbers.
So that has a bigger impact.
You don't get the benefit of that in the fourth quarter.
It's also the benefit of currency that we had in the fourth quarter of last year and comparing that to what the currency year-on-year effects are in the fourth quarter of this year.
So it's those 2 factors on that.
And then on your second question? The question was are we giving the 5% 10% 10% of the bottom line of the reported number or are we making any adjustments to the reported number.
No.
That 555 to 570 which includes the benefit from currency on a year-over-year basis is the number you want us to use when thinking about FY '12? Yes.
That's correct.
Your next question comes on the line of Lawrence Keusch with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.</strong> I guess the question is as you think about again '12 and your capital allocation you've indicated that you don't anticipate the environment to be much different than it is currently.
And Vince I'm just wondering or David if you can sort of discuss how you're thinking about capital allocation.
You'll obviously drive significant amount of cash flow next year and is there a scenario that you could actually do more than the $600 million in share repurchase that you initially targeted for '12? We're not ready to start guiding on the share buybacks at this point.
There's too many moving pieces.
So we'll come back to you in November on that piece.
But you're right.
One of the things that we're very fortunate is that we have such strong cash flow as a company.
We're in good position to fund our growth initiatives and our capital needs.
So we'll get back to you on that.
Inc.</strong> And what about just broadly capital allocations.
Just how you guys are thinking about it.
Well first of course we think about funding the needs of the business our growth initiatives R&amp;D and then of course moving to capital.
On the capital side our biggest requirement right now is the Pharmaceutical Systems business.
It's not so much capacity expansion as it is a new manufacturing process and of course going forward with ReLoCo and.
Then from there of course it's dividends and share buybacks.
Your next question comes from the line of Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
Maybe you can expand a little more Vince on the new product impact.
It sounds like basically all the new products you went through them are pretty much on track.
I'd be curious to know a couple of things.
First on the BD Medical side of those new products it all sounds good.
But is that all things equal going to drive growth acceleration? And second just as you said in the past that I believe that some of the new products like FACSVerse the Acurri are on track but do you think they could add 1% or 2% to sales starting in 2012.
Has anything changed there that would make us think differently about the growth impact? So nothing has really changed from either a market or a product side for the new products across the business.
They are on track pretty much.
Diabetes Care is doing well with Nano.
That uptake is going well and the new Nexiva products that we're talking about and ReKindle.
So we see the same prospects.
I think I would say the same for both Biosciences and Diagnostics.
As we look out towards '12 I think one of the factors we haven't mentioned so far from an environmental standpoint and I hate to even mention this word is kind of looking forward towards the flu season.
And one of the things that we know and I'm not talking about diagnostic testing I'm talking about on the Pharmaceutical Systems side.
The forecast are that the flu is going to be the same strain and that there is -- it was a very mild flu season last year.
So we're looking out at that being potentially a weaker market next year.
Bill do you have any other comments on that? Is that pretty much it? That's accurate.
So I guess that was the one environmental difference and some of the research funding in Europe that we mentioned.
Bill Rhodes was talking about the fact that in the U.K.
and in France we see delays in funding.
There's actually 3 different pathways in the U.K.
to funding.
In one of those pathways which is the biggest one they have dropped a percentage that they will fund on an individual instrument.
So customers are having to seek other sources of funding.
So those are the kind of the environmental things that we're dealing with.
But the new products are basically on track.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with Macquarie.
So my question I guess is just around emerging markets because you're talking about continuing trends and obviously for the last few years emerging markets have been growing at very high rates.
It's become a larger percentage of your sales.
And so I'm just curious there are some concerns out there in terms of what could happen in emerging markets.
China is starting a new 5-year plan and they invested heavily in health care over the last few years.
So maybe you can just discuss I guess current trends there and what gives you the confidence that those will continue to grow at similar rates.
Sure.
I'll make a first comment and then turn it over to Gary.
Specifically on China we see a multi-year commitment not just this 5-year plan to building the health care system.
And I think they see that fundamental to their I call it country strategy and social stability.
So we think there's going to be continued commitment to health care and they're really in the early stages of building that system.
And we see more opportunity across the region which Gary can comment on and not just in Asia.
This is Gary Cohen.
I would say that we don't see things that would give us any cause for concern that the growth won't continue in emerging markets.
And that's on the basis of having a business array that's very well aligned to the health needs that exist emerging markets.
Whether it be infectious disease chronic disease such as diabetes cervical cancer all these areas where we have a lot of depth are well aligned to primary areas of interest and health care investment.
Plus as health care access broadens which is a principal factor in health care reform processes in many countries China of course but also other countries like Indonesia Russia is passing a major health care reform bill.
We're seeing in Latin America because of the economic strain growth going forward there as well and as basic health care access improves that also lends itself to the type of very core products that we have such as injection infusion blood drawing and so forth.
The other factor I would say is that we've developed over the past decade a sound experience and a good business model for how to engage and collaborate with health authorities and in developing countries with NGOs on addressing health needs.
And that business model is also a key part of our ongoing success.
And finally as noted in the quarter we're seeing strong growth in safety engineered devices where we have a lot of strength.
So we can say it's going to be the same growth every quarter going out over the next several years but the general trends and dynamics we think are positive.
And the whole notion of health care reform in emerging markets is a very positive thing.
In the West it's constrained.
But in health care reform in the emerging markets it means investment.
We don't see this changing as the economies continue to improve.
Your next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
I just wanted to recircle on commentary that you had provided Vince the tail end on fiscal '12 to make sure we all understood it.
You had mentioned 5% top and 10% bottom line in the context of FX neutral growth and then you had kind of alluded to the fact that this seemingly was also including an FX benefit.
And I just want to be clear.
Is that just simply the FX benefit offset by deal dilution and is the 45 or actually higher estimated sales from Carmel actually included in that 5% top line as well? David will take that.
Kristen the way to think about it is our base for growing going into next year is what our reported number is this year.
The only adjustment you would ever make is if you had any hedges and we don't have any hedges this year.
So when we talk about 10% growth on a reported number this year the only adjustment being is the dilution from the acquisition.
Okay.
So the 10% bottom line growth will then be diluted for the acquisition? Well you got to take the net effect of the dilution this year and the dilution next year.
So there'll be as Vince said there is the $0.05 dilution this year and minimal dilution in fiscal year '12 which we'll provide guidance on in November.
Okay.
And so the 5 and 10 does include the deal year to year? No what we've said was the impact of the acquisition has not been built into our guidance because we haven't closed the deal yet.
But the dilution impact for this year is $0.05.
We have not given you what the number is for next year.
Okay.
So the '12 numbers were excluding the deal from the top line perspective but excluding FX? The reason we've said excluding the deal so far.
I'm sorry we weren't clear on that.
And excluding FX or including FX? It includes FX.
That's your base.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> This is for Bill Rhodes.
In the Flow business you guys called out the European Union again but any changes to your outlook in the U.S.
given the headlines we've seen of late? This is Bill Rhodes.
I'm assuming you're talking about the debt ceiling and what's happened in Washington over the last few days.
Obviously it's too early for us to prognosticate and we really wouldn't at this point.
But again what we generally see obviously the discretionary spending is where the U.S.
government is going to go.
That may have an impact on NIH and NSF funding.
On the other hand then we've said this in prior quarters we tend to see that our Flow business and in the instrumentation are in areas that are actually preserved within the NIH budget.
So right now we're not seeing anything that modifies our view.
Your next question comes on the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> I guess a related question specific to the outlook for government funding and the macroeconomic budgetary backdrop.
Have you seen any impact -- did you see any impact to your business during a quarter that you believe was linked to the ongoing uncertainty in Washington? And you did mention a delay in the release of funding in certain European markets during quarter has anything changed over the past month? So we'll ask Bill to comment on that.
This is Bill Rhodes.
Assuming that we are talking about research funding in particular no we haven't seen anything Doug.
LLC</strong> And in terms of impact in the previous quarter of the uncertainty in Washington anything notable? No not really.
Your next question comes the line of Peter Lawson with Mizuho Securities.
Just on the developing world CD4 launch.
What's the cost point of that CD4 instrument versus competitors and then wonder if you could talk about the long-term benefit to the developing world or rather the developed world.
So Bill you want to take that? I think he's talking about the replacement for the FACS account.
Actually I'd like to get some clarity on that question because the product launched that we're talking about the FACSVerse which is a CD4 analyzer for the developed world.
We can talk about that.
But were you talking about the CD4 analyzer that we are planning to launch in fourth quarter? Yes.
Exactly.
The planning to launch one.
The best I can tell you about that is that it's essentially a replacement for an existing system that we considered the gold standard around the world which is the FACSCount.
So you should anticipate that it would be -- and you didn't ask cost but I'll talk price.
You should consider it to be at about that same price point so that's available as an upgrade or replacement to those laboratories.
It basically is an instrument that depending upon quantity et cetera would be anywhere from about $25 000 to $32 000.
And then the eventual benefit on the developed world? Well actually on the developed world the FACSVerse is the product that would likely be the one to become the clinical product in the developed world because of the need for higher throughput.
And that essentially in the developed world today the instruments that are in most of the laboratories doing HIV testing CD4 testing are really the higher-end analyzers not the FACSCount.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Weinstein with William Blair.
You mentioned TriPath had some issues due to some interval changes.
How far into the structural change and the demand curve are we there? And how does this affect how you think about other women's health test like Trich and CT/GC if women are maybe not coming in for this basic testing? Do you see them putting off other tests as well? Well I'll ask Tom Polen to comment on that.
But they're probably 2 different things that we're talking about.
Yes.
Right.
This is Tom Polen.
Good question.
So I think in terms of the trends that we're seeing in pap volumes we've all seen there is general decline in OB/GYN patient visit volumes happening as an underlying phenomenon.
And then in addition to that of course there are recommendations made earlier last year or the year before in terms of stemming the intervals.
And we've looked at actually some interesting data where if you look back 3 years ago only 14% of doctors of OB/GYNs recommended doing pap testing every 3 years.
Now 34% of doctors recommend doing pap testing every 3 years.
So we see that certainly as a trend that's moving in an extended interval.
But right now it's 34% of doctors.
And so if you ask how long is this dynamic going to exist in the U.S.
I think it's hard to put an end in.
Certainly we would expect that trend to continue for the balance of this year and certainly into FY '12.
We don't have a recovery built into our U.S.
and expect a similar growth next year in the U.S.
as we see this year.
As I mentioned in earlier commentary x U.S.
is a very different story as pap testing is really something which is being implemented in most of the developing world today.
In terms of impacts on other women's health test like Trich and GC/CT we've actually have not seen that type of impact in our GC/CT business.
I know we have reported that that business performance in the past we were up 5.1% in that business in the quarter which is similar to our year-to-date performance if not slightly up.
So we don't see the impact there.
And Trich is a different dynamic.
So unlike pap in the U.S.
where pap is a routine screening we see Trich is still in the dialogue about becoming more routine screening for asymptomatic women.
And so that's a very small market today but we certainly don't see it declining.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Frelick with Canaccord.
Maybe a question for Tom.
Tom could we get an update on the molecular path the SurePath Plus just looking for maybe some timing of the pivotal study the size of the study when do you expect that to be completed and filed.
This is Tom Polen.
So as Vince mentioned that study we started a U.S.
study in Q4 last year.
That trial is ongoing.
We are in the data analysis phase of that and our launch date of 2013 remains unchanged from what we shared in the past.
In terms of any other commentary regarding the actual data that we're seeing I'll not comment on that at this point in time.
Your next question comes from the line of Sara Michelmore with Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> I was hoping you could just go back and clarify the commentary on Pharm Systems business in Europe.
I have to say I'm a little surprised that given part of the customer base there anyways which is industry that that would be something that would be affected by European austerity.
So I'm wondering if you can just clarify that.
And also just give an update on the non-European Pharm Systems.
So I guess that would be primarily Japan what the underlying trend is there.
So let me ask Bill Kozy to just comment on Pharm Systems.
And Sara you're right it's not an austerity thing in Pharm Systems.
It's a different dynamic going on.
So Bill why don't you comment on that? Sure.
This is Bill Kozy.
Let me start with the European piece.
What we've seen now this is going to relate to Vince's earlier comments about last year being a lighter flu season than was expected.
And of course we've got inventory that's sitting in the big pharma channel that does not need to be replaced this year.
So we're seeing some natural sales reduction based on inventory requirements associated with big pharma in Europe.
Additionally we've seen fewer and some pushback on launches of new drugs.
And a lot of those do come out of Europe for the Pharm Systems business so that has slowed down Europe.
And then the third piece to note was this sourcing transfer.
Occasionally these big pharmaceutical companies will move their sourcing from 1 region to another.
So about $6 million particularly just in this quarter was sourced out of the U.S.
which explains the very strong U.S.
Pharmaceutical Systems sales.
And then of course the corresponding impact in Europe.
SO just building that on the second part of the question about what's going on rest of world the U.S.
had a very strong quarter driven by this regional sourcing transfer also by inventory build around low molecular weight Heparin and the U.S.
is the geography where that inventory build is taking place.
And additionally we know that there's been a migration to more pre-fill applications for the upcoming flu season that's coming in the United States.
More people in U.S.
sourcing will be using pre-fill applications and that's our vial to pre-fill strategy.
And that was actually in the quarter worth about $9 million.
So of that U.S.
growth it was very strong year-on-year of $25 million $26 million year-on-year.
About $22 million had some onetime impact.
The rest of it was the underlying piece.
Japan we actually continue to do well.
We've got solid sales growth of mid-single digit in Japan despite the impact that we had on our plant and that sales are recovering.
And Asia-Pacific we are pretty much running just a little bit off our plan for the year driven by slower-than-planned uptake in China as we look at particular progress we had expected to make this year.
And that's just driven by drug launches at this point in time.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up then so just to clarify on the EU austerity impact.
If it's not Pharm Systems and part of the lower outlook in Europe is related to austerity what businesses specifically are you talking about? This is Gary Cohen.
In the quarter Medical Surgical Diabetes Care and all Diagnostic Systems both Preanalytical and what we call Diagnostic Systems the Diagnostic business both had low- to mid-single digit growth.
It was really Pharmaceutical Systems and Biosciences that have the lighter quarter.
So in addition when we were talking austerity remember we are also including Biosciences in that and the impacts that we were seeing both in France and the U.K.
But what we're saying is we're looking at about a 1% decrease from our forecast going forward in Western Europe when we take all of that into account.
Your next question comes from the line of Tony Butler with Barclays Capital.
Back to Tom Polen's on Diagnostics if I may.
Could you comment about BD MAX initial launch.
Also if in fact it's tracking at above or below your expectations.
This is Tom Polen.
So we're very pleased with the launch.
It's tracking right through our expectations and we're seeing very positive feedback from customers.
We have to shift of course a number of instruments.
We do have particularly in Europe a number of our customers have begun to develop their own assays on the system using the open channel capabilities.
And the feedback that we're getting certainly the most consistent is just around the full automation which customers are very pleased with as well as the flexibility that the system offers with its open capabilities which is all we that we've launched at this point in time.
Obviously as Vince mentioned in his earlier commentary our BD branded assays begin to launch in FY '12.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Buten with Catapult.
You guys with your cash flow generation what are you assuming for buybacks in the context of that 10% target for next year roughly? So we haven't guided on the share buybacks for next year at this point.
What we said was that we'll come back to you in November and we'll give you all the pieces at that time.
Your next question is from Jaimin Patel with Greenlight Capital.
Okay.
The question is regarding SSG&amp;A in the quarter.
The $60-odd million increase from the quarter and the prior year can you break that down for us a little bit in the components? And on a dollar basis how much was the receivable reserve? Receivables is about $6 million.
This is David Jaimin.
And we had legal fees which were around $7 million and then between EVEREST and our pension there's about $10 million there.
And remember we also talked about the deferred compensation which is offset other income which comes through.
So those were the main drivers in the quarter.
For the full year obviously they're a little larger.
Your next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
You'd mentioned in the prepared remarks that pricing was down about 1%.
Just wanted to see if you're seeing overall I guess given the austerity measures if that's any different than kind of the trend I forgot kind of where you have been tracking I thought it was a little less than 1%.
So maybe if you could just help us understand maybe pricing trends in the outlook you're expecting.
Yes.
So it has increased a little bit.
It's up slightly from where it was before.
We continue to see price pressure on selected products.
Really in the device category over the last several months and Kristen I expect that this is going to continue slightly more than last quarter.
Okay.
And just again I guess on the guidance or not guidance but commentary on next year the 5% underlying that is a little bit weaker than I guess where you've historically talked about your longer-term targets which I presume we'll get in November.
Is that just simply continuation of utilization in Western Europe or is that also reflecting your expectation for perhaps worsening price? So Kristen it's an all-in number that we gave you.
We don't have all the details broken out.
But from a preliminary analysis standpoint we're kind of stepping back and saying we're looking at Western Europe we're looking at the cost controls in the U.S.
So kind of a developing world low growth in utilization.
I also mentioned the issue that Bill Kozy went into a little bit of detail on in terms of our expectations around inventory in the chain and the Pharm Systems business.
We had that in our minds as well.
So it's more of an environmental including the pricing trends that we have seen.
All of that together.
And that would also be a deceleration from this year given that the 5% includes FX.
So is that fair as well if you were to normalize this year for flu? No I'm not seeing this as a real deceleration.
As I said more in line net-net if we were to go through everything.
Our final question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Tom quickly the GenOhm growth number in the quarter and then on a related question can you comment a little bit on just on the BD MAX longer range menu.
It looks like you're going to have a little overlap here between the Viper LP and the BD MAX.
So this is Tom.
For the quarter GeneOhm was -- it was an interesting quarter for GeneOhm.
We grew 5.5% for the quarter which was impacted largely by timing of orders.
Let me just give a little bit more color there.
So the first month of the quarter was light and the last 2 months of the quarter were quite strong actually above our full year run rate.
And so we saw those balancing out.
You may recall we had a real jump in our growth in Q2 and what we expect was there is probably a bit of pull forward on a stocking situation.
All of these are direct ship to customers inventory as we went into the summer period.
And so as we look across the year-to-date we're up 14% and that's still the trend that we expect to continue for the balance of the year.
As you mentioned the question on menu and potential overlap with the Viper platform assuming most specifically looking at the STD area of GC/CT and Trich.
So we do see that certainly the MAX and the Viper serve 2 very different segments.
So if you think about the Viper that is used primarily for a large volume tests often screening tests like GC/CT Trich as that moves into screening in the future HPV.
As you're aware we have HPV in development and actually a good [indiscernible] article came out this month on our HPV assay.
As we think about wanting low-cost high-throughput solution for high-volume screening laboratories Viper is going to be a platform of choice for that.
It's extremely efficient from a workflow perspective and the design of that product allows a very low cost of goods for us to be able to provide a very competitive price point to customers who have that high-throughput high-workflow efficiency need.
For customers more characterized as acute care setting customers MAX is a moderately complex instrument.
So not only can a MAX go into a hospital laboratory but also laboratories that would perhaps be currently using our Affirm product not hospital-based laboratories that are moderately complex MAX can fit into those environment.
So there they may be setting out their testing today or have just a different dynamic where the throughput isn't quite as important.
And they're looking for flexibility and breadth of assays that they can run on the MAX system to fully utilize it.
We see that.
Those types of customers wanting access to test like GC/CT and Trich and therefore we're putting those on.
We'll be at a different price points so it will be more expensive than if you wanted to run that same assay on the Viper.
But it'll service that segment very nicely.
And we are putting actually the GC/CT Trich that is going to be a triplex combo assay single well.
That was our final question.
And now I'd like to turn the floor back over to Vince Forlenza for any closing remarks.
Yes.
Let me thank all of you for your questions and your interest.
Let me just make a final comment on the revenue growth rate '11 versus '12.
And just to remind everyone that if you look at FY '11 and you adjust for the flu and the stimulus on an FX-neutral basis for the total company we're at approximately 5%.
And just to clarify what we're saying for next year on an FX-neutral basis is basically the same numbers.
So ultimately when you factor all these issues in that we've talked about we're saying about the same.
I'd also like to say that we're pleased with the quarter.
The product launches that we've discussed with you are on track.
We're excited about those products.
We're excited about what we're seeing in Diabetes Care with the Nano and the MAX and the launches in Biosciences as well and they're offsetting some headwinds from the marketplace.
Our operational programs are on track and we're pleased that we started them on a proactive basis several years ago.
And we look forward to the benefits of those programs in the years to come and the expansion of those programs with ReLoCo 2.
The business as we set for next year 5% on the top line and 10% on the bottom line on an underlying basis and so we look forward to giving you more detail as we move forward.
And thanks very much for your participation today.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's Fourth Fiscal Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through Wednesday November 9 2011 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at (855) 859-2056 for domestic calls and area code (404) 537-3406 for international calls using conference ID 16826583.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our fourth fiscal quarter and year end results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The slide presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our fourth fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedule is posted on the bd.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are David Elkins Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; BD Executive Vice Presidents Gary Cohen and Bill Kozy; as well as Tom Polen President of Diagnostic Systems.
At this time we would also like to announce Alberto Mas the new President of BD Biosciences.
Alberto will have responsibility for the cell analysis and labware units.
Alberto has spent the past 6 years as the President of Medical Surgical Systems.
His 19-year career at BD includes functional and general management assignments in Europe and the U.S.
including prior Finance and General Manager roles in Discovery Labware and 4 years as Vice President and General Manager for BD Biosciences in Europe.
Bill Rhodes the previous President of BD Biosciences will assume the role of Senior Vice President Corporate Strategy and Development reporting to David Elkins.
Bill is especially qualified for this role.
With more than 25 years of new business development and start-up company experience he combines a deep understanding of external market opportunities with a true general management perspective.
Bill is participating on the call today.
We are extremely pleased to have both of these leaders in their new roles and we believe they will leverage their diverse experience to lead the company through its next phase of growth.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
Today I'll begin with a brief overview of BD's performance for the full fiscal year 2011 then I'll spent some time highlighting the guidance for our fiscal year 2012.
After that David will provide a financial review of the total company and segment performance as well as provide you with key components of our 2012 guidance.
I'll spend the balance of our time discussing our performance in emerging markets and the progress we have made in our product pipeline.
After that we'll open the call to questions.
As we stated in the press release we had a solid finish to the fiscal year.
Revenue growth was 4.9% currency-neutral when excluding the difficult comparisons from the pandemic flu as well as stimulus and supplemental spending in fiscal year 2010.
We are pleased with our continued strong growth in safety sales and in emerging markets.
We continue to make progress with our operational excellence programs.
This year we also successfully completed 2 acquisitions Accuri Cytometers and Carmel Pharma.
We are pleased with our progress to date on these acquisitions and we will continue to look for external opportunities that are aligned with BD's capabilities.
We continue to invest in R&amp;D and our key product launches remained on track in each of our 3 segments contributed to the company's pipeline progress.
We now have the most robust pipeline in the company's history.
We continue to make the company more effective efficient and we will continue to deliver superior and safer healthcare products.
I would like to discuss the things we contemplated when forecasting fiscal year 2012.
As our industry remains challenged we continue to see economic pressures on healthcare utilization in the U.S.
and Western Europe.
Additionally we anticipate lower research funding and expect a downward trend on pricing to continue in fiscal year 2012.
Despite these macroeconomic challenges we will increase our investments in high-growth opportunities to ensure the long-term health of the company.
Given the aforementioned factors and our commitment to deliver on our guidance we have taken a prudent approach to our outlook for next year.
We are expanding the range of our revenue growth and expect it to be between 2% to 4% on a currency-neutral basis.
We expect EPS growth to be between 4% to 6%.
We believe these projections incorporate additional flexibility for unanticipated external conditions.
On Slide 5 you will see the guidance for fiscal year '12 on a reported- and currency-neutral basis.
This year our revenue growth was 2.9% currency-neutral.
If you exclude the impact of the pandemic flu and stimulus and supplemental sales from fiscal year 2010 revenue growth was 4.9%.
EPS growth was 8.1% currency-neutral.
As I just mentioned we are expecting revenue growth to be between 2% and 4% and EPS growth of 6% currency-neutral.
David will discuss key components of our P&amp;L for fiscal year 2012 later in his remarks.
On Slide 6 I will walk you through our guidance by segment.
For the Medical segment we are anticipating currency-neutral growth of about 1% to 3%.
Our outlook reflects nonrecurring items in the Pharmaceutical Systems business that took place in fiscal year 2011.
Additionally we anticipate continued challenging macroeconomic conditions that are adversely impacting end-user demand and causing pricing pressure in developed markets.
In the Diagnostics segment we anticipate currency-neutral growth of 2% to 4%.
Similar to our Medical segment challenging macroeconomic conditions are continued -- and continued downward pricing trends are impacting the segment primarily in Preanalytical Systems.
However Diagnostic Systems is benefiting from a series of product launches.
We expect Biosciences currency-neutral growth to be between 4% and 6%.
This lower growth rate is due in part to uncertainty in the research funding environment worldwide which impacts both our Cell Analysis and Discovery Labware units.
Additionally we have taken steps to eliminate products from the Discovery Labware portfolio that were low volume low margin and low contributors to growth.
And now I'll turn the call over to David.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
Moving to Slide 8 I'd like to briefly highlight some of our fourth quarter results which were mostly in line with the company's expectation.
Revenue came in about 4% currency-neutral.
We experienced strong growth both in emerging markets as well as international safety sales.
We also delivered on our EPS guidance coming in at $1.39 for the quarter.
On Slide 9 you will see revenues were approximately $2.1 billion in the fourth quarter.
Adjusted EPS growth grew about 8% to $1.39 currency-neutral.
Our total year revenues of $7.8 billion reflect revenue growth of 2.9% and adjusted EPS growth of about 8% currency-neutral.
Now let's move on to Slide 10 where we review our revenue growth by segment which I will speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
BD Medical fourth quarter revenues increased 3.8%.
The growth in this segment was mainly driven by the Diabetes Care business with continued strong sales of pen needles and solid growth in Pharmaceutical Systems unit.
For the total year the Medical segment grew 2.3%.
When excluding the impact of pandemic flu-related sales in fiscal year 2010 growth in the segment was 4.5%.
Revenues in the BD Diagnostics segment grew 3.8%.
Revenues reflected solid growth in both Women's Health and Cancer and the infectious disease product offerings within the Diagnostic Systems unit.
For the total year the Diagnostics segment grew 3.9%.
When excluding the impact of pandemic flu-related sales in fiscal year 2010 growth in the segment was 4.5%.
BD Biosciences revenue growth was 4.7% driven by strong instrument reagent sales in our Cell Analysis unit.
For the total year the Biosciences segment grew 3.2%.
Excluding the impact of sales related to supplemental and stimulus spending in Japan and in the U.S.
in fiscal year 2010 the Biosciences business grew 6.8%.
Now turning to Slide 11 we'll look at our geographic results.
In the fourth quarter BD's U.S.
revenues increased about 1%.
U.S.
Medical revenues increased 1% year-over-year.
U.S.
sales in Diagnostics products increased almost 2%.
Biosciences revenues in the U.S.
increased about 0.5% with growth in Cell Analysis business unit being offset by weakness in core consumables and our Discovery Labware business.
International revenues grew about 6% on a currency-neutral basis.
Growth was driven by continued strong international safety sales and growth in Asia Pacific and Latin America.
Medical and Diagnostics contributed about 6%.
The Biosciences segment grew 7.3%.
For the total year U.S.
revenues grew 2% with Medical increasing 1.8% Diagnostics increasing 2.6% and Biosciences growing 1.9%.
International revenues grew 3.6% on a currency-neutral basis.
When excluding the impact of pandemic flu-related sales of fiscal year 2010 international revenue overall grew about 5%.
Moving to global safety on Slide 12.
Reported sales grew 12.3% in the quarter to $498 million.
On a currency-neutral basis safety growth was about 8%.
This was comprised of 2% growth rate in U.S.
and an international growth rate of 18.5%.
For the total year safety growth was 5.4% on a currency-neutral basis which is a combination of 0.7% growth rate in the U.S.
and an international growth rate of 13.6% on a currency-neutral basis.
In the Medical segment the U.S.
growth rate is being driven by Nexiva and our new product PhaSeal.
This product is from our Carmel acquisition what expanded our safety product offering.
International safety is driven by Infusion Therapy products.
In the Diagnostics segment U.S.
growth rate is being driven by the Push Button Blood Collection Set and the international growth rate is being driven by a range of safety products.
Additionally safety growth was particularly strong in emerging markets coming in at 24.2%.
On Slide 13 we review our revenue in the fourth quarter in which our reported growth rate was 9.5%.
Currency contributed about 6% to the growth and performance contributed 4%.
The loss due to the hedge gain from fiscal year 2010 not recurring in fiscal year 2011.
Moving to Slide 14 looking at our gross margin we experienced a negative 70 basis points impact from currency and hedge gain not repeating.
From a performance standpoint positive operating performance of 90 points was offset by higher raw material costs and pension expenses.
Slide 15 recaps the fourth quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency neutral results.
As discussed earlier fourth quarter revenue was 4% and gross profit also grew about 4%.
Moving down the income statement line SSG&amp;A increased 5.6% primarily due to higher acquisition-related expenses higher legal costs and increased shipping fees related to higher fuel costs.
As we discussed in previous calls another headwind is our EVEREST/SAP implementation costs.
Partially offsetting these items is a decrease in the deferred compensation expense which is offset by a loss on the interest income line.
R&amp;D decreased 7.2% which is in line with our expectations as we accelerate spending in the first half of the year.
As a result of the items I just mentioned our operating income increased 5.7% and earnings per share increased about 8% in the quarter.
Slide 16 recaps the total year income statement and highlights our foreign currency neutral results.
Revenue growth was about 2.9% and gross profit growth was 3.2% due to increased productivity and ReLoCo which more than offset raw materials and pension costs for the full year.
Moving down the income statement SSG&amp;A increased about 5% with the main drivers being increased investments in emerging markets higher pension and EVEREST costs.
Acquisition-related expenses and a provision for European receivable also contributed to the increase.
These increases were partially offset through efficiencies in our G&amp;A infrastructure and other cost savings programs.
For the total year R&amp;D increased 7.7% currency-neutral which is in line with our expectations.
We increased R&amp;D as a percent of sales by 20 basis points as we invested in new products and platforms.
As a result operating income increased 0.2% which reflects lower revenues and increased SSG&amp;A and R&amp;D expenses.
EPS growth is 8% currency-neutral.
On Slide 17 I'd like to walk you through our outlook for next year.
As Vince mentioned earlier we expect revenues to increase about 2.4% on a currency-neutral basis.
We are considering several factors with this outlook.
First we expect to see a downward pricing trend continuing through the full fiscal year 2012.
Although our price decline was just under 100 basis points for the total year we did see an increase in the fourth quarter.
We expect pricing erosion to be slightly above 100 basis points for fiscal year '12.
Second healthcare utilization in the U.S.
and Western Europe remains constrained and we expect these macroeconomic conditions to continue in the near future.
Third we are seeing an increase in raw material costs which will impact our gross profit margin.
Additionally we will be making significant investments in SSG&amp;A increased sales and marketing resources in emerging and other high-growth markets accelerated acquisition expenses and increased SAP implementation costs.
Due to these items some of which are one-time in nature we're expecting EPS to increase 4% to 6% currency-neutral in fiscal year 2012.
Moving to Slide 18 I'd like to walk you through our P&amp;L for fiscal year 2012.
For the year we're expecting revenues of about $8 billion.
We expect our gross profit margin to be approximately 51.3% to 51.5% a decrease of about 70 to 90 basis points.
This reflects the anticipated negative effects of higher raw material costs the acquisition-related expenses and software expenses resulting from our Biosciences product launches.
Partially offsetting this is a benefit from our ReLoCo program and positive productivity and mix.
SSG&amp;A is expected to be approximately 23.6% to 23.8%.
This reflects increased investment in emerging markets selling and infrastructure and acquisition costs primarily related to the rollout of Carmel and Accuri.
Also included are the EVEREST/SAP implementation costs which are slightly offset by reductions in our G&amp;A spending driven by the functional transformation programs.
We plan to increase R&amp;D about 6% by investing in new product platforms and funding even further increases through an R&amp;D re-prioritization and reductions in infrastructure.
Operating income as a result is expected to be approximately 21.5% to 21.7%.
Our cash flow will remain strong with our operating cash expected to be $1.7 billion in fiscal year 2012.
We also plan to repurchase $1.5 billion in shares.
The majority of which will be funded through a future debt offering.
Capital expenditures remain in line with our 2011 spending at approximately $500 million to $525 million.
For our bottom line we expect reported EPS to be between $5.75 and $5.85.
I'd also like to highlight that we anticipate the first quarter fiscal year 2012 to be below our guided growth rates for the year.
We expect revenue growth rate of about 1% to 2% on a currency-neutral basis which reflects a tough comparison to the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 primarily related to Pharmaceutical Systems unit where there is an inventory build due to the launch of low molecular weight heparin and an increase sampling of certain biological products.
Additionally we expect continued downward pricing trends in our Medical Surgical Systems unit.
We expect EPS therefore to be between $1.13 and $1.17 which also reflects the higher tax rate compared to the prior year which benefited from discrete items.
Before I turn the call back over to Vince I would just like to highlight our solid finish to the year in a very challenging environment.
Emerging markets and international safety continue to deliver strong double-digit growth and we are still investing in key R&amp;D projects and in new programs to drive operational efficiencies.
We are also seeking to maximize our capital structure and in doing so return more cash to our shareholders.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince.
Thank you David.
Moving on to Slide 21 I would like to highlight our emerging market results.
We continue to see strong growth in emerging markets which accounted for approximately 21% of our total revenues in the fourth quarter.
Emerging market revenues grew about 11% in total over the prior year accounting for 2/3 of total BD dollar growth on a currency-neutral basis.
We continue to see double-digit growth in the number of key markets with China growing at about 26%.
We were very pleased with safety revenue growth in emerging markets which was up about 24% over the prior year.
We will continue to invest in emerging markets in the areas of geographic expansion market development local manufacturing and R&amp;D to build a long-term business model for sustained growth.
On Slide 22 I'd like to provide an update of our key product initiatives starting with BD Medical.
Earlier in the year we announced the launches of our BD ecoFinity Life Cycle Solution program and the first products from our ReKindle program.
In the fourth quarter we launched an extension of our flagship IV Catheter product Insyte Autoguard with a blood control feature.
We will also launch Nexiva with a diffusion tip in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012.
In our Diabetes Care business we just launched a next-generation safety pen needle the AutoShield Duo and we plan to launch other innovative products throughout the year.
On Slide 23 I would like to walk through some of the key initiatives in our Diagnostics segment.
In the third quarter of this fiscal year we launched a new automated microbiology plate streaker called the BD Innova.
We also launched the 6-color BD MAX as an open system in May.
We have received good feedback from our customers and we are pleased with the progress we have made in these areas.
As I mentioned in previous conference calls in fiscal year 2012 you can expect the launch of the BD MAX MRSA and C.
difficile assays midyear in the EU.
The U.S.
launch will be toward the end of the year.
We are continuing to invest in the BD Viper XTR with fully automated specimen processing.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 we will be launching the Trichomonas assay on the BD Viper.
At the end of fiscal year 2013 we will be launching the Viper LT our next-generation mid-volume Viper platform.
In fiscal year 2013 we expect to launch our molecular Pap test the BD SurePath Plus which is in the data analysis phase of the clinical trial.
On Slide 24 we will review the product launches of our Biosciences segment.
We announced our BD Recharge media supplement for bio production earlier this year along with our 8-color research analyzer the FACSVerse.
Our desktop sorter the FACSJazz was released as a limited launch last quarter and will be launched worldwide by the second quarter of this fiscal year.
We plan to launch our new cell culture medium Mosaic in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012.
As we look to fiscal years 2012 and 2013 we plan to launch 2 new analyzers for CD4 testing.
One is meant for mid- and smaller-volume laboratories in both the emerging markets and the developing world while the other is a more portable point-of-care instrument targeted towards rural clinics in the developing world.
Turning to Slide 25.
As I outlined in my initial comments BD is continuously focused on operational excellence programs.
Today I'm pleased to update you on ReLoCo and provide you with an overview on ReLoCo II.
The ReLoCo I project has been successfully implemented achieving break-even status in fiscal year 2011.
And as I mentioned on the last conference call we'll yield savings of approximately $50 million to $60 million by fiscal year 2013.
The ReLoCo II initiative is something we are very excited about.
Essentially we have expanded ReLoCo I and we are using the same principles knowledge and skills gained and applying them more broadly.
While ReLoCo I was a program that was only in our Medical Surgical Systems unit the ReLoCo II program encompasses all of the BD Medical segment as well as Diagnostic Systems and some elements of the BD supply chain.
We have identified in our implementing projects that we expect to yield annualized net savings of $60 million to $70 million per year by the end of fiscal year 2014.
On Slide 26 before we open the call to questions I would just like to reiterate the key messages I would like for you to take away from our discussion today.
First we're pleased with our performance and believe our results for the year were solid despite the headwinds facing our industry.
Second we are going to continue to invest in the business to drive both top line and bottom line growth.
We will make focused investments in R&amp;D and in emerging markets and continue to look for acquisition opportunities that align with BD's strategies and capabilities.
The successful completion of the Accuri and Carmel acquisitions are 2 strong examples of this.
And third we continue to focus on operational excellence programs across the P&amp;L to maintain our strong cost position.
We believe programs such as ReLoCo and ReLoCo II will deliver significant savings in the long run.
For more than a decade BD has been a company that investors could rely on for consistent predictable results.
More recently we and other companies in our industry have faced a more challenging and less predictable external environment.
We anticipate this environment will continue for the foreseeable future at a minimum through the next fiscal year.
Recognizing the importance of delivering on our commitment during these challenging economic times we have taken steps to achieve higher predictability in a less predictable environment.
As I mentioned earlier this is reflected in our guidance for fiscal year 2012.
We have incorporated additional flexibility for unanticipated external conditions while preserving the company's key investments in R&amp;D emerging markets and operating efficiency programs.
We remain confident that the programs we have in place are a strong foundation for future growth.
Thank you.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just some perspective on the top line next year.
If I look at kind of your underlying -- BD's underlying trajectory the last 3 years you've been around the 5% level 4.5% in '09.
So even if I take another point or so of price off looking at that '09 figure you're still seem to be guiding below your '09 experience in '12.
Is that an accurate representation? And if conditions were to just stay as they are right now kind of as you exited the fourth quarter do you foresee that your numbers are too low or in line with where they should be? Jon I do think from -- if you look at where we finished the fourth quarter and then look forward the story is really around what's happening in the U.S.
marketplace.
And there's a couple of factors that we saw in the fourth quarter that I'll mention.
Number one is utilization in the hospital segment and lower acuity.
And we saw that also reflected when we step back and look more broadly at the cost trends in the insurance industry where their cost ratios were going down.
On the physician office side we saw less physician visits and we don't know exactly whether that was seasonal and how much of that will bounce back.
We think September was maybe a little bit better.
So from an environmental standpoint our concern on the clinical market side was that we were seeing some weakening number one.
Number two on the research product side we're also concerned about funding.
And if you look at Biosciences growth in the fourth quarter in the U.S.
we saw some lightness there as well.
As you move down in the range clearly the direction you're going with the environment would have to be worse to go down further in the range that's true.
So the low end of our range would certainly be implying further deterioration in the environment.
Now I'd like to point out one other thing which changes from last year to this year.
And David mentioned in his remarks and that's really Pharm Systems.
In Pharm Systems in the U.S.
last year benefited from the launch of low-weight molecular heparin and some sampling programs with some biotech drugs.
They're not going to repeat in fiscal year '12 and that's cutting the growth rate for Pharm System substantially.
So that's kind of the picture.
International looks good the emerging market piece looks good.
So yes if you look at our range the environmental would have to get worse to get down in the lower end of the range.
Your next question comes from the line of Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> It's Miroslava for Rick today.
Let me just start by asking about the gross margin.
You highlighted some of the factors that are impacting and I appreciate the increased cost pressures from raw materials.
But maybe if you could help us understand what's driving such a reduction from fiscal '11 to fiscal '12? Sure.
We'll break that out for you.
But you're right the starting point is the raw material costs which is up about $25 million year-on-year.
David's got a break-out that he can walk you through.
The main things that are driving the year-over-year is first and foremost is that as we look -- as we talked about earlier software amortization that we have with the launches of the Biosciences.
The other big driver there is the raw material costs.
We're seeing raw material price increases year-over-year.
And it's not just resins we're seeing that within paper glass steel and rubber.
And also the other thing driving margins as Vince had mentioned is as you have increased price all of that price pressure falls through in your gross margin.
Lastly the one other major item is with the 2 acquisitions that we've had you have integration costs that go through your gross margin line and you also have to step up in your inventories that you got to do as part of your acquisition accounting.
So when you put all of those things together there are some one-off items that are hitting us next year that we don't see as longer term trends.
They're causing the margins to be slightly lower next year than what they are this year.
And just to further explain on the software what we're talking about there is we have always capitalized software in the Biosciences business.
We've launched a new software platform to accompany these product launches.
And as we do that we start to amortize the software so that's not a thing that continues to increase.
This is a program you have once every 5 to 7 years something along those lines but that is impacting fiscal year '12.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I appreciate the color.
So some temporary items there as well.
And maybe if you could just clarify real quick for us whether the buyback is included in your EPS guidance or is it not? It is.
Your next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted just to go into a little bit more detail with respect to the $1.5 billion share repurchase.
I think a year ago you'd committed to sort of $650 million--the stock's obviously below where it was at that time.
Maybe you can sort of remind us how you're thinking about use of capital.
Why you wouldn't be looking to deploy these -- to deploy your resources to a higher growth external asset and why at this point you think buying back stock is the right move? Well we do believe that acquisitions will be a part of our strategy just -- as we just did Accuri just as -- we just did Carmel Pharma.
So you're making a good point there.
And as we identify strong targets but maintain discipline we'll look to do that.
At this point in time having done that analysis we think $1.5 billion is a prudent use of our capital.
So maybe David you want to make any other comments on the share buyback.
I think definitely we're looking at acquisitions out there as Vince talked about on last call.
We're building our capabilities and our business development area and that's one of the reasons that we got Bill Rhodes going into that area.
But also there we're going to apply the same financial discipline we always provided and went through when we looked at acquisitions.
So when we look at our capital structure we think there's a way to continue to optimize the capital structure given where interest rates are.
We think returning the cash to our shareholders is the right thing to do if the acquisitions don't materialize.
And Jon (sic) [David] we think our share buyback program gives us the flexibility that if we identify something that we want to go after we can flex it if we can flex.
Research Division</strong> And maybe as a follow-up to that on the savings from ReLoCo if you look at the dollar that you've quoted can you maybe just clarify whether those are gross or net savings.
And as you think about reinvestment how much are you at a point right now where you're basically running from your developed markets for cash and redeploying a lot of those resources into investments in either emerging markets or some of the growth area at therapeutic categories that you serve? So Jon (sic) [David] it's a great question and I'm going to ask that we maintain just the rule on one question.
But certainly we'll answer your question.
As we approach this -- I'm sorry David.
As we approach this year we did look at the infrastructures in the developed world versus the developing world and we made some very tough choices on those infrastructures in the developed world and did redeploy resources from the developed world into the developing world.
By the way that's a process that has been going on before this year.
And so the answer to that question is yes we're being very disciplined around there.
But we also have a whole series of new products.
So we have to make sure that in a targeted way so as we launch these new products that we have the resources in the developed world as well.
So it's not just to run the developed world for cash.
It's also have to maintain the ability to sell value in the developed world.
But there was some significant shifting in resources.
Your next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Her question has been withdrawn.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Kim for Mike.
So just a couple of quick questions.
I wanted to start on the Medical pricing commentary and maybe you could just give us some color on where you're seeing it the most within Medical and how you're thinking about that going forward? I think you said you're expecting a little bit over 100 basis points of pricing pressure next year but kind of what's the visibility into that? And are you guys still targeting probably on a longer-term basis at this point that 50 basis points of operating margin expansion? The answer to the second question you asked is yes.
And that's why we talked about ReLoCo I then going to ReLoCo II.
The savings programs that we have in G&amp;A we're just at the point where those service centers are up and running and so we expect benefits from them in the future.
And quite frankly in this environment we'll look for other opportunities to become more efficient.
But those are good platforms to build from.
I'll let Bill answer the question around pricing in Medical.
Bill Kozy.
Sure.
The way we're looking at our prices on a geographic basis and the pressure is pretty much coming from Europe and the U.S.
not a surprise.
Both are equally impacting our overall profitability as we look at each of the individual businesses.
The European price pressure is more pervasive across all 3 of the units at this point in time.
Most of our price pressure in the U.S.
at this stage has come in our Medical Surgical business and you know the traditional product categories you'd expect of Hypodermic and IV Catheter.
Yes.
And then to the first part of your question the ReLoCo numbers are net.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one quick follow-up on the pension expense what are you guys assuming in terms of the headwind from pension costs in '12 versus '11? So we are assuming flat pension costs.
There is a headwind from the discount rate going down but we're looking at strategies around contribution and some other things to hold the line of pensions.
Your next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Vince just wanted to take a step back here for a second.
I mean one thing BD has done a very nice job of is talking about these pressures.
You've talked about multiple initiatives to get ahead of these pressures but it does seem in last 3 to 4 months business fundamentals have changed.
And I'm just sort of wondering is this more that ReLoCo initiatives that you thought would manifest in '12 and '13 are just not manifesting fast enough or in the last 3 to 4 months the pricing in broader environment has just gotten that much worse? Just help us understand.
You've been getting ready for these things.
It looks like the environment's gotten ahead of you again and I'm just trying to understand what's changed last 3 to 4 months and give us a flavor of ReLoCo plus the environment.
Sure.
So ReLoCo is on track.
It's where we expected it to be.
ReLoCo I from an overall standpoint I think we accelerated our work on ReLoCo II as to your point the environment got worse.
So we were being proactive.
But in the fourth quarter we saw the increase in raw material costs and that was more than we were expecting.
On the pricing side from an environmental standpoint the pricing that we have in this plan there is 2 pieces to it.
One is driven by -- and this is really on the device side of the business kind of the environmental pressures that we've been talking about and describing on the call.
In one area on the device side one particular product line which less than 4% of the company sales it was more driven by a competitive situation that was kind of a unique situation with excess capacity in that product line not at BD but on the part of the competitor and that was a much more significant event than we were expecting.
So I see that as kind of a one-off.
So you take half of that pricing impact that we're talking about that's the kind of one-off event you need competitive situation the rest is kind of the environmental impacts.
That's how we see it.
But ReLoCo is on track.
And so we we're redoubling our efforts there.
David's going to add something else.
What I would say is since July the 2 biggest things that are different is one the acquisitions as I talked about there's the integration costs that are in there that really hit next year as well as the step-up on the inventories that we're selling.
And then as Vince talked about the raw material costs continued and we're assuming that those price increases within raw materials are going to continue into next year.
So those are the 2 biggest things that are causing.
We don't see those things continuing beyond next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with Macquarie Capital.
Maybe just one clarification and then another question.
But Vince from a guidance perspective I guess I'm just trying to understand a little bit are you -- the way you think about your guidance is the midpoint of your guidance kind of what you expect for next year or from your comments I'm just trying to understand if you think you're giving very conservative guidance? Well the way I think you should think about the guidance is we've given you a broader range to start the year.
We would expect as we get more clarity on the year that we'll start to narrow that range.
That's the way I would look at this.
And we're also indicating to you that the first quarter because of tough comparisons to last year is going to be a lower quarter.
And David walked you through those numbers.
So what I expect is going to happen is we're going to narrow this as things go on.
As we said that bottom end of the range the environment would have to deteriorate for us to get down to the bottom end of the range.
That's the way I think about it.
Okay and thanks for the clarification.
And then could you -- the detailed question is just around Safety and could you maybe just talk about what you're seeing.
You mentioned emerging markets still growing well but you mentioned international.
Are you getting traction in Europe with the safety products given the directive there and regardless of what's happening in those countries.
I guess what's happening with Safety growth in the European countries? Yes sure.
Happy to do that.
I'm going to ask Gary Cohen to walk you through it.
The short answer is yes.
We're getting traction.
Safety growth has been accelerating in Western Europe.
We had a strong finish in the year driven by a much stronger fourth quarter relative to earlier in the year.
It's also gained significant traction pretty much in all of the international markets with exceptionally strong growth in Latin America very strong growth in Asia Pacific.
In the quarter we even had strong growth in Safety in Japan in Canada.
So pretty much in all markets except the U.S.
which is now a mature market relative to safety-engineered devices.
We were seeing very strong growth.
Double-digit or above in all markets.
Canada just very slightly below double-digit and an acceleration in Western Europe.
So the trend has been very positive.
And can I just have one clarification on Safety.
On the pricing issue are you seeing -- because of what's going on in those countries what's the pricing impact in Safety? What we're doing is we're really tailoring our offering to the economic situations in the various countries we're operating in.
And we're not seeing the pricing pressure that the company is experiencing overall.
It tends to be focused in particular areas and those are not necessarily in the safety-engineered devices.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could just talk for a minute about leverage from the top line to the bottom line in a more normalized environment because clearly there's a lot of one-timers or issues that are impacting the fiscal '12 guidance.
And then can you also just talk to us about the long-term outlook for the company if there's any revisions to how you feel the BD's going to be operating.
So starting with your second question we're not going to guide over the long term.
When the environment is so uncertain we just don't think that's prudent.
And that as things evolve we'll be changing our outlook.
So we're not going to do that on this call.
I would encourage you to come to the Analyst Day that we have coming up and you can see firsthand some of the really interesting products that we're going to be launching.
In terms of thinking about the P&amp;L we are -- it's still our goal to get 50 basis points of leverage across the P&amp;L.
And in fact if you look at what's going on let me just start on the SSG&amp;A line.
What's happening right now is we are investing more in the sales and marketing area especially for emerging markets.
And it's a significant investment this year.
While we're doing that we have become more and will continue to become more effective on the G&amp;A line.
If you go back I think -- David the 2008 is it? We've improved about 0.4 percentage point and over 1 percentage point if you take out the impacts of EVEREST.
EVEREST is costing us about $68 million this year.
EVEREST from a project expense standpoint finishes -- we go live in '12 so the project starts to ramp down we pick up the amortization and we just get a little bit more spending in fiscal '13 on EVEREST.
So we start to get that behind us.
This has been a big ramp up.
The other thing I'd like to point out to you that we've been jumping over of course is the pension.
We mentioned we're going to make contribution to deal with that this year.
So emerging markets as I was talking about in terms of an investment was $60 million.
EVEREST is about $20 million and acquisitions this year you're going year-on-year is about $20 million as well.
So there's a lot of things in the P&amp;L we're jumping over including the $25 million on raw materials with about 60% of that being the resins.
And we haven't seen the resins start to move yet even though oil prices have moderated.
So we'll see what happens with that.
But those are kind of the major elements that we're talking about.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Weinstein with William Blair.
This is actually Pete in for Brian.
I was wondering if you could break down your 2012 growth expectations between organic and non-organic terms.
So if you could just break out between current new product launches and maybe the acquisitions as well.
Yes David will do that for you.
Yes I mean it's pretty straightforward between Accuri and Carmel all-in.
It's about what we said on Accuri is about 1 to 2 basis points of growth to our Biosciences business.
And on Carmel what we communicated is about $50 million is what we're doing this year and the market overall is growing about 10 basis points.
So that gives you an idea of the range of those 2 acquisitions.
The majority of our growth still remains organic.
Right.
And the new product launches? Sorry 10% I'm sorry.
The market on Carmel is going 10%.
Yes not 10 basis points.
Right.
And can you break out the new product launches from the existing products? I don't think we have -- we don't have that level right here.
And we'll be going through that on the Analyst Day.
You'll see that next week.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Bonello with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This just sort of follows up on your answer to one of the previous questions.
So just to get a little more clarity.
You mentioned about 5 or 6 different items that are putting pressure on the margins in 2012.
And just to make sure that we've captured all of those would you mind sort of walking through one more time the relative impact of raw materials software acquisitions investments just so we have it accurate.
All right.
I'll ask David to walk through the gross margin then we'll walk through the investments on the SSG&amp;A lines as well for you.
Okay as we talked about some of the one-off things.
One is that the raw material increase that we're seeing year-over-year as Vince talked about that was around $25 million.
What I'm talking to is just the gross margin.
So we lose about 30 basis points there.
The acquisitions that we have caused us to lose about 20 basis points of gross profit margin.
And the software amortization's around 20 basis points of gross margin.
So those are the major one-off factors that are really impacting us as we go into 2012 from a gross profit margin perspective.
As Vince talked about we have about $100 million worth of investments that we believe is in the best interest of the company long-term health to continue to invest in.
We got $60 million that we're investing overall in emerging markets next year that's an increase year-over-year.
We also have $20 million increase as we go much towards our SAP implementation in North America.
And then as also we've mentioned earlier got about $20 million related to our acquisition costs with Carmel as we continue to invest and selling as well as in R&amp;D programs with that.
That's also the other factor.
And as we talked about on the revenue side of things price was slightly below 100 basis points this year on the revenue line and we're anticipating that to be slightly above 100 basis points in fiscal year '12.
So those are the major components that's driving that.
And as Vince mentioned earlier that's why we still have confidence in the 50 basis points year-over-year increase in our operating income because of the nature of these items.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just with the $60 million in emerging markets did you say that was $60 million incremental investment in emerging markets? That's right $60 million incremental.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions for me.
First off on the research spending environment Bill or Alberto would you expect us to improve post super committee? In other words as we move throughout the year shouldn't we get little more clarity in spending patterns? Bill do you want to take that? Yes.
So you're talking obviously NIH spending in the U.S.
And quite honestly I don't have a crystal ball.
To be perfectly frank I think that it's more relevant to take a look at Western Europe where we actually see stabilization and some improvements in research spending.
In the U.S.
to be perfectly frank for our Biosciences business the exposure to NIH-related spend i.e.
selling into NIH or capital equipment that is purchased with NIH funds the exposure is really not that great for the Biosciences business.
It runs around 5% to 6%.
And until the super committee says something and we know what that NIH budget is it's very hard for me to comment on that.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then just a quick housekeeping question can you guys break out the GeneOhm TriPath and the STD impacts in the quarter? I'll take that.
This is Tom Polen.
So for TriPath TriPath grew 7.9% for the quarter which was strong -- on a full year basis TriPath grew 6.6% so most -- large portion of that growth is coming from emerging markets we continue to see in the U.S.
volume pressure as Pap testing intervals are continuing to be extended as a result of recommendations that were made a few years ago.
So relatively flat in the U.S.
and strong double-digit performance in most of the rest of the world for TriPath.
On GeneOhm your question it was relatively light quarter for GeneOhm.
We grew 4% in the quarter 11% for the full year FY '11.
We are continuing to see strong double-digit growth for Cdiff.
We have seen slowdowns in MRSA due to  really 2 major factors one is is there were several lost accounts that impacted the quarter; and the other major factor is we're seeing -- we are seeing slower new placements of our SmartCycler product there as we're seeing customers begin to hold purchase decision.
You got to keep in mind MAX MRSA assay launches in less than 90 days in Europe and of course launches in Q3 in the U.S.
So we do see customers anticipating that platform with much excitement and we're seeing them hold off on their SmartCycler decisions at this point.
So we are still making placements but not the same rate that we were earlier in the year and we see the sting of bridging period between that SmartCycler product and our launch of MAX.
Research Division</strong> The STDs? STDs thanks for the reminder 5.1% for the quarter 5.7% on the full year basis.
No major items in the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Nandita Koshal with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could provide us an update on the BD MAX how the uptick has been there better or slower? What is the expectations? And then on some of the content rollout from the BD MAX obviously competitors in HAIs making some very good progress this year if you could talk about the timing there and just your outlook for the market? Sure Tom Polen will do that.
So BD MAX is as you know launched in Q3 of FY '11 as an open system and we're very pleased with early customer demand which is on track with our expectations.
We're getting very positive feedback not only on its high level of automation flexibility but also how easy it's been for customers to port over their own assays.
And at this point we have a number of customers throughout the world who have ported over their own assays at this point and are running those in their laboratory.
Of course at this point we have not launched any IVD assays yet on MAX although those are now coming up in FY '12 with our first product launching as we've communicated in early Q2 in Europe which is MRSA.
And our first IVD product in the U.S.
will be GBS which we expect to launch at the end of Q1 followed by MRSA and Cdiff later on this year.
We also have a series of our partner assays which we've shared in our strategy in the past.
And we'll be further -- providing further details at the Analyst Meeting next week on but our first partner assays begin to launch early Q2 in Europe.
So as you mentioned we recognize that there's a number of individuals launching menu in the molecular space.
We're now about to enter into a quite intensive phase of menu expansion for MAX and we expect that phase to begin in Q2 of this year.
Now we're ramping up with the major launch of MRSA and then you're going to see assays launching either from us or our partners every quarter for the foreseeable future.
And again we're going to provide a much greater detail on the quarter-by-quarter launch schedule at our Analyst Meeting next week.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Palmer with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you guys could just talk through the geographic assumptions you have for the 2012 guidance.
By my math with emerging markets accounting for about 20% of sales and growing somewhere close to 10% that would account for just about all of that incremental growth between this year and next.
Could you just maybe talk through what you have for the U.S.
Europe and Asia.
For the U.S.
from  a revenue standpoint we have 0% to 2%; and for international 4% to 6%.
So that's the breakout with stronger growth in international driven by the emerging markets.
And I think Gary has a little more color on the international growth.
Yes.
Well first your observation and much of the overall growth is coming from emerging markets is correct not all of it much of it as it was in 2011 as well.
We're expecting slightly higher growth -- somewhat higher growth in '12 in Western Europe in '12 versus '11.
That's largely on the basis of some one-time factors that occurred in '11 that depressed the reported in Western Europe or the FX mutual growth that don't reoccur.
So we're looking at low single digits sort of between 0% to 5% right in the middle of that range.
We're looking at good growth continuing strong growth in Asia Pacific slightly higher than what we experienced in 2011.
We start to see a rebound in growth in Japan coming off of the disasters that they had in 2011 that was evident in the fourth quarter.
We're looking at a more than doubling the low single-digit growth rate in Japan.
Latin America strictly strong growth in '11.
We're seeing that a little bit lower in '12 but that may have a little bit conservatism in it.
We're looking at higher single digits rather than lower double digits in Latin America.
The EMEA region Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa had very strong growth in '11 in the Middle East.
The fourth quarter was light in Africa due to the timing of major international funding for things like HIV/AIDS and childhood immunization.
We're looking at mid to slightly higher single-digit growth there.
And I think I've covered all markets.
Canada has been a good grower despite it having the characteristics of an industrialized market.
And we're looking at slightly above mid single-digit growth there.
Research Division</strong> That was very helpful.
And then for David could you just tell us what's implied in terms of interest income and expense for 2012? We're not breaking out the interest income and expense individually.
Your next question comes from the line of Sara Michelmore with Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Vince can you just talk through the Pharm Systems dynamic side.
I understand that's kind of a lumpy business and you mentioned some of the tough comps.
But if you can just kind of clarify exactly what's going on there and what I want to make sure is that there's not a change in the outlook for that business based on anything that's happened in the last couple of months? Sure.
I'm going to ask Bill Kozy to walk you through that.
But just to kick it off there were couple of dynamics.
There's a regional dynamic between going from last year to this year in terms of the growth rates in that business and there is also -- with some shift in the way customers bought.
But in terms of the year-on-year growth rate on a worldwide basis there were 2 issues that we mentioned and it's around low molecular weight heparin and some sampling Bill maybe you want to give some more color and kind of future outlook for that business.
Sure.
I think that you've covered the key points.
To put a little more detail on it there was some significant stocking ordering that took place in fiscal year '11 for the launches particularly in the U.S.
for low molecular weight heparin.
Additionally and as a separate item there was above-plan sampling for clinical trials with a number of our biotech customers.
These are typical purchases that people are looking at sampling of a new drug launch in a pre-filled format.
And we had an inordinate number of those.
Those were important factors in the ex-pandemic growth of Pharm Systems in FY '11 of a little over 6%.
And so that 6% was just a little hotter than what it would've been in a normalized environment so their projection for next year more in that 3% to 4% range is traditionally in-line with their above-market  performance.
So there's no other significant items happening there.
And so then next week we're going to be talking to you about a series of new product launches as well and entering into some new space with Pharm Systems.
So hopefully we can have a good dialogue around that next week.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just a question on the pricing overall I mean in terms of the price pressure you've seen I mean what has been sort of the mechanics of that? Is that related to the way customers are buying or dealing with you has changed? Is it a tender issue? Could you just give us a sense of what exactly has been agent of change in terms of the lower pricing.
So Bill Kozy will comment on that.
Yes this is Bill again.
Two factors and you've already highlighted one of them.
We have seen the expansion of tendering on a number of agreements particularly in Western Europe and that's been across a number of our businesses.
Number two we've seen a lot of interesting things happening in terms of product mix.
Now let me give you a practical example of that.
In the Diabetes Care business you're now seeing more interest in private label products versus what you've traditionally seen in branded syringes.
So there is a mixed impact for us that's another small factor in this.
And then in the U.S.
you have had the ongoing very traditional GPO bid process.
We don't see anything different there.
We just saw some timing last year and I'm talking about fiscal year '11 where some of those major device contracts did happen to come up and get reassigned for the next 2 or 3 year period.
Those would be the key factors.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Frelick with Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> Question given the 2012 guidance what are the expectation in that guidance for the upcoming flu season and Safety growth? So we've -- I'll ask Tom Polen to talk about that.
In terms of flu season it has been assumed to be a normal flu season.
It's off to that start.
And for safety we're looking at similar growth in the international markets to what we achieved currency-neutral in 2011.
So we're seeing continuation of that positive trend and marginally higher growth in the U.S.
that's driven in large part by the Carmel acquisition.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Lawson with Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> David just wondering if you could talk through the R&amp;D line.
What was the project and what was the impact of 2012 revenues in EPS? Let me just repeat the question for everybody.
I think what you said--it was hard to understand you But I think you were asking about by the R&amp;D write-off in the fourth quarter which was really the Ovarian program.
Research Division</strong> That's right.
And the impact on that is around $0.03 on an EPS basis in fiscal '11 which is about $9 million.
And just to add there's no impact.
That was a pipeline project.
There is no impact on revenue now nor in the outlook for Diagnostics.
Research Division</strong> And then so ReLoCo II what are the cost savings you think for 2012 or do you think that's more of a back-end loaded 2014 event? Well the majority of the savings come in the future years.
A small amount of it occurs in '12 but not a big piece at all.
Research Division</strong> And then just finally David thanks for the break-out for the moving parts of the P&amp;L of the EPS number.
But mid- single-digit EPS growth doesn't look like a new norm.
Do you think you get to the underlying EPS growth -- very close to double-digit in 2012? The underlying growth rate yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just first question a quick question on guidance.
I want to make sure I heard you right that Q1 guidance was set at $1.13 to $1.17 for EPS.
And if so is there any front-loading of expenses I guess should the expectation that margins and EPS growth does improve over the balance of the year? So we're not front-loading expenses in the P&amp;L.
It was really a question of tougher comps in the first quarter.
And I believe we have strong Pharm System sales in the fourth -- in the first quarter.
Last year the pricing impacts that have hit us during fiscal year '11 most of that occurred in the second half of the year.
And on the raw materials side...
Raw materials as well.
The base impact is in the first quarter as well because we saw raw materials increase throughout the year but you get the comp difficult comp in the first quarter.
So you have a number of factors coming together but it's not expense-loading.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then I guess maybe a bigger picture question that I think a few folks have tried to get at.
Keeping in mind that when you look across your comp universe you screen really well from a returns perspective.
To your credit you're a consistent grower.
You do it organically you're not a serial acquirer.
That being said one of the primary concerns I think in the investment community is really what is your inherent growth rate and are you managing the business accordingly? If you go back and you look back to '09 '10 now '11 and now you look forward based on what you've guided the Street to expect you've been 3% to 5% grower with some good tailwinds in some years and some tough headwinds and others.
Is this the growth rate that you're managing your business to on a multiyear basis? And I guess just as importantly is this how you're managing your spend? This year you are increasing your spend as you've talked about a few times on this call I mean would you say that the success of that spending is predicating -- is predicated on accelerating your organic growth outside of this range? Well our plan is to accelerate growth.
First is we have been increasing our R&amp;D spending over the last few years.
And we've generally increased that faster than revenue growth.
And we're going to talk about those programs next week and how we see those programs.
The good news here is we're going to be talking about things that are launching in '12 and '13 so it's not everything that's in our pipeline but the near-term stuff.
So we're seeing products that are moving through both from the organic side and also leveraging some of the acquisition work we did the HandyLab would be an example and then turning around and partnering to leverage that acquisition.
So the intent of course is to increase the organic growth rate of the business.
I'm not going to get into guiding specifically at this point in time.
On the acquisition side we've done both technology acquisitions let me call them small plug-in acquisitions like Carmel Pharma where we're picking up sales an operating entity that we can integrate easily where we have capabilities that play in the operation side.
Those sorts of deals that can add to our growth rate we are going to be looking for in a very disciplined way.
So it's both of those things we're looking at to drive incremental growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Goldman with CL King.
Inc.</strong> I was hoping to take a little bit of a step back and ask a question from an industry perspective.
I'm not looking for Becton Dickinson's long-term guidance.
But I've been following the industry over 20 years and I think up until this year for every one of those years you could pretty well bank on prices between actual price increases or mix trickling up every year.
Now industry-wide they're trickling down.
and I'm just wondering Vince what gives you a sense of confidence that for the next 20 years this industry is not going to experience this just sort of steady price-mix  erosion since at the end of the day the industry-wide operating margins are well in excess of the U.S.
corporate average? So it's a great question as to what's happening across the industry for the long term.
And I think it's very much dependent upon the value that you bring in this new environment.
And if you're bringing features that are not highly valued by the marketplace or don't correspond to this new environment I think you're going to be on the side that you were talking about which is the trickle-down side.
But if you go out and you talk to our customer base our customers will tell you that they have major labor issues efficiency issues and clinical issues.
And if you can do -- come out with new solutions that makes healthcare safer and more effective and takes down their cost structure and we're doing a lot of health economics work which was really not done in the device industry before we see ways where there's a win-win for us and for our customer base.
And I'll just point to one example it's a short-run example but ecoFinity is an example where we're not just selling the product it's a service that's involved.
And if you're the head of administration for a hospital you've got to manage both your device-spend and you've got to manage your recycling costs.
And net-net with ecoFinity we can save you money and it's not a pure price issue.
So it's going to take more creativity to get there.
You're going to have to be more rigorous on the economics piece of your argument you're going to have to prove it but we see a lot of opportunities to do that and we see them as expansions of our core business.
Inc.</strong> So where does your R&amp;D to sales have to go to accomplish those objectives? So as I mentioned in the beginning of my remarks we have been increasing our R&amp;D.
We're now at about 6% of sales.
Over the long run we may take that up a little bit higher but it's not a major step increase to do that from where we are as we look at our pipeline.
So we have one more question I believe.
Your final question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to take a step back because it's kind of all been addressed throughout all the questions but I'm still not particularly clear on it.
But relative to where you were in July you had mentioned that you would expect 2012 to be roughly in line with what you have been seeing through the course of 2011 which is 5% underlying  top line and then 10% underlying EPS growth and you never really quantified in July what their share buyback assumption would be.
So I'm just curious from a kind of EPS perspective what really is the difference between what you had thought 2012 outlook would look like in July relative to where you're guiding today especially given the fact that the buyback would assume it would be more accretive and so it would really mean that the underlying business would be deteriorating at a much faster rate than certainly your fourth quarter numbers would suggest? Well I started out on the environmental factors at the beginning of the call and how things change and then talk about Pharm Systems then the raw material price increases then the cost of acquisitions.
But David you want to take some? Sure.
Absolutely.
First really good question on the share repurchases.
Recall we were assuming we're guiding about $600 million in share repurchases.
And if we did share repurchases at that level to be internally funded as we move to $1.5 billion in share repurchases.
As I said earlier on the call the majority of that will be funded through a debt offering.
And the interest expense of the difference between those 2 in fiscal year '12 you don't get much accretion when you look at the difference because of the interest costs associated with the offering.
So that's the first one.
The other is that the guidance on the 10% bottom line EPS growth that we provided in July was currency-neutral.
So we lose about 2 percentage points because of currency how they moved since July to what we're assuming for next year.
As Vince talked about as well you lose about a percentage point because of the pricing--as the pricing deteriorated.
We've built that trend continuing and remember that that started out in the second half of fiscal year '11 and we're assuming that goes through the full year of fiscal year '12.
And then just with the utilization what we saw from a utilization perspective you lose about 2 to 3 percentage points there on -- again as Vince talked about how we're looking at that and just being prudent.
We want to put a forecast out there that we're confident that we can meet.
And lastly building in the acquisitions that we had that's about a percentage point that we lose because with the -- from EPS perspective the dilution was about $0.04 in fiscal year '11.
It's around $0.08 in fiscal year '12.
So when you put those all those components together that gets you to where we are from the guidance perspective.
And we've broadened the range again as Vince mentioned earlier just to reflect the uncertainties in a macroeconomic environment.
But we're feeling very confident about the guidance that we're providing you today.
Research Division</strong> So basically over the last 3 months you guys have seen things that make you more concerned on price and more concerned on utilization.
And on the acquisition side are they running more dilutive than what you would've anticipated 3 months ago? I know your guidance include acquisitions originally.
No they're about right where we expected them to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it's just raw materials utilization and pricing trends over the last 3 months have gotten that much worse? And FX.
So let me just sum up here.
So as we've been talking about during the course of the call it's obviously a challenging environment for us and others in the industry.
We think we've taken a prudent approach to our forecast given the environment.
We've expanded the range at the beginning of the year.
We'll look to tighten that range as we move forward and as we get more clarity.
There is a number of one-time items impacting profitability the step-up in software from the amortization impacting the GP line the acquisitions and the raw material costs.
In spite of all that we see a lot of good opportunity reflecting that by our investments in both R&amp;D and especially in emerging markets.
We're launching a record number of new products.
We're going to talk to you about that and that impact on a go-forward multiyear basis next week.
We look forward to having that conversation.
We are driving our internal efficiency programs.
ReLoCo I is on track.
We accelerated the work on ReLoCo II given this tougher environment and we quantified that for you on the call and that looks like that that is going to be another major cost savings for us.
Our G&amp;A programs as I indicated we are managing G&amp;A down as a percent of sales and reinvesting in the sales and marketing side to drive growth.
So we think all of these programs are a good fundamental a strong foundation for moving forward and I just like to say we look forward to seeing you next week.
Thanks for all of your questions.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's First Fiscal Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through Tuesday February 14 2012 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at (855) 859-2056 for domestic calls and (404) 537-3406 for international calls using conference ID 42951440.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our fiscal first quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our first fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are David Elkins Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; BD Executive Vice Presidents Gary Cohen and Bill Kozy; and Tom Polen President of Diagnostics Systems.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Monique and good morning.
As we stated in our press release we are off to a solid start this year and we are pleased with our performance in the first fiscal quarter.
Revenue growth was 2.4% currency neutral which was slightly better than our expectations.
Fully diluted EPS of $1.21 declined by 9.6% on a currency-neutral basis.
This reflects a $0.04 favorable benefit relating to various tax settlements in multiple jurisdictions which we expected later in the year.
Excluding the tax benefit earnings per share would have been $1.17 which is in line with the expectations we outlined on our conference call in November.
We saw softer results in the U.S.
due to an uncertain research spending environment and difficult pricing comparisons versus the prior year.
David will provide more details around this later in his remarks.
We continue to see strong growth in emerging markets.
Our initiatives around new product platforms and extensions and operational excellence programs continue to be on track with our expectations.
We are also reaffirming our full fiscal year revenue and EPS guidance on a currency-neutral basis.
On a reported basis we are lowering our revenue and EPS guidance to reflect the impact of a strengthening U.S.
dollar.
We expect reported revenue and EPS growth to be about flat.
Now I'd like to turn things over to David for a more detailed discussion of our first quarter financial performance.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by discussing the key financial highlights for the quarter.
As Vince just stated the quarter was in line with our financial projections with revenue growth coming in a little higher than our guided range.
We saw good performance in our underlying business and with solid growth coming from Accuri and Carmel acquisitions.
We experienced higher expenses in the quarter due to increased investments in our business.
EPS of $1.21 reflects lower gross margin and higher SG&amp;A costs.
This includes the effects of pricing erosion higher raw material costs the rollout of investments in emerging markets higher legal costs and some acquisition-related expenses from Accuri and Carmel.
This is in line with our expectations we outlined on our year-end call in November.
As Vince also mentioned we are on track to deliver our revenue and EPS guidance on a currency-neutral basis.
We are lowering our full year guidance on a reported basis due to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
Our revised guidance assumes a full year average euro exchange rate of $1.30.
Additionally during the first quarter we completed about $400 million of our $1.5 billion share repurchase plan.
Our guidance for the program remains unchanged at $1.5 billion.
Now let's move on to Slide 7 where we will review our revenue growth by segment which I'll speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
As I just mentioned revenue growth was 2.4% for the total company.
Pricing erosion was about 130 basis points which is consistent with the guidance we provided on our year-end conference call.
BD Medical first quarter revenues increased 2.6%.
The growth in this segment was primarily driven by Diabetes Care with continued strong sales of pen needles and solid international growth in our medical surgical systems unit.
Pharmaceutical systems growth was 0.6% in the quarter.
This resulted from strong 2011 U.S.
sales due to biotech sampling and fiscal prior year comparison due to launch of low-molecular-weight heparin and adjustment in customer inventory levels.
When excluding the onetime impact from these items revenue growth in our pharmaceutical systems unit would have been about 4% in the quarter which is in line with estimated global market growth.
BD Diagnostics' first quarter revenues increased 3.3%.
Growth in this segment was driven by Preanalytical Systems safety-engineered products and overall Diagnostics Systems growth with strength in Women's Health and Cancer and our microbiology products.
BD Biosciences revenue growth was about flat versus prior year driven by solid international growth mostly offset by declines in the U.S.
I will provide more details around this on the next slide.
Moving to Slide 8 I will walk you through our geographic revenues for the first quarter.
Overall BD's reported U.S.
revenues were flat versus prior year.
Growth in our Medical segment was 2.3%.
This is driven by strong growth in pharmaceutical systems and Diabetes Care and partially offset by difficult pricing comparisons in our medical surgical systems units.
Growth in our Diagnostics segment was about 1% due to flat testing volumes impacting our Preanalytical Systems unit.
As I just noted Biosciences sales for the first quarter declined 10% or $12 million on a currency-neutral basis in the U.S.
About 1/3 of this decline is related to lower sales in our Discovery Labware unit driven by product rationalization.
Another 1/3 of the decline is related to Cell Analysis research reagent sales.
These were unfavorably impacted by uncertainty around NIH research funding levels in the first quarter with the NIH budget not being approved until late in the quarter.
The balance of the decline is related to lower demand for high-end instruments in Cell Analysis due to a contraction in pharmaceutical and biotech research spending.
International revenues grew 4.4% currency neutral with growth coming from all 3 segments.
Medical segment grew 2.8% with Diagnostics and Biosciences both growing at about 6%.
Additionally we saw strong growth in emerging markets across all 3 segments with total emerging markets growth coming in at 12%.
Moving to Slide 9 currency-neutral sales increased 7.8% and grew to $488 million in the quarter.
Revenues in the U.S.
increased by 2.4%.
International sales were up 16.8% on a currency-neutral basis with both Western Europe and emerging markets showing double-digit growth.
Medical safety sales grew 12% driven by IV catheter products and our newly acquired PhaSeal closed system drug safety device.
Diagnostic safety sales increased about 4% driven by a range of safety-engineered products.
Slide 10 recast the first quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency-neutral results.
As discussed earlier first quarter revenue growth increased by 2.4%.
Our gross margin declined by 210 basis points in line with the guidance we provided on our year-end earnings call.
This primarily reflects the negative effects of price erosion higher raw material costs software amortization in our Biosciences business and amortization of intangibles related to our acquisitions of Accuri and Carmel Pharma.
Unfavorable currency translation contributed about 10 points.
These unfavorable effects were partially offset by lower manufacturing costs from continuous improvement and our ReLoCo program.
We expect pricing raw material costs and acquisition-related expenses to be less of a headwind in the second half of the fiscal year.
For the total year we are reaffirming our guidance and our expected gross margin to be between 51.3% and 51.5%.
Moving down the income statement SSG&amp;A increased about 9% primarily due to EVEREST SAP implementation costs higher expenses related to our Accuri and Carmel Pharma acquisition and increased investments in emerging markets.
Our legal fees also increased due to trial preparation costs associated with the RTI litigation which has subsequently been postponed until November.
R&amp;D increased 1.4% which is in line with our expectation as the prior year period had significant R&amp;D costs.
Our operating income decreased 12.8% due to lower gross margin and the higher SSG&amp;A costs.
We expect to see improvement in the second half of the year as we move past the tough comparisons higher raw material costs and legal expense timing and the acquisition-related expenses become less dilutive.
For the total year we are reaffirming our guidance and our expected operating income to be between 21.5% and 21.7%.
This resulted in an earnings per share of $1.21.
When excluding the tax benefit of $0.04 our earnings per share was $1.17 which is at the high end of our guidance provided in November.
Turning to Slide 11.
As I indicated earlier we expect our total revenue growth to be between 2% to 4% on a currency-neutral basis.
We are raising the lower end of our Medical segment guidance and expect revenues to grow between 2% and 3%.
We expect Diagnostics revenues to grow about 2% to 4%.
For our Biosciences segment we are lowering our revenue guidance to 2% to 4% from our previously communicated guidance of 4% to 6%.
This is due to the weakness at -- in the U.S.
market as I've previously described.
Turning to Slide 12.
As we discussed we are affirming our total company revenue growth of about 2% to 4% currency neutral based upon the current market environment.
On a reported basis we are lowering revenue guidance we provided in November to 1% to 3% to be about flat as a result of the strengthening U.S.
dollar.
We now expect EPS to be between $5.60 and $5.70 for the total year which reflects recent spot rates.
While we don't normally provide guidance for the quarter I would like to outline our expectations for the second quarter based on our first fiscal quarter results and what we are expecting for the balance of the year.
From a revenue perspective we're expecting a step-up in growth rates in certain units.
In our Medical surgical systems business we expect growth rates to improve in the second half of the year as we move past pricing comparisons.
In pharmaceutical systems we anticipate continued growth due to timing of orders associated with seasonal customer demand.
And in Diabetes Care we expect continued growth fueled primarily by strong sales of pen needles.
In our diagnostics systems unit we are expecting a step-up from our BD MAX launches.
Due to these factors we're expecting total company revenue growth to be between 3% and 4% on a currency-neutral basis.
From an EPS perspective we anticipate earnings per share to be between $1.36 and $1.40 or about flat versus the prior period.
Second quarter EPS growth versus the prior year period will continue to be unfavorably impacted by tough comparisons in 2011.
These tough comparisons include price erosion and increased investments in SSG&amp;A which began in the second half of fiscal year 2011 and will continue through the second quarter of fiscal year 2012.
It also reflects an increase in SSG&amp;A from Carmel Pharma and increased legal costs in the fiscal year.
We expect a step-up in EPS growth during the second half of the year once we move past the difficult comparisons of 2011.
We will continue to update you on our -- and tighten our guidance range as we make more progress throughout the year.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince who will provide a more detailed update on our performance in emerging markets and progress against our key initiatives.
Thank you David.
Moving on to Slide 14 I would like to highlight our emerging market results.
We continue to see strong growth in emerging markets which accounted for approximately 22% of our total revenues in the first quarter.
Emerging market revenues grew about 12% in total over the prior year.
We continue to see double-digit growth in a number of key markets with China growing at about 27%.
We are very pleased with Safety revenue growth in emerging markets which was up about 27% over the prior year.
We will continue to accelerate our investment in geographic expansion market development and market-appropriate product solutions to sustain long-term growth in these markets.
Now moving on to Slide 15.
On our year-end earnings call we discussed a number of key product initiatives and milestones.
I'd like to provide an update on these key initiatives.
This fiscal year we have many exciting opportunities in our pipeline.
In our Medical segment we launched the BD Nexiva Diffusics Closed IV Catheter System with a diffusion tip.
This product is an innovation from the already proven and effective BD Nexiva Closed IV Catheter System.
In the second half of the fiscal year we also plan to launch the world's first 6-millimeter insulin syringe and our BD pentapoint pen needle which is more comfortable and anticipated to be preferred by patients.
In our Diagnostics segment in the first quarter we launched our BD Veritor CLIA-waived flu A &amp; B test in the United States.
This is the first flu test to be CLIA-waived in over 4 years and represents a significant advancement in the sensitivity of point of care-based flu testing.
In the first month we made about 70 new Veritor placements.
Early customer feedback is positive.
While we're making placements the incidence of flu in the U.S.
has been below normal levels so far this season.
Earlier this month in Japan we received clearance for the Veritor flu A and B assay from the Ministry of Health and we are preparing for launch in the next couple of weeks.
In molecular diagnostics we continue to be pleased with the early progress of the new 6-color BD MAX Open System.
This is positioned in the mid-volume molecular assay market with more than 15 assays active in our pipeline.
Also customers can develop their own assays on their spot systems using its open channel architecture.
In the first quarter we also launched the BD MAX MRSA assay in the EU which was one quarter ahead of schedule.
We made our first several conversions with this new assay and we are receiving positive feedback from customers.
The U.S.
launch of MRSA on BD MAX remains on track for later in 2012.
We have a series of additional MAX assays launch -- launches scheduled including our Group B Strep assay in the second quarter of this year.
Our BD MAX C.
difficile assay remains on track for launch in the EU in the third quarter followed by a U.S.
launch in the beginning of fiscal year 2012.
Our BD Viper molecular platform remains positioned as delivering best-in-class lab efficiency and performance for high-volume screening assays.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 we will begin launching the Trichomonas assay on this platform.
Our launch of the bench-top BD Viper LT and Chlamydia gonorrhea assay remains on track for fiscal 2013 globally followed immediately by the launch of our HPV genotyping assay on Viper LT x U.S.
Complementing this launch our Women's Health front-end automation system remains on track for launch in fiscal year 2013 and will automate the decapping and transfer of liquid-based cytology samples to the Viper and Viper LT molecular systems as well as prepare a cell pellet for testing on our SurePath cytology system.
Our BD SurePath Plus molecular Pap test completed the initial phase of our clinical trial with very promising results and we are continuing the U.S.
trial to its endpoint.
Our launch remains on track.
In our Bioscience segment we launched our new cell culture medium Mosaic in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012.
In fiscal year 2013 we plan to launch 2 new analyzers for CD4 testing.
One is meant for mid- and smaller volume laboratories in both emerging markets and the developing world while the other is a more affordable point-of-care instrument targeted toward rural clinics in the developing world.
Of course we will continue to provide you with updates on our products and programs as we continue to make progress throughout the year.
On Slide 16 before we open the call to questions I would like to reiterate the key messages from our discussion today.
First we are pleased with our solid start to the fiscal year given the challenging macro economic climate.
We continue to see strong growth in our emerging markets and international sales of safety-engineered products.
Second our key product launches and operational excellence programs remain on track and are producing results.
Third based on our expectations for the balance of the year we are reaffirming our previously communicated guidance on a currency-neutral basis.
On a reported basis we are lowering guidance to -- due to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
Lastly we remain focused on delivering on our strategy in driving efficiency throughout BD.
Despite the challenging environment in which we operate we believe we are positioned to continue our track record of delivering value to customers and shareholders.
Thank you and we will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is coming from the line of Larry Keusch with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you -- obviously Safety Vince I think you said was strong in Western Europe and obviously in the emerging markets.
Could you just remind us sort of where we stand with the whole program in Europe for the adoption of safety? How much is left on that time line and kind of where do you think we are at this point relative to the adoption? Yes Larry you're referring to the fact that a couple of years ago they set a 3-year deadline and where are we in terms of moving towards that whole implementation so I'll ask Gary to talk about that.
Sure thanks.
This is Gary.
So you're testing my memory a bit.
I believe it's around June 2013 that the compliance -- the official compliance state occurs although we're getting solid conversion growth already in Western Europe.
We're seeing strong growth overall in a number of countries particularly the northern countries in Western Europe.
And I should also mention we're getting double-digit growth in Safety now in every market except the U.S.
and Canada which have been more largely converted with particularly strong growth in Latin America and Asia Pacific but also EMA and even Japan.
So we're just seeing strength across-the-board in the markets that still have a ways to go to full transition.
And we can anticipate particularly in Europe as we move toward that compliant state that that growth should continue.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Weinstein from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Question then.
Probably -- maybe you can quantify the impact of the lighter flu season not just on Diagnostics but also what it might have meant in the Medical segment as well.
I don't think we really have a quantification of the flu.
It's not -- the flu was not really material to our results.
We really haven't seen any flu year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then a quick follow-up.
You talked a little bit about what the euro is expected to be.
In your model I think you said 1.3.
Can you just go through what your exposure is to the euro and then the other currencies can you refresh us on that and then what the assumptions would be on some of those other currencies as well? Sure David can talk to that.
Sure the euro we have a little over $2 billion in euro-related sales and we haven't broken out the other currencies other than to say that the other exposures are Canadian dollar the Australian dollar the Brazilian real and the Japanese yen.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with Macquarie.
Maybe just focusing on the Biosciences segment a little bit.
Can you maybe just talk about other players in that space have seen varying degrees of weakness or saw it throughout 2011.
Sounds like it hit you pretty hard in the U.S.
here in this last quarter.
Can you maybe just talk about how that played out and then also why you're comfortable with that business kind of overall improving in the -- for the remainder of the year given that there could be even more uncertainty with potential cuts with sequestration.
So maybe just kind of talk about your outlook for that business.
Sure Jon.
As you mentioned it was really the U.S.
market where we saw the difficulties and Bill will break that out a little bit more for you.
Europe and the rest of the world did well in that business.
And you're right also Jon.
From just talking to folks around the industry I think the research market depending on the segment you were in you more or less saw what we were talking about that.
But there was some variability there.
But in particular we saw the uncertainty affecting our customer base in the academic and the government marketplaces and some impact for biotech and Bill will break those out for you.
This is Bill.
Just 2 factors as Vince just referenced.
Number one we saw a notable slowdown in the pharma and biotech purchasing and this was driven mostly by significant restructuring that we saw across several of the major pharmaceutical companies as they're in the process of assessing their R&amp;D as well as moving significant volumes of R&amp;D offshore.
And generally speaking it touched a number of our Big Pharma customers so that was factor one.
Factor two relates to the academic and government spending and there was some uncertainty created by -- many of the discussions by the way that you've followed related to the NIH budget.
As you know that budget never got finalized until December 23 2011.
So we pretty much went through a whole quarter where a lot of our grant-driven procurement activities were really slowed down and delayed.
So to get back to the other part of your question Jon the reason we've got a little bit of optimism in the remainder of the year now that the budget is set and even though it's only at a 1% increase there is some stability in some of the understanding of available funds and we think that will help us in the remainder of the year in terms of some bounce back.
The single biggest impact in the quarter was because of this uncertainty was on high-end instruments things like Aria some of our high-end sorters and analyzers.
And again we know that there's a little bit of interest in those instruments and we're expecting that to be a factor also in a little bit of the U.S.
recovery in quarters 2 3 and 4.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Kim in for Mike.
So I guess 2 questions.
The first is on the updated guidance and wanting to come back to the change in outlook relative to FX.
So it looks high to us first of all.
It looks like you've raised that FX headwind for the year by about 100 to 300 basis points relative to early November.
And if we're looking at it in our currency models just that delta and maybe this is just the euro but we're looking at really across your currencies it looks like it should be closer to 100 basis point delta.
So just maybe David if you could help us understand how we could get ourselves to that call it 300 basis points of incremental pressure from FX.
Yes I think -- it really comes down to the major movers the euro but obviously other currencies that have moved as well.
But for the remainder of the year obviously where we were at the first quarter was around 1.36.
For the remainder of the year we're anticipating that to be in the high 1.20s which gets you to about a rate of 1.30 for the full year and that's versus the rate of last year which averaged around 1.40.
So that's the biggest driver.
But as you know the dollar has moved pretty consistently across most currencies.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're using for the rest of the year a euro into the 1.20s.
That's right high 1.20s.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the follow-up is I wanted to ask maybe Vince to talk about on the investment spending side particularly as we look at the EVEREST program the SAP upgrade.
Can you just talk through the cadence of that spend in fiscal '12 and '13 and relative to when you're going live in Europe when you're going live in the U.S.
and kind of how you would compare the overall level of spend for EVEREST in fiscal '12 and fiscal '13.
Sure.
So our first go live is going to be this year Biosciences.
And then next year we'll have a go live for North America and then another wave following that.
But from a spending perspective the spending on the project continue -- it increased '11 to '12.
It will continue to increase in '13 and then the project spending will go down.
And as we go live the amortization of the system kicks in which means that spending starts to flatten out after you get past '13.
That's the dynamic on the system.
Right now the project is on track.
It's obviously a large effort.
Our Bioscience group is doing a great job on it but that's the dynamic that we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's super helpful.
And so can you quantify for us just ballpark what that spending is sort of what the impact on the SG&amp;A line is in terms of kind of the spending on EVEREST this year and next? Well for this year David year-over-year I think the increase is about 25 20? Yes.
Around 20 to 25 in that range and we haven't quantified it for next year at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe one question one very quick follow-up.
Just first off Vince and maybe for Gary as well you talked a lot about European austerity pressures.
I just sort of noticed in the quarter China remains very strong for the company.
In the last several weeks we've seen sort of some macro weakening across China mainland.
Is there any sort of economic sensitivity to the business in China we should be thinking about throughout the remainder of the year? Or from what you've seen the business remains very well insulated in China? So we don't think so.
We've been talking to our China team about it and Gary can comment on what we're hearing directly from them.
This is Gary.
What our team is seeing is that while there may be some downward pressure on overall GDP growth we're not seeing that downward pressure on health care investments.
What they're tracking is the level of commitment the Chinese government has the Central Government to rolling out the investments in health care which clearly seem to be remaining on track.
And also what's funding that are the tax revenues.
And if you dig a little deeper you see the tax revenues that the Central Government is getting are actually up.
They're probably higher than what had been expected and that's what's behind the funding for health care.
So we're not seeing that slowdown.
We've been asking the same question watching the same indicators and what we're seeing so far is that the health care investments are remaining on track.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then David just a real quick follow-up.
On Discovery Labware you talked of product rationalization.
Could you sort of give us some more granularity on that? Yes we've continued to look at products within our portfolio that may be growing slower than the company average but as well from a profitability perspective from profitability perspective that we're looking to rationalize.
So there are several products in order to drive efficiencies in the supply chain we rationalize SKUs.
So as we start to do away with some of those products that impacts the sales growth the first year you do it.
But again further out years you start to see improvement as a result of that.
Your next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just quantify for us the impact of acquisitions both from a top line perspective as well as from the earnings perspective.
Because I think you had mentioned last year that those might be a little more dilutive earlier in the year.
Sure David can take that.
From a margin perspective what we had said for the full year on our gross margins the acquisitions would dilute margins by about 20 basis points.
In the quarter obviously it's a little heavier when comparing versus prior year.
It was around 30 basis points.
As we talked about on the acquisitions from a revenue perspective on the Accuri it was about 1 to 2 basis points of growth we anticipate getting for the full year this year.
And Carmel Pharma -- I'm about to give that number for you on what we think the full year impact is on the Medical business.
For the quarter we spent $20 million in sales for the 2 of them.
Research Division</strong> Okay so on an organic level do you have the organic growth feed on the top line for this quarter? Yes as Vince just said it's about $20 million worth of sales in the quarter.
That's relation to both acquisitions.
Bill's got a follow-on comment here Bill? Just to the get to the question Accuri -- excuse me Carmel will contribute this year incrementally.
Remember we acquired that in August of the fourth quarter of last year.
So just fiscal year '12 incremental impact about $45 million of revenue.
For the year.
For the year.
Your next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back to Biosciences and maybe for David's comments on the rationalization of certain parts of the Labware business.
How much of the reduction in guidance is due to weak underlying market trends versus the rationalization of those product categories? So I'll let Bill Kozy actually walk you through that but -- Bill do you want to talk to that? Sure this is Bill.
Actually our international sales in the Labware business were relatively solid and the most significant impact of the rationalization did take place in the United States.
As David mentioned these are products that weren't contributing a lot of long-term growth or profitability to the unit.
And our guidance is not in any way affected by the DL activity.
We already have started that in 4Q of last year.
It'll carry through our 3Q of this year and then it'll be behind us.
It was about 1/3 of the reduction in the U.S.
if I remember correctly right? Of the total U.S.? Of the total U.S.
decline.
And so it was a fraction of that.
If we took the $12 million it's $3 million to $4 million impact on the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then a follow-up.
I don't know if you've had a chance to review the IRS filing on the med tech tax but it looks as though some of your businesses actually might be excluded from that such as the Diabetes.
Can you maybe provide some clarity as to which of your franchise you think fall in the exclusion category from the medical device tax that begins in calendar '13? David you have a...
Yes some of the diabetes businesses are excluded our Biosciences and a good portion of our Diagnostics business would be excluded from the tax.
So as we talked about before it's a little more than $2 billion in revenue that would be exposed to that tax and initial indication is 2.4%.
It's around a $55 million impact to our business next year.
We're going through -- as everyone else just received this on Friday we're going through and evaluating the details and going SKU-by-SKU so we can a better figure of that.
We'll let you know as soon as we finish that work.
We'll let you know.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if you can go into a little more detail about the strength in Women's Health Care and Cancer and the level that you believe that is sustainable there? Sure.
Tom Polen will take that.
Amit this is Tom.
So overall we saw in Women's Health and Cancer we were 6.9% for the quarter.
And if you look at actually our last few quarters we've been growing at that rate so we see a continued -- that's been the trend for the last few quarters and we see that trend going forward as well as certainly for the balance of this year it's sustainable and we don't see an end in...
Research Division</strong> And Tom can you go into a little more detail about the growth rates between TriPath GeneOhm and STD? Yes will do.
Let me just finish a note there on Women's Health and Cancer specifically.
So we still see the U.S.
being relatively flat with the Pap volumes relatively flat due to both low physician visits and extended intervals.
X U.S.
is really what's driving that growth and we're seeing double-digit growth in nearly every single region outside of the U.S.
For your other question regarding molecular STDs and then the separate question on GeneOhm so in molecular STDs we saw solid growth at 4.5% for the quarter.
GeneOhm was a tough quarter.
In fact we were just over 1% in the quarter for GeneOhm and the mix of that is we're continuing strong double-digit growth in our C.
difficile business there north of 25% growth but have seen that offset by a performance in MRSA and that's due to new competition driving down price in the market for MRSA as well as the rollout of some lost accounts that I mentioned last year where we are also still seeing customers hold for MAX on MRSA.
Of course we've just launched MRSA about a month ago in Europe.
Sales are ramping up there and we have MRSA in the U.S.
planned for a launch in Q3.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And if I just have a quick follow-up for David.
David you talked about hospital acuity being an issue over the last quarter or so.
Can you just give us an update on what your latest thoughts are on the impact from hospital acuity? Yes we really haven't seen any further deterioration.
Pretty steady in the quarter on where it's been so I think it's positive.
We're seeing things stabilize out there.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Vince just going back your guidance for 3% to 4% top line in the second quarter it looks like that's the toughest comp of the year.
First am I accurate in that statement? And second if that's true it just seems like you've got a bit more core momentum in your business than that 2% to 4% for the year would suggest.
So would you give us some kind of clarity around pacing? Well I would come back to what David just said which is we did see a stabilization.
If we talk clinical marketplace now and put aside the research market for Biosciences and say clinical seemed to stabilize and of course that was a concern going into the year and I think you see that reflected in our second quarter guidance.
You also see a bounce back in the pharm systems business which also helps us as well.
So it's those issues that are causing the pattern that we're talking about.
And as Bill mentioned we'll see what happens on the life science side with now that the NIH budget is set because we just saw people not just on NIH-funded programs but other academic programs just kind of in a hesitation mode.
So those are the things that are impacting.
David anything else on that? I think the only other thing I'd add Vince is on the way to think about it is there has to be a deterioration from where we are today to be at the bottom end of our revenue guidance and at the top end we would see continued improvement.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So Vince it's safe to say that based on your first quarters numbers and your second quarter guidance that you feel marginally better about the world at this juncture than you did last update.
Is that correct?? Well I would say we feel marginally better about the clinical marketplace.
I'd say we feel consistent with Biosciences outside of the U.S.
And of course we had some issue in the U.S.
Those are the pieces.
I feel very good about emerging markets quite frankly.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> First off I guess it looks like excluding the emerging markets the balance of business was pretty flat in the quarter.
If we think about I guess longer-term resource utilization Vince what type of call it 3-year growth are you funding in the developed world and how dependent are you on this between new product development versus say macro improvements like NIH stabilization for example? So I'm trying to make sure I understood your question first off.
So you were talking about the research business and the longer-term trends in research funding and how we see that and how things might be impacted.
Research Division</strong> Actually Vince I'm speaking kind of more broadly to the developed market in terms of as you -- the company has obviously made efforts to increase emerging markets resources and focus a lot of the growth there.
If I turn the business to the developed side what are you thinking from a 3-year standpoint and how do we get there? Sure.
So we do see that growth will come back in the developed world and it is going to be driven by new product development.
So just take for a second and we say stabilization in volumes and in the marketplace because of improving economic conditions.
Number one in the U.S.
it's a wild card which I cannot predict which is going to be the impact of health care reform.
One would think in the back half of '13 '14 time frames you would start to see some impact there's some positive impact as the economy gets better and people are covered by health care reform.
We haven't quantified that.
But we're watching that and that could be a positive.
Then from the new product side and I can't split it into developed versus developing but many of the new products that we're talking about are going to have their major impact in the developed world and we said that was about for the products we went through on our Analyst Day if you go back and look at that presentation that's about 250 basis points of growth.
And a lot of that is going to be driven in the developed world.
And then of course expansion.
Those products will hit the developing world as well but probably a little later term.
But the molecular assays will be first.
So we've got both of that.
Gary you want to make a comment on emerging? Well the only thing I would about the developed world in fact is even now in Western Europe the picture when you look at the total continent or the area of Western Europe it's not as clear as if you start to break it to its pieces.
We have 8 country organizations in Western Europe and 5 of those 8 are growing and some of them are growing quite nicely.
Then you have one France where we ship all pharmaceutical systems in Europe out of France and because of the impact of pharmaceutical systems that's down.
And then Italy and Spain as you might expect because of economic conditions are slightly down but we're getting very good growth otherwise from Western Europe.
So even now driven by Safety other factors the developing -- the developed world picture there is a little better than what it looks like.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Bonello with RBC Capital Market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I was hoping to follow up a little bit on the pricing comments both if you can just give us a little bit more detail sort of where -- I don't mean geographically where but product where you saw some of the pressure and then you specifically made a comment about seeing increased competition in MRSA that was driving down price and maybe you could just tell us what that is? Sure.
We said 130 basis points in the quarter which was in line with what our expectation was.
We knew we would have more pricing in the first half of the year than the second half of the year.
Going back to last year remember we talked about that about half of what we were seeing coming into this year was driven by a one-off situation in our Med/Surg business.
We're seeing the majority of the pricing issues in device businesses not so much on Diagnostics -- I'll come back to MRSA in a second and not so much -- just a little bit in Biosciences in the research reagents which has gone on for a number of years but not really the instrument side.
Not so much the clinical piece of it but the research reagent.
On MRSA it's probably -- I'll let Tom comment but I think it's more Roche as a new entrant coming into the marketplace.
Yes.
So specifically it wasn't -- as Vince just mentioned last year about mid-year Roche entered into the marketplace.
It had been primarily -- in fact Roche entered in at a substantial price discount north of 30% price discount and their approach.
And so we're seeing MRSA pricing down year-on-year overall about 5% and that's where you see that impact.
We've all seen pricing as an issue across the rest of the Diagnostic business.
It would seem very focused within that MRSA space.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and is that a -- sorry to have to ask this but is that a U.S.
market entry? That was a U.S.
market entry happened midpoint last year.
Your next question comes from the line of Miroslava Minkova with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could help us understand the impact of the Biosciences business declining in the U.S.
this quarter on your gross margins.
And with that perhaps if you could help us also understand when do we see your gross margins perhaps recovering from here? All right.
Well I can't talk -- I'm sorry this is Vince.
I can't break out the impact of the decline in the U.S.
margin on how that translate into gross margin but I wouldn't expect it would be a very big impact.
In terms of where our gross margins go we're sticking with the gross margin guidance that we gave you in the beginning of the year.
We haven't changed that.
Now remember what's going to happen here is that the pricing comparisons are going to change over the course of the year number one.
So I'll give you a couple of factors why it's going to improve.
Number two the raw material cost is a figure in negative in the first half of the year as well.
Three amortization and deal costs are kind of front-end loaded a little bit as well.
So you have all of those 3 things impacting the first half of the year disproportionately.
So that's why we're lower right now and it will improve over the course of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's very helpful.
And just a bit of a more broader picture question also in the margin side.
Your operating margins sort of -- and I understand there is a lot of investment and factors going into that but they're kind of at the very low in the last at least 5 years that we've seen them.
I guess I'm kind of wondering if you would be willing to provide some of your thoughts on whether you see your operating margins recovering to the levels that we've seen them in the past and what could take you there and how long it might take.
So I'm not going to forecast but I will tell you this that we still remain committed to 50 basis points a year in terms of operating leverage.
Some years we get it some years we don't.
Some years we get more or less.
We're working very hard on it.
We haven't really talked through ReLoCo I ReLoCo II as part of the call today.
Those programs are on track number one.
Number two on the G&amp;A side the shared service centers are still in investment mode.
In a year or so they start to turn positive.
We talked through the EVEREST impact that EVEREST goes up next year then it starts to flatten out and so we haven't -- and then the investments in emerging markets we're comfortable that they are going to pay off.
We're seeing good progress on those pieces.
Then lastly we have the new products that I spent a lot of time on the prepared remarks going through and those new products have good margin.
So there's a mix impact as well.
And lastly one other factor which is this growth in Safety that we're talking about with both Europe doing well and starting to do better and emerging markets doing well those are a whole series of factors that factor into our analysis on the margin going forward.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Peter Lawson with Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a clarification.
That $0.15 delta this is the prior year guidance it sounds like it's all FX and not higher assumed costs coming from Carmel or any other puts and takes.
That's correct.
It's all currency.
Research Division</strong> And then R&amp;D is there any change in the outlook on this year being a kind of a high year for investment into R&amp;D? Just seemed that you had lower R&amp;D costs in the quarter.
I just wondered if that was a lever you pulled as you saw rising costs.
Peter no.
If you go back and look at last year we had an unusual pattern in the first quarter where R&amp;D spiked in the first quarter because of some timing on some projects.
So no it's just an anomaly in the spending pattern.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Palmer with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Vince you mentioned emerging markets and the China growth.
I was wondering if you could give us some color on the markets that may be outside of China.
Sure Gary can do that for you because quite frankly we're having some good growth in those other markets as well.
So we -- this is Gary.
We had double-digit growth in all the emerging markets in the first quarter.
We had a particularly strong quarter in EMA Europe Middle East Africa and that was some impact of year-to-year comparison.
Also particularly a lighter fourth quarter last year but it was very strong growth in the first quarter.
And that tends to be a little lumpy based on the timing of some major orders.
We actually had one aspect in the first quarter around immunization sales units that was lower than expected so -- but despite that we had very strong high teens double-digit growth in EMA.
We had double-digit growth again in Latin America.
We had strength throughout all the country hub organizations in Latin America particularly in the southern part Brazil Argentina Chile.
Very strong.
In Asia Pacific we had double-digit growth which we are anticipating with our investments to sustain through the year.
So we just had a really solid quarter in emerging markets right across-the-board.
Research Division</strong> And then one quick follow-up if I could.
On ReLoCo any improvement in terms of the targets or timing? Yes the program is on track really hasn't changed.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Thanks for taking the question which is a clarifying one on Biosciences.
In listening your prepared remarks and answers to some of the other questions on the call thus far it sounds like there were 3 negative dynamics that impacted Biosciences in fiscal Q1 and how you're thinking about the business moving forward through the year.
The first was the uncertainty related to the outlook for funding in the U.S.
The second was some product rationalization on your part.
And the third was I guess a change in Big Pharma spending patterns.
So if that's the case it seems like the uncertainty related to research funding was there when you provided guidance for the year 3 months ago.
I imagine you were planning for some of the product rationalizations that you mentioned on this call.
So was the major change really that Big Pharma dynamic? And I guess did you see improvements in the U.S.
academic and market at the end of the quarter that some others have spoken about? So Big Pharma was certainly a new change we were not seeing in the fourth quarter number one.
Number two on the academic and NIH side there was a bigger impact than we anticipated.
We were seeing some falloff in the fourth quarter.
We couldn't quite tell whether that was a trend or not so it was bigger than we thought when we gave you the guidance.
On the rationalization the rationalization certainly impacted the results.
It's kind of noise in the background.
I don't want to make a big deal about that so -- and then there was just some timing on some things in the marketplace.
So those are the major impacts.
Now going forward we'll have to see how the U.S.
market shakes out from a research standpoint.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that is helpful.
I guess just one very quick follow-up.
Some of the other companies that you compete with said things got a little bit better at the end of the quarter as there's a little bit more certainty in that end market.
Did you guys see that as well? Not yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Nandita Koshal with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Vince if you could comment a little bit broader and longer term on the pricing environment and how we should think about pricing for BD going forward is it basically weak and down 1 percentage on an ongoing basis or is there something that changes in terms of the environment? Sure.
So let's focus on this year and as we said slightly over 100 basis points and that a little less than half of that is a rollout of a one particular situation where we were -- it was a competitive situation that a 3-year contract a bunch of 3-year contracts were all up at the same time and you had a competitor who had expanded their capacity and was looking to fill volume in a plant.
So that's half of what we saw going into this year and was built into our expectation.
In terms of the pricing environment going forward we're not seeing any changes based on what we saw this year in the way people buy the tender structures.
And obviously we will keep our eye on that going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay and I guess x U.S.
more than in the U.S.
are you seeing any government-related sort of programmatic price cuts either in Europe or the pharma companies for instance are certainly seeing those.
Are you seeing that on your side of things? And then even in China we're hearing some fairly bearish commentary around pricing as that broader health care coverage is built out.
So is that consistent with what you're seeing or is it different? Sure.
So first off just to back up a little bit.
Between '11 and '12 we're not really seeing much of a change in pricing.
We're certainly not really seeing what you're talking about in Europe for the pharma companies and Gary can give you a little more color on what we're seeing.
But I don't think we're seeing any big change in these environments.
Gary? This is Gary.
I just want to mention that we based on the nature of our businesses have been working in a highly constrained pricing environment for many years historically.
And I would say in Western Europe that may be intensifying somewhat but it's not a fundamental change.
So we're seeing governments being a little bit more price oriented in their tenders but I would consider that more of a evolutionary rather than revolutionary change in pricing perspective and more of a continuation of what we're accustomed to.
Likewise I would say in the emerging markets it's -- we have to know how to serve those markets very efficiently from a price and cost perspective and align what we do to the access requirements of being able to buy our products at a very reasonable cost.
And that's something we're also accustomed to.
So in that respect these are not changes in the environment let's say like we saw in the U.S.
particularly around the product that Vince mentioned.
But most of the pricing pressure we see the majority will be in U.S.
and Europe some small amount in emerging markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Sara Michelmore with Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but as we think about this pricing dynamics and some issue that happened in U.S.
I'm just wondering if you can talk about the competitive environment for the infusion systems and the injection products because typically we do think of those as being areas where you have very dominant market shares and I'm just wondering if you can comment if there's been any changes in the competitive environment.
And then my follow-up would just be back on Europe.
I think I did with an earlier question did which was back out the emerging markets numbers out of the international numbers it does like Europe -- it does look like Europe was flat.
You talked about growth in Diabetes Care and some of the others this year.
Is that just a pharma systems issue or is there something else there that's in a state of decline? No.
It's pretty much pharma systems.
And Gary you want to comment any further on Europe? Yes just I had mentioned before of the 8 country areas in Europe 5 are growing quite nicely 4 of them are growing above mid-single digits.
And it's really the pharma systems impact in France and then a small decline in Italy and Spain given the economic conditions there.
But I think low single digits is a good assumption for your growth.
It was 4 in the quarter when you pull all of those.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And Bill will talk to you about the environment.
Now we would disagree.
We don't have dominant positions.
We've done a good job in the U.S.
market but I'll turn it over to Bill.
This is Bill.
Just on the competitive environment first of all on the infusion side remember that we've got an array of Safety products some of which are very new which are launched in both the U.S.
and in Europe.
If you start in Europe we did get accelerated capacity in place last year on the Venflon Pro Safety.
That's the safety product for side port infusion.
We're getting very very solid growth there.
We're also getting double-digit growth on our Nexiva platform worldwide.
And we just launched just a few months ago so it's too soon to talk much about the Insyte Autoguard with Blood Control but we've got significant number of evaluations going on with that product.
So we're comfortable that we're well positioned on the infusion side to compete particularly in the developed markets.
And our safety product also in China continues to grow at very high rates well into double digits.
So we think we're just fine in terms of competing in that category.
We're also just starting to roll out our ReKindle product portfolio for the hypodermic side.
That really doesn't complete its full array availability until we get into late second quarter or third quarter.
That's more of a second-half factor.
But anyhow all those changes that I know we've talked to you about for a couple of years now starting to roll out.
So we're probably a little more confident in our ability to compete around the world than we might have been even 1.5 2 years ago.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Frelick with Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> A question for David with respect to Med/Surg.
The challenges over the last 4 or 5 quarters with U.S.
Med/Surg business and then you talked about maybe bumping up the low end of guidance for this year for the overall Med/Surg business is that due to a change in the U.S.
business or mainly some outperformance or improvement in o U.S.? Just to clarify the improvement in Med/Surg is globally number one.
Number two the difficulty -- the recent difficulty that we had with Med/Surg is the pricing that we talked about.
And Vince mentioned earlier one particular product in particular how that pricing pressure which is impacting it in the last half of 2011 in the first half of 2012.
So we will see improvement in U.S.
as that tough comparison goes away.
And then overall we're seeing very good growth and increased confidence internationally on Med/Surg business and the fact those 2 factors combined is why we're bringing up the bottom end of the range on the Medical segment overall.
Our final question comes from the line of Robert Goldman with CL King.
Inc.</strong> Going back to the guidance and on the currency it does look like since you had the Analyst Meeting that the dollar did appreciate relative to the euro by about 3%.
And lowering earnings per share and sales guidance as you have seems quite logical unless you have which I would imagine you do some natural hedges and if you have any synthetic hedges and I wonder if you would speak to that.
And also is it sort of your intent every time the dollar does move up or down a couple 3% relative to the euro to be changing your annual guidance on a quarterly basis? First off we don't have hedges anymore in relation to cash flows.
Second in relation to how we provide guidance we've been pretty consistent over the years on how we look at guidance in relation to movements in currency as we talked about early.
Euro is our biggest exposure to the currencies.
As I said earlier it's a little over $2 billion.
So we provide guidance changes in those major currencies we updated the reported numbers.
So we do do that on a quarterly basis.
Inc.</strong> And the natural hedge question? Well we have a natural hedge and what we said is about 25% of any impact on the top line flows through to the bottom line so that gives you an idea of the natural hedge that we have.
Which we take into account when we make this change in guidance.
Yes and recall we don't make any statements about where we think currencies are going to be.
When we provide guidance it's usually right around where the spot rates are.
In November the spot rate in the euro was around $1.38 and as we said earlier we're at the high $1.20s when we pull together our guidance and where we think it's going to be for the remainder of the year.
All right.
So listen I would like to thank all of you for your questions.
I'd like to say that we're pleased with the start to the fiscal year.
As I mentioned we saw some strong growth in emerging markets good safety growth.
The product launches are on track and so are our operational excellence programs.
We look forward to talking to you during the balance of the year.
Thank you very very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's Second Fiscal Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through Tuesday May 8 2012 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at (800) 585-8367 for domestic calls and area code (404) 537-3406 for international calls using conference ID 68128968.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our second fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that cause such differences appear in our second fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are David Elkins Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; BD Executive Vice Presidents Gary Cohen and Bill Kozy; and Tom Polen President of Diagnostic Systems.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
As we stated in our press release we are very pleased with our second quarter results.
We believe we continue to demonstrate BD's commitment to drive revenue growth and our focus on high-growth areas with our recent acquisition of KIESTRA Lab Automation.
This acquisition offers total lab automation solutions to hospitals and laboratories worldwide and nicely complements our microbiology portfolio.
We expect this acquisition to add about 1 percentage point of growth through the Diagnostic Systems unit in the near future.
The integration is going as planned and the KIESTRA platform was very well received at the European Conference of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases back in March.
Recently we announced our plans to sell the majority of our Discovery Labware unit excluding Advanced Bioprocessing.
This sale will enable BD Biosciences to focus resources and management attention on both our recent Biosciences acquisition and our recently launched new instrumentation products which are important to our accelerated growth efforts.
David will provide more details around this later in the call.
In the second quarter we continued to face challenges in our Biosciences business in the U.S.
due to an uncertain research spending environment and lack of overall demand for instrument and in research reagents.
David will provide more details around this later in his financial discussion.
Despite these headwinds we posted solid overall revenue growth driven by our Medical and Diagnostics segments.
We believe our results this quarter highlight the diversity of our portfolio with softness in 1 segment being offset by strength in our other 2 segments.
We saw organic growth from new product launches in addition to growth coming from recent acquisitions.
On a positive note we continue to see strong growth in the international safety sales and emerging markets.
Also our initiatives around new products are in line with our expectations as we continue to invest for future growth.
We recently went live with our new ERP system in North America with BD Biosciences as the first implementation under EVEREST.
This is our global ERP project that we have been discussing for the past few years.
Our largest go live will be next year with the balance of North America which includes our manufacturing plants.
Our results year-to-date give us confidence to increase the bottom end of our currency neutral revenue growth guidance to 3% to 4%.
We expect currency neutral EPS growth to be 4% to 5% as we continue to invest in new products and absorb costs from our recent acquisitions.
On Slide 5 we've outlined our second quarter revenue and EPS results which I will speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
Revenues were solid increasing by 4.6%.
Fully diluted EPS came in at $1.38 growing at 2.9% over the prior year as expected.
For the 6-month year-to-date results revenue growth was 3.5%.
EPS of $2.59 declined by 3.3% due to a difficult comparison over the prior year period as we outlined on our first quarter conference call.
Now I'd like to turn things over to David for a more detailed discussion of our second quarter financial performance.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by discussing the key financial highlights for the second quarter.
As Vince just stated we're very pleased with the results which were in line with our financial projections.
We saw solid growth in our Medical and Diagnostics segments.
As expected we experienced higher SSG&amp;A expenses in the quarter due to increased investments in emerging markets new product launches and acquisition-related expenses and EVEREST costs as Vince just mentioned.
We are raising the bottom end of our total year revenue growth guidance to 3% to 4%.
We expect EPS growth of 4% to 5% as we increase investments in new products and absorb costs from our recent acquisitions.
I'll provide additional guidance details later on the call.
On a reported basis we are raising our full year revenue and EPS guidance to reflect the anticipated effects of favorable currency translation.
Our revised guidance assumes a full year average year exchange rate of $1.32.
Additionally during the second quarter we completed about $600 million in share repurchases.
Year-to-date we've completed approximately $1 billion of our estimated $1.5 billion share repurchase program.
Now let's move on to Slide 8 where we'll review our revenue by -- revenue growth by segment which I'll speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
As I just mentioned revenue growth was 4.6% for the total company.
Pricing erosion was about 110 basis points which was also in line with our expectations.
BD Medical's second quarter revenues increased 5.3%.
The growth in this segment was driven by positive results across all 3 business units which benefited from the recent product launches including our newly acquired PhaSeal product.
Diabetes Care growth was driven by continued strong sales of pen needles and fueled by BD Nano.
We had a solid second quarter in our Medical Surgical Systems unit with strong performance coming from our BD PhaSeal and safety engineered products.
Pharmaceutical Systems growth was 7% aided by some favorable timing of orders.
For the first half of the fiscal year the Medical segment grew 4%.
BD Diagnostics' second quarter revenues increased 5% despite a very mild flu season.
Growth in this segment was driven by Preanalytical Systems which benefited from a favorable prior year comparison in the quarter and continued strength in our Women's Health and Cancer platforms.
For the first half BD Diagnostics grew 4.1%.
BD Biosciences revenue came in about 1.7% with strong international growth being offset by declines in the U.S.
I will provide more details around this on the next slide.
For the first half of the fiscal year our Biosciences segment grew 1%.
Moving to Slide 9.
I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the second quarter.
Overall BD's U.S.
revenues were up 2.2% versus prior year.
Growth in our Medical segment was 5%.
This is driven by strong growth in our Pharmaceutical Systems and Diabetes Care and partially offset by difficult pricing comparisons in our Medical Surgical Systems unit which we discussed last quarter.
Growth in our Diagnostics segment was 2.6% driven by solid sales in our Preanalytical Systems unit.
Diagnostic Systems growth of 1% was attributed to the lack of a flu season and softness in our HAI platform due to tough competitive environment.
In response to this situation our expectation of an FDA approval of BD MAX MRSA assay in the fourth quarter remains on track.
Biosciences sales for the second fiscal quarter declined by 8% or $9.5 million.
Segment growth continues to be negatively affected by weakness in the U.S.
research market as well as a tougher competitive environment in our research reagents sales.
There continues to be lower demand for high-end instruments in Cell Analysis due to continued funding concerns in the academic markets.
International revenues grew 6.3% currency neutral with growth coming from all 3 segments.
Medical segment grew 5.4% driven by strong sales of Safety products and continued growth in emerging markets.
The Diagnostics segment grew 7.6% mainly due to strong emerging market growth.
Biosciences grew at 7% driven by strong performance in Japan due to favorable comparisons to prior year which is impacted by the earthquake and tsunami.
We also saw good performance in the emerging markets.
For the first half reported U.S.
revenues grew 1% with Medical increasing 3.6% Diagnostics growing at 1.7% and Biosciences declining about 9%.
Total international revenue growth was solid at 5% currency neutral in the first half with Medical growing 4.2% and Diagnostics and Biosciences both growing at 6.7%.
Moving to global Safety on Slide 10.
Currency-neutral sales increased 11.5% and grew $488 million -- to $488 million in the quarter.
Excluding the PhaSeal product growth in the quarter would have been about 8%.
Revenues in the U.S.
increased 7.3%.
International sales were up 17.7% on a currency-neutral basis with Western Europe and emerging markets both growing double digits in the quarter.
Medical Safety sales grew 15.6% driven by Infusion Therapy products and our PhaSeal device.
Diagnostic Safety sales increased 7.9% driven by a range of safety-engineered products.
For the first half Safety growth was 9.6% on a currency-neutral basis.
This was due to a combination of international growth of 17.2% and a growth rate of 4.8% in the U.S.
On Slide 11 we'll review our revenue growth in the second quarter.
Our reported growth rate was 3.6%.
Performance contributed 4.6% to growth offset by about 1% of unfavorable currency.
Moving to Slide 12 looking at our gross margin.
We experienced 90 basis points of decline which again was in line with our expectations.
This primarily reflects the negative effects of higher raw material costs our acquisition-related expenses and software amortization in our Biosciences business unit.
Unfavorable currency translation contributed about 30 basis points of the decline.
The negative effects of pricing erosion were offset by efficiency gains including our ReLoCo program.
Now Slide 13 recaps the second quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency neutral results.
As discussed earlier second quarter revenue increased 4.6%.
The gross margin declined 90 basis points due to the aforementioned items.
This is in line with our expectations and the guidance we provided on our first quarter earnings call.
Moving down the income statement.
SSG&amp;A increased almost 13%.
This was primarily due to increased investments in emerging markets acquisition-related expenses.
EVEREST and SAP implementation costs were higher than expected as we prepared for our recent go live on the system.
We also experienced higher legal expenses and higher medical benefit claims in the quarter.
R&amp;D was about flat which was in line with our expectations as the prior year had accelerated R&amp;D costs.
Our operating income decreased by 5% due to lower gross margin and the higher SSG&amp;A costs.
This resulted in earnings per share of $1.38 which is a 2.9% increase over the prior year period.
Now turning to Slide 14.
As indicated earlier we expect our total year revenue growth to be between 3% to 4% on a currency-neutral basis.
Based on our results year-to-date we are raising our guidance for the Medical and Diagnostics segments to reflect revenue growth to between 4% and 5%.
For our Biosciences segment we are lowering our revenue guidance to about flat from our previously communicated guidance of 2% to 4%.
This is due to continued weakness in the U.S.
research market and the tougher competitive market.
Turning to next slide.
I would like to outline our expectations as we move down the P&amp;L.
I'll start with gross profit.
We expect gross profit margin to be between 51.3% and 51.5%.
This is in line with our previously disclosed guidance.
SSG&amp;A will be higher for the year as we estimate it to be between 24.4% and 24.6%.
This is primarily due to accelerated investments in new product launches acquisition-related expenses legal fees and higher medical benefit claims.
We also have an increase in our deferred compensation plan expense which was offset in our interest income line.
R&amp;D remains in line with our previously communicated range of 6% to 6.1% of revenues.
For the total year we expect our operating income margin to be between 20.9% and 21.1%.
This reflects the aforementioned expenses I just reviewed in the SSG&amp;A and product mix.
We also expect an improvement in our tax rate due to positive geographic mix.
Our expected range is now 25.5% to 25.7%.
We expect revenues to be in the upper end of our previous guidance range.
We now expect EPS to be in line in the range of $5.68 and $5.73 for the total year or about 4% to 5% growth currency neutral.
Total year EPS guidance reflects the aforementioned items that resulted in lower operating margin guidance.
I would like to take a moment to discuss the impact of our pending sale of the majority of our Discovery Labware excluding our Advanced Bioprocessing platform.
The transaction is expected to be completed by the end of the calendar year 2012 subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions including regulatory approvals.
Therefore the financial results associated with this unit should be treated as continuing operations.
We will update you on this on our next call.
At that time BD will determine if the asset group will be reported as discontinued operations for all comparable period.
The transaction will be a cash sale for approximately $730 million.
For fiscal year 2013 we expect this transaction to have a dilutive impact of about $0.23 to $0.27 to earnings per share on a full year basis.
Also as a reminder in fiscal year 2013 we have to account for the new Medical device excise tax which is estimated to be about $55 million to the SSG&amp;A line which is tax-deductible.
This tax excludes research sales in our Biosciences segment our Pharmaceuticals prefillable devices sold business to business and our Diabetes Care products sold at retail.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince who will provide more detailed update on our performance in emerging markets and our progress against key initiatives.
Thank you David.
Moving on to Slide 17 I would like to highlight our emerging market results.
We continued to see strong growth in emerging markets which accounted for approximately 21.4% of our total revenues in the second quarter.
Emerging market revenues grew about 10% in total over the prior year bringing the first half to 10.8%.
We continue to see double-digit growth in a number of key markets with China growing at about 17% in the quarter and 21.6% year-to-date.
We are very pleased with Safety revenue growth in emerging markets which was up about 26% over the prior year.
Progress continues on policy-related activities with regulations already in place in Brazil and Taiwan and similar provisions and progress in Russia and Korea.
We're encouraged by the positive actions that these governments in making protection of health workers a priority as has been accomplished in the U.S.
European Union and Canada.
We have many exciting opportunities in our pipeline this year.
I'd like to review our key products that have launched year-to-date.
In our Medical segment we launched the BD Nexiva Diffusics Closed IV Catheter System with the diffusion tip.
Also at the end of the second quarter we launched the BD insulin syringe with the Ultra-Fine 6-millimeter needle.
This is the shortest insulin syringe needle made by BD and is preferred by a majority of patients.
In our Diagnostics segment in the first quarter we launched our BD Veritor platform and CLIA-waived Flu A+B test in the United States.
Despite the weak flu season in the U.S.
we've made about 400 new Veritor placements to date.
In the first quarter we launched the BD MAX MRSA assay in the EU.
We've made several conversions with this new assay and we continue to receive positive feedback from customers.
In the second quarter we launched the BD MAX Group B Strep assay which received FDA clearance.
Also in the second quarter we launched the BD MAX C.
difficile assay in Europe which was one quarter ahead of schedule.
And in our Biosciences segment we launched our new cell culture medium Mosaic in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012.
Now on Slide 19 I'd like to provide an update of our key products and our expectations for the balance of the year.
In our Medical segment we are planning to launch our BD PentaPoint pen needle the first and only pen needle with patented 5-bevel needle tip.
This is expected to launch in the second quarter of the year.
In the Diagnostics segment the U.S.
launch of MRSA on BD MAX remains on track for later in 2012.
The U.S.
launch of C.
difficile remains on track for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013.
These are important milestones in our efforts to develop a range of clinical tests on the BD MAX System and we believe it is well positioned to be a vital resource for lab testing needs.
Our BD Viper molecular platform remains positioned as delivering best-in-class lab efficiency and performance for high-volume screening assays.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 we plan to launch the Trichomonas assay on this platform.
The Trichomonas launch in the U.S.
has been delayed until the back half of fiscal year 2013.
Our launch of the bench top BD Viper LT and the Chlamydia gonorrhea assay remains on track for fiscal year 2013 globally followed by the launch of our HPV genotyping assay on Viper LT x U.S.
Along with this launch our Women's Health Front-End Automation System remains on track for launch in the beginning of fiscal year 2013 in the EU and later in the year in the U.S.
Our BD SurePath Molecular Pap test completed the initial phase of our clinical trial with very promising results.
Our launch remains on track.
Also as we have mentioned in previous earnings calls we have 2 new CD4 analyzers launching in the near term.
Both analyzers have been delayed from our original launch expectations.
In fiscal year 2013 we plan to launch a CD4 analyzer that is designed for mid- and smaller-volume laboratories in both emerging markets and the developing world.
The other CD4 analyzer is more portable point-of-care instrument targeted towards rural clinics in the developing world.
This is now expected to launch in fiscal year 2014.
Of course we will continue to provide you with updates on our products and programs as we continue to make progress throughout the year.
Before we summarize our key messages and open the call for questions I would like to announce a new strategic and organizational change effective June 1.
In a new role reporting to me Gary Cohen Executive Vice President will advance BD's leadership in creating shared value achieving strong business performance aligned with positive  social impact through a primary focus on external engagement and cross-sector collaboration.
One of the most effective ways to address health care challenges is through collaborative efforts among governments corporations and nongovernmental organizations to create shared value.
We have a notable track record in this area and Gary is ideally positioned to help BD extend our legacy of contributing to society through such collaborations.
Global geographic leadership will be shared by 2 senior leaders in new roles also reporting to me.
Alex Conroy President will be responsible for Europe EMA and the Americas; and James Lim President will be responsible for Greater Asia including Asia Pacific China and Japan.
We're extremely pleased to have these leaders in their new roles and believe these changes will advance our evolution to becoming a truly global company.
Moving on to Slide 20.
Before we open the call to questions I would like to reiterate the key messages from our discussion today.
We're very pleased with our second quarter and year-to-date results.
Despite the headwinds we faced in our Biosciences business in the U.S.
we posted solid top line growth.
This was driven by new product launches in addition to growth coming from recent acquisitions which are on track versus our expectations.
We look forward to moving past the tough comparisons that occurred in fiscal year 2011 which are impacting our year-to-date results.
We are encouraged by our results in emerging markets and international Safety sales.
We continue to build capabilities in these areas and we believe they are well positioned for future growth.
Also we have many exciting opportunities in our pipeline across our 3 segments and we continue to invest in these opportunities to drive our top line.
Our results year-to-date give us confidence to raise the bottom end of our revenue growth guidance on a currency-neutral basis.
While we are not immune to challenges in the macroeconomic environment we believe we have the tools to overcome these challenges through our product and geographic diversity as demonstrated this quarter by the performance in our 3 segments.
Lastly we remain committed to executing against our strategy of investing and innovating for growth and we believe our ongoing investments in growth opportunities will ensure our future success.
Thank you and we'll now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is coming from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could just maybe provide a couple of broad comments just on health care utilization trends.
It's certainly been something that investors have been focused on this entire reporting season.
You guys clearly touch a lot of the end markets within hospital and labs.
So any update on how you're feeling just in trends in the U.S.
and then maybe just a couple of comments on Europe as well? Sure and thanks for the question.
I think we saw a stabilization of health care trends in the U.S.
I know if we look back to last year we saw some falling doctor's office visits but this quarter things seem to have flattened out.
And I think you saw that in both -- you saw it clearly in our Medical segment and in our Diagnostics segment even if it was a little camouflaged by a weak flu season.
So on the clinical side U.S.
flattening out.
Obviously still some issues in the high end of the bioscience marketplace especially around high-ticket research instrumentation where we have a large presence.
Europe once again was quite good continuing a trend that we saw last quarter.
And then moving on to emerging markets as we go through the emerging markets we continue to see strong growth across the emerging markets especially in Asia Pacific and in Latin America.
The only issue from an environmental standpoint that is giving us more concern internationally right now of course is we're tracking what the European governments are doing especially Spain from a payment standpoint.
And you might be aware that they've announced a deal.
Receivables for the industry have been going up.
We think we're appropriately reserved in this situation but they've also announced a deal to refinance and then pay the industry which we're expecting will happen in the back half of the calendar year.
So that's the one kind of warning sign we're watching.
Research Division</strong> And then would you be able to also just provide what the constant currency organic growth was just the impact of acquisitions on the quarter from a top and bottom line basis? So on -- Kristen it's David.
On the quarter it's $24 million is the revenue impact so it's about 1%.
And on an EPS perspective it's about $0.02 dilutive.
Your next question comes from Amit Bhalla with Citi.
Research Division</strong> You called out the strength within Diagnostics and specifically Women's Health.
Can you talk in more detail about the components there and the growth rates within Women's Health? Sure Amit and thanks for the question.
Tom will do that.
Amit this is Tom Polen.
So TriPath our Women's Health business grew 5% in the quarter and that was a mix as we've talked about it in the past few quarters in the U.S.
relatively flat and positioned to continue to increasingly recommend a 3-year interval for testing.
X U.S.
we continue to see strong double-digit growth in essentially every region outside of the U.S.
and that's happening really by 2 things.
One is as customers are upgrading from conventional pap liquid-based cytology and as developing countries continue to expand access to cervical cancer screening.
So we continue to be pleased with solid performance in our Women's Health business.
Research Division</strong> Tom can you go into some of the other components within Diagnostic Systems GeneOhm your STD testing and your growth rates there? And can you also comment on your views of the announcement yesterday within the women's health space Hologic Gen-Probe and your impact on strategy? Sure.
So just in terms of growth characteristics across the business.
So as we think about the quarter we had 3.2% growth which was driven on a couple plusses and a couple minuses there.
So on the negative impact side we saw obviously an extremely light flu season.
Our flu business was down 25% for the quarter as a result of that.
Also we see that as a onetime event that we don't expect to repeat for the balance of the year.
The second topic which Vince mentioned at the beginning of the call was that our GeneOhm business was down 7% for the quarter driven exclusively by increased MRSA competitiveness and MRSA pricing pressures in the U.S.
I emphasize that's strictly in the U.S.
And that's ahead of our BD MAX assay in the U.S.
which is planned for launch later this year.
And I've 	mentioned that trend on MRSA pricing and the competitive tendency over the last few calls.
Cdiff continues to grow at very strong double digit both in the U.S.
and x U.S.
Of course that's off of a smaller base than the MRSA market.
On the other side we're continuing very solid performance this quarter in our microbiology business.
I don't think we've typically disclosed the growth rate of that.
Our molecular STD business was up 6% for the quarter.
So we're very pleased with the ongoing performance there.
And of course as Vince mentioned we're very pleased with the acquisition of KIESTRA which we finished this quarter and the integration is moving forward as planned.
On your other question just regarding the Hologic's acquisition of Gen-Probe and how we view that.
Of course Gen-Probe has been very publicly in play over the last year and so the acquisition doesn't come as a surprise to us.
We've made our integrated molecular cytology strategy in Women's Health clear for some time now.
And I think actually through this move Hologic is making it clear that they see value in a similar type of approach.
We're moving full speed ahead with no specific change in our strategy.
And our new solutions remain on track to begin launching next year as Vince described.
And just to summarize those being our Viper LT molecular platform with the new HPV genotyping assay our Trichomonas assay on Viber our new SurePath Plus Molecular Pap and our new Women's Health automation that manages that front-end sample processing across both our molecular and cytology platforms.
Your next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is actually James in for David.
I wanted to see if there's any way to put the higher spending in context a little bit here.
You've talked in the past about needing some near-term investment in new products emerging markets and EVEREST to build the business and set the stage for driving positive operating leverage in the future.
Obviously your new guidance looking for operating margins down over 150 bps year-over-year.
Can you just talk a little bit about the path forward for margins and your timing of when we can see operating income start to grow faster than sales again? So we're not going to get into guiding next year but there's a number of trends I think that we can talk about to help you out here.
One is in terms of the gross margin this year we've talked about the higher material costs that we were seeing plus the major impact on pricing with the biggest impact being on the first half of this year and that starts to get better in the second half.
And pricing is pretty much where we expected it to be this quarter around 100 basis points and still including that the big issue from last year.
On the gross margin some of the things to be thinking about going forward is we'll be seeing an increased benefit from ReLoCo I and ReLoCo II going forward with ReLoCo II being about a year behind ReLoCo I.
And we'll continue to look at driving that.
On the SSG&amp;A line we do expect that we'll continue to invest in emerging markets going forward.
We would start to -- we expect one more year of increasing spending on EVEREST.
We're happy that we've got the first go live now behind us here.
We're in the what I'd call the stabilization and optimization phase on this first phase but we have the biggest go live coming up next year.
So we would expect that to peak -- that spending to peak next year and then to flatten out from there as the amortization of the system comes in.
Then lastly on the SSG&amp;A line we would expect going forward to start to see some benefits from our shared service center in the U.S.
as we get towards the tail end of '13 or so.
So and R&amp;D we'll continue to invest in a pretty much the same rate that we already are.
So those are the major components that we think that are going to start to drive operating leverage and I'll come back to the point I know this is a timing issue that you're asking but we do remain committed to getting 50 basis points of leverage.
I realize we didn't get this year we have some significant investments.
We're actually pleased that we have to accelerate some of these investments against new products in the back half of the year because things are on track or accelerated for most of our programs with the exception of those 2 analyzers in the main at Biosciences.
Research Division</strong> Perfect that's helpful.
And then just second a  question on the Discovery Labware divestiture.
First can you tell us what the after-tax proceeds from the sale would be? And then just the dilution obviously about 4% to 5% should we just expect that to run through the P&amp;L off this year's earnings base or is there anything you can do in terms of offsetting cost reductions or redeploy some of the proceeds into buybacks you would use to cushion the earnings impact? Yes this is David.
And just a couple of things.
One is that the proceeds from the sale $730 million as we talked about a good estimate is probably net of tax will be around $500 million for planning purposes.
That's our view on it.
As far as dilution as we said dilution going into next year the full year impact of the divestment will be about $0.23 to $0.27.
And that will be -- right now it's in continuing operations.
There's a couple of things as far as determining when we move that to disc ops around manufacturing agreements and transition services agreement before we can make that accounting change.
But as far as going forward I would use that guidance range of $0.23 to $0.27.
There are some stranded costs in there that over time we'll be looking to take out associated with the business.
But for planning purposes now it's -- we're guiding in that $0.23 to $0.27.
Your next question comes from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping we could talk a little bit more about the mix of business between emerging markets and developed markets.
Obviously EM has been a key part of your growth story although that business looks to have slowed a little bit versus the performance in last quarter.
But I was hoping you could provide some perspective on is taking out the acquisitions it looks like your organic growth rate in developed markets is running between 1% and 2% and then emerging markets just below 10%.
Why isn't that sort of the new normal on a go-forward basis for the company? Well the reason is not the new normal will be the impact of both the acquisitions as they normalize into our base; and number two launches of new products.
In terms of -- and I was talking about the developed world as I said that.
On the emerging market we do expect to see continued strong growth there.
And I think Gary can comment on a little bit more in terms of what we saw in the quarter and what we expect going forward.
Gary? And so in general the emerging markets were strong.
One of the reasons that the second quarter was a little bit lighter than the first really pertains to our eastern Europe Middle East Africa region which had extremely strong unusually strong first quarter so that came a little bit at the expense of the second quarter.
Otherwise the trends were very consistent.
Asia Pacific and Latin America both in double digits.
And so over the course of the remainder of the year we're expecting the second half in total to be very similar to what the first half was.
And otherwise generally similar in China we're expecting the second half for China to be similar to the first half which would imply some stronger growth in the back half of the year relative to what you saw in the second quarter.
And all the signs otherwise are positive in the emerging markets.
The situation in EMA was based principally in Africa which is a little bit lumpy based on timing of orders from international funding -- national and international funding agencies.
So Dave to go back to the beginning of your question I would go back to what we were saying in November in terms of the new product launches and the impact that we expect to have by 2014 and so that was 250 basis points.
So we're expecting a gradual increase.
And then of course Safety now is really starting to do well around the globe as one of those drivers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know it hasn't been really that much time since the November meeting but is there any early signs or indicators you can provide us with that track some of those new product launches that those products that you have launched since that time period to what extent are they tracking toward the incremental growth benefit that you had put out there in November and are there any that have deviated from that? Yes so I'm going to ask Bill Kozy to talk about that because I think he's got some good news on the acquisition front and some of the product launches.
So Bill you want to talk? David this is Bill Kozy.
We're going to give you an example here from BD Medical related to your question.
But if you looked at Medical's growth for the quarter of about $52 million year-on-year foreign exchange neutral about $30 million of that growth is coming from either acquisition or new product launches.
And you saw some of those products and heard them mentioned during Vince's remarks.
But if you took pharmacy solutions Autoguard with Blood Control Diffusics ReKindle Nano and the Auto Shield Duo pen needle I mean that's kind of the category of products in the mix of both acquisition and organic new product launches that are starting to have some impact.
And these are all as you know with the exception of the acquisition are all very early stage.
So we're encouraged by those launches and at least some of the early penetration activities that are underway.
We are tracking this as you would expect quarterly and we'll look forward to discussing this more.
Research Division</strong> Okay and maybe just as a clarification to the earlier question on HAI.
Are you saying that the competitive environment is intensifying because the market is challenging or there are new players coming in posing a competitive threat when it comes to pricing? Yes Tom will talk to that.
Tom Polen.
So specifically again to the U.S.
it was referring to more of a competitive player and this goes back actually this last quarterly call.
It goes back to last year as Roche entered the MRSA market in the U.S.
with a very different pricing approach is where we started seeing the significant change competitive intensity and price around MRSA in the U.S.
So it's really that specific event and that specific entry that we saw being to change the U.S.
dynamics of it.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So just want to better understand the comments around the Labware divestiture.
Should we assume from David's comments that you guys are not focused on directly replacing that operating income or is it just a function of not being able to kind of call out your options at this point? I mean I want to make sure that you're actually looking at those proceeds in a reallocation event around those proceeds next year in a discrete fashion.
Yes Jon this is David.
I think really we'll update you on what we do with those proceeds we'll update you in November.
Clearly it'll go to general corporate purposes which as we talked about from an acquisition perspective looking what's out there if there's opportunities to fund those.
But obviously we're not looking to let cash stay idle on our balance sheet either.
So we could do share repurchases.
But at this point it's too soon and we'll update you when we provide guidance on '13 in November.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Understood.
My follow-up question is on the Biosciences business.
So it seems like the comments around the funding environment pretty consistent but the comment about the intensifying competitive landscape and reagents that seems new to me.
Can you kind of flesh out those comments where you're seeing the competition how much is that impacting kind of your view from the prior guidance of 2% to 4% there? Sure.
So Bill Kozy will give you some more detail on that.
Just I would say before he does majority of what we are talking about was related to the large instrument sales.
But there was a competitive situation that has been going on for a while but maybe a bigger impact right now with some pricing on reagents particularly in the research market.
Bill you can talk to that.
Yes this is Bill.
I think Vince has hit the key topic here.
This is on the not the clinical reagents but the life science research reagents and the competitive activity particularly in the U.S.
and Europe we've seen escalate in the last year or 2 driven by both numbers of competitors and price.
So it's classic competitive situations in a market where it's a little bit soft.
So we're seeing a little bit more intensity there than we've seen in the past.
It's combined with the slower instrument activities.
It really put some pressure on the Bioscience business in this last quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with Macquarie Capital.
I'll try and just to keep it to one but a bunch of questions but maybe just to clarify a couple of items that'll be my question.
One David just to be clear obviously you gave when you talked about '13 you talked about the device tax as well as this divestiture is clearly a moving target.
But I mean wouldn't it make more sense to assume that you do a buyback to at least -- for the numbers for 2013? Just want to be clear there if there's some other message that you're trying to get across as you think about estimates for '13.
And then kind of second kind of clarification if you wouldn't mind.
On your revised revenue guidance would you mind talking about in the Medical and the Diagnostics segment how much that is better organic outlook or is that the KIESTRA deal principally and maybe just talk about the components of what on a currency-neutral basis is allowing you to upgrade the growth there? Okay yes I mean it's really all we're saying Jon as far as the proceeds from the Discovery Labware is just wait till November.
And when we do total guidance on what we're doing with our capital allocation we'll provide it at that time.
We're not paying anything more other than that at this point.
And then in terms of the organic growth in Diagnostics there's some KIESTRA in there but also good performance as we start to get some of these new products out.
So it's a nice balance there and the same thing is basically true in Medical where we do expect PhaSeal the products to continue to do well.
It's off to a good start.
But also as Bill can say that we're seeing good growth in Diabetes Care and we went through a series of product launches that we have going on in that business in the both syringe and pen needle category.
And then Pharm Systems is also doing better as well.
So there's a nice piece of organic growth driven by the new products that we're seeing as well not just the acquisition.
So kind of both things going for us.
Okay.
But fair to say relative to your initial outlook in Medical and Diagnostics that organically the business is doing a little bit better than you had anticipated.
That's a very fair comment.
We're on track with the acquisition and a little bit better with the new products.
Your next question comes from the line of Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Let me come back to David your comment I think it was your comment on Pharm Systems.
I think you mentioned it was helped by favorable order timing.
Can you just give us some sense of the fiscal second quarter impact then do you see it go the other way in some sense in the fiscal second half? Yes I think as we talked about on the last quarter call Pharm Systems came in at around 7% and that market is growing in that 3% range.
So as we always talk about there's timing of orders given the customers that we have.
We do expect to see an improvement in the second half for the year as we normally do with the cycle of our business.
And I'll just ask -- I'll pass it over to Bill to see if there's any more color he wants to provide around Pharm Systems' second half growth.
This is Bill.
Just a little bit more color to build on David's comments related just to the quarter and to the 7% growth.
We had some strong demand from vaccine customers in the quarter and we also got some increased demand related to this expanding use of generic low-molecular-weight heparin as another competitor has entered that market but of course also utilizing our product portfolio.
We also had some favorable impact in Europe due to some onetime demands from one of our major pharmaceutical customers who was up against a favorable comp versus the prior year.
So just to build on David's comments we got a good 3% 3.5% growth in the quarter.
That's a little stronger than what we see for the year.
So we had a little tailwind in the quarter.
And it'll be bumpy on the second half of the year too.
It's not going to be flat growth rate.
It's just the way the orders come in.
And Bill when you said that there was a new competitor in low-molecular-weight Heparin you meant pharmaceutical.
A pharmaceutical competitor in that space also using prefilled.
Yes our devices.
They're using our devices.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
On a separate topic sorry to drag you back to fiscal '13 again Vince it was very helpful color.
The 2 follow-up questions on that.
How do we think about Discovery Labware when we're thinking how are you likely as to give us guidance off of fiscal '12 base that doesn't include it? That pro forma will it be in there? And therefore your highlighting the dilution the following year? And I'm not sure that you said and I apologize if you did on the share repurchase side.
My impression is that you're likely -- you're likelier to repurchase fewer shares in fiscal '13.
That's your thought as of now if I'm correct.
Just want to make sure I understood.
So a couple of things.
One is that what we said is that $1.5 billion was certainly at the high end of our buyback range in that we haven't guided to exactly where we're going to be on share repurchases and we're not going to do that now.
In terms of -- we will guide you -- we've given you the $0.23 and it will be in November as David just said a little while ago is that we'll finalize our share repurchase with the board and then we'll give you some guidance.
So you can put the whole thing together.
Research Division</strong> And on the pro forma follow-up David is it likely to be in the base when you give guidance or out of the base when you give guidance? As I said there's a couple of things as far as the transition the deal stuff to close and get regulatory approval.
When you look at doing the accounting from disc ops perspective you have to finalize all the transition services agreement you have to finalize any kind of tool manufacturing agreements and that determines when.
Eventually it will go to discontinued ops.
You just have to finalize all those parts of the agreement before determining when it actually go to discontinued ops.
But our expectation is once all these things are finalized it will go into discontinued ops and for your planning purposes as you look at fiscal year 2013 I would take out the $0.23 to $0.27 that we talked about once it goes into discontinued operations.
Your next question comes on the line of Brian Weinstein with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Maybe you can talk a little bit about in the early uptake that you've seen or any comment on BD MAX outside the U.S.
And if you're seeing any competitive wins there or just comment on how that launch is going in general.
Sure.
We have seen some competitive wins and Tom can talk about it.
Brian it's Tom Polen.
We have seen typically in Europe obviously which is where we launched our MRSA and more recently our C.diff assay we have seen some competitive conversions.
We're off to about 60 placements year-to-date there.
So solid initial traction.
About that many customers also using the system as an open platform.
Obviously the most significant launch for MAX will be the MRSA launch in the U.S.
just driven by that market size.
As Vince had mentioned earlier I think we remain on track for that launch scheduled for later this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then we haven't seen anything out of you guys as far as assay development deal for a little while.
Are there more coming or have you guys just stopped announcing those? No there are more coming.
We've got them in the pipeline -- just more to come later this year we would expect.
Yes there was just some sequencing in terms of the R&amp;D work and getting the let me call the sample prep kits and whatnot lined up so we could handle more partners.
And so you couldn't throw a ball at it one time but we have a lot of companies that are interested in working with us.
And just a note.
So at this point for MAX we've got about -- we have 18 assays in the pipeline in combination of internal and external partnerships.
And again by the end of this year we will expect that number to be well north of 20 as we communicated in the past.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Kim in here for Mike.
My question -- first question for David you made some helpful comments earlier on the moving pieces for gross margin.
And for the year here your gross margin guidance is unchanged.
With the FX easing in your guidance I would think that all else equal the gross margin outlook would also rise.
So curious what's the offset in there versus your prior guidance that keeps the gross margin steady for the year.
Yes as we talked about before if you look at it for the full year from a guidance perspective price is about 50 raw materials is sitting about 20 and the acquisitions as we talked about building that into all the line components particularly the recently announced KIESTRA is really having the offsetting effect.
And then the software amortization as we talked about before is unchanged at about 20 basis points.
So to your point Kim you have the -- incorporating the acquisitions into the gross profit line.
It's offsetting any minor improvements that you have from a currency perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That helps.
So it's really the acquisition piece which makes sense.
And the follow-up question from us is just on pricing wanting to kind of tie up the pricing discussion we've had here this morning.
We talked through the impact in Diagnostics with Roche's pricing strategy and hoping to improve upon that with both the anniversary of the Roche impact and also your own launch where your hope is to bring pricing back up to more rational level with the BD MAX MRSA.
But what's going on in Medical from a pricing standpoint? How would you characterize the overall -- that's your largest segment.
We're just trying to look at pricing on an ongoing basis.
So how would you characterize the pricing? Sure Bill can talk to that.
This is Bill.
For the quarter just looking at the second quarter we saw a little bit more of a normalized price impact in that range of 1% to 2% which we've talked about historically.
If you think about that the largest pressure's on the Med/Surg business positive impact from Diabetes Care and pretty much close to flat in Pharm Systems.
So think about Diabetes Care and Pharm Systems serving as a little bit of an offset to some ongoing price pressure that we have in the Medical Surgical business but pretty much in the range that we planned on.
So for the year we think pricing is about where we guided right from the start across the company pretty much.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Palmer with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I just want to come back to the topic of industry M&amp;A.
We've seen some consolidation of both the Diagnostics and Bioscience businesses the last few years.
And Vince I was wondering if you could just talk about how you're thinking about the scale of your businesses in light of those deals and then has your appetite changed at all to do a larger scale acquisition? Sure.
We haven't changed our outlook in terms of -- and our strategy in terms of acquisitions.
Certainly aware that there has been consolidation.
Let me start on the Biosciences side and that's been going on for quite a long time not just last couple of years.
But we feel good about where we are in terms of the Bioscience businesses and the opportunities that we have there.
On the Diagnostics front and as Tom was talking about not just in the Women's Health and Cancer space but with what we're doing with BD MAX we think that still you'll have to compete vertically more than horizontally and we think we have the right programs in place.
So we think we could be very competitive.
So we will continue to look for plug-in acquisitions to round out the portfolio.
We've always looked at larger acquisitions and we've done that for years.
They just have to make sense both strategically and financially in creating shareholder value.
So we're not sitting here saying we wouldn't do a larger one but we have -- we continue to be more focused on plug-in acquisitions and adjacent spaces.
That's our strategy.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Lawson with Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> Vince just a forward question.
Where do you think you're taking share in the product lines and which products passed expectations in the quarter? So okay across the entire company in the -- I think we're continuing to do very well in the Medical business.
I think in Diabetes Care we're doing well.
Obviously we're creating a category with PhaSeal.
Bill you have a couple of other remarks here? I think what probably worth mentioning our success the quarter with safety and particularly with the IV catheters particularly outside the U.S.
Sure.
Yes going extremely well.
And as we create the momentum behind that we're usually developing the market we're gaining share at the same time.
So Safety probably would be the #1 area where we've gained some share.
Tom any other comments we have some conversions with BD MAX going on.
We lost obviously some business going back a year ago.
We expect to reverse that as MAX comes out.
I think our Women's Health and core pap business is  growing ahead of the above market rates.
And our microbiology business is solid again on a global basis as well.
Right and I think basically in Biosciences in the instrumentation side we continue to maintain share.
It's more of a market issue.
And we did have this pricing and a little bit of share loss in the research reagents.
So those are kind of the big factors across the company.
Research Division</strong> And just quickly do you have an extra selling day in the quarter? Did we have an extra selling day? Yes yes we did.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Two-part question.
First off for Bill.
I just wanted to come back just given the weaker flu season can you talk to us a little bit about how we should the thinking of the Pharm Systems business really over I guess I would say the next  6 months to the extent and look out about a year from now that'd be great.
And then secondly Tom any update on HPV? I saw it obviously noted in your pipeline but any color on both O U.S.
and U.S.? Sure.
This is Bill.
In terms of the vaccine campaigns that ran of course in first half of the fiscal year those were pretty much on expectation.
Nothing extraordinary.
Nothing way behind.
No disappointments.
So we would anticipate our second half of the year to reflect kind of traditional ordering and that's the way we're thinking about it in the guidance that we provided.
And as you might recall it's that third quarter where we tend to see our flu vaccine order processing take place.
So we'll have much more for you in the next quarter to affirm that position.
Tom? Bill this is Tom Polen.
So on our HPV assays it is progressing well in development.
We're pleased with the performance we're seeing internally as well as roughly 2 or 3 Polish studies now against pure assays and pure assays are performing very very well.
And as Vince mentioned earlier as we communicated in the past we remain on track to launch in EU in FY '13 and we will have not shared yet but we will be sharing this year our timing on the U.S.
launch.
We're beginning trials for both those launches over the next few months.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> First Roche recently indicated there were some reimbursement challenges in diabetes across several key European markets for them.
Did you see any impact from this quarter? No we didn't.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then just a few loose ends.
Peter asked I think about the extra day in the quarter.
Could you quantify the impact? I think last quarter you talked about a $0.04 per share benefit from tax.
You said that was going to come back over the balance of the year.
Did you take that hit in Q2? And then could you define what the M&amp;A contribution is that you factor into full year guidance? Okay the M&amp;A we mentioned earlier -- this is David it's about 1 percentage point of growth in total and dilution for the full year is about $0.10.
As far as the extra day it's really not material for our business within the quarter.
And I believe your last question -- could you repeat your last question? LLC Research Division</strong> The tax.
LLC Research Division</strong> It is the tax.
The $0.04 tax.
As we said for the full year we're going to be coming in that 25.5% to 25.7% for the year and that's mainly driven by the geographic mix of our business.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Bonello with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one additional follow-up question on the guidance.
How much of the EPS boost is coming just from the favorable currency outlook? For the full year the currency is about -- we're sitting at about $0.24 that's about $0.18 is the currency impact.
So about $0.06 is and that's what we raised the guidance by so about 1% impact on our EPS growth rate.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay sorry.
I just want to make sure I understand that.
The impact was about $0.06 on the raise? That's right on the guidance.
That's why we raised our guidance was...
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But if we think about it the acquisitions are diluting EPS by about $0.10 the currency is boosting at about $0.06.
So should we be thinking about it as it did sort of net-net kind of a raise or am I missing something there? No I think net-net what we're saying is we're still within our range.
LLC Research Division</strong> Within the range.
Okay that makes sense.
And then all of the revenue boost is really from the acquisition of the currency-neutral boost is that right? Well we had 2 offsets going on.
So we had very solid performance as we talked about in the Medical business which was benefited by the acquisition.
But as you saw on the quarter and as you saw last quarter we had continued very strong growth from a Safety perspective.
On the Diagnostics side we had good solid performance in our Preanalytical Systems within the quarter and offsetting that was the challenges that we saw in the research instrumentation within Biosciences and the tougher competitive environment in the research reagents as Vince and Bill both talked about earlier.
So and again this just shows that geographic as well as business diversity despite some headwinds to be able to deliver some solid numbers in the top line.
Your next question comes from the line of Sara Michelmore with Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Vince just to go back to this fiscal '13 commentary on and just thinking about the margins I mean I look at some of the headwinds that we know exist for you guys and as I think about the SG&amp;A line in particular which has often been a source of leverage in your model.
I mean you've got EVEREST again as a headwind.
It sounds like the intent is to continue invest in emerging markets.
Some of the other things like pension and medical claims I assume would still be going in the wrong direction.
I mean know we have med tech tax as well.
I mean where does the cost savings come from? It's really easy for me to pick out the headwinds and I'm just not sure where the leverage points are in the model at this point.
So if you could talk about that that would be very helpful.
We don't think the pension is going to be a big issue going forward.
So yes on the negative side we're going to be seeing an increase in EVEREST.
We haven't finalized that number.
It's likely to be smaller than what we've seen in the last couple of years.
And in emerging markets yes we will continue to build.
But we'll be getting good productivity from the investments we're already making there.
In terms of other elements of leverage it's really going to be around the functional effectiveness and the -- we'll start to see some leverage from the acquisition piece that we've done as well too because we had that infrastructure come in.
So you have Accuri that now starts to improve PhaSeal starts to improve so and even KIESTRA will get better.
So I think that's where the leverage is going to come from.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then specifically I mean you guys did call out that med tech tax and I know it's sort of a tricky question but how do you deal with that? I mean are you passing through some of the costs? Are you making specific cuts to offset it? What's sort of the framework that we should think about you absorbing that incremental cost next year? Sort of on the device tax? Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well this where in seeing this coming and seeing the pricing pressure that's out there we started focusing on ReLoCo I and ReLoCo II.
And so really attacking the gross margin line and then supporting that with some of the shared service centered work that we've been discussing with you.
Now in terms of -- so we'll attack every element of the P&amp;L basically to try to offset the $55 million.
On the more difficult side a lot of our U.S.
business that will be impacted by this will be under contract and so we can't just go out and start changing prices.
So there'll be a whole dynamic there that we're going to have to work our way through.
And it's really -- a lot of is going to have to come from the efficiency side.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Frelick with Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> Just a molecular diagnostic question for Tom.
Tom could you share with us the total molecular diagnostic growth rate in the quarter? And then just specifically how would you characterize the MRSA test volume? So we don't report about -- we usually reported GeneOhm separate from our STD business.
As I just described earlier the STD business our Viper and ProbeTec up 6% in the quarter and GeneOhm down 7% as I described.
In terms of MRSA volume overall in the U.S.
certainly we've seen a stabilization -- not stabilization at 0 but a stabilization of growth in MRSA.
The conversion to the screening in the U.S.
specifically around MRSA is certainly not the same growth rate that it was several years ago but it is still growing north of probably that 10% range in the U.S.
Your next question comes from the line Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification I guess on the impacts of acquisitions for the full year.
David I think you had said $0.10.
That does include not only KIESTRA which was new since you last gave guidance but also prior acquisitions that you closed.
That's right.
That includes 3 acquisitions that Vince mentioned earlier.
Carmel Acurri and our KIESTRA acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the impact of acquisitions this quarter the $24 million I think you had referenced earlier those were primarily the past acquisitions not KIESTRA? That includes a tiny bit of KIESTRA.
About $1 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to kind of go back to the med tech tax.
Are you guys comfortable that you'll be able to offset most of it or do you think that that will be kind of net-net an additional headwind impacting kind of the year-to-year comps? Well it's something we're working on.
So as I was mentioning just before excuse me I got a bit of a cold here -- we'll be looking at all elements of our P&amp;L to see where we can go for efficiencies not just in the U.S.
but globally to see what we can do to offset.
So it will be a challenge.
It's a headwind but one that we're going to take on.
That was our final question.
And I'd now like to turn the floor back over to Vince Forlenza for any closing remarks.
So thank you very much for your participation today.
We look forward to next quarter and further updates.
We're very pleased with the results in the quarter and the progress on our programs and have a great day.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's Third Fiscal Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through August 9 2012 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at (800) 585-8367 for domestic calls and (404) 537-3406 for international calls using conference ID 96886040.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our third fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our third fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are David Elkins Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bill Kozy Executive Vice President; and Tom Polen President of Diagnostics Systems.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
As we stated in our press release we were pleased with our third quarter results which were in line with our expectations.
Growth was driven by our BD Medical and BD Diagnostics segments and we continue to experience strong growth in international safety and emerging markets.
We believe that our revenue and earnings growth this quarter demonstrate that our strategy implementation is on track.
We're seeing improved performance in the back half of the fiscal year as we expected and outlined for you earlier this year.
We continue to face challenges in our Biosciences business in the U.S.
which was in line with our expectations.
The Biosciences business continues to be impacted by an uncertain research spending environment and lack of overall demand for instruments and research re-agents.
In other areas of our business we see utilization in the U.S.
as stable but constrained with some uncertainty in Europe due to continued macroeconomic challenges.
Overall we believe that our results this quarter continue to highlight the benefits of our diversified portfolio with softness in 1 segment being offset by strength in our other 2 segments.
We also continue to see a positive impact from our new product launches in addition to growth from the Accuri Carmel and KIESTRA acquisitions.
We recently announced our plans to acquire Safety Syringes Inc.
SSI a privately held company that specializes in the development of passive anti-needlestick devices for prefillable syringes.
This transaction is subject to regulatory review and is expected to close by the end of the fiscal year.
This acquisition will nicely complement our Pharmaceutical Systems unit and our safety-engineered products and it is well aligned with BD's strategy of applying technology in clinical knowledge to make healthcare more effective efficient and safe.
We believe that BD's expertise in conjunction with Safety Syringes' portfolio will enable innovative safety technology development and will bring forth the next generation of safety-engineered prefillable syringes.
SSI's latest annual sales were about $30 million with a compound annual growth rate of about 10% over the past 3 years.
Once the acquisition is complete revenues will be accounted for under our Pharmaceutical Systems unit.
Based on our results year-to-date we are now guiding currency-neutral revenue growth to be about 4% the higher end of our previously communicated range.
We are reaffirming our currency-neutral EPS growth of 4% to 5% even as we continue to invest in new products and absorb costs from our recent acquisitions.
On Slide 5 we've outlined our third quarter revenue and EPS results which I will speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
The results of our Discovery Labware business excluding Advanced Bioprocessing have been reclassified to discontinued operations.
David will go through this later in his remarks.
Total company revenues were solid increasing by 4.9%.
Fully diluted EPS came in at $1.52 [indiscernible] and 9.7% over the [indiscernible].
For the 9 months year-to-date results revenue growth was 4.1%; EPS of $3.95 increased by 1%.
Now I'd like to turn things over to David for a more detailed discussion of our third quarter financial performance.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by discussing the key financial highlights for the third quarter.
As Vince stated our third quarter results were in line with our expectations.
We continue to proceed with the sale of our Discovery Labware unit.
Its results have been reclassified as discontinued operations.
I will provide some more detail around this on the next slide.
As we outlined for you on our last earnings call we saw sequential improvements in our gross profit and operating margins as we move past the difficult comparisons we faced in the first half of the year.
As Vince mentioned we are raising the bottom end of the total year currency-neutral revenue growth guidance to about 4%.
We are reaffirming our currency-neutral EPS growth guidance of 4% to 5% even as we increase investments in new products and absorbed the costs from our recent acquisitions.
On a reported basis we expect EPS to be in the -- between $5.33 and $5.38 for the total year.
This reflects the reclassification of Discovery Labware unit and the anticipated effects of unfavorable currency translation.
Our updated guidance range assumes a euro exchange rate of $1.23 in the fourth quarter as well as further strengthening of the U.S.
dollar versus the Brazilian real and Indian rupee.
Additionally during the third quarter we completed about $250 million in share repurchases.
Year-to-date we've completed approximately $1.25 billion of our estimated $1.5 billion share repurchase program.
On Slide 8 I'll walk you through our third quarter revenue and EPS results that highlight the impact of the pending Discovery Labware divestiture.
Including Discovery Labware revenues increased 4.8% and fully diluted EPS came in at $1.59 per share.
This was an increase of 9.3% over the prior period.
Revenue growth from continuing operations excluding Discovery Labware was 4.9% for the third quarter.
EPS of $1.52 increased by 9.7%.
Excluding the results of Discovery Labware our revenue and EPS growth improved during the quarter.
Now let's move to Slide 9 where we review our revenue growth by segment which I'll speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
As I just mentioned revenue growth was 4.9% for the total company on a continuing operations basis.
Pricing erosion in the quarter was about 70 basis points.
This is in line with our expectations as we move past the difficult comparisons in the first half of the year.
BD Medical third quarter revenues increased 6.4%.
This segment's growths was driven by positive results across all 3 units.
Diabetes Care growth of 9% was driven by continued strong sales of pen needles and a favorable comparison over the prior year.
The favorable comparison in this unit contributed about 2 percentage points of growth.
We had a solid quarter in our Medical Surgical Systems unit with strong performance coming from our BD PhaSeal product and international sales of safety-engineered products.
Pharmaceutical Systems growth was 8.9% aided by some favorable timing of orders.
The favorable timing of orders contributed about 4 percentage points of growth.
The aforementioned items contributed about 1.4 percentage points to BD's Medical revenue growth.
For the 9-month year-to-date results the Medical segment grew 4.8%.
BD Diagnostics third quarter revenues increased 4.7%.
Growth in this segment was driven by Preanalytical Systems which benefited from solid sales in safety-engineered products and continued strength in our Women's Health and Cancer.
For the first 9 months BD Diagnostics grew 4.3%.
BD Biosciences revenue came in at 0.2% with solid international growth being offset by declines in our U.S.
business.
For the 9-month year-to-date results our Biosciences segment grew 1.3%.
Moving to Slide 10.
I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the third quarter.
As Vince stated we see the environment in the U.S.
as stable but constrained.
Overall BD's reported U.S.
revenues were up 1.1% versus prior year.
Growth in our Medical segment was about 3%.
This was driven by strong growth in our Pharmaceutical Systems and Diabetes Care and partially offset by difficult pricing comparisons in our Medical Surgical Systems unit.
This is in line with our expectations and similar to the results that we discussed last quarter.
Growth in our Diagnostics segment was 0.8% driven by solid sales of Preanalytical Systems which grew about 2%.
Diagnostics Systems unit declined about 0.5% partially due to a tough environment in our Microbiology business and softness in our GeneOhm HAI platform.
Our new HAI platform BD MAX is approved for MRSA by the FDA in early July and we expect our sales trajectory to improve as we continue to build out the platform on this menu.
Biosciences sales in the U.S.
for the third fiscal quarter declined 6.4%.
We continue to see weakness in the U.S.
research market as well as a tougher competitive environment in research re-agent sales.
We believe there will continue to be uncertainty in the U.S.
research market until after the elections in November.
Also we continue to experience lower demand for high-end instruments in Cell Analysis due to continued funding constraints in the pharmaceutical and biotech research area as well as the academic markets.
International revenue grew 7.8% currency-neutral in the quarter with growth coming from all 3 segments.
The Medical and Diagnostics segments both grew 8.5%.
Revenue growth in these segments was primarily driven by strong sales of safety products and continued growth in the emerging markets.
Biosciences grew at 3.8% in the quarter.
Growth in this segment was negatively impacted by a tough comparison to the prior year period as customers were pushed for the second quarter -- customers' orders were pushed from the second quarter to the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 due to Japan's tsunami.
This difficult comparison negatively impacted Biosciences' growth by about 2.4%.
We continue to see positive results in the Biosciences segment outside the United States.
For the 9-month year-to-date results reported U.S.
revenues grew about 1% the Medical segment increasing 3% Diagnostics growing about 1% and Biosciences declining 9%.
Total international revenue growth was a strong 6% currency-neutral with Medical growing 5.8% Diagnostics about 7% and Biosciences growing 6.6%.
Moving to total safety on Slide 11 which includes the PhaSeal acquisition.
Currency-neutral sales increased 7.4% to about $500 million in the quarter.
International sales were up 15.7% on a currency-neutral basis with Western Europe and emerging markets both growing double digits.
Medical Safety sales grew almost 10% driven by Infusion Therapy products and a PhaSeal product.
Diagnostics Safety sales increased about 5% driven by a range of safety-engineered products.
For the 9-month year-to-date results Safety growth was almost 9% on a currency-neutral basis.
This was due to a combination of strong international growth of 16.7% and a growth rate of 3.6% in the U.S.
On Slide 12 we review our revenue growth in the third quarter.
Our reported growth rate was 1.5%.
Performance contributed 4.9% to growth off by 3.4% of unfavorable currency translation.
Acquisitions contributed about 80 basis points of growth in the quarter.
Moving on to Slide 13 and looking at our gross margin we experienced about a 50-basis-point decline which was in line with our expectations.
Operating performance was impacted by the negative effects of pricing software amortization in our Biosciences business and product mix.
Favorable currency translation contributed about 20 basis points.
From the beginning of the fiscal year gross profit has improved 130 basis points.
Slide 14 recaps the third quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency-neutral results.
As discussed earlier third quarter revenue grew about 5%.
Our gross margin of 52.2% improved sequentially as we move past the difficult comparisons that impacted our results in the first half of the year.
Moving down the income statement line SSG&amp;A increased 3.2% primarily due to increased investments in emerging markets our EVEREST SAP implementation and expenses related to our Carmel KIESTRA and Accuri acquisitions.
Excluding the costs from these incremental investments our year-over-year SG&amp;A costs would have declined.
This highlights our continued cost discipline management.
R&amp;D increased about 2% which is in line with our expectations due to continued investment in our new product portfolio.
Our operating income increased 4% as we start experiencing positive sequential improvements in our gross profit and more normalized levels of SSG&amp;A spend.
Since the first quarter of the fiscal year our operating income margin has improved 430 basis points.
Now I'd like to turn to Slide 15 which review our changes in guidance from May which includes the Discovery Labware unit and our updated outlook which excludes the Discovery Labware unit.
As you can see we've increased our revenue guidance to about 4% which is at the higher end of our previously communicated range.
We now expect EPS to be between $5.33 and $5.38.
This reduction reflects about $0.29 from the pending sale of Discovery Labware and about [indiscernible] from unfavorable currency translation.
On a [indiscernible] we are reaffirming our previous guidance of 4% to 5% despite the increased costs from our recent acquisitions.
Gross profit margin remains in line with our previously communicated range of 51.3% to 51.5%.
Our SSG&amp;A expenses increased about 40 basis points.
This is due to the divestment of our Discovery Labware and some allocated overhead costs remain in continuing operations.
For the total year we expect SSG&amp;A growth to be about 7% in line with our original expectations.
R&amp;D spending remains in line at about 6% of sales.
Our operating income range of 20.4% to 20.6% now reflects about 50 basis points from divestment of Discovery Labware as the aforementioned SSG&amp;A overhead costs remain within continuing operations.
We expect tax rate improvement due to the Discovery Labware divestiture.
This was predominately a U.S.-based business.
We now expect our tax rate to be between 24.8% and 25%.
Our cash flow remains strong and we expect about $1.6 billion in operating cash flow for the fiscal year.
This reflects the divestment of Discovery Labware and the operating cash associated with that unit.
Including Discovery Labware our cash projection is in line with our original guidance of $1.7 billion.
As a reminder about 80% of our cash balance is outside the U.S.
at the end of the fiscal quarter.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince who will walk you through our results in emerging markets and also provide you with an update on the product portfolio.
Thanks David.
Moving on to Slide 17 I would like to highlight our emerging market results.
We continue to see strong growth in emerging markets which accounted for approximately 22.8% of our total revenues in the third quarter.
Emerging market revenues grew at 10.6%.
We continue to see double-digit growth in a number of key markets with China growing at 19.7% in the quarter which is in line with our expectations.
We are very pleased with Safety revenue growth in emerging markets which was up about 18% over the prior year.
We are encouraged by the positive results in Europe as the market continues to convert to safety-engineered products.
We have many exciting opportunities in our pipeline.
I'd like to review our key products that have launched year-to-date.
In our Medical segment we launched the BD PentaPoint 5-bevel pen needle.
This is the first and only pen needle with a patented 5-bevel needle tip which is clinically demonstrated to improve injection comfort in patients when compared with the current 3-bevel pen needles.
In our Diagnostics segment we launched the BD MAX MRSA assay in the U.S.
in early June.
The MRSA assay is an easy-to-use cost-effective method to identify patients with this deadly superbug and we believe it will support better outcomes for patients and a safer hospital environment.
This is the second test cleared this year by the FDA on the BD MAX System.
This milestone represents further confirmation of BD's commitment to rapidly expand our menu enabling laboratories to offer a broad range of molecular tests that meet both their current and future clinical needs.
In our Biosciences segment we launched the 6-color BD FACSJazz Cell Sorting System which incorporates customer input from a 2011 global early access program.
As a result we made refinements to enhance the usability and ease of use.
This system has many innovative features that simplify sorting such as digital controls and factory-optimized settings for the precise isolation of cells.
Moving on to Slide 19.
In the Diagnostics segment the U.S.
launch of C.
difficile on BD MAX remains on track for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013.
Our BD Viper molecular platforms remains positioned to a best-in-class lab efficiency and performance for high-volume screening assays.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 we plan to launch the Trichomonas assay on this platform in the EU.
The Trichomonas launch in the U.S.
is expected in the back half of fiscal year 2013.
Our launch of the bench-top BD Viper LT and GC/CT assay remains on track for fiscal year 2013 globally followed by the launch of our HPV genotyping assay on Viper LT x U.S.
Along with the launch of the Viper LT our front-end automation system for Women's Health is expected in the beginning of fiscal year 2013 in the EU and later in the year in the U.S.
which will be marketed globally under the brand name Totalys.
This launch is delayed by 1 quarter.
I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing our SurePath Plus R&amp;D program which we have decided to stop.
We recently completed the analysis of the midpoint clinical trial data which included samples for more than 3 500 patients.
The data showed that SurePath Plus delivered a significant increase in sensitivity as compared to traditional liquid-based cytology test.
However we also saw a slight decrease in specificity which was not within our expectations.
Based on a thorough review of our portfolio strategy and analysis of the midpoint clinical trial data we have subsequently made the decision to stop the SurePath Plus R&amp;D program.
Our overall Women's Health cervical cancer strategy remains very much intact and we do not see the decision regarding SurePath Plus changing the strategic direction of that business.
Our SurePath cytology platforms continue to be recognized as a leading product for cervical cancer detection.
When combined with our FocalPoint automated imaging system we can provide customers with the advantage of over 20% higher cancer detection as compared to manually read cytology slides and the only automated imaging system capable of testing conventional and liquid-based cytology samples.
Over the next year we plan to launch a series of new products which leverage our expertise in cytology and molecular diagnostics.
This includes the 2013 launch of our previously mentioned Totalys automation system which will automate sample processing from our SurePath sample vials and manage chain of custody across our suite of molecular and cytology systems.
This will complement our upcoming launch of the Viper LT and our fully automated HPV genotyping assay.
Now moving on to Biosciences.
As we have mentioned in previous earnings calls we have 2 new CD4 analyzers launching in the near term.
In fiscal year 2014 we plan to launch a CD4 analyzer that is designed for mid- and smaller-volume laboratories in both emerging markets and the developing world.
This is delayed from our original launch expectations.
The other CD4 analyzer is a more portable point-of-care instrument targeted towards rural clinics in the developing world.
We expect to launch it in fiscal year 2014.
Now we'll continue to provide you with updates on our products and programs as we continue to make progress on them.
Moving to Slide 20.
Before we open the call to questions I would like to reiterate the key messages from our discussion today.
We're pleased with our third quarter results and year-to-date results.
We saw solid growth on the top line despite the headwinds we faced in our Biosciences business in the U.S.
and the challenging macroeconomic climate.
We continue to see good organic growth in addition to growth coming from our recent acquisitions.
As we expected and outlined for you earlier in the year we have now moved past the tough comparisons that occurred in fiscal year 2011 which impacted our results in the first half of the year.
As we move past those tough comparisons we saw a nice improvement in our profitability as we continue to execute against our efficiency programs.
And we continue to be encouraged by our performance in emerging markets and international safety sales.
Our pipeline remains largely intact with our expectations.
And while we are disappointed by the discontinuation of the SurePath Plus R&amp;D program we believe that our Women's Health and Cancer strategy remains very much intact.
We believe our results year-to-date highlight the benefits of a diversified portfolio given the challenging macro economic backdrop.
We are committed to delivering on our current neutral -- currency-neutral guidance of about 4% on the top line and 4% to 5% on the bottom line.
Lastly we will continue to execute against our strategy of investing and innovating for growth and we continue to develop value to our shareholders and customers globally.
Thank you.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> A question for David just initially.
Can you give us an update on your thoughts on the cash from Discovery Labware and how you plan to redeploy it? And can you also give us some initial thoughts on the fiscal '13 outlook specifically underlying revenue growth and margin expansion given some of the headwinds such as the device tax? Yes just a couple of things.
One on Discovery Labware as we've been guiding next year we're going to do share repurchases between $400 million and $600 million and that contemplates the sale of Discovery Labware.
As we said previously the net proceeds of that are about $500 million.
As you start thinking about fiscal year '13 Amit it's just a couple of things.
One is if you think about some of the headwinds that we'll have we have the device tax that comes in next year.
We said that's about $55 million.
Currency we're anticipating the headwind from where we are this year.
This year we'll probably average versus the euro about $1.30 and we have strengthening costs; other currencies as well as you know Indian rupee as well as the Brazilian real so we anticipate that that will continue as we go into next year.
And then next year we have the implementation of our SAP EVEREST in North America which next year is going to be at peak.
As far as the tailwinds and we'll update you on this in November when we provide guidance but our recent acquisitions are going to become neutral to EPS as we get into next year and that should be accretive on an EPS basis overall.
Also if you recall our ReLoCo program we got about $50 million to $60 million next year coming through on that.
In ReLoCo II we'll start to see some benefits on that as we get into fiscal year '13.
And we'll also see the benefits of some of these new product launches.
We expect the launch of about 10 new products by the end of fiscal year '12.
So we've got some good tailwinds.
I don't know if there's anything else Vince wants to add.
Well just to clarify on the acquisition since David said they're becoming neutral to EPS.
But on a cash basis they're accretive to EPS in 2013.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick follow-up on the Diagnostics business.
I was hoping Tom Polen could just elaborate on STD GeneOhm and TriPath's performance in the quarter.
Sure.
This is Tom Polen.
Just [indiscernible] that question.
So to start with TriPath.
TriPath in the quarter we grew just over 8% and that's consistent with the trends that we've seen in the past where the U.S.
is relatively flat driven by flat Pap volumes overall.
And x U.S.
we continue to see solid double-digit growth as we're upgrading customers from conventional Pap to our liquid-based cytology and as developing countries continue to expand access to the cervical cancer screening.
We switch over to GenOhm and STD.
GenOhm we saw a 0.9% decline in the quarter driven as David mentioned earlier by continued MRSA competitiveness and pricing pressure.
C.
diff we are continuing to see strong double-digit growth but off of a smaller base than MRSA for now.
Of course we have recently received FDA approval of MRSA on MAX and we are focused on driving new MAX placements to accelerate our growth in that HAI space.
And we expect that's going to take a few quarters for you to see that ramp.
But we're getting very very positive customer feedback as we're launching that at this time.
On the high-volume STD-screening business we saw flat performance this quarter primarily impacted by a difficult comparison to last year which is when we launched our new XTR chemistry on the Viper platform and we had most of our very large customers pull in stock last quarter as part of converting up to that XTR chemistry.
If you look at a full year basis on our STD business it's up about 3.5% year-to-date through Q3.
With a few points higher than 3.4% volume that's being partially offset from pricing pressures that I think we see across the board in that high-volume screening market.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Vince would love to hear after you guys have ramped up this corporate development group under Bill Rhodes for a couple of quarters where is that program in terms of putting in place a more standardized process for evaluating and executing deals? And I'd love to hear where you view the current pipeline in terms of number of opportunities size of opportunities as we kind of move into fiscal '13.
Sure.
I think actually we're making very good progress on standardizing our evaluation process.
We always had a pretty good standardized evaluation process.
But also now the -- as we do these deals the due diligence process and the integration process I think that's probably the area we're making most progress on.
And as David mentioned in his remarks we're starting to see some good progress on those recent acquisitions that we've done.
In terms of the size of the deal we're still focused on plug-in acquisitions so we really don't have any change going on there.
But working with the businesses it's not that we've added a large number of people to corporate development.
It's a couple of piece -- people that are working on these standardized processes and working directly with the businesses and it's all business units to identify the acquisitions.
The other thing that we've done is just extended that capability internationally.
And as you've seen in the last couple of deals that we've done and have international deals.
So that's kind of the overview of where we're at and we have -- and we continue to have a good pipeline to evaluate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
My follow-up for David.
Is it possible at this point to call out the ERP impact kind of incrementally in '13 versus '12? You probably have some expenses going away and depreciation coming in so I'd love to hear if you've got kind of a rolled-up view on that ERP impact next year.
What we have said is we're spending about $100 million this year on the ERP system and that's been increasing about 20% a year.
So as we look at '13 it will be our peak year with our North American implementation.
But again we'll give you those exact numbers once we do our guidance for fiscal year '13.
Your next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> David I wonder if you talked about a dynamic in the next year.
It sounds like based on Vince's comments the business development activity is more incremental over the next 2 years and sort of a radical change.
And it sounds like you've dialed back the buy back next year sort of over $1 billion to something like $400 million to $600 million.
So I guess I wonder why not get more aggressive on the buyback and is it too early given some of the headwinds and tailwinds to start talking about a dividend acceleration in BD.
Just A couple of things on that David.
Good question.
First is the buyback that we did over the past 2 years was driven by the bond offerings that we've done.
If you take a look at where our cash is generated the majority of our cash continues to be generated outside the United States.
And as I said earlier about 80% of our cash balance at the end of the quarter is outside the U.S.
So the cash that we generate within the U.S.
pretty much covers the dividend.
And if you think about the share repurchases next year that's pretty much being funded by the sale of the Discovery Labware business.
So as we move forward that's something for you to consider.
Research Division</strong> And then Vince just talking about the SSI acquisition I guess certainly it was a adjunctive to the business.
I guess it wasn't entirely clear to us was.
Was the driver of the transaction more the Med/Surg technology or really was the Pharm Systems technology? And it still wasn't clear if it was Pharm Systems-driven.
What specifically does that transaction give you in Pharm Systems that you did not have before? Well Bill Kozy can talk to that but it definitely was the Pharm Systems segment that was really driving this acquisition and Bill can talk to -- because it moves us into a new space we weren't in before.
David it's Bill Kozy.
Just to add let's go down the technology side for just a second.
We wanted a short-term capability for passive needlestick safety on our Pharm Systems platform.
So their technology gives us that chance to move into that right away.
And we see over time an accelerating customer interest in that type of technology which we did not have.
Your next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify David your comments because the line cut out or at least mine did.
When you were referring to the change in guidance from an EPS perspective over the 2 components between what was Discovery Labware versus FX? Okay Discovery Labware was $0.29 and FX was $0.04.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And Discovery Labware seems to be a little bit more than what you have been saying.
I'm just surprised it's a little higher as well as the fact that I guess you're still absorbing some of the costs within the operating side.
Sorry Kristen.
Just coming back to your previous question were you referring to the quarter or were you referring to the full year? Research Division</strong> No the full year guidance I'm sorry.
Okay I was referring to the full year.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's what I was referring to [ph].
Okay you got it.
Okay.
Research Division</strong> I'm just looking at the $0.29.
I think in the past you had kind of quantified it closer to $0.25 that it would contribute to the full year and I'm just surprised that it's $0.29 versus the $0.25 especially I think you had mentioned within SSG&amp;A you were still absorbing some costs that weren't allocated into that business.
Is that how I should think about it? Yes 2 things.
One is better performance than we anticipated was one of the drivers.
If you remember we originally guided about $0.25 as you had said.
The better performance in the business is one of the things.
As we strip that out it wound up doing better in the second half of the year than we originally anticipated as most of our businesses have.
Also I think the second thing is we go through and refined all of the allocated overhead costs.
That was the second thing that some of the costs that are remaining with the business are a little higher than we had originally estimated.
And as we move into next year and once this deal becomes finalized we'll be able to go after those stranded costs and look to remove those costs next year.
Obviously we're not going to do that until the deal is finalized.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if I missed this but did you quantify what the stranded costs were within SG&amp;A? Yes the stranded cost for the quarter was about $0.03 to EPS or about $8 million.
For the full year it's around $0.10.
Research Division</strong> And so presumably as we go into 2013 those get worked down but don't necessarily go away immediately? Again we'll update you in November when we give guidance for the full fiscal year.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess also just kind of going back to some of the comments you had made on 2013.
I guess should we think about just the med tech tax as something that is likely just to get passed through and have just a full impact on your earnings side? Or would you be looking to try to offset that through restructuring cost savings initiatives price increases? Yes really on that one it remains as we previously talked about.
We're going to look to offset some of that as we can but that's going to be incorporated into our overall guidance as we look into -- as we provide guidance in November on fiscal year '13.
I don't know if Vince has anything to add.
As David said we'll look to do what we can but we're also going to fund our strategic initiatives.
So it's going to be a balancing act that we're going to be doing.
We're looking at all elements of our cost structure for next year in trying to drive our efficiency programs.
But that as we know provides significant headwind.
Research Division</strong> The pension expense may also be a headwind is that fair to say? Of course.
Yes.
Yes that's fair to say.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with Macquarie Capital.
Just 2 quick questions for me.
The first is a bigger picture.
Vince I think you've had an initiative going on there at BD on the talent and culture side for a couple of years now.
I'm just thinking now you're getting closer to about 1 year in your role as CEO and just -- can you maybe just give us an update of how that's going and kind of what -- maybe what has changed or how you expect that to impact the business? Well you're right we have.
And the first thing I would say is that we're driving more -- the more global nature of the culture.
And we've made some changes so that as we look to the future that we give a more full voice I would say in terms of the regions and especially the emerging markets.
And so that's #1 on our list.
And it's not just a cultural change piece but it's also a capability piece that we're building around the globe.
And that is more entrepreneurship building marketing capability building government affairs around the globe and ultimately R&amp;D.
And I've added 2 senior people to my direct reports to get further focus on international.
And of course we see a lot of growth coming from international over the next couple of years.
Secondly we're driving an innovation agenda for the company and Bill Kozy has been heading this up for me working with others in the organization.
And we see a tremendous excitement around that agenda for the company.
And so that's the second piece.
And that's married with one other piece I would like to put on the table which is customer-centricity.
We hired a Chief Marketing Officer for the company and there's a much more intense focus on the customers here.
And so what we're doing is we're marrying up this innovation focus with this customer focus and that dovetails with the global piece of this the global view of the customers and where we're going.
Do I think we're making progress? Absolutely.
I think we're making progress.
I also think that this is a long journey that you take step by step in terms of building real capability.
But we're excited about it.
That's very helpful.
And then if I can just quickly switch to the -- other than the AECC and there was actually a lot excitement around BD MAX and kind of what its capabilities were going to be.
Can you maybe just talk about what your expectations are for that product or business now that it's launched with kind of a more complete test and some of the menu you expect? And maybe also in that environment as well just on the Diagnostics side there was a big combination of the competitive front there with Hologic and Gen-Probe.
Can you maybe just talk about how you see that changing the competitive environment for you? Sure.
So Tom will do that.
I would say before he makes a remark that I think we're really taking an innovative approach to menu here and that's starting to take hold and Tom can update you on that.
So Tom why don't you start with BD MAX and then we can talk about Hologic.
Thanks.
Yes this is Tom Polen.
So obviously right now with the launch of really the first major assay in a major market U.S.
being by far and away the largest market for Molecular Diagnostics MRSA is our first.
We had GBS approved last quarter a relatively small assay.
MRSA represents the first large assay we have in MAX in our major markets.
So right now because that just happened a few weeks ago our focus is on launch of MRSA and MAX.
And again we're seeing some good early traction there that we expect over the next couple of quarters because of the sales cycle there.
We'll start seeing that reflected in the performance of that business.
We do have as we've shared in the past multiple times an aggressive menu for MAX.
We've got over 15 assays in the pipeline for MAX.
The next assay as Vince mentioned earlier to launch will be C.
diff and we are on track to submit that to the FDA later this quarter.
We have finished the clinical trial and are preparing the submission now and that will go in later this quarter.
We also are very pleased with the progress on our partner assays.
We've put out announcements over the last year regarding 12 assays that are being developed through our partners.
And we expect the first of those to begin launching in the EU before the end of this calendar year and so we'll be making further announcements as those launch dates approach.
But we're rapidly seeing menu expansion particularly outside the U.S.
where just because of the CE marking process we can get to market earlier.
So I would ask that probably look at EU as the first sign of where you'll see our significant menu ramps starting to come to the marketplace.
So I think hopefully that answers your question.
Hologic.
Oh I'm sorry on Hologic I know we've commented that on the last quarter as well.
No change essentially on the response from last quarter's call.
Of course Gen-Probe has been very publicly in play over the last year and so the acquisition didn't come as a surprise.
We've made our integrated molecular cytology strategy in Women's Health very clear for some time now through Totalys and the Viper LT platforms that Vince spoke about earlier.
And so we see the move.
Hologic makes it clear they see value on a similar approach.
We're continuing full speed ahead with our strategy and don't see any specific change to our approach at this point in time.
Thanks Tom.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So David can you just clarify what the guidance is for the fourth quarter because I think there's some confusion? Obviously there's a lot of moving parts here with Discovery Labware coming out of it.
So what exactly is the 4Q EPS guidance? We didn't guide specifically the fourth quarter as we normally don't which is provided it for the full year.
Research Division</strong> Okay but you've given full year guidance.
You have 3 quarters to date including -- right including what you just reported in you're divesting Discovery Labware.
So the map that we were getting was somewhere in the $1.38 to $1.43 range.
Is that right? We also were getting a couple of cents lower than that.
Yes again we're not providing specific guidance on the quarter.
But if you take the full year results we're at the $5.33 to $5.38 you're going to get into that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is 3 -- I'm sorry got a few questions is $3.95 the right number for the 3 quarters to date? Yes that's the right number.
Research Division</strong> That is the right apples-to-apples number then? Yes that's right.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Can you help me out in a couple of items of the -- How should we think about the FX move and the drop-through to the bottom line? I know you've talked before about 20% to 25% drop-through.
Is that the math that you're using to get to the EPS delta for the fourth quarter just so we can think forward? Yes it fluctuates from quarter to quarter based upon the individual currency.
Some currencies drop through more than others.
And as I said earlier on the call 2 other currencies that really weakened against the dollar was the Indian rupee as well as the Brazilian real.
I think in this last quarter it was around 30% but again that fluctuates quarter to quarter.
But if you're in that 25% range Michael it's a pretty good number to use from a currency perspective.
Research Division</strong> And I have 2 left clean-ups here.
The change in the tax rate for the year is that because of Discovery Labware? Is it primarily -- how do we think about that? Just trying to get all the pieces right.
Yes it's primarily Discovery Labware.
The majority of that business is in the U.S.
So it has a high tax rate over 35%.
But also we are continuing to see good movement on our effective tax rate.
Two things that drive that: one is the tax planning that we're doing; but two it's just our mix of business.
More of our business comes from outside the United States that helps affect our tax rate.
Research Division</strong> And then last question.
With the SurePath Plus decision do you need to write down any assets from the TriPath acquisition? No.
No we don't.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Weinstein with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> A question Tom just to follow-up on the BD MAX.
Can you talk a little bit about where you're targeting for early customer success with the MAX? Are you looking at new accounts without molecular programs today? Are you looking at kind of where you guys have systems today? Are you going after competitive wins? What's the strategy there? So I don't know that we want to get too detailed on exactly where we're going but we think we have obviously some issues in terms if we want to upgrade our current base but we think it's attractive to the entire marketplace.
We're not going to get real detailed about our tactics on the call.
Research Division</strong> And then you mentioned pricing pressure particularly I think you said on high-volume STD testing.
Can you quantify that? And is that a response to -- so something that you're seeing for home competitors? Are you driving it -- is it U.S.
or o U.S.
[ph] on that? This is Tom Polen.
Wouldn't quantify that.
I think that's a -- it's been a well-recognized and I know a well quoted trend across the industry that STD pricing pressure in the U.S.
and Europe are certainly not something that we're necessarily proactively driving ourselves.
Leave it at that.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess just a couple of follow-ups on those last couple of questions.
As has been well documented since the beginning of the year there's been the approval of what I think could be characterized as some formidable competitive platforms for molecular chlamydia gonorrhea testing and other assays including PANTHER in the U.S.
and the new cobas 4800.
Could you just talk about how the introduction of these products I guess beyond pricing may impact your ability to get customer switches just given that it is fairly normal for folks to lock into multiyear re-agent rental contracts? And then I guess my second question somewhat related is in our channel checks the feedback recently has been quite positive on BD MAX.
It does seem like there is a lot of excitement around the new MRSA test.
Could you just talk about how important that is from a price stabilization standpoint? And if you would would you characterize how big the opportunity as you view it is to convert other competitive open real-time PCR systems basically to convert others from some of the existing open PCR systems that exist on the market? Okay so this is Tom Polen again.
Let's start with MAX and then I'll circle back on regarding the high throughput side.
So I mean as you said we are also getting very positive feedback from customers.
I don't think we don't want to quantify the size of the opportunity at this point in time.
Obviously that expands in proportion to our menu and as customers continue to get traction on developing their own assays on the system.
We are seeing as you said customers particularly starting in Europe developing a wide range of assays on MAX.
We have customers running everything from neuro virus to cystic fibrosis to TB assays that they've developed themselves converted over to homebrew; from homebrew to other open platforms to the MAX.
So as we think about positioning of the MAX platform versus the Viper and as you mentioned those incoming competitors so we certainly recognize that MAX is in a unique space versus some of the platforms that you mentioned earlier.
MAX is designed for some of the midpoint assays like MRSA C.Diff.
But we also have mentioned we have assays like GC/CT Trich coming to MAX x U.S.
later in FY '13 and the U.S.
at a later point in time.
So we see [indiscernible] has a very unique position [ph].
We have our assays coming on and we'll have our partner assays coming on board and it will have customers' assays being ported over from their other open systems right.
And none of the other platforms that you mentioned I won't repeat them have that ability to bring that type of portfolio to a single fully automated platform.
As we think about our Viper franchise and the competitive dynamics happening there we certainly recognize that there are new entrants coming into that space.
We have a very very solid platform with our Viper XTR platform which is fully automated integrated platform on the market today.
We have our next-generation platform which is our Viper LT launching in the U.S.
and in Europe next year and that is also a bench-top version.
So if you think about the PANTHER not a bench-top version but -- similar volume throughput of Viper LT but an actual bench top.
And then we'll have SDA and PCR on it.
And of course our first PCR assay based on that platform will be the HPV genotyping assay which we are launching about this time slightly earlier next year x U.S.
And then we'll be announcing the U.S.
launch afterwards.
So there we see our future instrument platforms as well as assay menu expansion as being key factors in continuing our strong position in that.
So this is Vince just adding on.
So if you think about the Viper because Tom is indicating there are 2 very different business segments here.
In the STD space the Chlamydia and HPV markets are available to us and also the genotyping space there.
Now we're seeing on the HAI side it's going to be the core area for MAX.
With MRSA and the C.
diff.
markets all available to us that tends to be not the same kind of high-volume as the STD marketplace the HPV and Chlamydia.
And then we're going to expand from there which is all of the other assays that Tom is talking about in terms of transplant assays and other things and then this kind of porting on these tests that the labs are doing themselves.
So there's a substantial opportunity for us over time.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
That is very helpful.
And I guess if I could sneak in one quick one on -- one more quick one.
On the flow cytometry side clearly some of the issues there are just funding related and the environment.
But beyond that from a competitive standpoint are there any -- is there any light at the end of the tunnel? It sounds like part of the issue is just aggressive pricing from competitors.
I guess at what point should investors think that that dynamic becomes less of a headwind for you? Bill Kozy can talk to that but from a market standpoint the U.S.
market is going to be constrained till sometime after the elections and there's an agreement on what the budget is going to be.
And I've been down to Capitol Hill talking to Congress about this but this whole threat of sequestration and our customers not knowing what their funding is going to be.
We know we have at least another probably at least 9 months of uncertainty because Congress is talking about well it'll take 6 months now with the new Congress coming in to figure this all out.
So that's a U.S.
issue.
We're seeing good growth internationally.
So in terms of competition I think Bill you feel pretty good about the product line that we have and where we're going with it.
Yes this is Bill Kozy.
I think that Vince captured the essence.
We're probably paying more attention to the environment and the U.S.
government direction at this point in time.
That's our biggest gate.
Our array of both high-end instruments the addition of Accuri and the recent launch of FACSJazz and FACSVerse have got us very well positioned in each of those key flow segments.
So we feel good about our products.
We'll just look to see that environment improve in the time ahead.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Palmer with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> David just want to follow up on the FX question.
If we look at emerging markets you guys had about 23% of revenues from there.
Can you maybe just give us a range of how big maybe the big 3: China India Brazil are of that 23%? A good way rule of thumb is if you think about the euro we have about $2 billion in euro sales which makes up the bulk.
It ranges in that 60% to 70% of our foreign currency exposure.
Brazilian real is probably the next largest which is around 15% of our currency exposure.
And then the Indian rupee is less than 10%.
But that should give you a pretty good idea of the key ones that are driving that currency exposure.
And as we saw in the quarter and one of the things we are doing with our guidance is contemplating that the dollar continues to strengthen get to the bottom end of our range that contemplates that the dollar would continue to strengthen in August and in September.
Research Division</strong> And then one quick follow-up.
I guess in terms of China do you conduct business there in RMB or is it a dollar market? No in local currency.
Research Division</strong> And you see that strengthening? Well China is a bit of a unique situation so -- since that's really controlled and that's more of anyone's guess as where that's going to go.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> First off David just clarify an earlier comment you made on the future buybacks.
You did I think mention that the cash flow U.S.
cash flow generation essentially covers the dividend but kind of implied that it doesn't cover the buyback.
So how should we read into that as we think about future years fiscal '14 '15 et cetera.
Yes there's a couple things to keep in mind as we move forward.
One is obviously any type of tax planning that goes on as Vince has talked about in previous calls we have to see what happens with any kind of repatriation of overseas cash.
We're not alone in this.
This affects a lot of companies.
So that's number one.
Number two there's things that we can do continuously.
We repatriate funds and pay tax on that year-over-year.
So that's an option that we have as we move forward.
So those are the 2 main things that really impact the level of cash that we have in the U.S.: tax policy and our ability to repatriate pay the tax from cash that's overseas.
Research Division</strong> And then just a quick follow-up maybe for Bill or Vince.
Can you talk a little bit about what the Pharm Systems pipeline looks like? I guess I'm trying to think of that in context with we got a couple of pretty light flu seasons and just trying to think about what the forward implications of that might be.
So in terms of the revenue if that's what you're asking and the fact that the business is lumpy continues to be lumpy so that's going to happen quarter-to-quarter.
In terms of it if you were asking from a product pipeline then we're excited about this move into both SAIS which is self-administration products and we're starting to see some traction there.
And Bill can talk to you about what those products are.
And then of course just move into an additional segment we have not participated in which is the passive safety segment.
So Bill maybe you want to talk to that a little bit where we're going with SAIS.
This is Bill Kozy.
We are starting to get traction to echo Vince's comment on the autoinjector.
And we have a couple generations -- to your portfolio question we've got a couple of generations of autoinjectors that we expect to launch in the years ahead.
This tends to be a little bit more of a mass customization business where we provide a major pharmaceutical customer with an injector that best matches up with both their patient population as well as the drug that needs to be delivered.
And we actually saw a revenue impact the first time very very modest this last quarter on that area.
Now in the core area to your comment about what's in the pipeline all of our attention in terms of R&amp;D investment has been 2 categories: it's on biotech and vaccines.
And it's a little early to be saying exactly what we intend to do there over the next couple of years but we'll keep you informed on those product launches as they start to emerge in the 18 to 24 months ahead.
Those are the 2 focus areas if you look at our large customer base.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Frelick with Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> Tom just a follow-up to your BD MAX menu comment.
When would you expect to see the test menu of 15 assays on the platform? Plain timing.
Yes Tom.
Over the next 3 years.
Sooner than that in Europe of that time frame in the U.S.
Your final question comes from the line of Eric Criscuolo with Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> What were the reasons for the sequential decline in interest income and other income? David can handle that for you.
Yes there's 2 things.
One is the interest rate in Brazil.
We hold some cash there and obviously interest rate has to come down.
Also just to remind everyone deferred compensation there's an offset versus our SG&amp;A line and that's the other big one that's there.
Research Division</strong> That was in the other income? That's right.
In other income there's an offset versus our SG&amp;A for deferred compensation.
Whenever there's movement in our deferred compensation from a share price perspective on the overall stock market you have higher costs in SG&amp;A which is offset in other income.
Okay well thank you very much for joining us today.
That wraps up our call.
We look forward to talking about and wrapping up the year with you on our next call and of course giving you the guidance for 2013 which you've been asking about for a long time now.
And so we look forward to giving you that clarity.
Just to finish up we had solid revenue growth underlying of about 4%.
We can see good progress on our profitability improvement programs and our product portfolio and expansion in emerging markets is on track.
So thank you very much and look forward to talking to you again.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's Fourth Fiscal Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through November 14 2012 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at (800) 585-8367 for domestic calls and area code (404) 537-3406 for international calls using conference ID 35734482.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our fourth fiscal quarter and year-end results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our fourth fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are David Elkins Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Suke Upadhyay Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller; Bill Kozy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Gary Cohen Executive Vice President; and Tom Polen President of Diagnostic Systems.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
Today I'll begin with a brief overview of BD's performance for the full fiscal year 2012.
Then I'll spend some time highlighting the guidance for fiscal year 2013.
After that David will provide a financial review of the total company and segment performance.
Suke will also participate on this call.
He will provide you with the framework for fiscal year 2013 and how we are thinking about the various aspects of our P&amp;L.
I will spend the balance of our time discussing our performance in emerging markets and the progress we have made in our product pipeline.
After that we'll open the call up for questions.
As we stated in our press release we are proud of our solid finish to the year in a challenging business environment.
We delivered on our commitments even after absorbing additional costs from acquisitions.
Revenue growth was primarily driven by our BD Medical and BD Diagnostics segments and we continue to experience strong growth in international safety and emerging markets.
We also continue to see a positive impact on our top line from the new product launches and recent acquisitions.
We continue to face challenges in our Bioscience business in the U.S.
as we expected.
The Bioscience business continues to be impacted by an uncertain research spending environment.
Our recently announced acquisitions are performing on track.
In August we announced our acquisition of Sirigen Group Limited a developer of unique polymer dyes that are used in flow cytometry.
This new technology is a natural complement to our instrument platforms and reagent portfolio.
In our Medical segment we announced our plans to acquire Safety Syringes Inc.
or SSI.
We expect to close on this transaction by the end of the calendar year.
This year we have demonstrated that we're making progress delivering against our strategy.
I'd like to highlight 4 key achievements to date.
First strategic opportunities.
Our goal is to complement organic growth through bolt-on acquisitions.
In the past 18 months we have completed the acquisitions of Accuri Carmel KIESTRA and Sirigen and we expect to close on SSI by the end of the year.
These acquisitions have been nice additions to our portfolio and have contributed about 100 basis points to our top line growth this year.
Second we have expanded our portfolio through new product launches.
At our Analyst Day last November we communicated that we believe we have the most robust pipeline in the company's history.
Since then we've launched 10 new products across our 3 segments.
We also expect to launch at least 10 new products in fiscal year 2013 which I will provide more color on later in the call.
Our third achievement to date is driving operational effectiveness.
We're doing this through our ReLoCo programs EVEREST and other G&amp;A initiatives some of which have already started to yield savings in 2012.
We're on track to continue delivering ReLoCo savings in 2013 and '14 as we have been communicating to you throughout the year.
Our first wave of EVEREST went live in April and we are continuing to implement this program worldwide with our peak year of spending in 2013.
We are also pleased with the performance in our shared service centers.
Lastly I would like to highlight our success in emerging markets.
As growth in industrialized markets slowed we redeployed SSG&amp;A to enable substantial investments in emerging markets.
As you know our incremental investment in fiscal year 2012 was $60 million.
We are pleased with our accomplishments over the past several years.
From fiscal year 2009 our revenues have increased from $1.2 billion growing at 8% to $1.7 billion growing at 11% in fiscal year 2012.
As a percent of sales emerging markets have gone from 17% in 2009 to 23% in 2012.
The execution of our strategy so far has resulted in a more consistent revenue growth profile with acceleration in certain areas of our business along with the operating margin improvement which we delivered in the back half of this year.
We expect that to continue into fiscal year 2013.
We believe that our strategy of investing in innovating for growth will succeed and we've seen evidence that our strategy is delivering results.
Now moving on to Slide 5.
We've outlined in our fourth quarter revenue and EPS results -- we've outlined our fourth quarter revenue and EPS results which I will speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
As we previously noted in our third quarter conference call the results of our Discovery Labware business excluding Advanced Bioprocessing have been reclassified to discontinued operations.
Total company revenues were solid increasing by 4.7%.
Fully diluted adjusted EPS came in at $1.42 growing at 15.2% over the prior year.
For the 12-month year-to-date results revenue growth was 4.3%.
Adjusted EPS of $5.37 increased by 4.7% which was in line with our fiscal 2012 commitment to invest for long-term growth.
On Slide 6 you will see the guidance for fiscal year 2013 on a currency-neutral basis.
We have also provided guidance excluding the estimated impact of the medical device tax.
For fiscal year 2013 we expect revenues to grow about 3.5% to 4.5% and EPS to grow about 7% to 8%.
If you exclude the impact of the medical device tax which we estimate at about $40 million to $50 million revenue growth of course remains unchanged.
However EPS growth is expected to be between 10% and 11%.
So we are not predicting any specific issues.
The lower end of our guidance range assumes worsening of macroeconomic conditions in the U.S.
and Western Europe.
The upper end of our guidance range for fiscal year 2013 assumes a macro environment similar to what we are seeing today general stability in the U.S.
with continued headwinds in our Bioscience business and in Europe.
It also contemplates the expected closing of SSI by the end of the calendar year.
And now I'll turn the call over to David who will walk you through our performance in the quarter and for the total year.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by discussing the key financial highlights for the fourth quarter.
Our fourth quarter results were in line with expectations with revenue growth of 4.7% so a solid growth in both our Medical and Diagnostic segments with continued challenges in Biosciences as we expected.
We saw strong performance in international safety sales and emerging markets.
Our recent acquisitions of Accuri Carmel and KIESTRA contribute about 90 basis points to revenue growth in the quarter.
Additionally during the fourth quarter we completed about $250 million in share repurchases.
As planned and as we have communicated to you throughout the year we have completed our $1.5 billion share repurchase program.
Now let's move on to Slide 9 where we'll review our revenue growth by segment which I'll speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
As I just mentioned revenue growth was 4.7% for the total company on a continuing operations basis.
Pricing erosion in the quarter was about 70 basis points.
This is in-line with our expectations as we move past difficult comparisons in the first half of the year.
BD Medical fourth quarter revenues increased about 6%.
The segment's growth was driven by positive results across all 3 business units.
Diabetes Care growth of about 9% was driven by continued strong sales of pen needles which includes our Nano and BD PentaPoint products.
We have a solid quarter in our Medical Surgical Systems unit with strong performance coming from BD PhaSeal product and international sales of safety-engineered products.
Pharmaceutical Systems growth was 6.4%.
For the total year result the Medical segment grew about 5%.
BD Diagnostics fourth quarter revenues increased 5.1%.
Growth in this segment was driven by Preanalytical Systems which benefited from solid sales of safety-engineered products and strong performance in Diagnostic Systems which is aided by the strength of our KIESTRA platform.
For the total year BD Diagnostics grew 4.5%.
BD Biosciences revenue declined about 0.7% with solid international growth offset by declines in the U.S.
For the total year our Biosciences segment grew 0.7%.
Fourth quarter results continue to be unfavorably impacted by the uncertain research spending environment.
Moving to Slide 10.
I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the fourth quarter.
Overall BD's reported U.S.
revenues were up 1.2% versus the prior year.
Growth in our Medical segment was 4.4%.
This was driven by strong growth in our Diabetes Care and Pharmaceutical Systems.
Growth in Pharmaceutical Systems was driven by low-molecular-weight heparin and sales to biotech customers.
Growth in our Diagnostics segment was 0.1% aided by sales in Preanalytical Systems unit which grew at 2%.
The Diagnostic Systems unit declined 2% partially due to softness in our U.S.
Women's Health business.
We also saw softness in our GeneOhm and HAI platform which is similar to the results we discussed last quarter.
We expect our sales trajectory to improve with BD MAX now that we have MRSA approval and we continue to build out the menu on this platform.
Biosciences sales in the U.S.
for the fourth fiscal quarter declined about 9%.
We continue to see weakness in the U.S.
research market as well as a tough competitive environment in research reagent sales.
We continue to experience lower demand for high-end instruments due to continued funding constraints in the pharmaceutical and biotech research area as well as in the academic markets.
We believe there will continue to be uncertainty in the U.S.
research market into calendar year 2013.
International revenues grew 7% currency neutral in the quarter with growth coming from all 3 segments.
The Medical and Diagnostic segments grew 6.8% and 9.9% respectively.
Revenue growth in these segments was primarily driven by strong sales of safety products and continued growth in the emerging markets.
Biosciences grew at 3.5% in the quarter.
We continue to see positive results in the Biosciences segment outside of the U.S.
particularly in emerging markets.
For the total year reported U.S.
revenues grew 1.2% with Medical increasing 3.7% Diagnostics growing at 1.1% and Biosciences declining about 9%.
Total international revenue growth was a strong 6.6% currency neutral with Medical growing 6% Diagnostics growing at 8% and Biosciences growing at about 6%.
Moving to global safety on Slide 11 which includes the PhaSeal acquisition.
Currency neutral sales increased 5.8% to $507 million in the quarter.
International sales were up 12.7% on a currency-neutral basis with emerging markets growing double digits.
Medical safety sales grew 6.4% driven by Infusion Therapy products and our PhaSeal product.
Diagnostic safety sales increased by about 5% driven by a range of safety-engineered products.
For the total year safety revenue growth was 8% on a currency-neutral basis.
This was due to a combination of strong international growth of 15.6% and a growth rate of 2.9% in the U.S.
On Slide 12 we will review our revenue growth in the quarter.
Our reported revenue rate declined 1.1%.
Performance contributed about 4.7% to growth offset by 5.8% of unfavorable currency translation.
Acquisitions contributed about 90 basis points of growth.
Moving to Slide 13.
Looking at our gross margin we experienced a 30 basis point increase which was in-line with expectations.
Efficiency gains from ReLoCo and our continuous improvement initiatives were partially offset by the negative effects of pricing acquisition-related costs and unfavorable mix driven by lower sales of higher-margin products.
Favorable currency translation contributed about 20 basis points.
Slide 14 recaps the fourth quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency neutral results.
As discussed earlier fourth quarter revenues increased by 4.7%.
Our gross margin of 51.5% improved year-over-year due to the items I just mentioned.
Moving down the income statement SSG&amp;A increased 4.3% primarily due to increased investments in emerging markets our EVEREST implementation and deferred compensation.
As a reminder our deferred compensation expense is generally offset within the interest income line.
R&amp;D increased by 11.4% which is in line with our expectations due to timing of continued investments in our new product portfolio and a relatively low R&amp;D expense in the prior period.
Our operating income increased by 4%.
The large increase in R&amp;D negatively impacted our operating income by about 3 percentage points.
EPS growth in the quarter was about 15.2% which was aided by the execution of our share repurchase program and a favorable tax rate versus the prior period.
Now Slide 15 recaps the total year income statement and highlights our foreign currency neutral results.
Revenues grew 4.3%.
Gross profit was 2.8%.
This is due to margin erosion from pricing pressure higher raw material costs and acquisition-related costs which offset productivity gains and our ReLoCo savings.
This is consistent with our expectation and what we've been communicating to you throughout the year.
Moving down the income statement SSG&amp;A increased 7% with the main drivers being increased investments in emerging markets and the new product launches EVEREST acquisition costs and deferred compensation costs.
SSG&amp;A was negatively impacted by about 6 percentage point due to these increased costs in fiscal year '12.
These increased costs were partially offset through efficiencies in our G&amp;A infrastructure and other cost-saving programs.
For the total year R&amp;D increased 3% currency neutral which is in line with our expectations as we invested in new products and platforms.
Operating income decreased 2% which reflects lower gross profit increased SSG&amp;A expenses.
Again this is in line with our expectations and what we've been communicating to you throughout the year.
EPS growth was 4.7% currency neutral.
Before I turn the call over to Suke I would just like to highlight our solid finish to the year in a challenging environment.
As Vince stated earlier our strategy is continuing to yield results.
Emerging markets and international safety continue to deliver strong double-digit growth and we are seeing a nice improvement in our top line from new product launches and recent acquisitions.
We also began to see an improvement in underlying operating margins and we delivered this in the back half of the year which we expect will continue into fiscal year '13.
The company will also continue to invest in key R&amp;D projects and in new programs to drive operational efficiencies.
On a personal note I'd like to say a few words as this will be my last earnings call with the company.
While my decision to leave BD was difficult I have a new opportunity that makes sense for me and my family right now.
I would like to thank Vince and the board for the opportunities they've given me and I'm proud to be part of a very talented BD team.
BD's an outstanding company and has a great future and I know it is well positioned to succeed.
I'm confident that Suke along with the rest of the team will ensure a seamless transition.
Thank you David.
This is Vince.
I'd like to personally thank David for his 4 years of committed service to BD.
He's been an outstanding Chief Financial Officer and a terrific partner since he joined BD in 2008 but we respect his decision to pursue the next chapter of his career elsewhere.
The board and I are grateful for his contributions and we wish him all the best in the future.
Now with that I'll turn the call over to Suke.
Great.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
Turning to Slide 17 I'd like to walk you through our P&amp;L expectations for full fiscal year 2013.
As Vince mentioned earlier the lower end of our guidance range assumes worsening of macroeconomic environment in the U.S.
and Western Europe.
The upper end of our guidance range for fiscal year 2013 assumes an environment that is similar to what we are seeing today general stability in the U.S.
with continued headwinds in our Biosciences business and in Europe.
This also contemplates the expected closing of Safety Syringes Inc.
In summary we expect revenues to reach about $8 billion with growth of about 2% to 3% as reported or 3.5% to 4.5% currency neutral.
This contemplates our Medical and Diagnostic Systems segments growing at about 4% and Biosciences growing about 1%.
Earnings per share from continuing operations is expected to grow 4.7% [ph] as reported or about 7% to 8% currency neutral.
Excluding the medical device tax currency neutral EPS growth is expected to be between 10% and 11%.
Revenue growth will continue to be driven by emerging markets new product launches in all 3 of our segments and continued strong growth of safety-engineered devices.
Also we expect the most recent acquisitions of KIESTRA Sirigen and SSI to contribute approximately 50 basis points of growth to the company in fiscal year 2013.
The acquisitions of Accuri and Carmel have annualized and will be included in our base going forward.
The growth drivers I just mentioned will be partially offset by the unfavorable impacts of pricing pressure and foreign currency translation.
We expect pricing erosion to be broadly in line with fiscal year 2012.
We also expect 150 basis points of negative currency translation which assumes a strengthening dollar against all of our major currency most specifically driven by euro to dollar exchange rate of $1.27.
We expect our gross profit margin to be between 51.5% and 51.7% which includes about 20 basis points of erosion due to negative currency translations.
Underlying gross margin is expected to improve about 40 basis points.
Our ReLoCo programs remain on track to deliver the previously-communicated savings.
Moving forward we will guide on the program's overall incremental savings rather than the cumulative net savings.
In fiscal year 2013 we expect incremental savings from both programs combined to be approximately $40 million to $50 million.
We expect these profitability gains to be partially offset by the impact of pricing increased pension costs and acquisition-related costs.
SSG&amp;A as a percent of sales is expected to be 25.5% and 25.7%.
This reflects an incremental $40 million to $50 million related to the medical device tax.
Our guidance also reflects continued investment in emerging markets of an incremental $40 million as well as costs related to new product launches acquisitions and EVEREST.
As a reminder fiscal year 2013 will be the peak year of spending for our EVEREST project.
We also expect increased pension costs as a result of declining interest rate environment.
Excluding the 60 basis points impact of the medical device tax SSG&amp;A will be between 24.9% and 25.1% or growth that is roughly in line with the rate of sales growth.
We expect our R&amp;D investments to be in line with fiscal year 2012 between 6.1% to 6.3% [ph] of revenues as we continue to invest in new products and platforms.
As a result of the items I just detailed operating margin is expected to be between 20% and 20.2% of revenues.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency and the medical device tax we expect our operating margins to improve by about 50 basis points.
This is in line with our expectations and consistent with what we had been communicating to you over the past year.
We expect our tax rate to be between 24.3% and 24.5% as we continue to see improvement from geographic mix.
Our cash flow will remain strong with operating cash flows expected to be about $1.7 billion in fiscal year 2013.
We plan to repurchase about $500 million in shares which is broadly in line with historical levels.
Our expectations for capital expenditures is about $525 million.
While we do not guide by quarter I would like to note that our revenue and EPS results next year will be more positively weighted to the back half of the year.
This is primarily due to the expected contributions from new product launching -- launches ramping up in the second half as well as the impact of timing due to the investments and other costs.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince who will walk you through our results in emerging markets and also provide you with an update on our products portfolio.
So thank you Suke.
Moving on to Slide 19 I'd like to highlight our emerging market results.
We continue to see strong growth in emerging markets which accounted for approximately 23.3% of our total revenues in the fourth quarter.
Emerging market revenues grew at 13.1%.
We continue to see double-digit growth in a number of key markets with China growing at 23.7% in the quarter which is in line with our expectations.
We're very pleased with safety revenue growth in emerging markets which was up about 21% over the prior year.
We expect to see similar results in emerging markets in fiscal year 2013 as we continue to invest in high-growth areas.
We have many exciting opportunities in our pipeline.
We have spent the past few quarters discussing our key product launches and as I mentioned earlier there were 10 this year.
We have highlighted them on slides 20 and 21.
Now looking to fiscal year 2013 we have some products that are key to our success going forward.
In our Diabetes Care business the BD Nano has been very successful and we continue to gain a lot of traction in that space.
In our Pharmaceutical Systems business we are looking forward to our expected closing of SSI by the end of the calendar year.
In our Biosciences segment we have 2 new -- 2 CD4 analyzers that will launch in fiscal year 2014.
Moving on to Slide 23.
In our Diagnostics segment we have a number of assays launching on our BD Veritor BD MAX and Viper platforms.
We're also launching our BD Totalys front-end automation system.
In addition to these launches we also expect our KIESTRA platform to ramp up in fiscal 2013.
As you've seen over the past few years our new products as a percent of revenues have increased from 8% in 2011 to 10% in 2012.
We expect it to deliver continued improvement in fiscal year 2013 and beyond as we make progress on our recently-launched and the products we expect to launch in the near term.
We look forward to updating you on our pipeline in the weeks and months ahead.
Moving on to Slide 24.
Before we open the call to questions I would like to reiterate the key messages from our discussion today.
First we're proud of our solid finish in fiscal year 2012.
Despite a challenging macroeconomic environment we delivered on our financial and operating goals while continuing our ongoing investment in geographic expansion operating effectiveness new product platforms and strategic acquisitions.
Second our outlook for fiscal year 2013 is positive and we are confident we can deliver revenue growth of about 3.5% to 4.5% and EPS growth of 10% to 11% excluding the medical device tax.
Third we are already seeing sustained revenue growth operating leverage and improved quality of earnings as we bring to market our key products and complete our operating effectiveness [ph] programs.
Lastly we are committed to delivering superior value to our shareholders and customers all over the world.
Thank you and we will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> David or Suke I just want to kind of come back to your comments -- I think it was Suke -- on pricing.
I think last year in fiscal '12 we were aware of one specific product in the U.S.
that was driving significant pricing pressure for the company.
So I was a little surprised that in fiscal '13 your pricing pressure is scheduled to be kind of equal to fiscal '12.
And just anniversary-ing that significant issue I thought pricing would get a little better.
So could you please just walk us through in fiscal '13 other factors that are driving sort of in-line pricing versus '12 versus a slight improvement? Sure.
Suke can do that for you.
Sure David.
It's a great observation.
You're right.
Throughout 2012 we were sort of talking about overcoming the onetime issue that we had with pricing sort of improving the back half of the year.
And '13 you're right.
We're staying broadly in line with '12 and that primarily contemplates sort of a challenging macroeconomic environment in Western Europe as well as in other developed economies.
So we're just being a little bit prudent with our overall pricing assumption.
So David we see Southern Europe.
We see more pricing pressures there and we're being conservative to make sure that we have that covered.
That's what you're seeing going on here.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just one more quick technical question.
Vince on that point in this year fiscal '13 you're sort of getting back to the gross margins you saw in 2010 but you're not getting back to the operating margins you saw in 2010.
And maybe just help us sort of reconcile over the last 2 to 3 years what you think that disconnect is now being driven from? Well the first obvious disconnect of course is the medical device tax which is $40 million to $50 million and that's the biggest impact.
So I think if you look at the performance we're talking about with approximately about a 4% revenue growth and 10% to 11% on the bottom line I think the consistency of the 50 basis points of operating leverage I don't think there's any disconnect there.
But if you go back over the last couple of years of course the major change in the environment has been number one the pricing environment and Suke just talked about that element.
The second piece of course was the ramp-up in cost of materials.
Now going forward into this year we're saying that those costs are going to be basically about flat.
The other element I would point to that's a multiyear phenomena which is about the last 3 years has been pension costs and those have been a significant increase.
And lastly of course it has been EVEREST and EVEREST will peak as we said in 2013.
Suke do have anything else you want to add to that? I would say Vince we also continue to invest in emerging markets and our growth rates in those regions are quite strong so we feel really good about that.
And then of course we've done a number of acquisitions over the last few years which of course has added to our cost base but these acquisitions actually are performing quite well.
Yes.
And really ones that are becoming accretive.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Kim here for Mike.
So first question maybe for Vince.
It looks like you're guiding to 3% to 4% organic growth for '13.
And just curious where do you think your end markets are growing right now? And as you look forward for Becton how do you think about the company's willingness to take on further dilution for either acquisition or divestiture given your end markets under pressure? So on the divestiture side I think the portfolio is in good shape so I don't see any significant issue there number one.
Number two from an acquisition standpoint the ones that we have done early on are starting to become accretive and of course we have some dilution from the newer ones baked into the guidance that we just gave you.
So we're going to be consistent in terms of doing tuck-in acquisitions.
And I think you're going to get to a rolling situation where you have some improving and then you have some newer ones coming on.
So I would think about the dilution that way small amount of dilution but also being offset by improvement in the earlier ones as we take advantage of the whole business strategy which is to leverage them and drive them globally.
Now in terms of the end markets I think what we see right now is as we said stability in the U.S.
market which means that they're pretty flat.
If they're around 1% or so somewhere in that range that's pretty good in the U.S.
and Europe.
And so you're talking low-single-digit growth offset by double-digit growth in emerging markets with China growing significantly higher than that.
And we're still seeing good growth in Latin America.
We're going to watch the health care spending in those marketplaces.
What we see right now Kim is that the Chinese are continuing to spend aggressively even though the GDP growth rate has come down a little bit.
But those are the kind of factors we see for the next couple of years.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up on the expenses that you're going to see in fiscal '13 2 items so EVEREST peaks in '13 and the pension expense continues to be a headwind.
Is there any way you could quantify the incremental impact from each of those items in '13 versus '12? Suke is going to talk to that.
Sure.
So from an EVEREST perspective we're looking at incremental expenditures of about $10 million as we plan for our biggest wave going into 2013 and '14.
And then for the pension perspective it's about $10 million year-over-year.
Your next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted just to go a little bit farther into the revenue performance.
This year I think you came out just I think for the full year a little bit above 4% FX neutral which included some acquisition revenue.
Next year includes some acquisitions.
And you're saying that the low end of the guidance contemplates a deterioration in end market trends but it doesn't look as though the low end of the guidance is that far off the organic picture that you're -- that 2012 represented.
So I'm just trying to understand how much conservatism you're baking into.
So if you could provide a little bit more detail that would be helpful.
Sure we can and Suke can walk you through that.
The starting point of course is the annualization of some of the acquisitions.
But Suke why don't you just break that out.
Sure.
So if you think about 2012 foreign currency neutral growth at a BD level of 4.3% and as we talked about in the presentation acquisitions contributed about 100 basis points.
It's probably closer to 110 basis points.
So if you think of it in that terms your underlying organic growth is somewhere in the low 3s.
Let's call it 3.2%.
As we move into 2013 as we said acquisitions will contribute about 50 basis points.
So if you think about sort of the midpoint of our revenue range to the upper end of 4% to 4.5% again reserving sort of the bottom half for a worsening environment if you take that 4% or 4.5% and take the 50 basis points off our acquisitions you get to an underlying organic growth that is accelerating year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So I'm trying to understand how accelerating growth matches up with a deterioration in the environment.
So basically what we're saying the midpoint of the guidance is pretty much stable environment and so that if you start to go below that we're looking at either an event in Western Europe and that would probably be Southern Europe or some softening in U.S.
So those are the kind of things now that we're looking about.
In the U.S.
it's probably worsening of the bioscience situation and we're being obviously conservative there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Then Vince maybe just a strategic question for you.
If you look at your emerging markets growth this quarter very nice acceleration from what we had seen over the first 3 quarters of the year and a pretty fast return on that $60 million that you spent.
So as you think about resource allocation why wouldn't you keep putting that type of money into emerging markets and use Europe as a source of funds or reconsider the M&amp;A strategy given that you've seen this quick a return on that investment in emerging markets? So where we have the opportunity for a very quick payback we are going to fund it.
I mean it's a great question that you bring up and so that's certainly in line with our thinking.
It's not true that all elements of the investment pay back that fast.
So in the right geographies in the right countries we agree with you.
Your next question comes from the line Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Question.
I just wanted to go back again just kind of on the moving parts within kind of SG&amp;A.
I think you had said there was about $40 million.
EVEREST you said was $10 million.
Pension was another $10 million.
What's the other $20 million? Is that including emerging markets spending? So we said $40 million in emerging markets.
And then Suke broke out the incremental EVEREST which was $10 million Suke? That's right.
And then you added the pension costs at another $10 million.
Well the $10 million for pensions all over -- across the P&amp;L.
It's $5 million in SSG&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> And then can you just maybe run through Diagnostics? I know you had mentioned Women's Health was a little bit softer as well as GeneOhm.
I guess what gives you the confidence that those 2 are going to be turning around? So Tom Polen can speak to that and I'm sure he's going to talk to some of the progress he's making with BD MAX and some of the other programs.
Would you like to do that for us? Sure.
Kristen this is Tom.
Just around the performance of GeneOhm so let me just comment on that for the quarter first off.
So GeneOhm actually was down for the quarter about 7.9% driven by what we shared in the past related to MRSA competitiveness and pricing pressure.
In Q4 we did receive MRSA approval on BD MAX in the U.S.
and obviously we're very focused on driving those new MAX placements.
So I think we said before we are seeing very good early customer demand and excitement around BD MAX and we do expect though that with that underlying trend that we're now turning around from GeneOhm.
We expect that's going to take a few quarters until we see that significant ramp as MAX solidifies the base and provides additional growth moving forward.
Tom is not in his submarine but he is off-site.
It was difficult to hear.
So we thank him for joining the call.
He's also got some good opportunities on the Viper platform as well with the launch of Trich in the fourth quarter and HPV coming out.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to go back Tom for a second if you could give us some more detail about TriPath Cdiff.
and some of the STD performance in the quarter as well.
Sure.
Tom can you -- did you hear the question? Okay yes.
Amit this is Tom.
Just following back up.
So specifically let me start off with TriPath and cytology.
So in the quarter cytology business just grew over 2% which is driven by a tale of 2 worlds.
First x U.S.
we're delivering very solid high double-digit growth as we continue to upgrade customers from conventional path and we see particularly in emerging countries as they continue to expand their access to cervical cancer screening.
In the U.S.
the counter to that we continue to see path volumes pressure due to extended intervals and we actually saw a higher-than-typical declining in demand for pap testing overall in the U.S.
this past quarter.
As we look at the STD business just kind of switching there on the Viper business we are up just a percent this quarter.
For the full year our STDs are up 3% and that's a few points higher volume that we are gaining over the 3% offset partially by pricing pressures in that marketplace.
As Vince mentioned in the second half of FY '13 as he stated we will be launching the Viper LT platform in the U.S.
and in Europe starting with GC/CT on a global basis and HPV x U.S.
So we expect that to help further accelerate the STD business.
Research Division</strong> And then my second question on Europe more specifically I think in the past you've talked about Spain with $100 million in accounts receivable but Spain started paying again for you guys.
But you guys have alluded to Italy potentially getting worse.
Is that what you're starting to see actually happening as you discuss Southern Europe pressure in '13? So you're right.
Spain has resolved itself.
We've been paid so we're in very good position with what's going in Spain.
Suke can talk to you about Italy where it's not really the whole country but just a piece of Italy.
But you want to make some comments Suke? Sure Vince.
Yes in Italy we do have a large accounts receivable balance.
As Vince said it's not problematic across the entire country.
It's pretty much isolated to a few regions and while we do see some large outstanding balances there we're not seeing a significant increase since the prior year.
So while it is large we are seeing some stabilization there.
And the government is calling for the hospitals to pay.
So the situation -- there's a chance that this situation is starting to improve but we'll follow it closely.
Yes.
I would say in Italy the primary concern is more around pricing as opposed to receivables.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with Macquarie.
So my -- just I guess one quick question on your final point Vince I want to follow-up on which is on the new products.
So I think you mentioned that they're about 8% of sales in '11 and 10% of sales in 2012.
Can you maybe just talk about what's being required from an investment standpoint where these products are coming in from pricing standpoint? Are these accretive to results? And I guess just trying to understand how these are able to continue to grow as you talk about launching new products.
Are these accretive to your margins and your earnings? Or are you having to invest a little bit more? I'm just trying to understand the impact they're having below the revenue line.
So generally from a gross profit line they are -- they have a positive impact.
Now you have certain product launches of course where you have to invest in the launch of the new product on the sales and marketing side so we're spending against them.
And what you're seeing in our expense ratios for this year the sales and marketing area is the cost to launch those new products as well.
As you get scale of course you get quite good leverage in these new product areas.
So they're all baked into the R&amp;D number which is about 6% of sales.
The uptick you saw in this quarter was really driven by acquisitions and some timing.
So you should be thinking about around 6% and then getting gross margin leverage as we get more volume in these areas.
Okay.
So...
So net-net positive over time.
And so for -- do you have like a target if you're -- if it was 8% of '11 say and 10% of '12? I know the new products are a big part of trying to get this -- the growth back to more historic levels.
Do you expect that to be back to like -- what do you expect that number to be in '13 I guess? Well we haven't guided that on '13 but we -- I would refer you back to what we were saying was the end of '14 that back in November I mean the 10% was done on the same number -- I mean the same accounting.
So 18% by the end of fiscal year '14.
That's the goal.
Okay so you're still on -- that's still your goal okay.
Yes there's been some puts and takes there but that's the goal.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Taylor with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a couple of questions maybe thinking about the strategy longer term.
You talked a lot about '13 here but just wanted to understand how you're thinking about a couple of your key drivers in terms of the safety tailwind internationally and emerging market growth over a longer period say 3 to 5 years and what kind of runway you think you have in both of those areas.
Sure.
I'm going to ask Bill Kozy to address those.
On the emerging markets we think we have a long runway there with -- kind of from a modeling standpoint the next few years using a consistent growth rate with what we're talking about for '13 is a very good starting point.
But we think we're early on in that story especially out in Asia.
Bill maybe you want to comment on the safety piece.
Yes on the safety piece just to build on Vince's comment the international market continues to be a focal point for investment and product rollout.
As you heard we had a really good fourth quarter.
Remember that the European legislative activity is targeted for a May 2013 implementation.
We continue to put significant effort and attention on that and our safety growth in Asia particularly in China continues to be very favorable.
So if you were trying to characterize a tailwind as we move forward that tailwind both come from those targeted emerging markets where we've got new safety platforms launching as well as Europe.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful and then I just wanted to understand in terms of leverage can you help us with how you're thinking about producing some operating leverage post these ReLoCo programs? And then obviously your funding the buyback this year with proceeds from a divestiture.
How can we think about buyback going forward? So in terms of operating leverage we expect to continue to get gross margin leverage.
And as we finish up ReLoCo I and ReLoCo II we're going to have more operating effectiveness programs.
I don't know if we'll call it ReLoCo III but that is our mindset okay in terms of continuous improvement and we're already working on those sorts of things in anticipation of finishing up ReLoCo I and ReLoCo II.
In the SSG&amp;A area we're still early on in the implementation of our shared service centers.
And then lastly as we get EVEREST in place across the company we think that that is going to enable a lot of these G&amp;A savings programs both from a savings standpoint and an effectiveness standpoint.
So we look at all of those things.
then you roll in the new products back to the gross margin in terms of some gross margin leverage going forward.
Now in terms of share buybacks number one we'll have to see what the -- in terms of cash and cash planning we'll have to understand what the tax situation is going forward.
That's obviously very much up in the air.
But both parties have said that from a corporate tax standpoint they have a lot of work to do.
And so we'll have a clear understanding of what the environment is that we're living under hopefully over the next 6 to 12 months.
But we also have the possibility of bringing back cash from time to time from higher tax countries and we've done that historically and we do expect to do that going forward.
So yes this year is kind of a one-off in terms of funding the buyback via a divestiture but that's not the way we had planned to do them going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Weinstein with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> A question on the TriPath business.
The trends that you guys have been seeing with solid all-U.S.
growth up in the double digits and the emerging countries.
I'm curious where outside the U.S.
you guys think we are in terms of that conversion from conventional to liquid-based pap testing.
And how many years more do we have of kind of that low-double-digit growth in that business particularly? So Tom can answer that question but it's not just about conversion from conventional.
It's whole new markets opening up to a pap smear testing.
So Tom would you like to make a comment or 2? Yes.
So Brian this is Tom.
As you look at cervical cancer screening x U.S.
so if you just take the number of women who are eligible for cervical cancer screening 90% are not screened today.
So if you look at the 10% who are screened outside of the U.S.
of eligible women about 1/3 of them are screened using LBC and 2/3 are screened using conventional pap.
So if you just do the math there and if you start getting up towards developed market screening rates there's quite a long ways to go just in terms of expanding access for women as well as opportunity to continue to convert conventional to LBC.
As Vince mentioned I'm calling in from outside the office.
I'm in Tokyo right now.
And I think here in Japan is a great example that it is an x U.S.
market but a very developed market but one in which only 25% of women in Japan have ever had a routine cervical cancer screen.
So even in markets like this there's still significant growth as the governments are continuing to expand screening programs.
And we see that not only in more developed markets like Japan but certainly in markets like China and India throughout Latin America.
And so we see certainly for the next several years that x U.S.
growth around cervical cancer screening to be a continuing trend.
Obviously we'll be supplementing that.
Research Division</strong> And do you think you're taking -- sorry.
I was just going to say of course we'll be supplementing that with the algorithm that the country chooses as we launch our HPV genotyping assay in the second half of FY '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I haven't had a chance to kind of compare what you guys said this quarter versus last on the program and product launch updates but were there any delays in any of the programs that you guys highlighted? Or is everything still on schedule from where it was last quarter? We've talked about the fact that the 2 small analyzers.
I believe...
I'm sorry Tom.
In the overall program the 2 small analyzers for Biosciences are now 2014.
Tom any changes on your products? No not significantly [ph].
We highlighted last quarter the Totalys being one quarter delayed but all other assays and programs remain on track.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Criscuolo with Mizuho.
Research Division</strong> Just filling in for Peter.
So on the $20 million noncash pension charge was that realized in other income? Go ahead Suke.
Sure.
So that $20 million would have been realized throughout the P&amp;L.
Some of it was held in gross margins as well as SSG&amp;A and R&amp;D as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it was fairly distributed then more or less? That's right.
Research Division</strong> And then the interest income looks like it increased about -- it almost doubled actually from last quarter.
Was there anything behind that? Primarily around deferred compensation where we had an uptick in the return on assets there.
But as we've said before you generally see an equal offset in SSG&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly quickly on the Diagnostic pricing pressure that you've seen have they gotten worse? Or are they stable? I would say they're generally fairly stable.
Tom? Yes this is Tom.
Just I would say fairly stable within that MRSA space and in the STD space where we have seen them not deteriorating further but stable.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> It's Dave Clair in for Bill Quirk.
The only one for me I was just hoping you could quantify the impact of ReLoCo in 2012.
And are you still expecting $50 million to $60 million in savings in 2013 from ReLoCo? Yes go ahead Suke.
Dave this is Suke.
So as we stated through the presentation we are on track to deliver what we previously communicated so the $50 million to $60 million on ReLoCo I at total annualized savings.
But as we said combined both programs ReLoCo I and II would be an incremental $40 million to $50 million in 2013.
So we did see some benefits net benefits from ReLoCo I in 2012.
We've not sized those.
I think the important thing here is the $40 million $50 million we're talking about in '13.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Palmer with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Question on these programs.
Could you discuss how the ReLoCo and EVEREST spending steps down through the end of these programs? So Suke can address that.
But EVEREST what we're seeing is flattens out as we start to amortize the system as more and more -- as we get further around the go live as we go through the different phase.
And then in terms of ReLoCo spending what we would expect is that we're talking about the net benefit here.
So that is -- that's going down and you're starting to see the benefits.
And as Bill Kozy was mentioning before we would start to work on other cost-saving programs which are not completely defined right now.
Suke anything else on that? No I think you characterized it well Vince.
The important thing is well we're not guiding on '14.
As Vince said we expect EVEREST to sort of flatten out so we would not see or expect to see a major tailwind into '14 on that.
And then with ReLoCo again we're coming out of investment mode on ReLoCo I.
We're still in investment mode on ReLoCo II however delivering net benefits.
And then you should expect continued net benefits incrementally in '14 as well because we said ReLoCo II hits in '14 a good chunk of that anyway.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe could you just dive deeper into this onetime pension expense.
What exactly was that? And was that something that was within your control? So overall it was a $20 million charge in the fourth quarter.
It's really composed of 2 items.
About 75% of that was due to a plan a small plan we have in the U.S It's a spillover plan which takes into consideration contributions over IRS limits.
Since it's such a small plan it's very sensitive to large lump sum distributions.
We did have some of those large distributions in the fourth quarter which required a remeasurement and therefore we had to record again a noncash and what we expect to be a nonrecurring charge.
The other say 25% of it related to a plant closure in Sweden where we completely settled the -- and closed out the pension liability so again a nonrecurring event.
So both of these we see as non-core to current and future earnings.
And certainly the first issue was not under our control.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then maybe lastly if I can touch on Bioscience for a second could you talk qualitatively about the growth expectations between U.S.
and international? What I'm really wondering is on the U.S.
business do you expect the declines there to calendarize? Or really continue to decrease throughout the year? Bill would you like to address Biosciences? Sure.
As I think you heard in some of the guidance comments that were made we're treating Biosciences as kind of an ongoing challenge with the bulk of the top line growth coming from outside the U.S.
and the U.S.
market on a stand-alone basis being challenged with Europe also being a kind of a developed market low-level grower.
If you were to use '12 as an example -- and I think you probably saw some of this -- but our emerging markets grew at double digits and our developed markets Europe U.S.
grew at negative low single digit.
So you get a minus 2% 3% going in those develop markets.
You get a positive low-double-digit growth going in those emerging markets.
And that's the way we see it at least over the next 12 months.
We're not really looking beyond that at this point in time.
We're taking it kind of a year at a time.
Your next question comes on the line of Alex Morozov with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up on the Biosciences.
In your 2013 base guidance for the segment how are you looking at the sequestration and its impact on the performance? So how are we looking at sequestration? Basically what we're saying is there's going to be uncertainty throughout the year and so the market is generally going to continue to be paralyzed because they're going to be working on this deal.
So we're not assuming a deal and a rapid turnaround.
Research Division</strong> And a related question to the one on new product introductions.
It looks like you're guiding a moderate acceleration in the R&amp;D spend again for 2013 a more or less continuation of what we've seen over the past few years.
Is this step-up more indicative of this new product boast that you guys are forming -- currently working? Or is it still top line weakness? How should we be looking at the R&amp;D spend going forward? The R&amp;D spend you should think about innovations going to continue to be an important part of our strategy.
But around 6% or just above 6% is kind of where we're targeted now.
I don't see that changing in the short run.
Your next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess just one follow-up just kind of overall.
You had mentioned for fiscal '13 it was going to be more back-end loaded and a lot of that was just kind of timing of spending I assume.
How back-end loaded I guess are you talking as we look at kind of numbers heading into kind of the first quarter? Kind of the pattern.
Yes.
So it really Kristen follows more along the revenue line.
We expect about 100 basis points of increased revenue in the second half versus the first half.
That was our final question.
I'd now like to turn the floor back to Vince Forlenza for any closing remarks.
Sure.
Well thank you all for participating.
We're looking forward to a strong 2013.
As I said in my remarks before we're excited about our opportunities in emerging markets the new products we're launching and the fact that we're making good progress with our cost-reduction programs.
So we look forward to updating you on all of those initiatives as we go forward during the year.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's First Fiscal Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through February 12 2013 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at (800) 585-8367 for domestic calls and (404) 537-3406 for international calls using conference ID 87420149.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us to [ph] first fiscal quarter results.
As we reference in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our first fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filing.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are Suky Upadhyay Senior Vice President Corporate Controller and acting Chief Financial Officer; Bill Kozy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Tom Polen President of Diagnostic Systems.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
As we stated in our press release we're off to a good start this year and we're pleased with our performance in the first fiscal quarter.
Overall revenues and EPS were solid.
At the end of December we completed the acquisition of Safety Syringes Inc.
or SSI.
SSI specializes in the development of anti-needlestick devices for prefilled syringes and will be reported in our Pharmaceutical Systems business unit within BD Medical's -- BD's Medical segment.
Growth in the first quarter was driven by our Medical and Diagnostic segments.
Revenue growth was partially aided by an early flu season and favorable comparisons to the prior year period.
In our Bioscience segment we saw solid growth which was driven by improved instrument placements in the U.S.
as well as favorable comparisons to last year.
We also saw strong continued growth in international Safety sales and emerging markets.
As we've been discussing with you for some time now we have spent the past 2 years making significant strategic investments in our business in the backdrop of a challenging macroeconomic environment.
When we provided our full year guidance in November we expected to see solid revenue growth margin expansion and underlying double-digit earnings growth excluding the medical device tax.
Our underlying business performance for the first quarter demonstrates that our strategy is delivering results and gives us the confidence to raise the bottom end of both our revenue and EPS guidance ranges.
Suky will provide more details on our fiscal year 2013 outlook later in his remarks.
On Slide 5 we've outlined our first quarter revenue and EPS results which I will speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
The total company revenues were solid increasing by 5.2%.
Fully diluted EPS came in at $1.35 growing at 15.8% over the prior year.
Now I'd like to turn things over to Suky for a more detailed discussion of our first quarter financial performance.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by discussing the key financial highlights for the first quarter.
As Vince just stated our results were ahead of our expectations with Medical and Diagnostics driving solid growth for the company.
This quarter we also saw an improvement in our Biosciences segment.
After normalizing for the flu favorable comparisons and acquisitions our first quarter underlying revenue grew at the upper end of our previous guidance range.
As a reminder when we talk about our acquisitions this year we are referring to KIESTRA Sirigen and SSI.
Accuri and Carmel Pharma have annualized and will now be included in our base going forward.
In the quarter we saw strong gross margin expansion of 200 basis points which led to improved operating margin expansion of 220 basis points.
We are on track to meet our goal of about 50 basis points of underlying operating margin expansion for the fiscal year.
Additionally during the quarter we completed about $300 million of our $500 million share repurchase plan for FY 2013.
As Vince also mentioned our first quarter results gives us the confidence to raise the bottom end of our currency-neutral revenue and EPS guidance ranges.
Given a stronger euro we're also raising our reported revenue and EPS outlook while also tightening the range.
I'll provide more details around our outlook later in the call.
Now let's move on to Slide 8 where I will review our revenue growth by segment on a currency-neutral basis.
As I just mentioned revenue growth was 5.2% for the total company which included about 50 basis points of growth due to an early flu season.
Pricing erosion was about 70 basis points which is slightly better than our full year estimate of about 100 basis points.
BD Medical's first quarter revenues increased 5.1%.
The growth in this segment was primarily driven by Diabetes Care at 9.1%.
This reflects continued strong sales of pen needles which include our Nano and PentaPoint products.
We also saw benefit from a favorable comparison [ph] to the prior year which was negatively impacted by softer international sales.
Our Medical Surgical growth was 3.9% led by emerging markets and international Safety sales including our PhaSeal product.
Pharmaceutical Systems growth was 4% in the quarter.
As we mentioned earlier we recently closed on SSI at the end of December and that will be reported within the Pharmaceutical Systems unit going forward.
BD Diagnostics first quarter revenues increased 6.1%.
The segment's growth was primarily driven by international expansion a favorable comparison to the prior year period in the Preanalytical Systems unit and an early flu season.
BD Biosciences revenue growth was 3.3% versus the prior year period due to solid instrument placements in the U.S.
and from a favorable comparison to the last year.
The prior year period was negatively impacted by reduced U.S.
research funding and lower demand for high-end instruments.
Overall we still see uncertainty in this segment with the government continuing to work through NIH funding specifics for the fiscal year.
We remain cautious about near-term growth expectations for this segment.
Moving to Slide 9 I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the first quarter.
Overall we saw stability in the U.S.
and continued strength in international sales.
BD's reported U.S.
revenues increased 3% versus the prior year.
Growth in our Medical segment was 2.6%.
Growth in the Diagnostic segments was 2.9% and U.S.
Biosciences growth was about 5.3%.
International revenues grew 7% with strong growth coming from Medical and Diagnostics segments.
On a currency-neutral basis the Medical segment grew 7.1% Diagnostics grew 9.4% and Biosciences grew 2.4%.
BD Biosciences international growth was lower than historical averages due to ordering patterns in certain geographies.
We saw strong growth in emerging markets across all 3 segments while the Medical and Diagnostics segments also benefited from strong sales of safety-engineered products.
Moving to global Safety on Slide 10.
Currency-neutral sales increased 5.9% and grew to $511 million in the quarter.
Revenues in the U.S.
were about flat.
International sales grew 14.3% on a currency-neutral basis with Western Europe and emerging markets both growing double digits.
Medical Safety sales grew 6% which benefited from our PhaSeal product.
Diagnostics growth was 5.7% driven by a range of safety-engineered products.
On Slide 11 I will review our revenue growth in the first quarter.
Our reported growth rate increased 3.7%.
Performance contributed 5.2% [indiscernible] by 1.5% of unfavorable currency translation.
Acquisitions contributed about 10 basis points of growth.
Moving to Slide 12.
We experienced a 210 basis point expansion in gross margin versus the prior year.
Gross profit improvement was primarily driven by our ReLoCo programs and favorable raw material pricing.
In addition gross profit was benefited by some onetime items that we do not expect to repeat in the remainder of the year.
These items include a larger-than-expected favorable foreign currency translation as well as certain continuous improvement initiatives.
We expect gross margins to be within our full year guidance range that we provided in November which is between 51.5% and 51.7%.
Slide 13 recaps the first quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency-neutral results.
As I just mentioned first quarter revenue growth increased by 5.2% and gross profit increased by 210 basis points.
Moving down the income statement SSG&amp;A increased about 4% primarily due to increased investments in emerging markets acquisitions and EVEREST spending.
R&amp;D increased 5.5% which is in line with our expectations.
Our operating income increased 13.6% due to solid revenue growth and improved gross margin profile and SSG growing slower than sales.
Our tax rate was higher in the quarter versus the prior year primarily due to some discrete tax expenses within the quarter.
In addition there were some onetime benefits in the prior year period.
For the full year we expect our tax rate to be in line with the previous guidance range of 24.3% to 24.5%.
This range accounts for the reenactment of the R&amp;D tax credit in the U.S.
These items resulted in earnings per share of $1.35 which is nearly a 16% increase versus the prior year.
Turning to Slide 14.
Based on our first quarter results we are raising the bottom end of our previously communicated guidance range for revenue and EPS growth.
On a reported basis given the strength of the euro we are accelerating the top end of our reported guidance range by 100 basis points and EPS by 150 basis points.
This assumes a euro exchange rate of $1.32 for the rest of the year.
All other P&amp;L guidance components remain unchanged from what we provided on our year-end call.
I will speak to the slide on a currency-neutral basis.
In this revised outlook which contemplates a stable macroeconomic environment we now expect revenue growth of about 4% to 4.5% which is broadly in line with our view of underlying growth for the first quarter.
Within the segments we expect both the Medical and Diagnostics segments to grow between 4% to 5% for the year.
With the recent improvement in Biosciences sales we now expect revenue growth of 1% to 2% for fiscal year 2013.
This assumes about a 3% reduction in the NIH budget.
If the budget cut is furthered we expect growth to be more [indiscernible] original guidance of about 1%.
We are raising the bottom end of our EPS guidance range to 7.5% to 8%.
Excluding the medical device tax we expect currency-neutral EPS to grow 10.5% to 11%.
This contemplates 50 basis points of operating margin expansion.
I would like to provide a little bit more color on our expectations for the second quarter.
We expect second quarter revenues to grow about 4% versus 5.2% in the first quarter.
At this time the second quarter is not expected to benefit materially from flu sales.
In addition the second quarter revenue growth will also be unfavorably impacted by the timing of orders in our Pharmaceutical Systems unit.
Also as we've been talking about for some time now we will have the negative impact of the medical device tax in the second quarter along with some increases in SSG&amp;A due to timing.
Due to the items I just mentioned we expect earnings per share for the second quarter to be at or slightly below our first quarter earnings per share of $1.35.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince who will provide a more detailed update on our performance in emerging markets and progress against our key initiatives.
Thanks Suky.
Moving on to Slide 16 we continue to see strong growth in emerging markets which accounted for approximately 24% of our total revenues in the first quarter.
Emerging market revenues grew 12.7% currency neutral over the prior year.
We had been making significant incremental investments in emerging markets which have sustained our strong growth and have delivered a rapid payback.
We saw double-digit growth in a number of key markets with China growing at about 24% currency neutral.
We are very pleased with Safety revenue growth in emerging markets which was up about 20% over the prior year.
Now moving on to Slide 17 we see the program and product launches in our Medical and Biosciences segments.
As I mentioned earlier we recently closed on our acquisition of SSI.
This enhances the safety offering in our Medical segment.
In Biosciences segment we have 2 [ph] analyzers for CD4 [ph] testing which we have been talking about for some time now.
We expect our FACSPresto analyzer to launch at the end of fiscal year 2014.
Our FACSClearCount analyzer launch timing has been restated due to other investment priorities.
We now expect this to launch in fiscal year 2015.
On Slide 18 you will see the various product launches in Diagnostics.
This past quarter we were approved for the RSV test on our Veritor point-of-care device.
So far we have placed several thousand Veritor devices and given the early flu season this year we experienced accelerated demand for this product.
On the MAX platform we currently have over 15 assays in our pipeline in the areas of health care-associated infections STDs women's health enteric and respiratory infections and cancer.
We've built up a nice pipeline of orders and expect sales to ramp up in the latter part of our fiscal year.
Of course we will continue to update you as we make progress on our pipeline initiatives.
On Slide 19 before we open the call to questions I'd like to reiterate the key messages from our discussion today.
First we're pleased with our solid start to fiscal year 2013.
We continued delivering on our commitment of improved performance.
Second as we're starting to see notable results across the P&amp;L as a result of our investment cycle we're experiencing solid revenue growth driving margin expansion and delivering a higher quality of earnings.
Third we will continue to look for strategic acquisitions and continue our investments in R&amp;D new products and emerging markets as well as our operating efficiency programs.
Finally we're positive about our outlook for the balance of this fiscal year and we are committed to delivering 4% to 4.5% currency-neutral revenue growth and about 10.5% to 11% EPS growth excluding the device tax and impact of foreign currency.
Through the hard work and dedication of everyone here at BD we're continuing to deliver value to our customers and shareholders worldwide.
Thank you and we'll now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted just to see if you could help us parse through some of the moving pieces here in the first quarter both on the revenue line and through the P&amp;L.
I know in your prepared remarks Suky you thought that the flu added I think you said about 50 basis points to growth this quarter.
But as you look across the businesses there do appear to be a few trends here that look more sustainable than what you're suggesting most notably the churn in Biosciences.
The comps there remain easy and get easier throughout the year.
BD MAX is obviously in its early stages.
It continues to ramp up.
And then you are still seeing a positive return on the emerging markets piece.
So maybe if you could tick through those on the top line about why those wouldn't continue through the balance of the year because it doesn't look like it's reflected in your guidance.
And then on the P&amp;L you referenced currency the onetime item this quarter.
But if you look how things progressed throughout the year it actually looks like currency turns into a tailwind as we pace through the rest of fiscal '13.
And that sounds like it would actually be an increasing benefit.
So maybe you can just help us with those factors.
Sure.
So from a top line perspective we did see a very good quarter and we saw some what I'll consider durable gains in some of our businesses.
We're seeing some very strong underlying growth in emerging markets in Safety sales and it's quite good to see a return to growth in U.S.
Biosciences.
But as we did mention we did benefit from about 50 basis points of an early flu season.
That flu season and those level of sales were contemplated in our full year guidance.
We expected those to happen in the second quarter and they actually came through in the first quarter.
So that was probably one of the biggest moving pieces as to why we think our top line will moderate going forward.
Also in the first quarter we benefited from what we'll consider very easy comparisons to the first quarter of last year.
So once you neutralize those 2 items we had a small amount of acquisition growth in the quarter we think we're somewhere in that 4% to 4.5% which is the top end of our range that we previously provided.
That's giving us the confidence.
So if you think about our full year guidance last year 3.5% to 4.5% we reserved the bottom end for some macroeconomic uncertainties.
Those uncertainties are still out there but again the fundamentals and underlying business give us the confidence to raise the bottom end.
David in the -- so I agree with everything that Suky said and a lot of things did go well within the quarter.
And we are seeing strong underlying business performance in emerging markets in Safety.
Biosciences we are assuming some degradation in the budget maybe a 3% impact or so.
So we have -- we did see a nice return with customers buying higher-end instruments.
We're a little conservative maybe there in terms of go forward.
We'll have to see actually what happens in Biosciences.
The other thing that I'd just point out to you on this quarter was that in Diagnostics we had a very good quarter for PAS the specimen collection business.
The impact of MAX is really going to be felt more in the second half of the year because those are reagent rentals and we have to get customers up and going and we're just really now starting to ship against a sizable pipeline.
So it was more PAS in the quarter than it was Diagnostics though other elements of Diagnostics went very well too.
So we are encouraged.
It's still early in the year though.
Yes.
And on your question David around foreign currency you're correct.
We do see a tailwind versus our previous assumption and primarily around the euro.
So previously we guided at a full year rate of about $1.27.
We've now got an assumption of about $1.32 which translates to $1.33 for the remaining 3 quarters.
This translates to about a 4% benefit.
So when you take that against the top line it's worth about $80 million and that's completely reflected in our new reported growth acceleration of about 100 basis points on the top line and 150 on EPS.
There's some moving parts in other parts of foreign currency the yen is weakening but those unfavorable impacts are being offset by strengthening across the peso rupee and a few other smaller currencies.
So really it's about the euro and as I said we've baked that into our reported guidance going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could maybe -- you'd talk about BD MAX and maybe just give us a little bit more color just kind of how things are progressing and to what extent you expect that to contribute just to Diagnostics for the year.
Sure Tom will talk to that.
Yes.
This is Tom Polen.
So we are continuing -- as Vince mentioned we're continuing to be pleased with early customer excitement and demand around the BD MAX.
We have built a backlog of orders and are shipping against that as Vince mentioned.
Also as he said we do expect it to take several quarters.
We're into the latter part of this year to see that ramp and that remains part of our outlook for the balance of this year but remain very positive on MAX and continue to get that feedback from our customers.
Tom how do you feel about the pipeline maybe as well? Yes pipeline...
In terms of assays.
Sure.
Pipeline continues to progress as we've communicated previously.
Of course we do remain very focused on menu expansion and our third IVD assay in the U.S.
Cdiff remains under FDA review and we're still expecting a launch on that later this quarter Q2.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then Vince I guess just a big picture question for you.
Any changes in terms of how you guys are looking at M&amp;A for the outlook for the year? No we're still really focused on doing plug-in acquisitions.
I think that we're getting more confident as we do more of them and we continue to improve our process.
We're pleased with the progress of the deals that are now annualized into our base and we feel pretty good about the ones that are -- the new ones that we did the last 3.
So we're staying on that strategy for the time being.
Your next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe one quick financial question for Suky maybe a quick follow-up for Tom.
Suky just first of all gross margins it was the strongest quarter in maybe 3 or 4 years.
I appreciate there was an FX tailwind there but you were sort of willing to say that you're comfortable with the upper end of constant-currency guidance.
I wonder if you can talk about the sustainability of margin improvement both gross and operating.
And is it too early in the year to get comfortable with sort of the upper end of your operating expansion comfort for fiscal '13? Yes so great question David.
So first from a gross margin perspective it's not uncommon in our business to see lumpiness throughout the year.
In fact if you look back at 2012 between the high and low point on gross margin there's about a 150 basis point spread.
So we think we're at the high point for the year on gross margin.
We do expect it to normalize for the remainder of the year.
We do think we're confidently at the upper end of that gross profit range that we provided which is somewhere in the neighborhood of about 50 to -- excuse me 40 to 50 basis points of gross margin improvement year-over-year.
Again we're going to see some down quarters coming off of this quarter because of some onetime benefits.
From an operating margin perspective again as we talked about in November our 50 basis points of underlying growth is primarily driven by gross margin.
So as I talked about gross margin you could basically translate that to operating income.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
Very helpful.
And then Tom you talked a lot about the Diagnostic pipeline but I don't think there's been a dramatic amount of sizing commentary.
And I think about a couple of specific products.
Cdiff obviously in the U.S.
but I think people really haven't pushed you on international.
The women's health diagnostic franchise really starts to come together heading into next year.
So could you just give us a sense of if you think about Cdiff or the women's health diagnostic franchise in '14 what type of size opportunity here do you think you're chasing? Yes this is Tom Polen.
We have not commented specifically on the size internationally versus U.S.
on that.
What I would comment perhaps on the women's health is as we've shared our Viper LT platform is scheduled to launch x U.S.
at the very end of this fiscal year.
That does remain on track.
We actually have started to install the first Viper LTs x U.S.
as part of our clinical trial.
That clinical trial is actually enrolling patients running samples right now preparing for the launch of HPV x U.S.
So we do recognize that with that launch of our HPV at the end of the year combined with the launch of our Totalys front-end automation system at the -- on the psychology side of women's health we will be in a very strong position we believe going into FY '14 around the women's [ph] portfolio.
In terms of the U.S.
Cdiff [indiscernible] does [ph].
Maybe just the only thing I would comment on is we do believe that continues to remain an overall attractive market.
It's growing strong double digits as a market overall and remains relatively still underconverted from EIA to molecular right? Still under 25% of the market is converted to molecular and so we see that having a positive growth outlook going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Vince or Suky obviously the buyback in the first quarter well ahead of the $500 million pace for the year.
Just like your perspective on what's the -- what holds back a greater amount of buyback this year? Is it M&amp;A pipeline? Or is it foreign cash repatriation? Just give us a sense of how you meter in the capital deployment the next couple of quarters.
So Suky will take that question but it's really a balance of all those things.
But Suky? That's right.
So we're still committed to the $500 million of share repurchases for the full year.
As Vince quite rightly said it's a balance.
We try to take into consideration our U.S.
x U.S.
cash position but also maintain enough flexibility to take advantage of strategic M&amp;A other investments et cetera.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I want to just get a little more detail from Tom on the Diagnostics side.
Last quarter there was some weakness in the women's health side.
It looks like it didn't take place this quarter.
So Tom can you just give us more detail on TriPath molecular *GeneOhm and just give us some underlying trends there? Sure.
Sure Amit.
This is Tom Polen.
Specific on molecular and women's health so molecular was flat to slightly positive growth in the quarter driven by STD testing.
That's a combination of our STD business GeneOhm and MAX that I just commented on.
If you think about women's health women's health was down in the low single digits this past quarter driven by negative U.S.
growth which was partially offset by continued strong double-digit growth internationally.
And that's been a trend that we've reported for the last several quarters.
The extension of Pap intervals in the U.S.
really driving that decline in the U.S.
market while expanding access to cervical cancer screening and conversion from conventional to LBC internationally is driving that double-digit growth in the rest of world.
Research Division</strong> And just to follow up on the Biosciences any other color you can provide Vince on instrument demand why you saw that pick up in the quarter? Well we think that -- and Bill can comment further on this.
What happened was that customers finally could not postpone their research any longer and that they had money set aside.
They kind of came to terms with what their staffing was going to be and started to spend.
And maybe you're getting more comfortable about the outlook from the -- where sequestration was going to be and kind of boxing that in.
And Bill I think maybe on the pharma side too we saw some good performance.
Maybe you want to comment on that.
Sure.
The impact the favorable impact which Vince referenced earlier was really in the high end analyzer.
We had Aria placements and LSR II placements perk up a little bit in the quarter.
And then as we had I think projected prior continued strong growth coming out of Accuri.
So the combination of those high-end sorters analyzers and Accuri moved our instrument growth back to a little bit healthier level than we experienced at any time in FY '12.
Yes and it really was U.S.
as well too.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Kim here.
Question on EU Safety.
That was a strong number in the quarter.
I think you said up double digits.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in Europe in terms of health care providers starting to come into compliance with Safety mandates? So yes we can and really we're seeing the pickup more in Northern Europe than Southern Europe at this point in time.
So we were about 10% or so in Western Europe not driven by Southern but by the Northern piece.
So they're moving on the law is basically what happens.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes.
And remind me the deadline on that? Isn't it by the end of this fiscal year that they're supposed to be...
It was May.
It's May.
Research Division</strong> May.
Okay okay.
And just a follow-up on the gross margin.
I know we've had a couple of questions on that this morning but in terms of the FX benefit in the quarter to your gross margin is it right I'm remembering from past years that oftentimes you'll see almost a timing benefit as you mark your hedges to market in a given quarter? So that did we see some of that here in the quarter? And so that would be I guess the reason why even though FX going forward remains more favorable for you guys you're not looking for as much of it on the gross margin line? Yes that's exactly it.
It has to do -- it's multivariable very complex but has to do with where -- what region product has produced that when it's produced what rate it's used opposite when it goes into inventory and is released in an inventory and what region it comes out and what FX rate it comes out at.
So that's one of the reasons that's driving the favorable FX in the quarter.
Again we expect that to neutralize for the full year.
If that assumption changes we'll update you throughout the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Rick Wise with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Maybe first on the U.S.
Safety.
Vince it's -- if I'm looking at it correctly U.S.
Safety flat one of the weaker quarters we've seen in some time.
Just help us understand what the drivers were there.
Maybe as part of that you could talk about -- give us a little more color on the significance or potential significance of the Safety Syringe acquisition how it's going to contribute and the timing of products et cetera.
Sure I'll let Bill talk to both of those but really U.S.
Safety has been I think low single digits for a while.
So this is not really a big change in U.S.
Safety characteristics.
Of course we did have PhaSeal come into the product mix but when you pull that out it's been pretty flat single digit.
Bill you want to talk to SSI? Sure.
SSI -- this is Bill Kozy Rick.
SSI pulls us into this passive safety syringe market particularly focused on the prefill side and gives us a chance to really expand our product array with our -- particularly our big pharma customers who are showing a little increased interest in safety platforms going forward.
So you're familiar with the existing product that we had which was not passive.
This rounds us out on the other side and gets us into that new space.
And we've got a reasonable amount of strategic interest on our part but as well as our big pharma customers.
So we're enthused about bringing that into the BD portfolio.
Talk about [ph] guidance.
Guidance.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And when do you think you're going to see some products there Bill approved? No those products are already on the market.
That is not a start-up scenario.
It's a small revenue-based business but already with a customer base and a pipeline of potential new customers which we're inheriting and pursuing.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One other quick one on China up 24% Vince obviously outstanding.
Just maybe update us on where you are with your investments and buildout there.
What do you -- what's your focus over the next 12 months or so? And I assume you -- we can expect that 20% plus kind of growth to continue.
So I like your [ph] editorial comment.
But listen we're very pleased with the results there and it's across the board across Medical.
It's across PAS.
It's Diagnostics and Biosciences is doing well.
So we built the basic infrastructure.
We're now moving into what I would call mid-tier markets in China expanding our [indiscernible] and our distribution partnerships.
So I think we've built a strong foundation.
We do think that there is a lot of runway to go in China and we continue to see the government investing even as the economy slows down somewhat.
So we are encouraged and we think we've built a strong organization.
Rick just one thing to close out on the Safety piece around the U.S.
We did see a soft quarter but for the full year we expect to be somewhere in about the 4% to 5% range in the U.S.
and as Bill mentioned primarily driven by the SSI acquisition.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Weinstein.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter I think you guys had talked about pricing in general and wanting to be prudent there.
But this quarter you saw it a little bit better down I think you said 70 basis points versus kind of the 100 you guys were expecting.
Is there anything that -- well first of all why is -- why are you expecting still down 100 basis points? Are there things there that are going to flow through in back half of the year there? And kind of then going to the gross margin question again.
If pricing is a little bit better it would seem that there's potential upside on the gross margin side.
So pricing was a little bit better in the first quarter.
You're right.
We haven't gone back and changed the guidance on pricing yet.
We're still watching Europe in particular to see what will happen there.
So we'll revisit it at the end of the second quarter but you're right.
We're off to a little better start than we thought.
Research Division</strong> Is there any particular area where you're seeing price benefit that you didn't expect? Are there areas where we're seeing price benefits? We didn't see the price decreases that we thought we might see not -- it's not a pricing increase so much.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a quick follow-up for Tom just on the Cdiff delays.
Is there anything to read into that? Or is that just a normal FDA dialogue? Are they looking for additional data or anything on that? Brian this is Tom.
Nothing unusual just normal process and we have provided any additional information and our active discussion with them but we'd consider this routine.
The next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with Macquarie.
So Vince can you maybe -- you mentioned the strength in Preanalytical.
Can you maybe just talk on the Diagnostics? I mean maybe you can just talk a little bit about what thought drove that.
And maybe -- I haven't really heard any comments kind of just your latest thoughts on just general utilization trends in more of the developed markets.
And then for Tom just a quick question given the strength in flu what you expect microbiology to grow for the year.
Sure.
So 2 pieces on PAS.
One is they continue to do as they have the last couple of quarters very well in emerging markets.
And as health care gets built out of course we're starting to see more laboratory testing.
And that has accelerated over I would say the last 6 months or so.
So we feel very good about their international strategy.
U.S.
was more timing and easier comparison.
And we saw this last year where it was a little lumpy in the first half of the year.
We're seeing the same thing this year.
Part of the reason Suky gave the guidance he gave on the second quarter was we thought PAS was a little bit hot in the first quarter and that it would normalize.
But overall the business is performing well.
So that was that.
In terms of utilization I think we're basically still saying pretty stable not getting worse.
We're continuing to see softness because of this move to a larger interval in the U.S.
for the TriPath business.
Otherwise I would call it stable.
Tom? Yes.
And this Tom Polen just following up on your question regarding microbiology growth.
So we have not historically commented on outlook on microbiology growth specifically but what I will say is that we are seeing some favorable growth in that area driven by new products.
Specifically as Vince mentioned earlier Veritor is off to a very good start.
We're now at about 4 000 placements roughly on the Veritor platform.
Obviously that increased base combined with an early flu season has really benefited that launch specifically.
And as we've commented on in the past our acquisition of KIESTRA and really the -- that solution as it comes to helping our customers improve lab efficiency and deliver faster time to result is also going very well.
And we expect continued strong performance in both of those areas through the balance of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Larry Keusch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Vince you mentioned emerging markets continue to do well and that's been a trend that we've seen over the last couple quarters.
It's also -- I think you said in your prepared comments that it's a relatively low-risk investment for you guys and you're clearly seeing the results.
I guess the question the first question is is there opportunity to do more in terms of investment than you have been doing? And could we see that begin to perhaps accelerate further over the next year or so? And then secondly on the Safety deadline of May in Europe what do you think happens when we approach that date? Do we -- do you really expect the countries to comply with that? And I guess what I'm really asking is given just the austerity issues particularly in Southern Europe could we see actually some countries Spain Italy et cetera perhaps not fully complying with the deadline? So it's the latter which is we think we'll see a continuation of the trend that we're seeing which is Northern Europe moving ahead Southern Europe lagging and not moving ahead aggressively in Safety.
In terms of emerging markets we think we have it paced right because in addition to the fact that we're adding people there is a very large training component to what we do as we bring on sales force as we sell value.
If we were just going aggressively for share and not really trying to optimize the value of what we're selling we could probably go faster.
And then there's a whole piece of distributor management that we're putting in place.
And lastly very important to us is compliance.
And we don't want to get ahead of ourselves from a compliance standpoint and making sure that we really have the organization trained up.
Having said all that if we think there's an opportunity to go faster because these do pay back in about 12 months or so 12 to 18 months at the outside we would certainly look at that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just sneak in one other one.
I think Suky you talked about raw materials.
How should we -- and the favorable comp.
How should we think about raw material costs as you guys think about that going through the year? Yes sure.
So raw materials in the quarter from a GP impact were about 40 bps and that's primarily if you think about what we were talking about last year we saw in the first quarter a really big headwind on raw materials.
So we're benefiting one from underlying improved pricing on raw materials but also partly due to a favorable comp.
As we think about the full year we're looking about 20 basis points of gross margin improvement.
We are seeing a slight tick up in crude prices quite recently.
But as we've talked about before [indiscernible] anywhere 3- to 9-month lag on how those crude prices translate into resin prices.
But overall the upside that we see in raw materials is included in our guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Palmer with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Another follow-up here Vince on emerging markets.
You're obviously seeing a great performance there and with 20% of -- more than 20% of sales you're at the top of your peer group.
So my question is do you still need to make significant investments going forward to continue that growth trajectory? And maybe putting it another way at what point do you really get to harvest the bolus of these investments and drive the margins? So we are getting strong performance on the top line and the bottom line from our investments.
If you look at profitability across the company emerging markets is close to the company average once you normalize for R&amp;D.
So as I said they pay back fairly rapidly but we believe we're still early on in terms of having coverage across all of the segments that we need to be present in and building up our infrastructure.
So it's a rolling thing.
What we don't get is aggressive operating income leverage but we get operating income growth is the way to think about it.
Bill do you want to add anything to that? This is Bill Kozy.
The only thing I'd add is that to the investment theme we have formalized our game plan for R&amp;D investment targeted at emerging markets and we're just in the start-up mode of placing R&amp;D capabilities in the Asia-Pacific rim.
We'll give you some more color on that but to your good question about how are we thinking about making sure that we can back up that higher growth expectations going forward off a bigger base this localized R&amp;D competency is something we're enthused about.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> That was very helpful.
And if I could just sneak a follow-up in here on Diabetes very strong quarter.
Could you maybe just talk about the underlying dynamics there and how sustainable that growth is? Sure.
Bill can talk to that.
Sure.
We continue to see really strong pen needle demand and think about the strategy in the business focused on a couple of things.
Number one we really had tried and I told a couple of years ago we're going to roll out a series of 5 major new products that were designed to contribute both on volume capture but as well as to improve our price.
Because of the timing here in the first quarter you're seeing the benefits of PentaPoint Nano Pearl the safety pen needle as really the examples really starting to impact that growth rate.
We admit that the first quarter was a little bit hot but we're just comfortable that the new products are allowing us to compete effectively all around the world.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> First off I guess on Diabetes I guess kind of building off the last question another solid performance out of that.
We did of course learn that LifeScan has recently launched its own pen needles in the U.S.
It does kind of mark the first material competitor against you guys domestically.
So could you talk a little bit about your response here or perhaps how to best position the portfolio to hold them off? Sure Bill will address that.
Sure this is Bill Kozy.
We are aware of the launch and are particularly focused on the U.S.
as we understand it at this point in time.
So as you would expect us our sales and marketing plan and our programmatic response to that is in place.
As I just mentioned we feel good about the number of new products that we have launched in the U.S.
market and as well as the customer acceptance of those new products.
So you'll see us take I think an assertive position of course to try and defend the competitive position we've gained over the last 5 years and to work with both our diabetes patient as well as our channel to do the best we can to defend our position.
Research Division</strong> Yes got it.
And then just one last one for me just one for Tom on Veritor.
Tom can you give us any estimate? Obviously the launch is going pretty well here but can you give us any estimate in terms of perhaps what type of share you've picked up or given the units out in the field maybe how we should think about that trending over the next year or so? Sure.
This is Tom.
We don't comment on share specifically but what I can say as I mentioned the -- as you think about Veritor of the 4 000 roughly placements that we've made to date the majority of those are going into the physician office which is a new market for us right? We've traditionally had rapid tests only CLIA moderately complex for the hospital market.
Veritor is a CLIA-waived product our first ever CLIA_waived product.
So a large number of those are new markets for us.
The other thing I would say is that the growth that we're getting with Veritor today is driven primarily by flu as Vince mentioned.
We recently we've launched RSV.
We do have Strep A under active FDA review right now and we are expecting that to launch later on in the quarter.
In Q2 we expect approval there.
Of course Strep will help provide a bit less seasonality to the product as well as that tends to be a condition which can occur at different times than just flu itself.
So overall we're very pleased with the progress of Veritor and expect continued progress moving forward.
Yes.
So it's a small amount of share because we're right in the beginning of this right now.
We're just really starting to ramp up.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Lawson with Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> This is Eric filling in for Peter.
So on the BD Bioscience I know you had said that customers really couldn't put off purchasing instruments anymore.
But have they actually changed their outlook? Has it improved any since maybe 3 months ago? So I would say there's less uncertainty than there was 3 or 6 months ago and that -- the head of the NIH has been doing conference calls with the industry with the customer base talking about his expectation in terms of how he sees things going forward.
So I think that people are beginning to understand what the future is going to look like in terms of funding not exactly but over a smaller range.
And I think that helped the market in terms of moving ahead.
And so we'll see if that plays out or not but that's what I see is different from where we were 6 months ago.
Research Division</strong> And then on the Diabetes business do you have any exposure to the Medicare competitive bidding program that's out there now? No.
It's not durable medical supplies.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Taylor with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a follow-up on BD MAX.
I want to be clear that I understand what you feel the gating factors there are for the launch.
And then as we start to see it ramp in the second half do you view that as a linear ramp? Or are there going to multiple inflection points over time as you add assays or you get critical mass behind the product? So Matt this is Tom Polen.
Just to answer your question we expect there will be -- there are certainly going to be reflection points as we have series of assay launches right? The launch of any platform like this is highly dependent upon menu expansion which is an area that we're very very focused on.
So today we have GBS and MRSA as approved products in the U.S.
as I mentioned before.
Cdiff is under active FDA review and then we have a series of assays which are expected to launch in early FY '14 including enteric bacterial assay and GC/CT Trich assay among those.
So we are as Vince mentioned earlier shipping now against a nice backlog that we've built.
We are seeing positive customer demands and are expecting to see that ramp in the second half of the year.
So the next big event really is Cdiff for us and that's an important one.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And can I just ask in terms of the year-over-year basis point change in the gross margins could you parse out each of the factors this quarter that bridge you from last year to this year in terms of the puts and takes on the improvement? Sure.
Yes.
Sure Suky will do it.
Yes.
So versus the first quarter of 2012 overall 210 basis point increased 90 [ph] driven by foreign currency.
We talked a little bit about that based on Kim's question earlier.
So I'll really talk more to the underlying drivers which were about 120 basis points of improvement year-over-year.
So resins this year we talked a little bit about accounted for about 40 of that basis points.
ReLoCo again we're still firm on $40 million to $50 million of incremental benefit in FY '13.
That accounted for about 60 [ph] basis points and then we had other continuous improvement and other benefits that were worth about 50 basis points.
So those are by and large the biggest moving pieces.
We also had price erosion of about 30 basis points but again it's more than offset by some of those more fundamental underlying gains.
Your next question comes from the line of Derik De Bruin with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So a lot of my questions have been answered but I just wanted to do a couple of housekeeping questions.
Realizing that it varies from quarter-to-quarter what's your expectation for full year net interest income expense? Sure.
So interest income expense -- just a minute.
Let me...
As we look it up.
So interest income we expect for the full year to be at about $25 million to $30 million.
Interest expense we expect to be somewhere around $130 million to $140 million for the full year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just to make sure that I got this correctly on the M&amp;A contribution that you're implying for 2013 it seems to be between 50 and 100 basis points of top line contribution for M&amp;A.
Year.
For the year that's right.
Research Division</strong> For the year yes yes yes.
All right.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry? Yes.
50.
50 for the year.
[indiscernible] the quarter 50 for the year.
Which is the last 3 remember.
The others have annualized.
Your next question [Audio Gap] For Suky I guess my first question is for you.
But with that in mind I guess I have another bridge question.
You increased EPS by I think it's about $0.095 at the midpoint for the year.
Could you just bridge how much of that is better than Q1 results changes in thoughts on FX increases in expectations for the balance of the year and/or any other dynamics that came into play in adjusting guidance? Yes.
So primarily that $0.08 relates wholly to FX on the reported line.
So if you think about -- I talked about the euro improvements of the 4% versus our previous guidance.
That translates to about $80 million for the full year from a revenue perspective.
Internationally about 25% of that drops to net income.
If you take that across our shares average shares outstanding you get to about $0.08 for the full year which is what we've taken our guidance up on the midpoint.
Okay.
So almost solely FX driven at this point.
That's right.
Okay.
And then I guess a high-level Biosciences question.
This was clearly the best quarter you guys have had in a while.
Over the last several quarters you've talked about funding challenges as a headwind.
I think that being said it's fair to say you guys performed a bit worse than a lot of the bioscience peers for several quarters again.
Last year you divested Labware.
You put up a really great quarter.
So it seems like it's a good time to ask how are you feeling about your competitive positioning? And specifically as you think about your portfolio is it where it needs to be right now? And how important a role would M&amp;A potentially play in augmenting this portfolio versus really enhancing organic efforts to drive growth? So in terms of Biosciences and competitive position we feel very good about the core business and its competitive position.
I think we feel better about it than we did 6 months ago now with the acquisition of Sirigen and the technology and product array that that brings in the reagent space.
So we feel very good about the core flow business.
If I look at BD AB which is a small piece of it it's still very embryonic for us.
And it's under $100 million.
It's making progress.
It has a long way to go.
So still much to do in that piece.
You would expect that as across the entire company we'll continue to look for plug-in acquisitions.
We don't feel the need to do something real large in that space.
We think we have adjacencies that we can move into and build out very nicely in the bioscience space as funding comes back into this space.
And we think that has to happen over the long run.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Newitter with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe on emerging markets in China.
I know we've touched upon it a little bit.
Clearly you guys have been a little bit earlier than your peers and you have a head start there.
But just we've been hearing about a number of companies within the sector targeting the mid-tier.
And I was just wondering if you could talk about your competitive advantages there what dynamics you're seeing play out as companies get more aggressive on that focus segment of the market.
So the competitive advantage is going to be different by product area.
I'll let Bill comment on what we're doing in the Medical side of things [indiscernible] nice [indiscernible] please start there and we can talk about the rest of it in a bit [ph].
Sure.
Just a couple of quick ones.
We right now have got a little over 500 people trained and in the field and we think that's one source of potential advantage.
Number two we have ramped up our Medical production making products in China for China.
We think that's another source of advantage.
We've significantly expanded our capabilities to sell the Diagnostics products and I may ask Tom to talk about that in just a second.
And we've done the exact same thing down the Biosciences side.
So we're at a stage where we've got sales competence across all 3 segments.
We've got reasonable scale established in the Tier 1 market.
And as we've historically done we try and get that capability established before we move into the more challenging segments which is the reason we're now pushing the button to move to the next tier.
We think we're at a stage both in field sales product supply and by the way internal infrastructure in China to be able to go after that segment in a very definitive way.
Let me ask Tom to comment on the Diagnostics.
I would just echo Bill's -- this is Tom -- echo Bill's comments.
We have made some significant investments in channel and Diagnostics really over the last 24 months.
The other thing is I think that as we look at really offering our solutions in China and other emerging markets really making sure that we're very careful on what products we are focused on and are launching there.
So for example for us we recognize that emerging drug resistance is an important issue to the health care system in China and we're specifically focused on launching our products that help combat that issue in those markets.
So I would say it's -- that's building relationships with clinicians and key opinion leaders and experts in very deep ways as we're combating issues which are very important to them that make us a partner not only now but give it some legs going forward as other competitors may enter the space.
Just to add to that in addition to the [indiscernible] also focuses that were just mentioned we do a lot of work on clinical knowledge transfer and training of our customer base.
And in fact we have signed 3 different memorandum of understanding with the Chinese government on infection control.
So this is not just about product for us.
This is about bringing knowledge.
And lastly we've had a very nice innovation story going wrapped into that knowledge transfer as we develop products on the Medical side in particular in infusion therapy for the Chinese market.
And as Bill mentioned not only were they made for that marketplace but they're produced there.
So we have an excellent cost base.
So we feel pretty good about our position and we're gaining share.
Your final question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just on the flu you had mentioned that the timing was a little different.
I just wanted to double check on that that you had anticipated I guess previously about a 50 basis point impact.
I guess it sounded like it was more of a 2Q event versus 1Q? That's right.
We expected it in Q2.
It came more in Q1 which is a little unusual.
Mostly it comes in Q2.
So you hit the nail on the head.
Research Division</strong> Can you maybe just break out where you saw that benefit? How much of it was within Medical relative to Diagnostic? We really -- there's no way for us to actually quantify that Kristen because it's just general demand as people going into hospitals.
The primary benefit of course we see in Diagnostics.
We see it in the flu testing categories and we do see it somewhat in BACTEC sales bottle sales because once you see the elderly in the hospital there will be other infections and those sorts of things that happen along with it.
So it's more in Diagnostics than any other place [ph].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly I think you had mentioned that ReLoCo savings are on track to be around $40 million to $50 million for the year.
Is EVEREST spending still tracking I guess in line with your expectations? And should we look at that as kind of plateau-ing this year and perhaps going down next year? Or how should we just frame that? So EVEREST for the year we expect to be tracking along with our guidance.
And Suky? Yes.
So we talked about $10 million increase year-over-year into 2013 and as we've said this will be the plateau.
We don't expect a major tailwind into '14 as the depreciation then kicks in.
And then you're absolutely right Kristen.
On ReLoCo it's $40 million to $50 million.
That's the incremental portion year-over-year.
So I just wanted to make sure that that was clear as well.
Yes.
It's right on target.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And emerging market investment still around $40 million this year as well? Emerging markets yes.
Yes correct.
Yes you got it.
That was our final question.
I'd now like to turn the floor back over to Vince Forlenza for any closing remarks.
Sure.
Thank you for your participation on our call this morning.
We had strong business and product performance along with excellent performance in emerging markets.
We are very happy to see the ReLoCo benefits really kicking in from a cost-reduction standpoint and our efficiency programs moving forward.
And lastly we're continuing on the strategy of our plug-in acquisitions and deploying our capital and we really look forward to updating you on the year next quarter.
So thanks very much.
Thank you this does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's Second Fiscal Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through May 9 2013 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at (800) 475-6701 for domestic calls and area code (320) 365-3844 for international calls using confirmation number 290460.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin.
Thank you Katie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our second fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our second fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are Suky Upadhyay acting Chief Financial Officer Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller; Bill Kozy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Tom Polen President of Diagnostic Systems; and Gary Cohen Executive Vice President.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
As we've stated in our press release we are pleased with our continued improved performance in the second quarter.
Our results this quarter highlight the benefit of our diverse geographic and product portfolio.
We delivered solid revenue growth which were in line with our expectations.
In early March we acquired Cato Software Solutions which manufactures a suite of comprehensive medication safety solutions for pharmacy intravenous medication preparation physician therapy planning and nurse bedside documentation.
The issue of medication errors is one of the top concerns on the minds of health care providers today.
Cato provides automated system that creates and shares data to help reduce human error streamline workflow and increase efficiency from medication preparation to delivery in both pharmacy and clinical drug delivery settings.
Also in March we announced BD's entrance into the generic injectable pharmaceutical industry.
The FDA approved the first 2 drugs to be offered in the BD Simplist ready-to-administer line of prefilled generic injectables.
The first BD Simplist product approved was Diphenhydramine an injectable antihistamine.
This product started shipping to customers in April.
As we recently announced the second drug approved was Metoclopramide.
We expect that product to ship in the coming weeks.
The launch of the BD Simplist product line and the acquisition of Cato demonstrate how we are continuing to invest in innovation both organically and through strategic acquisitions.
Cato and Simplist are highly aligned with our broader strategy of making health care systems more effective efficient and safe.
We continue to focus on medication error management and enabling safer more effective parenteral drug delivery in both hospital and pharmacy settings.
Moving on to our financial results.
Revenue growth in the second quarter was driven by our Medical and Diagnostics segments.
Strong international growth overcame slower U.S.
sales growth which was mostly impacted by a timing of orders.
We also continue -- we also saw a continued strong growth in international Safety sales and emerging markets.
Based on our solid second quarter and the first half of the year we are raising our previously communicated currency-neutral revenue and earnings per share guidance for the full fiscal year 2013.
Suky will provide more details on guidance in a moment.
On Slide 5 we've outlined our second quarter revenue and EPS results which I will speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
Total company revenues were solid increasing by 4.1%.
Fully diluted EPS came in at $1.39 growing at 7.6% over the prior year.
Excluding the impact of the medical device tax which went into effect in January of this year adjusted earnings per share grew 11.5% in the quarter.
Now I'd like to turn things over to Suky for a more detailed discussion of our second quarter financial performance.
Thank you Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by discussing the key financial highlights for the second quarter.
We delivered solid performance in the backdrop of a challenging environment.
This demonstrates that we are continuing to effectively execute against our strategy.
We have made targeted investments that are delivering consistent improved results.
We believe this is becoming evident as we make progress throughout this fiscal year.
Revenue growth in the second quarter was in line with our expectations driven by new product sales acquisitions and lower pricing erosion.
As expected growth was unfavorably impacted by tough comparisons and timing of orders.
The medical device tax impacted SSG&amp;A by about $14 million.
This had a negative effect of about 4 percentage points on our operating income growth in the quarter.
On an underlying basis we are continuing to deliver operating margin expansion.
Earnings per share were $1.39.
This is slightly higher than the expectations we outlined for you on the call due in part to the timing of certain label expenses which we now expect to occur in the second half of the year.
Also during the second quarter we completed an additional $56 million of our approximate $500 million share repurchase plan for fiscal year 2013.
Overall the health of our business is good and we are on track to continue delivering accelerated revenue growth underlying margin expansion and a higher quality of earnings.
As Vince just mentioned our year-to-date results give us the confidence to raise guidance on both our revenue growth and earnings per share.
On a currency-neutral basis our guidance range for revenue growth is increasing by 50 basis points.
We expect currency-neutral earnings per share to increase by 100 basis points.
I will provide further details later in my presentation.
On Slide 8 I will review our revenue growth by segment on a currency-neutral basis.
Revenue growth was 4.1% for the company.
The impact of pricing erosion was about [indiscernible] points in the quarter which was better than our expectations.
BD Medical second quarter revenues increased 4.2%.
The growth in this segment was driven by a broad range of new products across all 3 business units.
Growth in Diabetes Care was 6.6%.
This reflects continued strong sales of pen needles which include our Nano and PentaPoint products.
Medical Surgical Systems growth was 4.2% led by emerging markets and international Safety sales.
As Vince mentioned we acquired Cato and launched our BD Simplist ready-to-administer prefilled injectables this quarter.
Both Cato and Simplist will be recorded in the Medical Surgical Systems business unit going forward.
These acquisitions did not have a material impact in the quarter and we don't expect them to have a material impact on the full year.
Pharmaceutical Systems growth was 2.4%.
As we expected and communicated to you on the last call this reflects an unfavorable impact from the timing of orders.
BD Diagnostics second quarter revenues increased 4.9%.
The segment's growth was driven by international expansion and new product sales such as KIESTRA and Veritor.
BD Biosciences revenue growth was 1.9% versus the prior year period due to solid instrument placements in the U.S.
and a benefit from the timing of orders in our Advanced Bioprocessing unit.
Moving to Slide 9.
I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the second quarter.
As we expected softer growth in the U.S.
primarily due to timing was offset by continued strong international growth.
BD's reported U.S.
revenues increased 0.3% versus the prior year.
We view the environment in the U.S.
as constrained but stable.
Revenue in our U.S.
Medical segment declined 1.4% which was largely driven by the timing of orders in Pharmaceutical Systems business.
Additionally our Medical Surgical unit was unfavorably impacted by a difficult prior year comparison with the PhaSeal product.
In our Diabetes Care unit revenue growth was unfavorably impacted by the timing of orders in our retail business and a tough comparison to the prior year.
U.S.
growth in the Diagnostics segment was 1.1%.
This reflects strong growth of Veritor point-of-care platform which was partially offset by unfavorable timing in the Preanalytical Systems unit.
The segment was also unfavorably impacted by extended cervical cancer screening intervals in our women's health care and cancer unit.
U.S.
Biosciences growth of 5.8% was driven by continued strong instrument placements as well as the benefit from timing of orders in Advanced Bioprocessing.
We remain cautious about the U.S.
environment specifically the impact of sequestration on research funding.
This has been contemplated in our full year guidance.
As I just described growth in the U.S.
this quarter was largely impacted by unfavorable timing.
We expect growth in the U.S.
for the total company to return to 2% to 3% for the balance of the year.
Moving on to international.
We continue to see strong growth.
Revenues grew 6.9% currency neutral with growth coming primarily from the Medical and Diagnostics segments.
The Medical segment grew 8.2% and Diagnostics grew 8.8%.
This reflects strong growth in emerging markets and international Safety sales.
Biosciences grew 0.2% impacted by softness in western Europe due to austerity measures and the timing of government research funding in Japan.
On Slide 10 we continue to see strong growth in emerging markets which accounted for approximately 23% of total revenues.
Emerging market revenues grew 13% currency neutral over the prior year.
This was driven by good performance across all segments and regions with particularly strong growth in China of about 30%.
We continue to expect low double-digit growth in emerging markets and growth in China is expected to be in the 20% range for the balance of this fiscal year.
Our success in emerging markets is driven by a number of factors including BD's ability to design products for a specific market.
We have had success with products like BD Emerald and Intima II which are designed to meet the unique customer needs in emerging markets and are competitively priced.
Moving to global safety on Slide 11.
Currency-neutral sales increased 5.6% and grew to $514 million in the quarter.
Revenues in the U.S.
grew 1.6% while international sales grew 11.1% currency neutral with western Europe and emerging markets both growing double digits.
Medical Safety sales grew 9% driven by a range of safety-engineered products as well as the acquisition of SSI.
Diagnostics growth was 2.4% in the quarter.
Moving on.
Since we've already discussed revenues in detail I will never -- not cover Slide 12.
Turning to Slide 13.
As we expected and outlined for you on the last call gross margin declined 30 basis points versus the prior year.
Our performance in the quarter reflects benefits from ReLoCo savings continuous improvement initiatives and favorable raw material costs.
These items were more than offset by recent acquisition-related costs pricing erosion and other onetime costs.
Onetime items had an unfavorable impact on performance of about 60 basis points in the quarter.
After neutralizing for these events underlying gross profit would have been broadly in line with our full year guidance range.
Slide 14 recaps the second quarter income statement and highlights our foreign-currency-neutral results.
This is our fourth consecutive quarter of delivering solid underlying performance.
Our results this quarter were overshadowed by some onetime events.
As we discussed revenue and GP were in line with our expectations.
SSG&amp;A increased about 6% due to increased investments in emerging markets acquisition-related expenses EVEREST and the medical device tax.
The medical device tax favorably impacted SSG&amp;A by 3 percentage points.
R&amp;D increased 4.5%.
This remains in line with our expectations at 6.1% of revenues as we continue to invest in new products.
Operating income grew 1.1% in the quarter.
This was unfavorably impacted by the lower gross margins I just mentioned in addition to the medical device tax.
The tax negatively impacts operating income growth by about 400 basis points.
Our tax rate declined 200 basis points reflecting the benefit of the reinstated R&amp;D tax credit in the U.S.
We continue to expect our full year tax rate to remain in line with our previously communicated guidance range.
In the quarter earnings per share were $1.39 which is a 7.6% increase versus the prior year.
Excluding the impact of the medical device tax adjusted earnings per share for the second quarter were $1.44 which represents an 11.5% increase over the prior year.
As we mentioned earlier our year-to-date results give us the confidence to raise guidance on both revenue and earnings per share.
Slide 15 illustrates our revenue guidance by segment.
As you can see we have increased our revenue growth expectations for the total company which contemplates a stable environment.
Our revenue -- our revised guidance of 4.5% to 5% reflects solid core growth a benefit from new product launches and less pricing erosion.
We now expect pricing erosion of about 50 basis points for the total year.
The Medical and Diagnostic segments are expected to grow about 5% and Biosciences remains unchanged at 1% to 2% growth.
Moving on to Slide 16.
I'd like to walk you through the various elements of our P&amp;L guidance for the rest of the year.
Starting with revenues we are raising our currency-neutral guidance by 50 basis points.
Reported revenue growth remains unchanged at 3.5% to 4% due to the weakening of the euro and the yen.
This assumes a euro-to-dollar exchange rate of about $1.30 [ph] and a dollar-to-yen exchange rate of about JPY 99 for the rest of the year.
Moving to gross profit.
We have increased our range to reflect 51.6% to 51.8% of revenues.
This reflects solid year-to-date underlying performance.
We expect slightly higher SSG&amp;A cost.
Our new range of 25.6% to 25.8% of revenues reflects increased investments and strategic opportunities such as our recent acquisition of Cato.
Operating income is expected to be between 20% and 20.2%.
This represents about 40 basis points of underlying margin expansion even after absorbing additional cost from acquisitions.
We expect the unfavorable impact of the medical device tax to be about $45 million for the fiscal year.
This represents a 300-basis-point impact to operating income and a 250-basis-point impact to EPS.
This reflects our most recent thinking about the net impact of the tax.
For fiscal year 2013 we expect earnings per share of $5.72 to $5.75.
This represents an increase of 100 basis points on a currency-neutral basis.
On a reported basis this represents a 50-basis-point increase due to the currency impact I just mentioned.
Excluding the impact of the medical device tax and foreign currency we expect EPS to grow between 11% and 11.5%.
This also reflects a 50-basis-point increase versus prior expectations.
The increase in earnings per share is driven by stronger revenue growth as well as better-than-expected results in interest income and other income.
For the balance of the year we expect our revenue and EPS profile to look slightly different than our historical performance.
This fiscal year we expect a stronger fourth quarter rather than the stronger third quarter performance we have historically delivered.
Based on our EPS guidance of $5.72 to $5.75 and our year-to-date results of $2.74 we expect EPS for the remainder of the year to be more heavily weighted to the fourth quarter.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince who will provide a more detailed update on our progress around key initiatives.
Thank you Suky.
Moving on to Slide 18.
I would like to review the program and product launches in our Medical segment.
As I mentioned earlier we acquired Cato and launched the BD Simplist product line.
For BD Simplist we currently have 2 drugs that have been approved by the FDA.
In addition to Diphenhydramine we received FDA approval for Metoclopramide in April.
We have 4 additional drugs in the pipeline at various stages of approval.
In our Pharmaceutical Systems business we announced the commercial launch of the BD UltraSafe PLUS Passive Needle Guard which was from our recent acquisition of SSI.
In addition to offering needlestick safety in an easy-to-use device this product is enhanced with special features designed to facilitate comfort and support for health care providers and patients.
This device is also designed to meet increasingly complex biotechnology drug requirements including higher viscosity.
This product nicely complements our current Safety portfolio.
In our Diabetes Care unit we continue to innovate with new products.
We recently launched our next pen needle the BD Nano with EasyFlow technology which has [indiscernible] benefits.
As you can see we have continued to make good progress with our product portfolio in the Medical segment.
Turning to Slide 19.
You'll see the various product launches in Diagnostics.
We've made significant progress with our BD Veritor system since it launched early in fiscal year 2012.
In addition to receiving FDA clearance for our new Strep A assay in the quarter we have placed more than 4 007 [ph] units of this system.
We continue to broaden our customer base as well as capture share gains with this innovative point-of-care platform.
On the BD MAX platform as we've been communicating we have built up a nice pipeline of orders and we expect sales to continue to ramp up in the back half of this fiscal year.
Shipments accelerated in the second quarter and we have passed the milestone of more than 150 instruments now operating at customer sites.
In April we received FDA clearance for C.
difficile a key anchor assay that further strengthens our portfolio of assays for health care-associated infections which also includes MRSA.
Our enteric bacteria panel was also CE marked and launched representing a new served molecular market for BD.
This latest milestone demonstrates our commitment to rapidly expand the menu on BD MAX offering laboratories a broad range of fully automated molecular tests that can meet both their current and future clinical needs.
We also continued to receive very positive customer interest in our KIESTRA microbiology automation platform.
KIESTRA is well suited to help our customers navigate through the challenges of health care reform globally with its ability to accelerate time to result and also significantly increase lab productivity.
As an example in April we announced with Canada's CML Healthcare Inc.
an agreement for CML to install the world's largest KIESTRA microbiology automation system.
This fully automated system will be installed later this fiscal year.
On Slide 20 I would like to review the program and product launches in our Biosciences segment which includes 2 analyzers for CD4 testing.
We expect the FACSPresto our low-cost analyzer designed for emerging markets to launch in the second quarter of fiscal year 2014.
This is 2 quarters earlier than our original expectations.
Our FACSClearCount is currently on hold as we have other strategic priorities.
We'll update you on our future plans to ramp up that platform.
For the past 18 months we've been reinvigorating the pipeline in our Biosciences business.
We have some exciting new developments and continued enhancements to our Canto and Fortessa lines.
Additionally we have other new products that are in early stages and we will talk about them in more detail as we make progress with [indiscernible].
We will continue to invest in this business in order to continue our expansion in this market and to drive future growth.
On Slide 21 before we open the call to questions I would like to reiterate the key messages from our presentation today.
First with our continued improved performance in the second quarter and our results year-to-date this is our fourth consecutive quarter of solid P&amp;L performance driving a higher quality of earnings.
Second we continue to demonstrate that we're making progress delivering against our broader strategy of making health care more effective efficient and safe.
The BD Simplist product line and our acquisition of Cato are good examples of this.
And third we are seeing continued success with our key growth drivers.
We have made targeted investments that are yielding results and we believe this is becoming even more evident as we progress through this fiscal year.
Finally we are positive about our outlook for fiscal year 2013.
We're committed to delivering a 4.5% to 5% revenue growth and about 11% to 11.5% EPS growth excluding the device tax and the impact of foreign currency.
Our diverse product and geographic portfolio and the operational effectiveness programs we have in place provide BD with a strong foundation.
We believe we're well positioned for continued success in fiscal year 2013 and beyond.
So thank you.
We'll now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to the beginning because I think the line cut out at least on my side.
You had mentioned pricing moderated I think the pricing impact on the quarter.
Can you maybe just talk about what kind of gives you the confidence that price will continue to be more moderate through the balance of the year? So you're right Kristen and thanks for the question.
It did moderate.
And if you recall it was -- the same thing was true in the first quarter of the year so we've seen 2 quarters now where it was not as severe as we projected going into the year.
We are not indicating that we're in an easy pricing environment.
It's just not as difficult as it has been.
Having said all of that Europe remains a particular challenge especially in southern Europe.
But so far to date with the trends that we see we think it's just going to be somewhat less than our initial projections.
Research Division</strong> And what were the specific numbers in the quarter and your guidance again for the full year? Sure.
Suky will do that for you.
Kristen for the quarter we said it was about 20 basis points and on a full year basis we're saying it's about 50 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe Vince if you can just kind of give us your broader overview.
I mean a lot of your peers this past quarter have talked a little bit more cautiously just about the health care environment with some of the hospitals reporting admissions that are still down and just kind of broader weakness.
Can you maybe just talk about what you guys are seeing because your results would seem to suggest you're certainly kind of bucking the trend there? So we talked of that what we were experiencing as a stable environment but constrained so it's certainly not -- I wouldn't characterize it as an improving environment.
I think that we've done well because of the diversity in the portfolio both geographically.
The acquisitions that we've been doing are performing well and our new products are getting traction.
So I don't think that we're in a better place from a utilization standpoint than the overall industry.
I think that what we have in our portfolio is working well.
On the negative side of course in this quarter you did see the timing issues.
Suky would you like to add to that? I think you're right on point Vince.
And then the fact that emerging markets continue to grow really well and we're well indexed from a revenue exposure standpoint to emerging markets I think is another contribution.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly can you give us the contribution from acquisitions this quarter and what you have in the full year? I think your prior guidance was for 50-basis-point acquisition benefit for full year.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> I don't know if it's any different.
You kind of suggest that Cato would be minimal but...
Yes.
Cato will be minimal.
For the full year we had previously guided that acquisitions would be about 50 basis points.
We're taking that up a little bit.
We're getting a little bit better expected -- than expected traction thinking about 60 to 70 basis points on the full year.
Within the quarter it was about 100 basis points.
But again that'll come down over the rest of the year as KIESTRA starts to annualize.
And our next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go into a little bit more detail on the Diagnostics components.
I think in the prepared comments you mentioned that cervical cancer screening extensions of intervals was impacting there.
I mean that's been going on for a little while.
So I was wondering is there a greater impact in the quarter?  And could Tom maybe give a little more detail on the other product lines within Diagnostic Systems? Sure Amit.
And I think Tom would be happy to talk about that.
I think you saw that the intervals start before this quarter but continuing.
So Tom maybe you can pick up on it.
Sure.
Amit this is Tom.
So in the quarter we saw as Vince mentioned overall strong performance in our microbiology business internationally and also in our point-of-care.
Speaking then specifically to women's health and then also comment on molecular.
We did see women's health was actually down 10% in the quarter and that was driven by continued strong double-digit growth internationally.
We are seeing continued increases in ACT testing internationally as well as good conversion from conventional to liquid-based cytology driving that double-digit international growth.
But we saw the U.S.
down really driving that net decrease of 10% in the quarter and that's really 2 factors.
We saw OB/GYN visits the stats that we look at OB/GYN visits were down about 6.5% in the quarter.
And then we see the intervals continuing to extend.
We monitor those intervals and adoptions pretty closely and we're seeing about 50% to 60% of physicians at this point have adopted those extended intervals.
That's up from about 25% 2 years ago.
So it's not ended yet but it's moving towards a more -- it's continuing to increase that rate but that had -- did impact us.
Molecular in the quarter was actually down as well about 4% and that was really prior losses in GeneOhm continue to annualize and that offset growth that we did see in MAX.
And as Vince mentioned earlier we are seeing very good customer interest in MAX continued really pleasure from the customer perspective around the automation of performance and the open system capabilities.
We did surpass that 150 total installations in the quarter.
It's diff approved which is a major milestone in our [indiscernible] portfolio and we've [indiscernible] against a backlog of orders bringing that down.
We expect that backlog to be fully relieved in Q3 and moving forward from there.
Because we're ramping up production.
Exactly.
So obviously to state the obvious the one area we are seeing lower utilization as the industry is of course is in women's health and cancer with the lower OB/GYN visits and the increase in the interval.
Other than that I think there's been pretty much stability.
Research Division</strong> And Vince could I just follow up on Biosciences? Just the point you made about strong instrument sales.
Can you get a little more specific there? I think instrument sales in the industry are pretty volatile.
Some companies have said they've been weak.
You're talking about strength.
Just a little color there.
Sure.
And the trend we started to see last quarter it began to pick up at the higher end.
[indiscernible] comment further on it.
Bill would you like to...
This is Bill.
Just to give you some color we have just slightly improved performance in the sorters and the high-end analyzers.
And if you thought back to last year and remember some of our reports that was a weak spot.
So we've seen that stabilize a little bit and we're getting some steady single-digit growth in that area.
And then of course our new instrument Acurri continues to contribute very nicely.
So the combination of some improvement in the high end and the steady ongoing performance in Acurri is kind of the story on instruments.
Our next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Suky maybe one quick question on the outlook and then Vince I had a question on China.
Suky I guess the interesting thing about the second quarter is unlike your peers we saw comp-adjusted acceleration.
Your comps do get harder into the back half of the year.
I wonder if you could help us understand some of the drivers that give you the confidence you can maintain this performance into the back half.
And I guess the second related the question is if you think about the impact you're having from acquisitions this year and the underlying operating margin performance of 50 60 points help us understand.
Is there a way you could see next year not seeing better operating margin leverage than you're actually seeing this year just based on that acquisition drag and the underlying business performance?  And I have one follow-up for Vince.
Sure.
So I'll start on your 4-part question here.
David thanks for the question.
So first off what gives us the confidence on our outlook? So first of all in the first half I think we did perform quite well versus our expectations 4.7 on the top line.
And you could see that we're showing acceleration from an EPS perspective and from margin expansion.
Going into the second half we expect to see a little bit of acceleration from a top line perspective.
The growth drivers I think as Vince has mentioned primarily around acquisitions.
We're seeing really good growth in customer anticipation around KIESTRA.
SSI we're very excited about.
We think it will be a nice growth driver for us for the rest of the year.
Our launch of new products specifically around MAX beginning to ramp up as Tom spoke about adding on the new anchor assay of C.
diff has us very excited.
If you start to think about further on into our portfolio around pen needles we still have a lot of runway in that business.
So it really cuts across many different businesses.
And then again from a geographic perspective we continue to see very strong growth from emerging markets and Safety continues to be a nice contributor.
So we've got confidence again in the backdrop also of lower pricing erosion that we could sustain not only sustain growth but actually accelerate a little bit from a top line perspective.
Moving on to the second point of your question which is -- you're absolutely right.
Very good contribution from acquisitions this year very good margin expansion.
What would you expect for next year? We're not going to guide on next year but when you think about what are some of the drivers of our margin expansion this year it's primarily in gross margin right? And we've talked a lot about ReLoCo and the incremental benefits there which are right on track and delivering as expected.
We talked about our other continuous improvement in some of our G&amp;A efficiencies.
Those things don't go away as we look forward.
So my anticipation is that we continue to see some margin expansion as we...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And sorry for my liberty with the questions but maybe one more for Vince.
I guess Vince the interesting thing about the China number this quarter and frankly the first half of the year has been versus your arch rival so to speak in China the local player you're actually probably performing better than your biggest local competitor at least in our view.
And I guess that's not what I think people would have thought heading into this year.
So maybe kind of talk to us about why you're being successful in China this year and the sustainability of that trend.
Sure.
We are having a good year in China.
Actually we had a good year in China last year as well and I think we're holding on success that we're putting in place over the last couple of years and there's a few things.
One is that we compete not [ph] just on product but on clinical knowledge in the marketplace especially on the device side.
We're on our third memorandum of understanding with the Chinese government on infection control.
So we're bringing not just a very innovative product which was designed for the Chinese market for example in our Infusion Therapy business but in addition we are working with our customers on training transfer of clinical knowledge which is highly valued in the marketplace which the local competition does not bring.
Second from an organizational standpoint we have been investing heavily the last several years in not just sales capability but in a broad capability in terms of regulatory affairs quality manufacturing.
And I think you're seeing the impact of that as we improve our coverage across the entire country and strengthen partnerships with local distributors.
So it's a whole series of things we're putting in place.
I don't want to give you the impression that it's just on the medical device side.
The medical device side is doing quite well but it's also diagnostics over the last 18 months has ramped up very nicely in China.
It's doing extremely well.
BDB also is doing well both historically with the clinical market; now it's also the research marketplace.
And it's the total portfolio there that -- where we can do the small instrument all the way to the high-end centers that China is funding.
So it's that mix of all things -- all of those things that is giving us the good performance against both the local competition and quite frankly against the international players as well.
And we'll go to the next line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just make sure I understand the change in the guidance on earnings versus the prior expectations.
And then the math that I was getting to was there's a sort of $0.03 benefit from the medical device excise tax being a little bit lower than you had expected the outperformance in the second quarter of between $0.05 and $0.08 depending on what baseline you use.
And then you're raising guidance by $0.03 for the year.
Is the entire difference there FX? No.
So David first of all the medical device tax.
Previously we gave a guidance range of $40 million to $50 million.
We're not saying it's around $45 million so it's a little bit less than a $0.01 or $0.02 if you took the upper end of that range versus the middle of that range versus what we talked about.
So we don't see that as a major driver.
Overall EPS we're increasing on a performance basis by about $0.05.
FX offsets that by about $0.02 and again it's driven by the underlying uptake in revenue as well as some benefit from some items below the line.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then taking maybe a little bit more of a longer-term view of the story you're providing a sort of 11% FX-neutral x medical device tax earnings growth number for the year.
Can you maybe just talk about the moving parts in there about anything unique to fiscal 2013 that might depress that or inflate that and how we should think about sustainable earnings growth for the company? Then just sort of dovetail to that can you just explain in a little bit more detail the moving parts around the mix of earnings in Q3 and Q4? So first of all the first question in there was around 2013 and how that looks versus 2014.
So sort of trying answer that very simplistically I deconstruct that 11% 11.5%.
If you think about revenues the component of that about 4.5 to 5%.
Then you've got our share repurchase program carryover from 2012 plus the shares we're doing this year.
It's probably worth about 4% to 5%.
And then the remainder of that is due to the operating margin expansion.
That's a profile that I pretty much see going into 2014.
There's going to be some puts and takes across those 3 levers but I think that's broadly in line with where we're looking at it.
I think your next question was around how do we see Q3 and Q4 into the rest of the year.
Again if you sort of took where our guidance -- what we've delivered so far $2.74 our guidance range on EPS for the rest of the year that takes you to about a $3 at the midpoint for the rest of the year.
And again we see that more heavily weighted to the fourth quarter.
I hope I've answered your second question.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I'm just trying to understand why more weighted to the fourth quarter.
What are the dynamics that make that the case this year? Just lumpiness in the business David.
Lumpiness in the business.
If you think about the uptake on our new products as well as acquisition you're continuing to see a steady ramp-up quarter-over-quarter.
We mentioned some spending which got shifted from the second quarter into the third so you have that combination going on.
And we'll go to the next line of Brian Weinstein from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the question on pricing can you guys just talk a little bit there? Are there are certain areas where you're seeing pricing a little bit better than expected? And is this something that you're doing or you're seeing success with efforts that you're making to minimize the impact of pricing? Or are there broader market dynamics that are just kind of helping you out there? So Bill Kozy is going to address that question.
Just at a general level if you remember where we were managing a couple of years ago we now have changed our price management systems across all 6 of the worldwide business units.
We've got the fundamental things in place now that pricing passed those contract approval processes.
I think we've gotten a lot more rigorous in the way we manage our price.
As Vince mentioned the environment is still tough.
But there's a much greater -- there's basically a diligence process on our major contract management process in all 6 of the business units and I think that's probably been an important factor.
In addition the new marketing capability and the company being led by our CMO Nabil Shabshab is really driving value propositions to a next level across again all of our acute care businesses which is where our price pressure has been mostly concentrated.
So I'd say it's the combination of those 2 managerial initiatives that have probably had the most visible impact from our perspective on how we think about managing our price more effectively.
And if you think back we also had a situation where we communicated that there was one product line which had a severe pricing event.
We sunseted that I think about a year ago halfway through last year.
So with that in mind we communicated going forward that we thought pricing might improve because of that.
It's still negative but we did sunset that and prices did stabilize in that particular marketplace like we thought.
But to Bill's good points I think it's that plus the combination of things that Bill just put on the table.
And our next question from the line of Mike Weinstein with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe cleaning up a couple of items.
So if I'm looking at the quarter acquisitions you said it was 100 basis points and that includes KIESTRA SSI and Sirigen.
Is that right? That's right.
Research Division</strong> And is Cato 0 for the rest of the year? Because if you -- I'm just thinking about our numbers here and it seems like the acquisition component would be greater particularly with the addition of Cato.
Or is that just 0 for the balance of the year? No it's very small Mike.
So you don't have to figure it into your model.
It will start to impact next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so if I look at this quarter so if I back out the 100 basis points from acquisitions and the 40-basis-point impact of currency gets you to like 3.1% organic so that's down 200 basis points.
The comp was a little bit tougher this quarter obviously than last quarter.
But do you expect growth to accelerate in the back half of the year x the acquisitions and that's just to be clear because of what? Yes.
So if you think about where we guided you for the rest of the year Mike we say 4.5% to 5%.
And if you think about acquisitions for the rest of the year it's going to moderate to somewhere in about the 60- to 70-basis-point range.
So we're looking at underlying growth somewhere of around 4% to 4.5% so it looks all right.
And Mike recall that we've talked about the timing events in this quarter.
So the other thing that we should all be keeping in mind is it was a timing event in Diabetes Care.
So we expect strong growth in Diabetes Care in the back half of the year.
We all know we've talked about many times the lumpiness in Pharm Systems.
So Pharm Systems we're indicating to you is going to be improving in the back half of the year versus this quarter.
So you see that going on as well.
We have the ramp-up of BD MAX in the back half of the year.
Remember we talked about 150 instrument placements.
It takes a while [indiscernible] gauge its usage to start to ramp-up.
So you've got all of those things and we expect continued good performance in emerging markets in the back half of the year.
So when you put all of that together and you pulled out the timing elements I think we're pretty confident in terms of the back half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I think about that as well just from geographic standpoint if I adjust it for acquisition this quarter it looks like the U.S.
business was probably down slightly year-over-year.
Is it the U.S.
business that turns in part because as well Pharm Systems turns just based on timing? Yes Mike.
You nailed it.
And we'll go to the next line of Rick Wise with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe talk about BD MAX for a second a bit further.
The Cdiff approval seems like a pretty significant positive to me.
Can you maybe be more specific? Or can you talk a little bit more -- expand on your comments about how it gets rolled out and how we think -- what impact on BD MAX placement the Cdiff approval could have uptake et cetera? So Tom can comment on that.
But we really -- just as a foundation we do believe that it's such a critical assay for us because it's probably the major problem that hospitals have right now in the U.S.
So without that anchor assay we were constrained.
But Tom you want to add some color to that? Yes.
Rick this is Tom.
I would just say that if you look at particularly in the U.S.
-- so x U.S.
we've had about 7 assays launched.
This brings the U.S.
up to now 3 FDA-approved assays and we also offer REO assay for the HAI space as well as CRE.
So this -- the launch of Cdiff really rounded out our HAI portfolio.
We had MRSA.
MRSA is still a growing market but it's -- the growth rate of MRSA looking forward is not merely at the level of Cdiff.
I'd say MRSA defines a bit of a more mature market.
Cdiff as Vince alluded to is still a very fast-growing market that has a lot of runway ahead.
And as you look at someone looking to make an acquisition of a platform for helping to manage their HAI solutions the fact that we now have MRSA and Cdiff available on the box it was something that we had a lot of customer actually waiting for.
We had some pent-up demand of people waiting for our Cdiff approval and we saw that immediately upon approval a series of orders come through the door.
And we're still of course working on many more beyond that.
It's kind of one additional assay.
It's not the scale of MRSA or Cdiff that's actively under clinical trials right now.
That's our StaphSR assay for pre-surgical screening.
We'll be submitting that to the FDA later this year and that will fully round out our HAI portfolio.
Rick one other thing to keep in mind is that while we are getting new placements and we are getting new placements in customers we did not have before a big priority for this year is upgrading the current base.
So as I was mentioning you're going to see the ramp-up of sales but that's somewhat moderated by the fact that we're also trading out that installed base where we've been selling a very manual product to date.
So expect even a bigger impact next year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] so the impact could be greater next year? Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of other quick ones.
Suky investment income was almost double our $6 million forecast $4 million sequentially better than the first quarter.
I know this is an up-and-down number.
Just how do we -- what was causing that and how do we think about that number for the rest of the year? Yes so total investment you're right was slightly higher in the quarter primarily due to deferred comp as you know.
We've talked about this in the past as assets in that plan increase because we've seen good performance in the overall equities market we recognize additional interest income.
Of course there's an offset in SSG&amp;A which you'll see in this quarter as well.
So that's one of the key drivers to this year.
We're also seeing some slight rate improvement x U.S.
on our cash balances so that's a positive.
As we think about for the year interest income we're characterizing at about $35 million and so that's a slight increase from last quarter.
And our next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel from Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Vincent -- I think this is a question really for Vincent Suky.
You bumped up your guidance just a little bit for SSG&amp;A spend for the year.
I apologize if I missed this but are you pulling forward any spend that was planned for maybe next year or beyond on really an opportunistic basis given you've seen some better-than-expected revenue this year? And if so is there any reason we shouldn't be contemplating this as we model out margins moving forward? Good question.
The answer is no.
To be more precise we're seeing there was spending that we thought was going to happen in the second quarter and it was in the legal area.
We thought that is now moving into the back half of the year somewhere we think probably the third quarter and that's what's going on.
It's not us accelerating infrastructure spending or that sort of thing.
So no impact on your modeling other than this year.
And the increase in overall SSG&amp;A is primarily driven by the new acquisition.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then another BD MAX question for Tom.
Thanks for the update on the number of placements and clearly your commentary today really dovetails with our recent checks that BD MAX is going well especially as the menu expands.
Vince just a second ago you mentioned that you're really focused on upgrading existing customers rather than gaining incremental customers.
Could you just provide a little bit more detail on how you expect this to evolve over the next year or 2? And then I guess in terms of just thinking about conversions or upgrades however you want to put it what's the revenue opportunity associated with getting a customer -- an existing customer to upgrade from GeneOhm? Okay.
So this is Tom and thanks for the question.
So just on -- give a little bit of color on the upgrade path and why that's important to us.
As we've been reporting the GeneOhm business has been challenged I'd say for really the last year to 2 because of the very manual nature of that right.
It's been vulnerable.
And as we've said we actually had molecular is down this quarter because of the annualized impact of losses in the past on GeneOhm and the GeneOhm menu is really purely an HAI menu plus GBS.
That GeneOhm menu now with the approval of Cdiff is basically been fully replicated on MAX.
And so the customers that have been relying on GeneOhm to do their MRSA testing and their Cdiff testing and their GBS testing now have that exact same portfolio available on MAX and so we're able to go and more aggressively upgrade them secure that business so that we don't have any underlying negative trajectory in that part of the portfolio.
So then with a more solid base of course you're looking at a combination of share gains as well as entry into new market spaces.
And really from here on out most of the new assays that we will be launching on MAX and we haven't characterized the exact size of those markets publicly but what you will see is MAX beginning to enter into new spaces for us.
So for example in the quarter we launched our enteric bacterial panel in Europe.
Now that's a new market for us.
It's a new market overall because it's upgrading customers from culture to a molecular method.
That assay is under active clinical trials right now in the U.S.
and will be submitted for FDA approval at the end of this year.
We have GC/CT also moving into clinical trials.
GC/CT Trich a new assay on that platform in that volume segment of the market.
Of course it's been playing a bit more in the higher volume segment on our Viper platform.
And there's many others.
We have respiratory assays in our pipeline et cetera which are new markets for us.
So we think about as we get that MAX placement into an account really growing that account through the addition of menu and that's an area that we've communicated that we're very focused on and we'll continue to be obviously on the execution side of that very focused on menu expansion because that's what's going to drive average revenue per account upwards over the many years to come.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful Tom.
Really one quick follow-up.
GeneOhm-to-MAX conversion there's also a pricing benefit as well for you correct? There is.
In general it's in the 10% to 20% range.
And our next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with Macquarie.
A couple of quick ones for me.
First on the margins so I'm just trying to understand a little bit more what happened either year-over-year or sequentially.
Even if I strip out the medical device tax the margin seems like a little bit weaker than I would have anticipated.
And I think you said you had 60 basis points of just onetime items and then you noted the legal spend pushed out.
So I was just trying to understand a little bit more what was happening on the margin line the 60 bps.
Sure.
Suky can take that for you.
Yes so from a gross margin perspective you're right.
We have onetime items about 60 bps.
It really relates to a lot of smaller items.
For example we had the write-down of a plant that we're closing as a result of our ReLoCo initiatives.
There's been some other items related to cost compliance.
All in all they add up to about 60 bps for the quarter.
Again we expect those to turn in the next quarter.
So that was the key driver of gross margin.
And then when you look below that again a medical device tax worth about $14 million or about 60 bps to operating margins as well.
So Suky maybe you want to comment on the good productivity in the quarter because we actually had the productivity we expected to have.
That's right.
If you sort of broke gross margin apart it is down 30 bps 10 due to performance.
But unfortunately some of the onetime items masked a really good performance we're seeing against ReLoCo continuous improvement.
And actually our 2012 acquisition is now becoming accretive to gross margins in 2013.
Those all in were worth about 130 basis points improvement year-over-year.
So a good point Vince and that is really the underlying story.
Okay that's helpful.
And then on the 3Q 4Q dynamic just so I'm clear do you know specifically -- because you said diabetes was pushed out and you expect it to be stronger in the second half is that something you know was going to be a 4Q versus 3Q event? Or is that some just conservatism that you don't really -- you know some things are coming and it's just difficult to predict when it's coming? And I guess another kind of follow-up on the revenues there.
It looks like Tom on the -- for Diagnostic Systems to be up as much as it was given what you said about women's health and molecular that microbiology must have been up double digits which is not a business that I think most would expect to have that kind of growth.
So can you maybe just talk about the sustainability of that? First on Diabetes Care.
It was a onetime supply chain event.
It's already resolved itself.
So going forward we're not concerned about this.
So you can pretty much take that off the table.
And Tom microbiology is doing very well.
It is.
So this is Tom.
Microbiology is doing well overall.
I would say in that segment you also have to put in the Veritor point-of-care platform which is also doing very well.
As Vince mentioned we're up to over 4 700 placements since launch and really most of those sales of course are concentrated in the flu season which was Q2.
So I look at Diagnostic Systems as really getting the benefit of concentration of a very successful new point-of-care launch with flu with also very good growth internationally across the portfolio and solid performance and increasing strength in our microbiology business.
And that's driven by not only just the core products but also the integration of KIESTRA and now the broader solution that we're offering in that category around automation.
KIESTRA is really giving us a total offering in this segment that we didn't have before.
Okay.
And just to be clear on the 3Q 4Q do you know specific items that are going to happen in 4Q versus 3Q? Or is that just kind of uncertainty with the lumpiness? No I think it's just -- as we've talked about before it's just the calendarization and really the ramp-up of the new products and the acquisitions that are driving sort of a sequential uptake to the fourth quarter.
We do know Pharm Systems is going to be bigger in the third quarter than the fourth quarter.
That's the main one.
And our next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> First question I think probably for Tom and this is a follow-up to a question you had regarding MRSA and Cdiff and kind of how you think about those from a longer-term growth standpoint.
Any comment around the recent CMS proposal that came out earlier this week around the in-patient quality scores and tying those to HAIs and potentially giving this business a shot in the arm here in a couple of years? Good question.
This is Tom.
So just around MRSA and Cdiff we continue to see Cdiff I'd say the market overall is growing very strong double digits closer towards the 20% range is what we see.
And with the adoption of molecular Cdiff methods it's still well under 50% across the market.
So you've got significant overall health care issues that's happening across particularly in the U.S.
with a continued upgrade from what is very clearly documented as a -- going from an inferior method to a superior method going from EIA to molecular technology.
MRSA I described as a bit more mature.
You're seeing that growing more in the very high-single digits to very low-double digits.
For MRSA as a marketplace as people have -- that's been -- the conversion from culture to molecular has been going on for quite a bit longer period of time and we described that as a bit more mature.
The combination of the 2 though of course we still see HAI as a very attractive market.
On your point regarding reimbursement and kind of value-based purchasing going forward certainly we have always recognized that there's going to be increased incentives for hospitals to reduce HAIs and we've been positioning ourselves for that not only through expansion of our portfolio but we've been very involved in helping to influence those guidelines and the laws that have been passed in several states around mandatory screening et cetera.
So overall the market access and market development around HAIs including influencing the rules around future payment structures et cetera is an area that we remain very active in.
Research Division</strong> Great and then a follow-up.
We've certainly seen kind of first-hand the effect of KIESTRA being at the ACTMED [ph] meeting over the weekend and candidly seeing some pretty impressive traffic at that piece of your booth.
Can you talk a little bit about I guess one of the other new technologies in microbiology that I think is probably driving the franchise and that's mass spec and what you're seeing both in Europe as well as in the U.S.
and kind of how this fits in the entire equation? That's a great question.
Tom why don't you? Yes very good.
So appreciate the feedback on ACTMED [ph].
The -- so I would say as you saw KIESTRA is going very well and it's performing at our expectations.
Mass spec is a very exciting new technology that's of course really allowing identification of organisms to occur in minutes rather than in hours.
You may have seen at ACTMED [ph] we did a joint press release with Bruker.
We have entered into an OEM agreement with Bruker on a BD-branded MALDI-TOF which is going to be -- we'll sell that as a standalone and connected in with our Phoenix AST solution.
We have launched an AST on our Phoenix so that customers can do the ID on mass spec AST on our Phoenix and connect all of those results to our informatics platform called EpiCenter.
We're also in the process of integrating that Bruker MALDI-TOF OEM that we've done in line with our KIESTRA system to be able to fully automate that moving forward.
And you probably saw we actually were sharing the early prototype versions of that we're demonstrating at the convention that you're at.
And our next question comes from the line of Derik De Bruin from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A couple of just really quick ones.
What was the year-over-year benefit from flu? So the year-over-year benefit from flu was a little bit better than what we expected in the second quarter.
If you recall in the first quarter we said it was about 50 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a quick one.
On the Simplist products what's sort of your expectation to organic revenue growth contribution for that in 2013? I guess just some general guidance on how to think about it for 2014.
So for 2013 small.
And we're just starting to ramp this up but we are starting to ship products.
But in terms of the back half of the year it's going to take a while for these contracts to roll and the product to get through the system and whatnot so not much.
So you're going to see a bigger impact in '14.
'14 is going to be our really first sales year of this product.
But we're not going to get into a particular revenue guidance on it at this point in time.
And we'll go to the next line of Matthew Taylor with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a bigger-picture question.
I wanted to ask about the cadence of Safety growth in Europe just given the legislative mandate there and how you see that through the rest of the year and then through the next couple of years.
Sure.
Bill is going to take that.
This is Bill.
Most of the countries at this point are still in their final stages of transposing that directive to the localized country legislation.
And as you know that's supposed to become effective May 11.
There is a little bit of a variance across the countries in terms of capability to be ready by mid-May.
You've got some people that are very far along.
Examples would be Austria Finland France Germany and Ireland.
You've got a few people who are lagging.
I'm less certain this would be the countries in southern Italy.
And Denmark and Czech Republic are a little different.
In terms of where we're sitting right now and of course we're just trying to get a handle on today we see the European safety market about 53% 55% converted on infusion therapy maybe about 10% to 13% on injection and about 42% to 45% on our blood collection products.
Those are the real key drivers.
We've also got an early-stage entry in diabetes right now and that safety market is about 10% converted.
Now we've seen our revenues growing at about 9.5% or so year-to-date on Safety.
We expect that number to kind of continue itself.
We don't see anything dramatic happening suddenly in the second half of the year but we do expect that high-single digit growth to continue hopefully over the next several quarters.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I just wanted to ask another question on the margins.
I guess it was interesting that you called out the acquisitions are becoming accretive.
And given your programs in terms of ReLoCo can you talk about your acquisition strategy and how that relates to margins? And do you think that a lot of your expansion the next couple of years is going to come from gross margins? Or is there more -- is it more going to be cost-cutting-driven? So I think we have a mix going forward.
We do expect to continue to get gross margin improvement as we go forward.
I think from a principal standpoint you should think that the kind of ReLoCo program you've seen in Medical is now a way of life and that we would look to keep extending that kind of thinking in program throughout the company.
We're actively working on those things.
Also second piece you're right.
We do expect that these acquisitions will become more accretive over time.
The way I think about it is our strategy is to continue doing these plug-in acquisitions.
So there's always a baseline cost of the program.
But as the -- as some of these acquisitions mature then we see benefits from them and that whole program becomes more positive over time.
But we do expect to continue this program and continue to move into adjacencies.
Moving into SSG&amp;A we will continue to drive our efforts in shared services as we bring up our global shared service network and continue to look for operating efficiencies in SSG&amp;A as we move forward on the EVEREST program as well.
So it's going to be a combination and it'll probably vary from year to year depending on what's going on.
Next we'll go to the line of Peter Lawson with Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just a question around the pharma business.
I mean does that change the acquisition strategy going forward? And is there any way you can kind of help us around 2014 on the outlook for that business? So we're not going to start guiding that business now.
It's too early on Peter.
Let us get some traction and we'll come back as we talk about 2014 more holistically then we'll update you on that business.
But we're just taking the first orders for that business.
So just way too early for that.
What was the first part? Research Division</strong> Just around acquisition strategy.
So I don't think it changes our acquisition strategy.
We're still focused on plug-in acquisitions.
If you think about what we're doing in the Medical side of the business what we're communicating is we're focused on medication error reduction and improving parenteral drug delivery.
That's the core of that strategy.
I'm sure we would continue to look to expand our footprint in that area as we're continuing to expand our footprint in Diagnostics and Biosciences.
Research Division</strong> And then just on BD MAX and Cdiff what kind of hospitals are you targeting? I guess what's your go-to-market strategy there? And is that more of an international business you think than a U.S.
business? It's very much a U.S.
business and an international business.
But pretty much all the major -- the acute care hospitals have significant programs around first HAI reduction.
And then as Tom was talking about before we see this opportunity for a broader menu across the acute care segment.
What Tom's doing is broadening the footprint of molecular within the acute care segment.
You want to comment any more on that? Because it's been very concentrated a little bit now.
I think you summarized it very well.
If anything I would say Cdiff is a bit more concentrated in the U.S.
where the adoption of molecular is more widespread.
Europe is much further behind in the adoption curve.
U.S.
is 3x to 4x ahead in the adoption curve I'd say at least of Cdiff than really most other geographies around the world so...
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up around that.
Is Asia a focus for your BD MAX? Well we placed quite a number of BD MAXs in Asia.
We have not necessarily entered into China with BD MAX yet.
But more of the mature geographies in Asia particularly ANZ Singapore et cetera.
We're seeing strong adoption of BD MAX.
They have existing HAI screening programs in those markets and we also see very positive feedback on our future menu in those geographies as well.
We'll go to the line of Jeff Frelick with Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> You've mentioned earlier not seeing broad improvement in the overall market especially around utilization.
So given the kind of the solid quarters you've strung together here you must be taking some share.
I just wondered if you can point to which products are contributing to that -- to those gains.
Well I think there's a number of businesses where we're doing quite well in.
And you see our results first off just broadly in international and especially in emerging markets.
We're doing well as we build out those infrastructures as we talked about as we have some products particularly targeted for those markets.
So in Medical we're doing well.
Remember -- we haven't talked about it today.
The Emerald Syringe we've launched and we're moving into markets that we haven't served before.
I think we're doing quite well in the Diabetes Care business in pen needles as well.
In Diagnostics we're reporting out the point-of-care and Veritor we entered the physicians marketplace where we have been in clinical but we were not there before in the flu market in physicians.
Now we have Strep and RSV going forward as well.
So we're as excited about that.
Remember there's also adjacencies going on here which -- where we're moving into spaces we just haven't occupied.
Tom just talked about now he's got mass spec unit.
We've moved into laboratory automation.
So I think we're doing better because we're moving into adjacent spaces new products and gaining some share at the same time.
I think it's more the adjacencies' international piece than share gain right now but getting some on the margin.
And we have a follow-up question from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on Derik's question just regarding the flu to make sure I understood it correctly.
Last quarter you guys said there was a 50-basis-point benefit in 1Q which you characterize is going to be more of the pull-forward from the second quarter.
And then I thought if I understood you correctly you said this quarter was a little bit better than what you had been expecting.
So can you maybe just help us understand in this quarter what kind of flu was? Sure.
So you're right Kristen.
Flu is worth about 50 bps in the first quarter.
It was smaller in the second quarter a little bit better than we expected.
So when you think about -- when you look at the actual market dynamics what happened we clearly saw from the CDC a big drop-off in the second quarter.
There was a bit of a spillover.
So it was small in the quarter.
It wasn't a big driver less than 50 bps.
But where it was was in the physician's office with the new product.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we should be thinking about underlying growth the 4.1% less the 100 from acquisitions and then kind of reducing -- further reducing for flu which you say that given...
I wouldn't do that.
And there are no further questions.
I'll turn the call back over to Vince Forlenza.
Please go ahead.
So I thank all of you for your questions and your participation on the call.
We were very pleased with our second quarter results.
It was great communicating that to you.
I'm very happy to raise our guidance for the year.
I think that we're seeing strong growth as we communicated both on international good performance from our acquisitions and our new products which is driving that growth.
We didn't talk a lot today about our operating effectiveness programs but they remain on track ReLoCo I and ReLoCo II and we will continue to drive those programs going forward.
And it was a pleasure to raise our guidance.
So we look forward to updating you on the balance of the year.
Thank you very much.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Thank you for using AT&amp;T Teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Thanks very much.
Hello and welcome to BD's Third Fiscal Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through August 8 2013 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at (800) 585-8367 for domestic calls and (404) 537-3406 for international calls using confirmation number 15535210.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our third fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our third fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are: Chris Reidy Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Administration; Suky Upadhyay Senior Vice President Finance; Bill Kozy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Tom Polen President of Diagnostics Systems; and Gary Cohen Executive Vice President.
As we stated in our press release we experienced a charge relating to a pending litigation settlement of $22 million or $0.07 per share related to the indirect purchaser antitrust class action cases.
We also experienced a charge relating to the medical device tax of $13 million or $0.04 per share.
For the purposes of our conference call today we will refer to adjusted diluted earnings per share excluding the pending litigation settlement and the medical device tax.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
Our solid results against the backdrop of a challenging environment demonstrate that we are executing on our strategy and delivering on our commitments.
Revenue and EPS growth in the third quarter were in line with our expectations.
Revenue growth in the third quarter was driven by our Medical and Diagnostics segments.
We experienced a decrease in our Biosciences segment which we will provide more details on later.
Strong international growth overcame slower U.S.
sales growth in the quarter.
Growth in the U.S.
was impacted by ongoing softness in our Women's Health and Cancer business and the timing of orders in Advanced Bioprocessing.
We also saw a continued strong growth in international Safety sales and emerging markets and we continue to deliver on our strategy of improving patient and health care worker safety.
Based on our third quarter and year-to-date results we feel confident in our previously communicated guidance ranges.
We will review our guidance for the full year in more detail shortly.
On Slide 5 we've outlined our third quarter revenue and EPS results which I will speak to on a currency neutral basis.
Total company revenues were solid increasing by 5.1%.
Fully diluted adjusted EPS excluding the device tax came in at $1.58 which grew 7.2% in the quarter.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Chris Reidy to make a few opening comments.
As you may already know Chris was previously at ADP Corporation where he served as Corporate Vice President and CFO for 6 years.
He is well positioned to help drive BD's strategy of accelerating growth through innovation geographic expansion and operating effectiveness.
We're extremely pleased to have Chris onboard and we will leverage his diverse experience as we lead the company to its next phase of growth.
Thanks Vince and good morning everyone.
It's a pleasure to be here.
I'm equally pleased to have joined the team at BD.
The company's long history core values and ethical standards are attributes that really resonated with me.
It's a particularly exciting time to join the company as we focus on product innovation strategic acquisitions and geographic expansion and I'm delighted to be a part of it.
While I have been only here a few weeks it's evident that BD leaders and associates are committed to delivering health care products that are more effective efficient and safe.
I'm also very much aligned with the financial model here at BD which is similar to the model used at ADP.
I'm looking forward to working with the board and the management team to continue to execute against the company's strategy.
We're committed to accelerating top line growth driving margin expansion and returning cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
I'd also like to take the opportunity to thank Suky for his contributions and the work he has done serving as interim CFO.
As you all know Suky along with the rest of the strong finance team ensured a seamless transition over the past 9 months.
Suky's productive working relationship with the management team and the board as well as his commitment to shareholders is invaluable to the company.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Suky to review our third quarter of fiscal results and our guidance for the total year.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
It's been my pleasure to have had this opportunity.
Today I'd like to begin by discussing the key financial highlights for the third quarter.
The diversity of our portfolio in tandem with strong execution helped deliver solid performance in a challenging environment.
From a macro perspective we continue to view developed markets as stable but constrained and emerging markets as a continued source of growth.
Revenue growth in the third quarter was in line with our expectations driven by new product sales acquisitions Safety products and geographic expansion.
In addition the quarter benefited as a result of the reversal of some negative timing matters from the second quarter.
We also experienced a better-than-expected price and mix profile.
Adjusted earnings per share excluding the device tax were better than expected due to the timing of certain legal expenses which we now expect to incur in the fourth quarter.
We also completed an additional $50 million of our share repurchase plan bringing our year-to-date total repurchases to $406 million.
Overall we are pleased with our results and we are on track to deliver our commitments of solid revenue growth and underlying margin expansion which will ultimately translate into an improved quality of earnings profile.
As Vince mentioned our third quarter and year-to-date results give us the confidence to reaffirm our guidance for the total year.
We expect revenue growth to approach about 5% which is the upper end of our previously communicated guidance range.
We also expect adjusted earnings per share growth excluding the medical device tax to be at the upper end of our previous range of 11% to 11.5%.
On Slide 9 I will review our revenue growth by segment on a currency neutral basis.
Third quarter revenue growth was 5.1% for the company with acquisitions contributing about 80 basis points.
We also experienced the impact of positive pricing and mix of about 20 basis points in the quarter.
This reflects the benefit of new product launches and more effective pricing management in a challenging environment.
BD Medical third quarter revenues increased 7.9%.
Growth in this segment was driven by strong international sales Safety and the normalizing of unfavorable ordering patterns from the second quarter as discussed earlier.
Medical Surgical Systems growth was 6.6% led by emerging markets and international Safety-related sales.
Growth in Diabetes Care was 9.4%.
This reflected continued strong sales of pen needles which include our Nano and PentaPoint products along with our AutoShield Duo Safety product.
Growth in Diabetes Care also reflects a timing favorable -- timing benefit from the normalization of second quarter impacts.
Pharmaceutical Systems growth was 9.2% also driven by favorable timing of orders from the second quarter and our SSI acquisition.
BD Diagnostics third quarter revenue increased 3.6%.
The segment's growth was driven by solid sales in Preanalytical Systems.
Growth in Diagnostic Systems was softer than expected due to the timing of lab automation systems installations on a global basis and due to continued softness in Women's Health Care and Cancer in the U.S.
BD Biosciences revenue declined 2.5% versus the prior year.
Slight growth in instrument placements in the U.S.
were more than offset by a few geographic factors which I will speak to on the next slide.
Moving to Slide 10.
I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the third quarter.
As we expected softer growth in the U.S.
was offset by continued strong international growth.
BD's reported U.S.
revenues increased 1.3% versus the prior year.
Revenue in our U.S.
Medical segment increased by 4.4%.
As expected this was partially driven by the reversal of unfavorable timing in both our Pharmaceutical Systems and Diabetes Care businesses in addition to the positive contribution from our acquisition of SSI.
U.S.
growth in the Diagnostics segment declined by 1.5%.
This reflects growth in Preanalytical Systems which was more than offset by continued softness in Women's Health and Cancer due to extended cervical cancer screening intervals.
U.S.
Biosciences revenues declined by 3.3%.
As I just mentioned slight growth in the U.S.
instrument placements were more than offset by an unfavorable timing of orders in Advanced Bioprocessing.
While we have seen low single-digit growth in instrumentation this year we remain cautious on the macroeconomic outlook related to research funding.
This has been contemplated in our full year guidance.
Moving on to international.
We continue to see strong growth.
Revenues grew 7.9% currency neutral driven by Medical and Diagnostics segments.
The Medical segment grew 10.3% and Diagnostics grew 8.6%.
This reflects strong growth in emerging markets and international Safety sales.
Biosciences declined 2.1%.
This reflects continued softness in Western Europe due to austerity measures and continued delays of government research funding in Japan.
On Slide 11 we continue to see strong growth in emerging markets which accounted for approximately 25% of our total revenues.
Emerging markets revenues grew 12.8% currency neutral over the prior year.
This was driven by good performance across all segments and regions.
China revenues and Safety sales in emerging markets both grew by about 18%.
We continue to see solid growth across all key geographies driven by an attractive return on investment profile.
Moving on to global Safety on Slide 12.
Currency neutral sales increased 8.7% and grew to $538 million in the quarter.
Revenues in the U.S.
grew 5.6% which benefited in part from our acquisition of SSI.
International sales grew 12.7%.
We are encouraged by the positive results in Europe as the market continues to convert to safety-engineered products.
Medical Safety sales grew 12.8% driven by a range of safety-engineered products and Diagnostics growth was 4.8% in the quarter with particularly strong growth in emerging markets.
Moving on.
Since we have already discussed revenues in detail I will not cover Slide 13.
Turning to Slide 14.
As we expected and outlined for you on the last call sequentially gross margins improved by about 100 basis points.
However on a year-over-year basis reported gross margins declined by 60 basis points due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency.
On a performance basis positive contributions from ReLoCo and pricing were offset by acquisition and startup-related costs.
For the full year we continue to expect underlying gross profit improvement of about 40 basis points.
Slide 15 recaps the third quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency neutral results.
As we discussed revenue and GP were in line with our expectations.
SSG&amp;A increased about 11% due to investments in new products acquisition-related expenses legal fees and the medical device tax.
The medical device tax unfavorably impacted SSG&amp;A by about $13 million or about 300 basis points.
As mentioned the third quarter included a year-over-year increase in legal fees.
We expect a further increase in the fourth quarter as we prepare for the RTI trial in September.
R&amp;D increased 5.6%.
This remains in line with our expectations at 5.9% of revenues as we continue to invest in new products.
Operating income excluding the aforementioned settlement declined by 0.9% in the quarter.
However when you exclude the medical device tax together with the increase in legal and acquisition costs operating income growth was broadly in line with underlying sales growth.
Our tax rate declined by 180 basis points reflecting the benefit of the reinstated R&amp;D tax credit in the U.S.
and favorable geographic mix.
In the quarter adjusted earnings per share excluding the medical device tax were $1.58 which represents a 7.2% increase over the prior year.
Slide 16 recaps the adjusted year-to-date income statement and highlights our foreign currency neutral results.
I will not review this slide in detail but would like to highlight our year-to-date operating income growth of about 4%.
Excluding the medical device tax underlying operating income growth was a little over 6% and ahead of overall revenue growth.
As we've communicated previously we are still on track to deliver about 40 basis points of underlying operating margin expansion this year.
Slide 17 illustrates our revenue guidance by segment.
We expect revenue growth for the total company to approach 5% or the upper end of our previous guidance range.
This assumes a euro-to-dollar exchange rate of about 1.31 and a dollar-to-yen exchange rate of about 99 for the balance of the year.
Within the Medical segment we expect growth to be between 5% to 6%.
This is primarily driven by better-than-expected results across international Safety-related sales and acquisitions.
The Diagnostics and Biosciences segments remain unchanged.
We expect growth of about 5% and 1% to 2% respectively.
Adjusted EPS guidance is expected to be at the upper end of 11% to 11.5% excluding the impact of the medical device tax.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince who will provide you with an update on our product portfolio.
Thanks Suky.
Moving on to Slide 19.
I would like to review the program and product launches in our Medical segment.
In June we closed the licensing agreement with CRISI that's C-R-I-S-I which is a privately held company in California.
CRISI is currently developing a drug delivery device for verifying monitoring and documenting manual IV injections.
CRISI nicely aligns with our strategy in Medical Surgical Systems around the elimination of medication delivery errors.
Additionally this links with our latest acquisition of Cato Software Solutions to create a preparation and delivery solution for certain safety gaps.
For BD Simplist we are continuing to make progress.
We recently received FDA approval of ondansetron and we expect to launch this by the end of our fiscal year.
Ondansetron is an antiemetic used to treat nausea and vomiting often following chemotherapy treatments.
We have 3 additional drugs in various stages of the FDA regulatory approval process.
As you can see by Cato Simplist and now CRISI we're continuing to focus on medication error management and enabling safer and more effective parenteral drug delivery in both hospital and pharmacy settings.
In our Pharmaceutical Systems business we launched the BD Neopak this quarter.
This is a new glass prefillable syringe system specifically engineered for the administration of biopharmaceutical injectable drugs.
This new product is designed to address industry challenges in developing manufacturing and marketing biological drugs to patients.
As you can see we've continued to make good progress with our product portfolio in the Medical segment.
Turning to Slide 20.
You will see the various product launches in Diagnostics.
We're extremely pleased with our BD Veritor System since its launch in early fiscal year 2012.
More than 5 300 units of this system have been placed to date.
We continue to broaden our customer base as well as capture share gains with this innovative point-of-care platform.
We have now expanded beyond doctors' offices and have gained the interest of large pharmacy retail chains across the U.S.
Moving on to molecular.
On the BD MAX platform we're pleased with the progress we're making as shipments continue to accelerate in the third quarter.
We expect shipments to continue to accelerate in the fourth quarter as well.
Our StaphSR enteric bacteria and GC/CT Trichomonas assays are also progressing well through clinical trials.
Our BD Viper molecular platform remains well positioned for the high-volume screening market.
And the launch of the BD Viper Trichomonas assay remains on track for launch in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year.
The launch of the new Viper LT platform which includes our Onclarity HPV genotyping assay and GC/CT assays has been delayed by 1 quarter.
However we've completed the European clinical trial and are very pleased with the data.
On front-end automation system for Women's Health the BD Totalys is now shipping in Europe after being delayed by 1 quarter.
The launch remains on track for the U.S.
next year.
On Slide 21 I'd like to review the program and product launches in our Biosciences segment.
In the third quarter we announced the launch of our new BD LSRFortessa.
This is the latest cell analyzer in this line of high-performance research flow cytometers.
The LSRFortessa will enable researchers to conduct complex experiments with the additional parameters and increased sensitivity they need.
It's been designed by BD's special order program that enables customers to configure BD flow cytometers and cell sorters to fit precise research and assay needs.
This program is tailored to meet the needs of researchers at the leading edge of biomedical discovery.
And we'll continue to invest in this business in order to continue our expansion in this market and drive future growth.
On Slide 22 before we open the call to questions I'd like to reiterate the key messages from our presentation today.
First we're pleased with our continued improved revenue and underlying operating income performance in the third quarter and year-to-date.
Second we continued to demonstrate that we're making progress delivering against our strategy of accelerating revenue growth delivering underlying margin expansion and driving effective capital deployment.
Third we're seeing continued success with our key growth drivers of geographic expansion new products and acquisitions which are performing in line or better than our expectations.
Finally we're positive about our outlook for fiscal year 2013.
Despite the challenging environment we believe we are positioned to continue our track record of delivering value to our customers and shareholders.
Thank you.
And we'll now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is coming from David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just want to focus in on earnings growth for this quarter and for the balance of the year.
So you talked about the legal settlement for the third quarter.
And Suky I wonder if you could break out for us what was sort of the magnitude of the legal shift in the third versus the fourth quarter.
And is the fourth quarter number -- you initially had talked about earnings growth building throughout the balance of the year.
The fourth quarter implied guidance has a sequential downturn to a certain extent.
Is that entirely due to the legal expense? Or does it reflect some type of conservatism? So just helping us net out that math would be helpful.
Sure David.
Yes the back half as we talked about the last quarter remains intact.
It really is around the calendarization and the phasing of those legal expenses.
So what we're seeing is about a $0.06 beat versus overall consensus on EPS.
That's primarily driven by those legal expenses which will now occur in the fourth quarter.
So the second half still remains intact.
It's just a shift from third quarter into the fourth.
Research Division</strong> And just maybe just a quick one for Vince.
In terms of the European Safety obviously it continues to be a driver for the business.
Post the regulatory action in May have you begun to see any change in the relative growth rate here on this particular quarter? And would you expect to see that as early as the fourth quarter? Well we did see a bit of a step-up in the quarter in European Safety.
In fact it grew just under 10%.
So it was strong in the quarter.
And we expect it to continue to be strong.
As we've said all along more so in Northern Europe than Southern Europe.
Your next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we could just dive in a little bit more into the Medical business.
Since you are raising guidance there I just want to get a better understanding of the components that give you a higher expectation for the balance of the year and just generally whether you think it's sustainable going forward into 2014.
Yes.
We're encouraged by what we're seeing in the Medical segment.
And Bill will comment on that.
This is Bill.
Just the real basis for our slight change there is driven by the success of the recent acquisitions and the new product.
If you could literally break the performance of those 2 categories out of the segment they're contributing in the quarter we just concluded a little over $95 million on the top line or a growth that would have been a little north of 8%.
So anyhow as we had planned quite a while ago the impact of new products and recent acquisitions would offset some of the known kind of nongrowth contributors that we have in the more mature pieces of the Medical segment particularly in Med/Surg.
So right now that's the basis for us moving up.
For the quarter for the Medical segment new products as a percent of sales were a little north of 15% which is the highest number we've achieved there for quite some time.
And so that's the basis for the uptick.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you had also commented just generally on improved pricing and mix.
Can you also expand there? I don't know if it was specific to Medical or if it's...
Yes that was company-wide.
And Bill can comment on that as well.
Kristen the comment I just made we tend to think about our pricing always in the same kind of phrase with mix.
So what's happening there's a number of examples in the Medical business.
For example in our Diabetes Care business every time we make a conversion to Nano we gain some slight improvement but some slight benefit in terms of price/mix.
We like converting customers to the Nano or the PentaPoint because of the slight advantage we're creating.
That's what's giving us a little bit of favorability.
And you have to look back to that very assertive price management and contractual management systems that we talked to you about on the last call.
Those 2 factors have just allowed us to get a little better performance in that price/mix category.
And Kristen across the company -- and maybe Suky might want to make a comment or 2.
But think about this from what Bill said we had good mix in Medical with the new products with Diabetes Care.
PAS did well.
The one business where we generally would have a positive mix effect from a corporate level that was lower was Biosciences.
But net-net it was a positive right Suky? No I think you're right on point both Bill and Vince.
I think the one comment I would make is that we still do continue to see the environment as challenging both from a pricing and reimbursement perspective.
And year-to-date we are still seeing erosion overall in year-over-year pricing but we're very optimistic with these results.
But we're taking it 1 quarter at a time.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I'll sneak one last in.
Suky are you still expecting within the guidance range for this year about 60 to 70 basis points from acquisition contribution? Actually we're expecting a little bit closer to 70 to 80 basis points.
So as Bill talked about we're doing a little bit better on SSI as well as KIESTRA which we've been talking about.
So we see that contribution going up slightly.
Your next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could actually dive into a little bit more detail on the U.S.
Diagnostic Systems business and particularly in the context of your comment that BD MAX placement [indiscernible] accelerated in the quarter.
Sure.
Tom can handle that no problem.
David this is Tom.
So let me just walk through some of the key elements.
So overall in the U.S.
we certainly do see overall lower testing volumes I think as you see reported by others in the industry and from labs.
The most significant area of that of course for us is being LBC testing volumes due to interval extensions.
So we see that impacting the U.S.
We also see obviously the lack of -- just from a timing perspective from a lab automation install.
Molecular specifically we saw flat overall in the quarter.
And that was really a mix of lower GC/CT volumes that were partially offset by those increasing MAX sales.
So we actually saw MAX sales double quarter-on-quarter going from Q2 to Q3 and we're expecting that type of continued trajectory going forward.
As Vince mentioned we reached another milestone on MAX placement at over 200 at the end of the third quarter and we expect a ramp to continue going forward.
So we are seeing that impact of MAX.
Of course Veritor has been another key growth driver of ours.
You don't see that in Q3 because it's really a respiratory-focused product.
You saw that in our 7.8% growth that was reflected in Q2.
It came out of the Q3 numbers.
So overall we are seeing that ramp of MAX but we are seeing some of those challenges specifically on overall testing volumes in the U.S.
with -- I'll point specifically to that LBC segment.
And keep one other thing in mind as you think about this.
As we said on the previous call a lot of what we're doing with MAX now is converting at our own base not all but a lot of what we're doing.
So you didn't see as big an impact as you might have thought in the quarter because of the cannibalization which of course will change over time.
Research Division</strong> And are you willing to quantify in any way sort of if you were to break out the Diagnostic Systems segment the percentage of the business that's facing some other pressures that Tom just discussed versus the percentage of the business that's seeing growth? Well I think what Tom is really concerned about is the Women's Health and Cancer piece and specifically the LBC business the pap smear business where Tom -- testing volumes are down.
I think office visits for OB/GYN were down about 6% 7% if I remember.
That's the focus for him right? Correct.
On a worldwide basis our Women's Health business actually in the quarter we saw down about 10%.
And that was driven by that being a higher number in North America where the vast majority of our business is.
And then you saw continued double-digit growth in emerging markets.
And even in Europe continued strong double-digit growth in that segment.
So specifically within the U.S.
Women's Health is in that 10% to 15% range of sales.
So it's -- the bulk of the business is in our other -- microbiology is by far the largest followed by molecular followed by the smallest piece being our Women's Health.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just squeeze in one more quick one on Bioscience.
I believe this is the second quarter in a row where you talked about delays in Japanese funding as well as European austerity measures.
And any sense that either of those might be abating or anything that you're looking for to see those pressures start to lift? Sure.
Bill will address that.
David this is Bill.
We have been waiting for the release of some of the funding of the Japan stimulus program.
This is part of Abe's economic policy.
And we do have a signal that after these delays we're expecting that some of this at least to show up in the fourth quarter.
We have orders in-house for the first time already.
And we have some formal release of funding from the government in Japan just in the last 3 weeks.
So we're treating those as good signals and expecting to see some impact in the fourth quarter.
Hard to predict exactly yet what it is but it'll get back on the kind of the trajectory that we had described previously.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe a clarification first.
So for the fourth quarter just so we're making sure we're apples and apples here the implied guidance is $1.44 to $1.47 on continuing ops? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
One thing Suky would be helpful.
You guys don't talk about cash flows on these calls.
And when we got the 2Q from -- sorry the 10-Q from last quarter it showed kind of a disconnect in the first half of the year between earnings growth which I think net income growth was 4% but operating cash flows were down like 5% to 6%.
Can you talk about how cash flows did this quarter and whether inclusive of this quarter or next quarter we'll see improvement in the back half of the year? Yes we do expect to see an improvement in overall free cash flow in the back half of this year.
We're making several improvements around working capital as well as we're going to see some abatement or sort of slowdown of overall EVEREST capital spending.
So we do expect to see an improvement in the back half of the year on free cash flow.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Vince you guys have historically used this call I'll say it opportunistically to touch on the upcoming fiscal year.
Is there anything that preliminarily you guys see where the street may be mismodeling or you want us to think about as we go into updating our models post this call for FY '14? So Mike there's nothing unique going on right now that we would want to talk about.
I think we'll address '14 once we finish up our work for the year.
So we'll be talking to you about that in the fall.
But there's nothing exceptional to call out.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Two questions on Bioscience and Diagnostics.
Both of those segments do need to rebound sequentially into the fourth quarter.
So first on Biosciences is it strictly your expectation that Japan's [indiscernible] is going to flow-through that leads you to bounce back Biosciences? And in Diagnostics can you talk about what's happening on the competitive front in Diagnostics and how that will play out in the fourth quarter? Sure.
On Biosciences Bill talked about improving situation on the Japan funding.
Keep in mind too that we had some negative timing in this quarter with Advanced Bioprocessing.
So that would be the other factor Bill would pick up on.
So Tom in terms of the competitive situation on Diagnostics? And maybe just a comment overall on Q4.
So we do expect and we do have in-house as I mentioned earlier lab automation timing impacted us in Q3 negatively see that having more of a positive impact in Q4.
You have to keep in mind for lab automation these orders typically come in 6 to 8 months before we actually ship these pieces so a very large capital.
So we do have those orders not only in-house but equipment built and they're being installed now which we'll bill in the fourth quarter.
So we'll see that as an impact in the fourth quarter.
We'll obviously see the continued ramp of MAX we expect in the fourth quarter.
Also in Women's Health as Vince mentioned earlier in the x U.S.
we have Totalys launching and have instruments literally shipping now which we'll bill in the fourth quarter as well.
So those are where we see some rebound expected from that perspective.
As we think about competitive dynamics I would say that we certainly do see within molecular of all the categories that which has been well-documented across the board increasing competition there certain pricing pressures in some categories and also well-documented by others expect continued pricing pressures in the GC/CT space and some of the more call it mature segments of the HAI market such as MRSA.
And we've been managing through those accordingly.
I would say that's the most specific focus from a competitive dynamic perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Vince just a quick one on generic injectables.
Any guidance you can give us on the contribution from that business in the quarter? It's very small as we thought it would be.
We're encouraged by the fact that we are gaining accounts.
And of course we have the launch impending launch of this third drug.
And for us it's about continuing to get this breadth of product line out there.
But the reaction from the customer base has been very positive.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Weinstein with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Tom I appreciate the comments that you just made on the Women's Health space.
But if you can just give us a little bit more on kind of what's the long-term outlook here.
I mean you're seeing changes on the competitive front and macro headwinds.
How should we think about this business over kind of more than just a next quarter or next couple of quarter timeframe? And what is BD's strategy to kind of offset some of these headwinds? Brian this Tom.
So as we look at -- maybe let me just talk -- break that into 2 parts just an overall comment on the market and where we see that going and then maybe break down into our strategy.
So we still continue to see strong double-digit growth x U.S.
And we expect that to continue because the vast majority of women still lack access to basic pap testing.
And that's really what's driving the growth x U.S.
increased access as well as in some markets like in Europe Germany in particular would be a conversion from conventional pap to LBC.
In North America we -- again well-documented from our contemporaries as well this decline in pap volumes due to the extending intervals.
The data that we see shows that about 60% of physicians have now implemented that expanding interval testing.
That's up from about 25% 2 years ago.
So as you think about just the longer-term trends there the interval extension is not fully matured yet in the U.S.
We think there's going to be some further occurrence of that through FY '14.
And then of course you also have to monitor the implementation potentially in the future it's not certain but the role of primary HPV screening which could have a further impact on the LBC market.
And we recognize that.
Obviously our strategy is providing a more integrated solution across cervical cancer.
And that includes really the next 2 major product launches that we have coming in that category which is our Totalys front-end automation which is launching this quarter Q4 x U.S.
and next year in the U.S.
which fully automates that upfront process fits with the consolidation of our customer base as well and making it much more labor-efficient and reducing errors.
The other pieces of course us entering into that HPV market with a highly differentiated genotyping assay which is also launching of course very shortly in Europe and we have not communicated the date yet for the U.S.
So participating on both sides of that we think will be important long term.
And we recognize and are investing appropriately in the segments of the market that we think will be most attractive specifically that molecular HPV segment and creating efficiencies in that large consolidated customer segment of LBC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second a follow-up on Veritor.
With the Group A Strep product is that actually being sold right now? I know it's out of season a little bit.
But is there anything that has to happen as far as the units that you have to swap those out as you bring in the Group A Strep because of some differences there with the flu and the RSV product? Yes.
We have not launched the Strep A product yet but we do have FDA approval for our clinical kit.
The CLIA waiver is still ongoing.
And so the CLIA waiver market is clearly the largest segment for Strep A and so therefore we've held up the launch for that.
Regarding reader changes et cetera that's still under evaluation if that would ever be needed based on us and our CLIA waiver submission.
So it's not something that we're actively doing at this point no.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions here.
First Tom sorry to keep harping on this but obviously several moving parts in the Diagnostics franchise right now.
Just to confirm it does sound like KIESTRA is going faster than expected since the acquisition.
And then secondly staying on microbiology.
Do you expect the MALDI-TOF approval by the end of the calendar year? And then just a quick housekeeping question here.
Was there any effect of Quest on the Women's Health franchise in the quarter? This is Tom.
Yes KIESTRA is doing actually as Suky mentioned earlier better than our expectations.
Certainly we see that ability to lower our lab's overall cost per test through labor efficiencies and accelerating time to results is really hitting home with our customers particularly in Europe and the U.S.
So very positive feedback there.
Related specifically to Quest in the quarter we do not see any impact of that within Q3.
That's something that we would anticipate more as an impact going into FY '14.
Research Division</strong> And then just the MALDI approval? MALDI that's -- we understand that's submitted and under active review.
That is Bruker's submission though so I'd rather not comment on someone else's submission time and approval time.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then just a quick one Vince on the Biosciences franchise.
As you think about the performance here over the past couple of years a bit of a laggard here relative to the other 2 major segments.
How are you feeling about the portfolio? Do we need to look at maybe some additional M&amp;A in this space? Or are there some internal developments? How do you think about the franchise for the next couple of years? Well we think that there is opportunity for this business and to broaden the footprint of the business.
Primarily right now I would think it's more organic than acquisition.
There's opportunities to use flow in different ways.
And we have programs both internally and with partners to do that at the moment.
So areas such as using flow as the front end for next-generation sequencing we believe is going to be an emerging market.
We just published using flow not on the cell surface but also inside the cell in measuring RNA.
So just to name 2 things that we're looking at but we're also looking at more.
So we do think that in a reasonable funding environment that this business can return to growth.
But there's work to do here.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So first just some guidance cleanup and I guess this is a multipart one.
You noted delays in global automation installations were a driver to -- or one of the drivers to moderation in Diagnostics revenue in fiscal Q3.
It sounds like you expect this to be recaptured in fiscal Q4 based on your answer to Amit's question.
What was the magnitude of this dynamic? I guess the second part is was the delay in the RTI legal dispute was that about a $20 million pretax charge? And then I guess related to that just to make sure we understand this correctly moving forward is it your policy to exclude legal settlement charges but not litigation charges? Why don't you do the first one Tom? Doug this is Tom.
KIESTRA in the quarter we essentially had no KIESTRA shipments in the quarter so wouldn't have the number right here in terms of the exact percentage on that.
But it was essentially 0 within the quarter.
And you'll see there's a significant pop in Q4.
We also had shipments in Q3.
So it was just a matter of timing of those shipments.
Again it's not actually anything related to orders.
Those orders typically come in 6 to 8 months prior.
It's literally just when we do the installation we get customer acceptance.
We have a very nice backlog of orders.
Absolutely.
It's just a matter of the customer being ready for installation and those sorts of factors.
Suky? Yes.
Regarding legal expenses around RTI within the third quarter the expectation you're directionally right was roughly around $20 million.
We expect now about $15 million of that to now reside in the fourth quarter of the year.
And it is our philosophy and our policy on legal settlements to actually put those into adjusted or pro forma basis from earnings per share perspective.
But ongoing litigation-type trial expenses or costs we expect to keep into core earnings.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Tom if I heard correctly I believe you indicated that you saw lower chlamydia and gonorrhea -- yes I don't know if it was volumes or revenue in the quarter.
So correct me if I'm wrong but if you did say that I guess my question is keeping in mind that since the beginning of the calendar year we've seen the approval of a couple -- I think what could be described as formidable competitive platforms for molecular chlamydia gonorrhea testing.
I'd be curious to get your take at this point on competitive dynamics in the U.S.
market specifically with regard to pricing your ability to lock-in customers and how we should be thinking about how BD is going to position the new products as you get the new approvals over the next few quarters on MAX and Viper.
Okay.
Let me give you one other bit of information actually on KIESTRA just to help maybe give a little bit more perception.
The average price of a KIESTRA full automation line ranges from $2 million to $4 million.
So just giving some perspective as you get a couple of those in a quarter or not in a quarter you can see that swing the Diagnostic Systems business within that 3-month window pretty significantly.
Related to GC/CT and competitive dynamics happening in that space certainly that is as I mentioned an area that's well-documented of increasing competition prices.
Price pressure in that segment is happening.
Prices are coming down there and that's something that we are actively managing.
We are seeing from ourselves as we are actively solidifying and renewing our customer base pricing pressure that we're managing through in that segment.
We're working -- we're obviously doing some offsetting of that in other parts of the business.
But that is an area that we don't expect to alleviate in the near term right? As you mentioned there are a number of new competitors in that segment.
In terms of our portfolio and how we really view that within the lower-tier segment we'll be of course launching our MAX assay next year for GC/CT which is really meant for those that are more mid-sized hospitals or those who may be sending it out so that segment will be covered there.
We've got our obviously high-throughput Viper platform Viper XTR which is on the ultrahigh-throughput segment of the marketplace.
And then our Viper LT which is also launching next year as our bench-top version which will also have HPV in the future is in that let's call it upper mid to low high volume segment of the marketplace.
That will ultimately replace our ProbeTec manual product as well.
So where we do see kind of our oldest platform within that segment which is ProbeTec which is a highly manual system is where we also tend to see the pricing pressures.
The Viper LT as that launches early in 2014 we'll be actively upgrading that business to what we see as a much more competitive and automated system.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm sorry just one follow-up Suky on your comments on the legal charge.
The fact that you said it was basically about $20 million that slipped out of this quarter and you expect it to be $15 million in fiscal Q4 does that suggest that your expectation now is that the timing of that -- of incurring that charge will be late in fiscal Q4? In which case is there a chance that this actually slips into fiscal '14? Yes.
So just one clarification we said about $15 million slips into Q4 not that full $20 million that I mentioned which was the absolute amount that we had originally expected in Q3.
And we do have a trial date set for early September.
And as where we stand today we still believe that that trial will occur in September and in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So $5 million of the $20 million was in this quarter.
You expect the balance in Q4.
That's right.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with Macquarie.
Just a couple of cleanups I guess and I'm sorry if I missed this earlier.
But on Quest I know you said you didn't see anything in this quarter.
But have you kind of sized what you expect that impact to be on an annual basis in say like 2014? Well we're not going to disclose that.
But it will be to your point at 2014.
There will be some impact in 2014 and we don't know what that is yet.
So we can't even comment on it.
Okay.
And I mean have you disclosed before for Diagnostic Systems like what percent of revenues it is for you guys? No we don't disclose it down to a customer level.
Okay.
I just thought it was a fairly -- it was a fairly public piece of information around what had happened there.
And then on the microbiology platform I'm just curious.
I think that's still roughly all-in close to 2/3 or so of your revenues in that Diagnostics Systems.
And many of us who go out and speak with folks in those labs hear about new technologies obviously on the MALDI Biotyper [indiscernible] the 2.
But others think that ultimately that moves to more of a sequencing application as costs comes down.
I'm just curious how you're thinking technologically about your position in microbiology over the next say 5 years or so.
Sure Tom will talk to that.
And maybe -- and just to give some context of the Quest.
We haven't given a specific percentage but I would just say less than 5%.
That is maybe a number I could share because that's how much represents of DS worldwide sales.
In terms of then specifically in microbiology I think we're very actively -- first off we see the most near-term areas as you mentioned will be mass spec which we have a partnership and now have our own BD branded mass spec that's pending FDA approval.
So that is one that we're actively behind and engaged in.
Of course that's being completely automated as part of our KIESTRA system.
So those who attend shows would see for example at AECC this week us demonstrating our fully automated colony picking system that completely integrates our KIESTRA with the Bruker mass spec system taking advantage of that trend going forward.
After that you see molecular starting to really in the near term I think begin to have an impact on optimizing turnaround time and efficiency within the microbiology lab.
And you can see we're investing in a series of assays on our MAX platform to do exactly that.
The Enteric Bacterial Panel is probably one of the examples that Vince talked about earlier.
It's really meant to eliminate enteric cultures within a microbiology lab and upgrade that through molecular testing.
We have other assays in our pipeline that are meant to do the same thing including our OMP assay or our respiratory assay that's in the pipeline that we've talked about.
When you look at sequencing we are making I would just say some low-level investments at this point in time in sequencing.
We're monitoring that very closely.
We would see sequencing within the infectious disease space as being a bit longer term beyond that 5-year horizon really driven by as you mentioned still iterations of the platform needed but also collapsing of the turnaround time and the level of automation that's required in that space.
And that's very consistent with the feedback that we hear from partners within the marketplace as well as our customers.
With that said we are investing to some level exploring opportunities for infectious disease and microbiology testing and NGS.
But we do see that as kind of the third wave as I've just described beyond Bruker beyond molecular.
And the next window after that will be NGS.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then if I could have just one more quick one.
On diabetes can you just remind me Vince or whoever wants to answer there given these significant reimbursement cuts that have happened there and others kind of commenting around that particular business can you -- I know it's more around strips and so can you just remind us whether or not you think that will have much of an impact on your business over the next 12 months? No it won't.
That's in a very different segment.
You're thinking about BGM and durable medical equipment so different segment.
Your next question comes from the line of Derik De Bruin with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'll be quick.
Hey the R&amp;D as a percentage of sales in the third quarter came down a bit 5.8% I think versus some good trading north of 6%.
Can you talk about how you see sort of R&amp;D and spending for the rest of the year and I guess where you sort of see that number on a go-forward basis? Yes I think Suky guided R&amp;D for the year if I'm remembering right is like right around 5.9%.
Did I get that right Suky? It was low 6s so somewhere around 6.1%.
Yes.
So there's just a little bit of lumpiness here what's happening from a clinical trial standpoint those sorts of things.
Research Division</strong> And Suky can you just give me the breakout of M&amp;A between Medical and Diagnostics? From what perspective? Research Division</strong> Just basically what it was as a contribution to the growth.
[indiscernible].
Yes.
We haven't directly quoted that.
What we are saying is that our acquisitions from 2012 are beginning to turn accretive in 2013.
And those acquisitions that we've done towards the end of '12 and within '13 are starting to approach becoming neutral or slightly accretive into 2014.
So Suky the acquisitions we're talking about this year are which ones? So they'll be Cato and SSI.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one quick one...
Which are Medical acquisitions okay? Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay great.
So just one quick one I heard there's been a couple of other companies that have noted some issues with order timing and bio process.
Could you should shed some light on that what you're sort of seeing what's going on there? Anything we can add to that at all? Yes this is Bill.
Not much I can really add.
We do expect a normalized fourth quarter meaning that we'll recover in that timing mode in the fourth quarter with BD AB.
And this business because of the kind of the big pharma relationships it just tends to be lumpy.
So we had a softer-than-expected third quarter.
We're expecting that to recover in the fourth quarter and be very much in line with our FY '13 expectations.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Taylor with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask one on the margins.
You had some underlying improvement in gross margins this quarter and negative impact from FX.
Could you help us think about those 2 factors over the next few periods? I was just curious in terms of your ability to continue to drive organic improvement in gross margins.
Go ahead Suky.
But we feel good about our continued ability to drive gross margin improvements.
And there were some acquisition costs and some other one-off things this quarter.
But Suky maybe you want to mention...
Yes.
So for the year we talked about ReLoCo -- excuse me for the quarter ReLoCo as well as some improved pricing being offset by some acquisitions and start-up costs as Vince talked about.
Really I think for the full year it's probably the better way to look at it because there's always going to be lumpiness from quarter-to-quarter when you think about $4 billion cost base of cost of goods.
And overall the way we see it for the year if you get about 100 basis points of improvement or tailwind from ReLoCo some of the 2012 acquisitions now becoming accretive as well as continuous improvement that's broadly being offset by about 60 basis points driven by acquisition startup several other types of things like year-over-year resins et cetera.
So that's kind of the makeup.
Again it's primarily driving our operating margin improvement is through gross margin.
And we see that profile from a top-level sort of continuing forward as we continue to invest SSG&amp;A against new products and acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I wanted to ask one about SG&amp;A I guess and as it's related to investments specifically in emerging markets.
Your emerging market sales growth has been remarkably consistent over a multiyear timeframe.
And I'm wondering is that a growth goal that you're driving towards and gaining your investments to grow at about that level? Could you grow faster? And how has some of the declines in overall GDP in some of those areas impacted or not impacted your business? Sure.
So we were concerned going into this year that we would see a decrease in health care -- the growth of health care spending in those regions.
We haven't seen that.
We've seen the governments prioritize health care specifically in China but also in Latin America of course where there's been a lot of discussion about potential government cutbacks.
And as you saw in the quarter we're doing quite well in Latin America.
We're doing well in the Middle East and in Asia.
So across all of those because it's so important to our social stability we see continued spending.
It's not that we have targeted a particular growth rate for emerging markets.
And as I said we're going to fund to that growth rate.
We're funding to the opportunities that we have our capability to build really strong organizations do the right training and the right partnering in those marketplaces.
And that's working quite well for us.
So the result has been very consistent growth.
And we're very encouraged by what we're seeing not just on the top line but the capability that we're building.
Your next question comes from the line of Vijay Kumar with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of follow-up questions.
One on LBC I know that you mentioned the extension of interval is impacting volumes.
And when you look at it sequentially do you think -- can you parse out what the impact of lower overall health care utilization was versus the actual extension of intervals? Do you think the complete 6% to 7% decline was adjusted because of extension of intervals? So Tom could comment on that but...
Vijay this is Tom.
By far and away intervals is the most significant piece.
I mean again putting in perspective you're looking at women going from once a year to once every 3 years in most cases.
So that is obviously a significant impact.
And as Tom said we're up to about 60% of the market or so converting to that longer interval from 25% Tom you were saying.
About 2 years ago 25%.
2 years ago.
So it's been a major shift.
That's the biggest portion.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
My next one was on BD MAX.
I know you mentioned sort of 50-plus placements in the Q and most of it was replacing your existing installed base.
I guess my question is when you think you'll run through replacing your existing installed base and how should we think of placements beyond that? Yes.
So Vijay this is Tom again.
So not all of our placements about 70% of the placements were upgrades which was part of our base strategy.
If you can see the menus the menu that we began with was an HAI menu which was specifically the exact same assays that were on our GenOhm platform to secure that what was a manual system up to a more automated system in MAX.
So we've been working our way through that very aggressively.
We are -- there are of course a portion of those about 1/3 are brand-new accounts that we've been converting to date and within the quarter.
And we expect that to continue to ramp as we not only work through our upgrades and our focus now shifts into other areas but also as our menu expansion goes into areas where GenOhm was not present in.
So enteric bacteria is a very good example of that as well as the GC/CT Trich assay in that segment of the market is another good example of that of ones that are in the clinical trial.
And of course pretty much every other assay -- we have over 15 assays in the MAX pipeline.
Every other assay that we'll be launching on that platform are new markets for us that are not going after GenOhm upgrades.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Goldman with CL King.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to follow up as well on the step-up you said you're seeing in the European Safety sales growth.
I think it was only within the last few weeks that half the member states of the EU enacted the regulation or legislation that was required.
So I'm wondering in your quarter if the step-up in growth related near as you could tell to a step-up in the market or a share shift in your favor.
And then the second part of the question is previously you had thought that the EU Council directive wouldn't result in a step-up.
It would just continue the growth that you've already had.
But since in fact you're now seeing a step-up just wanted to see if you're internally prepared for greater growth than you've been projecting relative to capacity and your infrastructure for order fulfillment.
Well we're prepared for the marketplace.
So let me just start there.
And just remember too a lot of these countries started implementing before the directive went into force.
The U.K.
started Germany was moving ahead.
But Bill anything else any other color that we can add on Safety growth this quarter in Europe? Well I think to the longer-term piece the policy work has continued to progress.
Remember that not all of the countries had their legislation in place back in May at the time of the expectation.
But there's a lot of good policy work that is being done there in part by the way led by a number of companies from the industry including BD.
And we're seeing really good progress in seeing countries now get their legislation drafted and at least start the front-end process of figuring out how they might move.
I don't think that impacted the quarter.
And to your question about market growth or share I think it's more market evolution taking place and particularly as Vince already mentioned in the Northern part of Europe where the conversion rates and the growth tend to be higher than what we've historically seen.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just follow up with that since as you say you don't think the regulation and the legislation has yet impacted the market and since I believe every member state of the EU except for Croatia has now passed legislation or regulation is it rational to assume the 10% growth that you saw in the quarter as sort of the new base and you would expect growth beyond that going forward? It's 1 quarter it's hard for us to say.
Keep in mind that countries you mentioned Croatia but Spain and Portugal and Italy they're going to move slow on this.
So it's going to take us another quarter or so to just see what happens here and do they get more aggressive in terms of ramping up Safety.
They've moved slow.
So we've got 1 quarter at higher rates so we're not going to project from 1 quarter.
But we'll come back and take another look at this at the end of the year.
So we should talk about it then and see if we've got 2 in a row.
Our final question comes from the line of Eric Criscuolo with Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just filling in for Peter.
The share count looks like it ticked up a little bit in the quarter.
What was the cause of that? And wondering maybe if you could talk about how you think that's going to look going forward or at least for the next quarter.
Yes.
So as I mentioned as part of my opening remarks we completed another $50 million of repurchases in the third quarter bringing our total to about $410 million.
And we've been talking through that this year of repurchases up to $500 million.
So we're about 80% there.
And we're still on track to continue to work somewhere between the $400 million to $500 million range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the Veritor systems are they -- are you placing them with customers that haven't had any real point-of-care testing? Or are they displacing competitive products out there? Eric this is Tom.
Nearly all of those are competitive displacements.
[indiscernible] off this marketplace primarily and now it's starting to go into retail chains.
Right.
It's not a segment that we've been in historically so we're not upgrading really any BD base.
Yes.
So everything we're doing is...
All brand-new.
Taking from competition.
That was our final question.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to Vince Forlenza for any closing remarks.
Well thank you very much for your participation on the call.
As I said in my remarks as I was finishing up we're pleased with the progress in the third quarter and year-to-date.
We're very happy to reaffirm the guidance and take you up to the higher end of the guidance range.
And we're encouraged by both our growth strategies and our operating effectiveness strategies.
And we look forward to updating you on our next call.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's Fourth Fiscal Quarter and Full Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through November 12 2013 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at (800) 585-8367 for domestic calls and (404) 537-3406 for international calls using confirmation number 69586788.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our fourth fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our fourth fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are Chris Reidy Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Administration; Bill Kozy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Tom Polen Group President; and Linda Tharby Group President.
At this time we would like to announce some leadership changes in the business which took place on October 1.
Tom Polen has been promoted to the role of Group President for 2 of our business units: Medical Surgical Systems and Preanalytical -- and Pharmaceutical Systems.
Tom had most recently been the President of Diagnostic Systems and before that President Preanalytical Systems.
Linda Tharby has also been promoted to the role of Group President for 2 areas of responsibility: Biosciences and Preanalytical Systems.
Linda had most recently been the President of Diabetes Care and prior to that Linda served as Vice President and General Manager in Pharmaceutical Systems after serving as Country General Manager in Canada.
In their new roles Linda and Tom will report to Bill Kozy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
For the purposes of today's call Tom will continue to answer questions related to Diagnostic Systems and Linda will answer any questions related to Diabetes Care.
Alberto Mas will be assuming Tom's prior responsibilities in Diagnostic Systems.
Alberto had most recently served as President of BD Biosciences for the past 2 years.
Prior to that he served as Worldwide President for BD Medical Medical Surgical Systems for 6 years.
He made major contributions to key initiatives including ReLoCo and ReKindle and the Carmel Pharma acquisition.
Ranjeet Banerjee will be assuming Linda's prior responsibilities as the President of Diabetes Care.
Previously Ranjeet served as Vice President and General Manager of Injections Medical Surgical Systems since October of 2009.
In his prior role as Vice President of Operations for Medical Surgical Systems Ranjeet was responsible for ReLoCo our manufacturing initiative which you've heard us talk about for a number of years.
Claude Dartiguelongue will assume all responsibilities previously held by Alberto as the President of BD Biosciences.
Claude was previously the President of Pharmaceutical Systems since October of 2009.
Claude has had a broad range of experiences at BD including assignments in BD Biosciences marketing instrument and service management in Diagnostic Systems and marketing management in Diabetes Care.
Claude made major contributions to key initiatives including our acquisition of SSI and moving us into the self-injection space.
Claude will report to Linda Tharby in her new role and Alberto and Ranjeet will report to Bill Kozy.
Vince will provide more color on these leadership changes in just a moment.
As we stated in our press release earnings per share were impacted by a few onetime charges this quarter.
We incurred a pretax charge related to the RTI verdict of $341 million or $1.06 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations as well as a charge for noncash pension settlement of $6 million or $0.02 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations.
The medical device tax in the quarter was $13 million or $0.04 per share.
For the purposes of our conference call today we will refer to adjusted diluted earnings per share excluding the aforementioned charges.
In noted circumstances we will also exclude the medical device tax.
For comparison purposes we would like to remind everybody that we had an adjustment in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 of $20 million or $0.07 per share for various pension settlements.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
Before we discuss the company's performance I would like to comment on the organizational changes Monique just walked you through.
As we continue pursuing the company's strategy we bolstered our leadership structure to help ensure our future success and continue the development of our senior leaders.
The leadership changes we just discussed demonstrate our commitment to management development and the importance of running multiple businesses as a part of executive development.
This leads to better decision making and an increased focus on growth as we develop more impactful solutions for our customers.
These changes will enable us to seek strategic synergies across our diversified portfolio and nicely complement the international restructure in 2012 and the additions of Ellen Strahlman and Chris Reidy in fiscal year 2013.
We're extremely pleased to have all of these leaders in their new roles as they help the company through our next phase of growth.
Now I will begin with a brief review of BD's performance for the fourth quarter the full fiscal year 2013 and our FY 2014 guidance highlights.
Chris will then walk us through a detailed review of the financial and segment performance and how we're thinking about the various elements of our P&amp;L for 2014.
I will spend the balance of the time discussing our upcoming portfolio highlights and then opening up the call for questions.
As we stated in our press release we're proud of our accomplishments during fiscal year 2013.
Our strategy is continuing to deliver results as evidenced by our strong finish to the year.
Growth this year was driven by solid performance in Medical and Diagnostics with a nice improvement in our Bioscience business.
We continue to see strength in international sales and safety-engineered products and emerging markets.
Our innovation initiatives continue to fuel growth both organically and through recent acquisitions.
Turning to Slide 5.
I'd like to highlight some key achievements in 2013.
First our disciplined M&amp;A program continue to drive growth.
This fiscal year we completed the acquisitions of Safety Syringes Inc.
or SSI and Cato Software Solutions as well as a licensing agreement with CRISI or CRISI Medical Systems.
These acquisitions along with the recently annualized acquisitions of KIESTRA and Sirigen contributed about 80 basis points of top line growth.
Second we have continued to strategically invest in higher-growth emerging markets.
We made an incremental investment of $40 million in fiscal year 2013.
Emerging markets grew over 13% this year and continues to be a key growth driver for the company.
Emerging markets now represent over 24% of our overall revenue.
Third we continue to focus on innovation across all 3 segments.
This fiscal year we launched over 20 new products organically and through acquisitions.
Revenue from new products and acquisitions as a percentage of sales is now at about 13%.
We will discuss our new product launches in more detail later in the call.
Fourth we continue to drive operating effectiveness and efficiency initiatives which provided underlying margin expansion.
In the last few years we have created global shared service centers and have also continued our ReLoCo initiatives.
This fiscal year our ReLoCo program provided incremental savings close to $50 million.
Due to our sustained focus in recent years in this area efficiency initiatives have now become an integrated component required in business plans across the organization.
Lastly we maintained our strong capital structure.
This includes 41 consecutive years of dividend increases and a consistent share repurchase program which highlights our commitment to return capital to shareholders.
Moving on to Slide 6.
We have outlined our fourth quarter and full year revenue and EPS results which I will speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
Total company revenues in the quarter were strong increasing by 7.2%.
This includes about 120 basis points from acquisitions with an additional 60 basis points of onetime and timing benefits.
This brings underlying growth in the quarter to about 5.4%.
Chris will provide you with more color on that in just a moment.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share excluding the medical device tax were $1.58.
This represents 12% growth.
For the 12-month year-to-date results revenue growth was 5.4%.
Acquisitions contributed about 80 basis points and other favorable benefits contributed about 40 basis points to revenue growth for the total year.
This brings underlying growth to about 4.2% for the year.
Adjusted EPS growth was 11.9% excluding the medical device tax.
On Slide 7 you will see the guidance for fiscal year 2014 on a currency-neutral basis.
We have also provided guidance excluding the impact of the medical device tax which will annualize after our first fiscal quarter.
For fiscal year 2014 we expect currency-neutral revenue growth of 4% to 5%.
Based on our current view of the environment we expect to be around the midpoint of that range.
Of course we have contemplated a number of factors that could bring us above or below the midpoint of that range including pricing a stronger or weaker flu season than expected product launches and macroeconomic conditions in the U.S.
and Europe.
The impact of sequestration and slower-than-expected growth in emerging markets could bring us to the bottom end of that range.
On the bottom line we will continue to deliver a better quality of earnings.
For fiscal year 2014 we expect EPS growth to be between 8.5% to 9.5%.
Excluding the incremental impact of the medical device tax in the first quarter earnings per share are expected to grow 9% to 10%.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Chris who will walk you through our financial performance in the fourth quarter and total year along with the additional details from our fiscal year 2014 guidance.
Thanks Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by discussing the key financial highlights for the fourth quarter.
As Vince mentioned earlier we are pleased with our fourth quarter results.
Strong growth of 7.2% was aided in part by 120 basis points from acquisitions and 60 basis points due to stimulus spending in Japan and a reversal of an unfavorable timing of orders in Advanced Bioprocessing from the third quarter.
Additionally we received the benefit from strong orders in Pharmaceutical Systems and competitive gains in the Medical Surgical Systems unit.
Pricing in the quarter was about flat.
Overall we experienced underlying growth of 5.4% in the quarter which gives us good momentum going into fiscal year 2014.
Emerging market growth was strong and continued to deliver results which I'll speak more about in a moment.
Adjusted earnings per share growth excluding the medical device tax was 12%.
We also completed an additional $44 million of our share repurchase program bringing our total year repurchases to about $450 million.
On Slide 10 I'll review our revenue growth by segment on a currency-neutral basis.
Fourth quarter revenue of $2.1 billion was a record quarter for us.
This represents growth of 7.2%.
For the total year company revenues grew 5.4%.
BD Medical fourth quarter revenues increased 6.7%.
Growth in this segment was driven by strong sales in the Medical Surgical and Pharmaceutical Systems units.
Medical Surgical Systems growth was 6.2% led by emerging markets international safety sales and competitive gains related to a competitor exiting a portion of the market.
Growth in Diabetes Care was 5.9%.
This reflects continued geographic expansion and strength in new product sales such as the BD Nano with EasyFlow Technology.
Pharmaceutical Systems growth was 8.3% driven by our recent SSI acquisition and in part from strong orders in the quarter.
For the total year the Medical segment grew 6%.
BD Diagnostics fourth quarter revenues increased 6.3%.
The segment's growth was driven by solid sales of Preanalytical Systems safety-engineered products KIESTRA Lab Automation installations and the continued ramp-up of BD MAX in Diagnostic Systems.
We've also made significant progress with Veritor bringing our total placements worldwide to over 7 500 units.
For the total year the Diagnostics segment grew 5.2%.
BD Biosciences revenue growth was strong in the quarter at 11.6%.
This was driven by solid instrument placements in Cell Analysis in addition to incremental sales related to research funding in Japan.
Additionally Advanced Bioprocessing experienced the reversal of an unfavorable timing of orders from the third quarter.
Excluding the aforementioned items underlying growth in Biosciences was about 4% to 5% in the quarter.
For the total year Biosciences grew 3.6%.
And moving on to Slide 11 I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the quarter.
BD's reported U.S.
revenues increased 3.4% versus the prior year.
Revenue on our U.S.
Medical segment increased by 4.3%.
Strong growth in Pharmaceutical Systems was driven by our recent SSI acquisition and strong orders.
The Diagnostics segment grew 1.6% in the quarter.
This reflects growth in Preanalytical Systems safety products and progress with sales of our Veritor point-of-care product.
This was partially offset by continued softness in our Women's Health business due to extended cervical cancer screening intervals.
U.S.
Biosciences revenues grew 5% driven by solid instrument placements.
The segment was also driven by the reversal of an unfavorable timing of orders in Advanced Bioprocessing from the third quarter.
Moving on to international.
We continue to see strong growth.
Revenues grew 10.1% currency neutral driven by solid growth in all 3 segments.
Medical segment grew 8.3% and Diagnostics grew 10.8%.
Both segments experienced strong growth in emerging markets and international safety sales.
The Diagnostics segment received a benefit from strong KIESTRA Lab installations in the quarter.
Biosciences grew 14.7% This was due to solid instrument placements incremental sales resulting from research funding in Japan and a reversal of unfavorable timing from the third quarter in Advanced Bioprocessing.
For the total year U.S.
revenues grew 2% and international revenues grew 8% currency neutral.
On Slide 12 we continue to see strong growth in emerging markets in the quarter which accounts for over 24% of our total revenues.
Emerging market revenues grew 14.6% currency neutral which is the strongest quarterly growth in emerging markets that we have seen in several years.
This was driven by double-digit performance across all 3 segments and a benefit from tenders in India and Latin America which were originally expected in the first half of this year.
China revenues grew by 20% and safety sales in emerging markets grew by about 15%.
As we continue to build our infrastructure and focus on localized R&amp;D it is evident that our investments in emerging markets continue to drive robust growth for the company.
Moving to global safety on Slide 13.
Currency-neutral sales increased 6.4% and grew to $536 million in the quarter.
Revenues in the U.S.
grew 4.2% which continues to benefit from our recent acquisition of SSI.
International sales grew 9.5%.
Medical Safety sales grew 8.2% while Diagnostics grew 4.7% driven by a range of safety-engineered products.
For the total year safety revenue grew 6.6% currency neutral driven by strong international growth of 11.9%.
Turning to Slide 14.
We experienced a 40-basis-point expansion in gross profit this quarter after absorbing an unfavorable impact of 10 basis points due to foreign currency.
On a performance basis positive contributions from ReLoCo and raw materials were partially offset by acquisition and start-up related costs.
Slide 15 recaps the fourth quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency neutral results.
Since we have already discussed revenue and gross profit I'll move down the income statement to SSG&amp;A.
We experienced an increase of 12.6% or 9.9% excluding the impact of the medical device tax.
Drivers of this increase include legal fees emerging market investments and acquisition costs.
R&amp;D reached 6.3% of the sales in the quarter which was in line with our expectations as we continue to invest in new products and platforms.
Our tax rate declined by 10 basis points over the prior year reflecting the R&amp;D tax credit in the U.S.
Operating income grew at 4.8% or 7.9% excluding the impact of the medical device tax.
Adjusted EPS in the quarter was $1.54 or an increase of 9.2%.
Excluding the impact of the medical device tax adjusted earnings per share increased 12% over the prior year.
Slide 16 recaps the adjusted total year income statement and highlights our foreign currency-neutral results.
As I mentioned earlier revenues grew 5.4% for the year.
Acquisition contribution of 80 basis points together with benefits from a strong flu season and competitive gains brings us to an underlying growth of 4.2% for the year.
Pricing had an unfavorable impact of about 10 basis points.
Gross profit grew 6.3% for the year which was at the upper end of our guidance range at 51.8% of sales.
SSG&amp;A increased 8.3% or 6.2% excluding the medical device tax.
This was slightly better than our original expectations.
R&amp;D reached 6.1% of total revenues in line with our expectations and operating margin grew 4.1%.
Medical device tax had an unfavorable impact on income growth of 260 basis points.
Our tax rate of 24.5% was an improvement of 30 basis points over the prior year and reflects the continued trend of tax rate improvement that we've seen for a few years now.
We repurchased about $450 million in shares for the total year completing this year's repurchase program as expected.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share of $5.81 grew 9.3% over the prior year or 11.9% excluding the medical device tax.
As a reminder earnings per share growth also benefited by about 200 basis points from our $1.5 billion 2012 share repurchase program.
Better quality of earnings and strong EPS growth is the result of our multi-year strategy of investing and innovating for growth.
Now turning to Slide 17 I would like to walk you through the various elements of our P&amp;L guidance for the full fiscal year 2014.
In summary we expect revenues to reach about $8.4 billion with growth of about 4% to 5% on a reported and currency-neutral basis.
This contemplates our Medical segment growing 4.5% to 5.5% the Diagnostics segment growing 3.5% to 4.5% and Biosciences segment growing 3% to 4%.
In our Diagnostic Systems business we anticipate a negative impact of about $25 million due to a lost customer contract.
This has already been contemplated in our guidance range.
We expect revenue growth to continue to be driven by emerging markets new product launches in all 3 of our segments and continued growth of safety-engineered devices.
We will also continue to look for strategic M&amp;A opportunities which have not been contemplated in our revenue growth guidance.
Also we expect the most recent acquisitions of SSI and Cato to contribute about 20 basis points of growth to the company in fiscal year 2014.
The acquisitions of KIESTRA and Sirigen have annualized and will be included in our base going forward.
The growth drivers I just mentioned will be partially offset by the expected unfavorable impact of pricing pressure.
Based on our current view of the environment we expect negative pricing pressure of about 20 to 40 basis points for the year.
However as Vince mentioned earlier pricing can fluctuate.
Additionally our reported growth guidance assumes a euro to dollar exchange rate of $1.37 for the year.
We expect gross profit margin to be between 51.6% and 52% which includes about 60 basis points of erosion due to negative currency translation.
About half of the expected currency erosion will be driven by translation adjustments recognized in the first quarter due to the timing of inventory movements.
Our ReLoCo program remains on track and is expected to deliver incremental savings of about $30 million.
SSG&amp;A as a percentage of sales is expected to be between 25.2% and 25.6%.
This reflects an incremental -- an estimated incremental $14 million related to the medical device tax in the first quarter.
Our guidance also reflects continued investments in emerging markets of an incremental $25 million as well as costs related to new product launches and EVEREST.
Fiscal year 2013 was the peak year of spending for our EVEREST program.
We do not anticipate any significant headwinds or tailwinds next year for EVEREST.
We expect our R&amp;D investment to be in line with fiscal year 2013 between 6% and 6.3% of revenues as we continue to invest in new products and platforms.
As a result of the items I just detailed operating margin is expected to be between 20% and 20.4% of revenues.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency and the medical device tax we expect our operating margin to improve by about 70 to 80 basis points.
About half that margin expansion is anticipated from favorable pension assumptions bringing our underlying margin expansion to about 30 to 40 basis points.
We expect our tax rate to be between 23.5% and 23.7% as we continue to see improvement from geographic mix.
Earnings per share from continuing operations are expected to grow 6% to 7% as reported or about 8.5% to 9.5% currency neutral.
Excluding the incremental medical device tax currency-neutral EPS growth is expected to be between 9% and 10%.
Our cash flow is expected to remain strong with operating cash flow of about $1.8 billion in fiscal year 2014.
We plan to repurchase about $450 million in shares which is broadly in line with historical levels.
Our expectation for capital expenditures is about $600 million.
This increase over the prior year is primarily driven by increased investments in international manufacturing capacity expansion and efficiency programs.
But while we typically do not guide by quarter I would like to note that for the first quarter we expect currency-neutral revenue growth to be around the midpoint of our full year guidance range.
For earnings per share we expect currency-neutral growth excluding the medical device tax to be broadly in line with revenue growth as raw material pricing together with unfavorable SSG&amp;A and R&amp;D comparisons will impact the level of P&amp;L leverage delivered in the quarter.
On a reported basis we expect earnings per share to be between $1.25 and $1.30 which assumes an unfavorable currency impact due to the timing of inventory translation adjustments.
Also we expect that our revenue growth is likely to be more heavily weighted in the front half of the year while earnings growth will be more weighted to the back half of the year.
This is due to the timing of certain investments together with less litigation expenses on the back half of the year when compared to fiscal year 2013.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince who'll provide you with an update on our product portfolio.
Thank you Chris.
We have been discussing our robust pipeline for some time now and in fiscal year 2013 there were over 20 significant product launches.
I'll not review them in detail but we have highlighted them on Slides 19 and 20.
Looking to fiscal year 2014 we have some products that are key to our success going forward.
Some of them will launch in fiscal year 2014.
Others were launched in fiscal year 2013.
In BD Medical the acquisition of SSI added a safety product to our Pharmaceutical Systems portfolio.
We also launched next-generation glass and plastic syringes in that unit as well.
We recently announced a commitment to create the Odon Device a product aimed at addressing maternal and newborn mortality caused by obstructed and prolonged labor typically in developing countries.
Along with the World Health Organization and other organizations we look forward to addressing this serious problem.
For BD Simplist you may have heard that we have just announced the FDA approval of morphine which is consistent with our expectations.
BD Rx will begin production of morphine immediately and projects initial availability in early calendar year 2014.
We continue to plan for 20 to 30 drug launches over the next several years.
Right now we have an additional 3 drugs in the pipeline submitted to the FDA that are in various stages of approval.
In Biosciences we recently launched 2 new products.
The BD FACSAria Fusion improves on the solid foundation of patented technologies exceptional multi-color performance and ease of use from our first-generation product.
This sorting know-how is now being combined with best-in-class biosafety expertise to create a fully integrated advanced cell sorter and biosafety solution for research laboratories.
We also launched our next-generation BD FACSCanto flow cytometer now with a 10-color capability.
This system delivers higher sensitivity and resolution for more accurate results.
This coming year we are also anticipating the launch of our BD FACSPresto our CD4 analyzer for emerging markets as well as the launch of additional Sirigen dyes.
On Slide 22 you can see the anticipated products in our Diagnostics space.
This includes an expanded menu on the Veritor point-of-care device.
On the BD MAX platform we plan to launch our GC/CT and Trich assay in addition to the StaphSR and Enteric Bacteria Panel.
Additionally we launched our BD Onclarity HPV test on the Viper LT system outside of the U.S.
We believe that the genotyping available with this assay will be superior to anything else currently on the market and we look forward to that launch later this quarter.
On Slide 23 before we open the call to questions I'd like to reiterate the key messages from our presentation today.
First we're pleased with our accomplishments in fiscal year 2013.
We continue to execute on our strategy and deliver on our long-term commitments.
Second our focus on growth and innovation is continuing to yield results.
We're seeing the proof points with our continuing success in new product launches acquisitions geographic expansion initiatives and efficiency programs.
And third we're confident in our fiscal year 2014 outlook.
Our focus for fiscal year 2014 is to continue to meet the customer needs by offering complete solutions across our 6 worldwide businesses.
We expect to drive revenue growth of 4% to 5% and continue to deliver a higher quality of earnings.
We expect EPS growth of 8.5% to 9.5% or 9% to 10% excluding one quarter of the medical device tax.
We believe that we have built a strong foundation this fiscal year that provides us the platform for continued growth.
And finally we're committed to delivering continued value to our customers and our shareholders around the world as we pursue our purpose of helping all people live healthy lives.
Thank you and we'll now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start just first with guidance and the operating margin expansion.
Maybe Vince or Chris could you just walk through some of the gives and takes here? It looks like FX is having an impact on the op margin expansion so I just wanted to understand that to be the case.
And also if you could give some detail on pension and some of the other moving parts to drive leverage from revenue to earnings.
Sure.
I'll take that Amit.
You're right.
In fiscal year '14 the gross margin has an FX drag of about 60 basis points which on a all-in basis means the gross margin's flat.
We're driving about 60 basis points of lift FXN.
The 60 basis points of drag from FX about half of that relates to the inventory translation adjustments which hits mostly in Q1.
The rest results in weakening currencies such as the yen which is driving lower revenue but also we've reduced expenses.
We're more profitable there and that's flowing through.
So it's less of a natural hedge.
For the FXN we're driving about 60 basis points of improvement and that goes back to ReLoCo improvements as well as a slight improvement from the pension benefit that shows up in COGS.
That's partially offset by start-up cost and some deterioration from raw material pricing as well.
And the start-up costs as you know are line extensions and product launches.
Our next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Vince I was hoping you could spend a couple minutes on the U.S.
business.
And as I look at the performance in the quarter with the exception of what looks to be a big order in Pharmaceutical Systems the U.S.
franchises look to be roughly flat in aggregate or maybe even down a tad.
Can you maybe just talk a little bit about the environment and your businesses more specifically about what's happening? Maybe just touch on new product launches in the context of the environment and how you see the domestic franchises playing out? Yes I'll make a couple of comments and I'll ask Bill Kozy to add some other color on this.
But we really haven't seen utilization changing much in our businesses.
So we would say basically that it's fairly flat from a utilization standpoint.
Now of course there's the same exception we've been talking about for a couple of quarters now and maybe for a year now in Women's Health business where the pap screening intervals of course have lengthened.
And we're now up to about maybe 60% of the customer base have moved to the longer interval and that continues to impact us.
Even though we had some good performance in terms of instrumentation in the U.S.
and globally with some new products the disposable piece continued to go down.
So that's been impacting the growth that we've been seeing.
In the U.S.
in terms of Diabetes Care maybe a little softer market as well.
So those are the major factors.
Bill is there anything else you would want to add to that on the U.S.? We've got Pharma Systems being strong.
Sure.
Just 2 minor things: Number one we were up against the year-on-year comp in Diabetes Care with a co-marketing agreement that has moved on; and secondarily in the U.S.
it's particularly unique as a geography because the bulk of your late-stage late-life-cycle products continue to have a base of revenue in the U.S.
So you see things in Medical some smaller product lines like Interlink and anesthesia products and so forth that they're just a revenue headwind at this point in time for the U.S.
As we see those things move out in the next year or 2 we're hoping to see the U.S.
top line performance start to improve.
Our next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Vince maybe a kind of a 2-part question but both related.
Can you just give us a sense of the M&amp;A contribution for fiscal '14? And then sort of related to that given that the buyback is down here in '14 relative to '13 and obviously '12 which I think is consistent with your guidance but I'm just trying to get a sense of how investors should be thinking about your use of the balance sheet as it relates to M&amp;A.
Are we thinking about similar deals that BD has always done? Has your appetite for larger transactions potentially gone up? And does your buyback being a little lower signal that maybe you're more comfortable with slightly larger deals just given the successful integration of some of the smaller transactions? So those 2 questions.
Sure.
So it was 80 basis points I believe in the year.
120 basis points in the quarter were the contributions to our M&amp;A.
Is that right Chris? Yes and you -- also into '14 it's about 20 basis points of -- less next year.
So from an M&amp;A standpoint the way we're thinking about M&amp;A is we're trying to build complete solutions for the customers.
So it's not randomly go out and find plug-in acquisitions but it's very strategically build a franchise.
Let me give you an example.
The work that we've been doing in medication insurance where you've seen us do PhaSeal you've seen us do Cato and CRISI so they start to give us a portfolio of products that really elevates the conversation in terms of need with the customer.
So that's the first factor.
And we're going to continue doing that around our businesses and increase our relevance to the customer base.
Second part of the question is yes we are feeling that we have made progress in terms of our ability to identify and to do due diligence and then integrate our acquisitions and we think that over the last year we proved that out.
And while our focus it does remain on these plug-in acquisitions we do have some more confidence to do somewhat larger deals.
So that's the way I would pull it all together for you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just to go back to the revenue guidance this past year you guys had commented the underlying growth was I think 4.2% and that has included a negative price about 10%.
Your guidance for next year of 4% to 5% has 20 basis points of acquisitions a little bit more of a pricing headwind.
So just trying to get a sense of what gives you confidence that either you're going to see better mix or better underlying unit growth relative to the base this year.
Kristen could you repeat that? We didn't catch all of it.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So growth this year you ended the year with 4.2% and that included a negative price of 10%.
Next year you're guiding to 4% to 5% with 20 basis points of acquisition and a greater pricing headwind.
So it would basically imply that underlying unit growth is going to be faster so I'm just trying to get a sense for why you believe that or maybe it's perhaps mix benefit from new products.
So Kristen you're exactly right.
The midpoint of our range let's say that we pointed to is about 4.5%.
If you look at the underlying growth we have about 4.2% when you normalize for the onetime items.
That also includes the headwinds we mentioned of the $25 million from the lost customer contract and the expected 20 to 40 basis points.
So you're absolutely right.
It does contemplate an acceleration or a continued momentum.
Again we're seeing that from emerging markets growth and we continue to see safety growth as well.
So we're seeing that continue.
So the range is a continuation of that momentum that we saw this year.
And continued ramp-up of the new products that we've been talking about and as I was going through the portfolio we would have noticed as I talked about things that we launched in 2013 and that we're launching into '14.
So we've been early on in that ramp-up and we continue to expect to make progress in terms of new products as a percent of sales.
So those are the factors.
Research Division</strong> And what's your just baseline assumptions regarding the U.S.
and health care reform impact? So in terms of health care reform we basically have it in as a neutral.
It's extremely difficult right now to forecast how this is going to impact the markets that we are in.
How fast are they going to go in terms of fixing the website? We don't know.
There seems to be major issues there.
We also -- and so we know it will be somewhat a positive if you get the uninsured covered and people who had put off elective surgeries there could be a small bump there.
But we also see negative pressure emerging in terms of consolidation in pricing and whatnot.
So at the end of the day we put it in as a neutral and we'll watch it as we go forward.
And if we see changes we'll update you on those.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Kim here for Mike.
First question if we could on Simplist just curious with the recent morphine approval that you announced.
How...
I'm sorry can you speak a little louder? We're having trouble hearing you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A question on Simplist and with the recent morphine approval.
Just curious how that's tracking relative to your expectations and if you could share with us what level of sales you're expecting from Simplist in '14.
So I'll let Bill Kozy talk to that but I would tell you right now as we guided for fiscal year 2013 we said it wasn't going to be significant.
And we knew that was because we didn't have a broad array at launch and people were going to be in the motive just starting to try the product.
And we've included a ramp-up in Simplist in our guidance.
But Bill you want to talk a little bit more of that? Sure.
We're encouraged by the number of evaluations we've got going on right now.
As you know we've only got a few drugs that are relatively lower volumes.
The morphine launch that Vince described is important to us because it really brings a higher-volume drug application to the BD Rx portfolio.
So when we get that rolling out in January that period of January to June next year will be most important for us.
As mentioned several hundred evaluations and a few hundred customers who have ordered twice which we're taking as a point of encouragement.
We continue to work very closely with some of our major customers like IDNs and the GPOs that you know that BD has relationships with and that'll be the focus as we roll out morphine and some of these other drug applications over the next couple of quarters.
So we're not going to give specific guidance on this.
We want a little bit more experience under our belt and once we have that then we'll start to give you some more precise information.
I would just add that the timing of the morphine approval was right in line with when we expected it to occur and was part of our guidance.
Our next question comes from the line of Rick Wise with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Perhaps you could give us a little more color on what's happening in China.
You really saw some nice sequential acceleration 20% in the fourth quarter versus I think it was up 18% in the third quarter despite the tougher comp.
Just update us on some of your investments there and just perhaps some of the key drivers in fiscal '14 in terms of both investments and opportunities.
So we have done well in China and we're encouraged by what we're seeing.
First from a macro environment I know there's been a lot of concern about would health care spending slowdown and we track -- our country organization tracks a bunch of measures out there.
We have not seen that in the markets that we participate in.
So number one we continue to see strong spending.
Number two we've successfully implemented across the entire BD portfolio and so it's not just Medical or one piece of the business now.
It's all of the businesses implementing quite well in China and that's a result of the infrastructure building that we've done.
Third this year we started to expand our footprint into what people call Tier 2.
And as we've done that we've built our distribution network.
Then lastly we've effectively partnered with the government of China to improve the health care system.
We've -- as I've mentioned in the past we've done 3 memorandums of understanding on Infection Control and we continue to implement that program with them.
Looking forward we're going to continue to expand that distribution reach and we're starting to put R&amp;D in Asia.
That process began in 2013 and we will do that in Singapore and some in China.
So we're becoming a more fully integrated company in China.
So all that together has meant that we both kind of built the market and have gained share in a number of our businesses.
Our next question comes from the line of Richard Newitter with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Just on the guidance commentary.
I think Vince you had mentioned that it was going to be at the midpoint.
Can you just describe with respect to the assumptions that could bring you above or below what the midpoint assumes.
Flu I get is a little bit unpredictable but particularly if you could give more commentary on what could happen in the emerging markets to get you higher or lower and what's been embedded assumption at the midpoint? Sure.
So the way to think about our starting point which is the midpoint is that pretty much that the environment remains consistent from what we saw in 2013.
So on emerging markets it says that we're continuing to see the same rate of health care spending that we saw in 2013.
So obviously if there was an acceleration that could bring us up towards the higher end of our guidance range.
The concern is of course geographies such as Latin America where there has been a lot of political unrest some concerns about global kind of spending in the region heightened by some of the spending that they're doing for the World Cup and the Olympics and whatnot.
So will that impact us? That could take us down in terms of revenue growth in those regions.
So those are some of the swing factors on emerging markets.
Now we always have the kind of timing of large NGO tenders and when they actually happen.
And so this year we saw some move from the first half of the year to the second half of the year.
We always have the possibility that they move into another year.
So the timing on those things can always impact us.
Coming back to the U.S.
our concern is that we've seen some nice improvement in Biosciences and we saw some really good growth this quarter.
Now in the U.S.
Biosciences we don't know what's going to happen come January when the government once again starts to face up to the budget issues and the debt ceiling and what will they do with sequestration.
So that's a question mark for us.
Looking to international in that business what will the Japanese government do in 2014? We saw a nice stimulus program.
So we didn't assume any major stimulus in this set of guidance.
So those are some of the bigger factors.
Chris anything else you would want to add on that? No.
I think the only thing is is pricing.
Obviously we had 20 to 40 basis points in our guidance.
We were down about 10 basis points this year.
But if you look back to '12 and fiscal year '11 we're in the 80 to 90 basis points range.
So that's a volatile assumption.
Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Chris just want to pick up on your last comment regarding the historic impact on price and I guess the reprieve for lack of a better term that we saw in 2013.
Can you just help us think a little bit about what's driving the pricing assumptions in 2014? Is this essentially just going back and saying hey we had a nice gift here in '13.
We don't expect it to continue? Or is there something more acutely that you're starting to see here at the beginning of the fiscal year? Well it's a combination of factors.
Clearly we've talked about having put in more effective price management procedures and really driving a focus on price management.
And we think that we've gotten some traction internally with that and have seen some nice results.
Having said that it can also be impacted by the amount of tenders et cetera.
And so when we look out next year we see a lot more potential volatility in tenders and particularly in Europe.
So while we're happy with the performance in '13 we're not declaring victory.
It could been more of an environmental reprieve and so we're very focused on that going into '14.
So just to add to that a little bit as well as Chris mentioned we are doing a better job of managing pricing across the entire portfolio and globally.
And so -- and we saw that improvement over 2013.
The environmental pressures are still there but as we launch some of these new products that are highly differentiated that's also helping us.
So our guidance in terms of having some negative price but being in a much better position in the beginning of 2014 than we were in the beginning of 2013 I think reflects where we're at.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Weinstein with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> My question is for Tom actually.
Tom can you talk a little bit about the BD MAX uptick and any kind of statistics that you can give us to help us understand what the uptick of the product is -- has been here and then also if you can comment on some of the delays in the pipeline that were highlighted by Vince in your slides? Sure.
Okay.
So Brian just starting with MAX as we've shared earlier this year we expected that it was going to take until the second half of FY '13 to really see MAX growth starting to fully offset the declines that we had seen in GeneOhm from prior years.
And we are very pleased that we're seeing that positive trajectory.
We're up high single digits for the quarter overall.
We're seeing very positive feedback from customers.
We're now approaching about 300 installations in the field and continue to focus on our menu expansion there.
As you look at some of the delays that we reported in the -- earlier by Vince it's really 2 major factors that are influencing those.
One is related to clinical trial prevalence.
As we're doing more complex panels on MAX of course we end up with a large number of organisms that we're looking for in each panel and the prevalence of those are very significantly.
So if you look at for example enteric bacteria and GC/CT Trich those delays are related specifically to prevalence and us expanding the clinical trial length and numbers of sites.
The other major area was just further feedback from FDA related to the depth of the trials required.
And that one was specific if you look at Totalys in the U.S.
So while we did launch Totalys x U.S.
in Q4 and fulfilled a nice backlog of orders we had there the U.S.
is going to take us a little longer based on feedback for additional testing that we had gotten from the FDA.
Our next question comes from the line of Derik De Bruin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
First one just on the tax rate is that -- can we see further improvement when we go out looking in 2015 and beyond? Well we're not going to guide to 2015 beyond.
But if you look at our track record we've shown significant improvement over the last few years.
We're continuing to work that and you see that in '14 with a nice step function down in terms of the tax rate primarily driven by geographical mix.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Taylor with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So I guess my first question was that I just wanted to understand your emerging market assumptions for 2014.
You had a better growth year in '13.
Do you expect continued growth at about that level with the additional investment? Or what could take it up or down? So we do continue to expect similar growth in emerging markets as we enter -- as we're in beginning of 2014.
Things that can take it up or down is really health care spending number one in the region -- in the various regions and continued focus of these governments.
Right now we're assuming no real change in terms of the spending.
Second is that we work with many governments and NGOs and the timing of their tenders can vary and they can move from 1 year to another.
And so that can impact us as well and then just the amount of success that we're having in terms of building new markets and how long it takes to do those things and to influence Medical practice.
So right now it's very much we're looking at it as similar to 2013.
Our next question comes from the line of Lawrence Keusch with Raymond James.
This is actually Konstantin for Larry.
So just a clarification question.
I think I heard you guys say that the incremental investment in emerging markets for BD will be less in 2014 than in 2013.
If that is correct can you explain? Is it just you guys invested so much in prior years that now you're going to see the leverage? Or just in terms of -- or are you seeing less incremental opportunity kind of to deploy capital? It's leverage.
We built our core organizations.
We're going to continue to build out the sales infrastructure and whatnot but think about we had to put in a regulatory infrastructure we had to put in a compliance infrastructure.
So those things are in place.
And yes they'll have to be expanded over time but they're not going to have to grow at the same rate as we're growing sales.
So you start to see some leverage in the P&amp;L.
And that's the difference year-on-year really.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So as one looks back at the slide decks over the past 2 quarters it seems like something unexpected is happening with chlamydia gonorrhea and to an extent HPV where you've had some recurring delays in both the MAX and Viper platforms.
And it's interesting because the delays are not just instrument delays as the instruments have been cleared.
These are really assay delays.
So could you just provide a bit more clarity on what's happening here? Is this a visibility issue? Or it something else? And how are you managing these delays with customers? Yes so Doug this is Tom.
So HPV has not been fundamentally delayed right? HPV remains on track to launch x U.S.
this quarter.
And again that's an x U.S.
launch.
We've not shared the launch date for the U.S.
with customers nor with obviously in this forum.
We have shared that our clinical trial in the U.S.
is underway but we've not yet shared that date.
On GC/CT specifically on MAX so as I already referred to in response to Brian that was really delay related to a clinical trial prevalence that's underway.
There's nothing wrong with the instrument or the assay.
It's really around the prevalence of the organisms at this point in time that we've -- in the trial sites that we're testing in.
Our next question comes from the line of Vijay Kumar with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I guess a 2-part question 1 was a quick housekeeping.
What was the decline in Women's Health in the quarter? And sort of another one was what kind of leverage levels would you be comfortable at? Currently you're running under one turn leverage levels and we've seen other companies in this space sort of go on an acquisition spree and sort of that's certainly helped their stock price.
So just your thoughts on leverage levels.
So Tom will take the first part of the question and I didn't understand the second one.
I didn't hear it.
Let Tom go first then we'll come back.
So Women's Health was actually was an -- I view it as really an exceptional quarter for TriPath.
Women's Health or TriPath was actually up mid to high single digits in the quarter but that's really a tale of 2 very different worlds.
So we did see continued declines in that U.S.
reagent sales in the TriPath driven by those interval extensions as we shared for the last 1.5 years.
What we saw though was that be more than offset by continued strong growth x U.S.
as well as pent-up demand for the new Totalys automation system that we launched in Q4 and shipped a number of those systems x U.S.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And when -- I guess just to clarify my question I guess on thoughts on mix leverage levels.
You're running under one turn.
And if you were to think of M&amp;A sort of what kind of leverage levels would you be comfortable with? So the question is how much leverage would we take on in terms of the balance sheet to do M&amp;A? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Got you.
Okay.
Well Right now we're at investment grade.
That's very important to us.
We're comfortably within investment grade and Moody's just reaffirmed us.
You have to look at the M&amp;A opportunity and how strategic that opportunity is obviously.
We have the capacity to do a little bit more leverage but it all depends on the strategic nature of the acquisition.
But I would emphasize that the investment grade is particularly important.
Our next question comes from the line of Brandon Couillard with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Chris just curious with this being your first call as -- in the CFO role how to think about opportunities for working capital improvement and better free cash flow conversion over the next several years whether opportunities exist or we should think about this metric being relatively stable moving forward? Sure.
So technically this is my second but I was only here 2 weeks the last time.
So you're probably right.
But in terms of cash flow you can see that we guided to $1.8 billion which is an increase from the $1.7-ish billion that we had this year.
And if you remember back in August we mentioned that cash flow from operations was actually a bit negative in the first half of the year.
We expected that to get back to about flat year-over-year and it did.
The negative was being driven by a negative working capital situation buildup of inventory mostly safety stock in the first half of the year.
So we got back to flat.
We see that improving going forward and that is almost entirely driven by improvement in working capital.
We get a little bit of a headwind there from the incremental medical device tax but the big story there is working capital improvement.
What you probably know is that we've added working capital and free cash flow to our bonus payout ratios last year.
So we're very focused on driving working capital growth.
So you'll see a little bit of an opportunity to lift from the current $1.7 billion up to the $1.8 billion going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Lawson with Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> This is probably a question for Vince and I guess Chris just on...
I'm sorry if you could just a little bit louder.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
Just thinking about some of the recent announced divestitures of Diagnostic businesses what are the synergies and benefits you see from kind of housing both Bioscience and Diagnostics with this -- with your supply business? So the question was what are the synergies between the device side of the business and the life science side of the business? And we see that from a global standpoint having this broader portfolio really helps us I mean number one in emerging markets.
Number two it increases our relevance to the customer base in the developed world as well.
And number three going forward we think there are potentials for utilizing skills from one side of the company and the other side of the company as we move into more innovative spaces.
Let me call it that way.
From a financial standpoint all the businesses if you do it some of the parts are fully valued but certainly helps us in terms of consistency of performance.
So we see a kind of geographic strategic benefit.
We see some capability benefit and then some consistency benefit throughout the portfolio.
Those are the 3 things that we said.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Frelick with Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> Vince how do you plan to leverage your growing customer base for Veritor with future menu? Any plans for like quantitative test to follow on? Well Tom can talk about Veritor.
We are in the process of expanding the menu right now.
So Jeff as Vince had mentioned earlier of course today we have flu RSV available.
We have adenovirus available x U.S.
We have strep FDA approved already.
We're awaiting the CLIA waiver which is what we expect in Q2.
We do have a series of other technology development programs underway that does include the ability for higher sensitivity and quantitation.
But they're a bit earlier stage and we haven't articulated any menu specifically related to those.
While we certainly have those in mind we haven't communicated those broadly.
But they would not go on to Veritor is what Tom is saying.
They're beyond the next generation for example.
Is that what you're saying Tom or...
They could potentially.
They could potentially go on Veritor.
Okay.
So we are very pleased with the expanding placement of Veritor.
Our next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back just on the pension expense.
I know that you said that that was going to be more of a headwind -- or sorry it was a headwind this past year and it's going to be more of the tailwind in fiscal '14.
Could you just maybe help us quantify that on the bottom line what the impact is going to be? Yes.
I think what we had said was that it would be about half of the operating margin impact.
So we were around I guess it was 70 to 80 basis points on all-in basis.
And net of the pension impact it's about 30 to 40 basis points.
Our final question comes from the line of Amit Hazan with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a general question on your new products and kind of look back to guidance back in 2011 was to get to 18% of sales by the end of '14.
We're at 13% now looking -- if we kind of take that look back can you talk about whether that's a realistic expectation? And if not what has missed and how we should think about the trajectory from here? Yes.
We think for this year that we're going to be approaching around the 15% mark.
So 200 basis points improvement and we see continued improvement going forward.
It's interesting.
We've made good progress on the new products maybe a little bit below where we thought we're going to be.
But all in all we're quite pleased.
The other thing that's happened is that our core products have grown faster and that's been driven by emerging markets some really good work that we've done which have grown faster than we contemplated at the time we were giving that guidance.
So all in all I think it's been a pretty positive story.
I'd just add that that could also be increased by any additional new acquisitions because nothing contemplated in the guidance for new acquisitions.
That will lift that as well.
That was our final question.
I'd now like to turn the floor back over to Vince Forlenza for any additional or closing remarks.
Sure.
I would like to thank all of you for joining us today and going through our results in 2013 and the guidance for 2014.
We look forward to updating you on the year as the year progressed.
As I said we remain confident in the strategy going forward our strategy around growth operating effectiveness and building capabilities.
So thank you very much and we'll talk to you soon.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's First Fiscal Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through February 11 2014 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at 800-585-8367 for domestic calls and area code 404-537-3406 for international calls using confirmation number 31318159.
(Operator Instructions) Beginning today's call is Ms.
Barbara Infante.
Ms.
Infante you may begin.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our first fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our first fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are Chris Reidy Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Administration; Bill Kozy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Tom Polen Group President; and Linda Tharby Group President.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Barbara and good morning everyone.
Before we get started I would like to extend congratulations on behalf of all of us here at BD to Monique Dolecki our Vice President of Investor Relations and her husband on the birth of their daughter.
We understand that everyone is healthy and we wish them all the best.
With that let's get started on Slide 4.
As we stated in our press release we are pleased with our strong start to the year.
We experienced growth across all three of our segments with particularly strong growth in Medical and continued improvement in Biosciences.
Growth was also driven by continued emerging market expansion and sales of safety-engineered products.
Our first quarter results were also aided by a number of timing factors which Chris will speak to in more details shortly.
We've been talking to you for a few years about our long-term strategy for investing and innovating for growth.
Back in 2011 and 2012 we embarked on a strategy to reinvigorate our portfolio with new products and complete solutions to better meet our customers' needs.
We've been working to enhance our core businesses across our portfolio and expanding the categories in which we compete by moving into near adjacencies.
Last year was the inflection point where we started to see the benefits of that strategy in our financial results and new products.
In fiscal year 2014 we expect to continue ramping up our many recent new products and delivering on our strategy.
Additionally we announced a small acquisition in our Diagnostics segment Alverix.
They have been a technology partner of ours since 2008 on the Veritor platform.
Our strong revenue and earnings growth in the first quarter along with our revised full year outlook gives us the confidence to raise the bottom end of our previous revenue and earnings guidance ranges for the full fiscal year.
Moving on to Slide 5 we've outlined our first quarter revenue and EPS results which I will speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
Total company revenues were strong at 6.7%.
This includes about 80 basis points from acquisitions and about 120 basis point contribution of timing items including an early flu season.
Fully diluted EPS grew 8.1% over the prior year to $1.37.
Excluding the impact of the medical device excise tax adjusted EPS was $1.42 or 11.9% growth.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Chris for a more detailed review of our first quarter financial performance and updated guidance.
Thanks Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by discussing the key financial highlights for the first quarter which I will speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
As Vince just stated results were ahead of our expectations and we experienced growth across all three of our segments.
Our strong growth of 6.7% includes about 200 basis points from acquisitions and timing.
Acquisitions contributed 80 basis points of growth in the first quarter as anticipated.
This was driven primarily by our Safety Syringes acquisition which continues to perform well.
We also benefited by about 100 basis points from timing in our Medical segment in both our Pharmaceutical Systems and Medical Surgical units.
Additionally we received the benefit of 20 basis points from an early flu season coupled with competitive gains in the Point of Care category.
Positive pricing in the quarter of about 40 basis points was slightly ahead of our expectations.
This was partially due to continued effective price management.
I would like to note that based on the number of tenders anticipated in the back half of the year pricing remains on our radar for the full year.
This quarter we experienced negative gross margin impacts from currency raw materials and startup costs as anticipated.
EPS in the quarter of $1.37 reflects 8.1% growth versus the prior year or about 11.9% excluding the medical device tax.
EPS was ahead of our expectations this quarter largely due to our increased revenues.
We repurchased about $190 million of our anticipated $450 million full-year 2014 share repurchase program.
Our first quarter results and revised full year outlook give us the confidence to raise the bottom end of our revenue and EPS guidance ranges.
We now expect revenues between 4.5% and 5% with adjusted EPS now expected between 9.5% and 10% excluding the medical device tax.
I'll talk more specifically about guidance in a moment.
Now let's move on to Slide 8 where I'll review the revenue growth by segment on a currency-neutral basis.
As I just mentioned revenue growth was 6.7% for the total company.
BD Medical first quarter revenues increased 8.6%.
Our results in this segment were driven by strong double-digit international growth across all business units and continued growth of safety-engineered products.
Within the Medical segment Diabetes Care growth of 10.1% reflects continued strong sales of our Nano Pen Needle products.
Medical Surgical's growth was 9.1% this quarter aided in part by a timing of orders as I previously mentioned.
Pharmaceutical Systems' growth of 5.5% reflects the strong contribution from our Safety Syringes acquisition and a benefit from timing of orders.
BD Diagnostics' first quarter revenues increased 4.2%.
The segment's growth was primarily driven by continued international expansion in both the Preanalytical and Diagnostic Systems units.
BD Biosciences' revenue growth was slightly ahead of expectations at 5.7%.
This was due to double-digit emerging market growth and clinical reagent sales.
We also saw solid instrument placements in both the US and Western Europe aided by improved stability and research market funding.
We continue to see signs of stabilization in the Biosciences market.
Moving on to Slide 9 I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the first quarter.
Overall we saw stability in the US markets and an improvement in European end-markets.
Particularly strong growth in Western Europe was driven by safety sales Bioscience growth the benefit of timing in Pharmaceutical Systems and a favorable comparison to the prior year.
BD's reported US revenues increased 2.3% versus the prior year.
US growth in our Medical segment was 3.8%.
Strong growth in our US Diabetes Care unit of 8.4% continues to be driven by our BD Nano Pen Needle products.
Medical Surgical growth partially benefited from some one-time items.
Pharmaceutical Systems' growth benefited from the SSI acquisition which was more than offset by an unfavorable comparison to the prior year and the variability in our customers' geographic ordering patterns.
US Diagnostics segment growth was about flat in the quarter due to the impact of the lost customer contract that we discussed on our last earnings call.
We also saw continued declines in Women's Health as we have been communicating with you for some time.
This was partially offset by steady sales in microbiology which includes Kiestra and the Point of Care categories.
US Biosciences growth was 3.3% driven by strong instrument placements clinical reagents and continued stability in the marketplace.
International revenues grew 10% with double-digit emerging market growth and strong performance across the segments particularly our Medical and Diagnostics segments.
On a currency-neutral basis the Medical segment grew 12.2% Diagnostics grew 8.1% and Biosciences grew 6.8%.
Medical growth was driven by strong Safety sales and the benefit of timing of orders in Pharmaceuticals Systems that I mentioned previously.
Diagnostics growth was solid across both the Preanalytical and Diagnostic Systems units.
BD Biosciences growth benefited from solid instrument placements in Western Europe.
Moving on to Slide 10 we continue to see strong growth in emerging markets which accounted for approximately 25% of our total revenues in the first quarter.
Emerging markets revenues grew 13.4% currency-neutral over the prior year.
We have been making strategic investments in emerging markets over the last few years which has helped deliver robust emerging market growth.
We saw a double-digit growth in a number of our key markets with China growing over 25% currency-neutral.
Emerging markets continue to deliver significant safety growth with an increase this quarter of about 15%.
Moving on to Slide 11 we have outlined our global safety revenues for the quarter.
Currency-neutral safety sales increased 9.8% and grew to $557 million in the quarter.
Revenues in the US increased by 8.1% and include the contribution from our SSI acquisition.
International sales grew 12% on a currency-neutral basis with Western Europe and emerging markets both growing double-digits.
Medical safety sales grew 14% and Diagnostics growth was 5.7% driven by a range of safety-engineered products.
Medical safety benefited from our SSI acquisition and strong growth in our Medical Surgical unit international safety portfolio.
At the conclusion of this first quarter our SSI acquisition has annualized and would be included in our base.
Moving to solid 12 on gross margin as expected and outlined to you on our last call we experienced negative currency translation driven by the timing of the inventory movements.
On a foreign currency neutral basis benefits from our (inaudible) programs favorable pricing and pension were more than offset by increased costs associated with raw materials sought up items and acquisitions.
Our gross profit guidance remains on track for the full year.
Slide 13 recaps the first quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency neutral results.
Since I just discussed revenue and gross profit I'll move to SSG&amp;A which grew 7.9%.
Excluding the medical device tax SSG&amp;A grew about 5% reflecting continued investments in areas such as emerging markets and new products.
R&amp;D increased just over 6% which is in line with our expectations.
Our operating income increased 3.2%.
But excluding the medical device tax operating income growth of 6.9% was slightly higher than the rate of sales this quarter.
Our tax rate improved 170 basis points over the prior year.
As we noted in last year's first quarter results our tax rate was higher at that time due to some one-time items.
In addition there was a delay in the enactment of the R&amp;D tax credit in the first quarter of last year.
Both of those items contributed to a favorable comparison this quarter over the prior year.
These items resulted in earnings per share of $1.37 which is an 8.1% increase versus the prior year.
Excluding the impact of the medical device tax earnings per share of $1.42 represent an 11.9% growth rate.
Now turning to Slide 14 I'd like to review our updated guidance in more detail which I will speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
Our first quarter results along with our revised full year outlook give us the confidence to raise the bottom end of our fiscal year 2015 revenue guidance 50 basis points to 4.5% to 5% growth.
This assumes a stable macroeconomic environment.
As we discussed last quarter we had reserved the bottom-end of our revenue guidance range for possible weakening in global macroeconomic conditions unfavorable pricing impacts and/or other deteriorating factors and we're not seeing that.
We have seen continued signs of stabilization in both the US and Western Europe.
We are estimating a full year euro exchange rate of $1.36.
Our full year outlook on pricing has improved slightly.
As we noted pricing remains a concern for the back half of the year.
Given the current pricing environment we are updating our pricing outlook to about 20 basis points of pressure for the year from our previous range of 20 basis point to 40 basis point.
Within the segments we are increasing our guidance for the Medical and Bioscience segments.
And I expect the Medical segment to grow 5% to 5.5% and the Bioscience segment to grow about 4% for the year.
Diagnostics segment growth expectation remained between 3.5% and 4.5% for the year.
We remain on track to meet our goal of about 70 basis points to 80 basis points of operating margin expansion for the full year excluding the impact of foreign currency and the medical device tax.
About half of that benefit is expected from favorable pension assumptions along with 30 basis points to 40 basis points of underlying margin expansion.
In addition to revenues we are raising the bottom end of our full fiscal year adjusted EPS guidance range by 50 basis points to between 9% and 9.5%.
Excluding the medical device tax we expect EPS to grow 9.5% to 10%.
As a reminder with the conclusion of our first quarter the medical device excise tax has annualized and will be included in our base.
Reported fully diluted EPS for the full year is now expected between $6.19 and $6.22.
All other guidance components remain unchanged from what we provided on our year-end call in November.
The revenue and earnings profile that we outlined for you on our last call remain intact.
Revenue growth is still expected to be stronger in the first half of the year accentuated by our accelerated first quarter results.
Earnings growth is still anticipated to be weighted in the back half of the year although that effect is slightly muted by our first quarter timing benefit.
Looking forward a good way to think about the balance of the year is that a number of the timing benefits that we experienced this quarter will reverse during the second and third quarters.
I would like to turn the call back over to Vince who will provide you with an update on our product portfolio.
Thank you Chris.
Now moving on to Slide 16 we see the program and product launches in our Medical and Biosciences segments.
In fiscal years 2012 and 2013 we launched about 30 new products.
As we've been communicating with you our percentage of revenue from new products is coming from about 8% of our overall revenues in 2011 to an expected 15% or 16% by the end of this fiscal year.
This year we will focus on the successful scale-up of our recent years' new products and solutions while continuing to add products who complement these offerings.
In the Medical segment we continue to look forward to the continued rollout of our new BD Simplist line of prefilled generic injectables.
We currently have four drugs approved by the FDA including our recent morphine approval which we expect to launch in the coming months.
We have five or four additional drug approvals with the FDA and we will update you as they complete the approval process.
As we've been sharing with you this is still a very new initiative and it will take some time for these products to gain traction in the marketplace.
Our Simplist initiative is a good example of our strategy of building on our expertise to move into adjacent spaces.
In our Biosciences segment we are looking forward to the launch of our BD FACSPresto CD4 analyzer in addition to additional product offerings in our Sirigen dye portfolio.
On Slide 17 you will see the various product launches in Diagnostics.
We recently received FDA approval on our Staph SR and MRSA XT Assays on our BD MAX platform.
We continue to focus on menu expansion and expect another four assays to be approved this fiscal year including our Enteric Bacteria assay.
We placed over 40 instruments in the first quarter bringing our total number of placements currently in excess of 300.
We remain very pleased with our BD Veritor Point of Care device.
We've placed over 10 000 units to date driving competitive gains for us in this growing market.
Our BD Totalys front-end automation launched in Europe recently and our early customer feedback has been very positive.
We anticipate the US rollout of this instrument in 2015.
Also our new BD Viper LT platform and BD Onclarity HPV assay are now CE marked and launched in Europe.
Viper LT will provide fully integrated automated molecular test capability running both PCR and STA amplification menu.
These include CT/GC and high-risk HPV.
Our BD Onclarity HPV assay is the first DNA-based HPV assay that reports broad genotyping results for each patient with no additional processes.
These products support our women's health and cancer business and are fully compatible with our shortpass liquid based cytology cancer screening test.
We are particularly excited about our ability to provide broader HPV genotyping results as we see more clinical evidence that specific genotypes indicate a higher risk of developing cervical disease.
Of course we will continue to update you as we make progress on our pipeline initiatives.
On Slide 18 before we open the call to questions I'd like to reiterate the key messages from our discussion today.
First we are pleased with our strong start to fiscal year 2014 with solid underlying growth.
Growth across all of our segments contributed to this quarter's results with particular growth in Medical and continued improvement in Biosciences.
Second our long-term strategy of investing in innovating for growth continues to deliver positive results.
Key revenue opportunities will be driven by new products tuck-in acquisitions continued geographic expansion and sales of safety-engineered products.
We are continuing to build on our leading global position and enhance our already robust core across all six worldwide businesses.
Third we are focusing on developing complete solutions to meet our customers' needs and improve clinical outcomes.
We expect to expand the categories in which we currently compete by continuing to move into near adjacencies.
We are raising the bottom end of our previous guidance ranges for revenue and EPS and have continuing confidence that we have built a solid foundation for future growth.
Finally we remain committed to delivering continued value to our customer and shareholders.
Thank you.
We will now open the call to questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from David Roman of Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to see if you could go into a little bit more detail just on emerging markets overall as well as some of the tenders that you referenced in your prepared remarks and I guess more specifically on emerging markets and not to sort of be negative on a 13% growth rate but China is growing 25% maybe you could just give some perspective on what's happening elsewhere and obviously recently there've been a number of concerns as it relates to the macro environment in EM and healthcare spending? And then I guess lastly if you could just touch on the tenders you referenced in a little more detail.
Yes we did have strong growth in emerging markets.
China was up 25%.
The only place where we had actually some negative timing is just a matter of when tenders come in is the Middle East.
So we did well in Latin America.
We did well in Asia-Pacific but it was really some softness in the timing of tenders in EMA for us that was the difference.
Our next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
It's Robyn for Kristen so I just wanted to touch on price.
You guys obviously had a pretty good quarter up 40 bps and now you have taken your expectations up a little bit for the year.
Can you just touch on what you're seeing more broadly in terms of pricing developed in the emerging markets? We had good solid price contribution particularly from our Medical segment in the quarter and that driven in part by Diabetes Care price improvement and favorable mix and price from the Pharm Systems side.
And those two units were significant price contributors to the company's overall price impact.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
It's Kim in for Mike.
Just a follow-up on the price question as it pertains to diabetes so you saw some really nice strength in the US Diabetes business it sounds like it is driven primarily by Nano.
And just maybe talk about why we're seeing the pickup now what kind of account conversion and partnership you're seeing on the Nano side? And maybe if you can tie it in a little bit of your longer-term strategy on the Diabetes side? First question was around how is Nano doing and where are we in the conversion of this and then does this set the stage for a broader play in Diabetes Care and we're still early on in the conversion to Nano.
Yes we're doing well in the U.S.
but we're also doing well in other geographies with Nano.
We do price Nano at a price premium.
And so you are seeing that in both the Medical segment's results and Bill was referring to that and in the company's results.
And as part of a broader strategy in Diabetes Care we are continuing to refresh the core but we're also working on some new product areas that we touched on before and Bill maybe you want to comment on some of the adjacencies that we're looking at in terms of moving into it.
We're looking to explore other insulin delivery opportunities that we have in particular.
We have referenced before a project we have on insulin infusion and we're also actively looking at a longer-term program related to patch-pen types of insulin delivery.
Those would be at the top of our project list for adjacency moves over the next two to four years.
And of course we have the CGM which is still really in technology development.
So a significantly broader play in the longer term in Diabetes Care.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Weinstein with William Blair.
Was the Quest impact fully reflected in the first quarter results or is there an incremental step-down coming? Can you also just comment broadly about some of the trends you're seeing in the US diagnostics markets as there continue just to be a little bit lower than I guess what we thought even in light of some of the secular stuff going on? Thanks.
So in terms of that account loss it was in the first quarter.
It's slightly weighted more towards the second half of the year but it's not a major step change would be the way to think about it.
It was significant in the first quarter for the Diagnostics business.
Our next question comes from the line of Richard Newitter with Leerink Swann.
Just a broader macro question.
We’ve heard from some other players that there could be some pull-through in strength and seasonality in the calendar year fourth quarter or year-end deductibles etc..
Could you comment on anything that you may or may not be seeing on this front and any commentary there on what this might portend for the quarter ahead and maybe the rest of the year? So we did talk about 120 basis points of timing within the quarter but that was not seasonal timing.
I'm going to ask Tom Polen to just comment on some of the timing that occurred on the Medical segment or just a major piece of it for us.
As Vince said there were two businesses that we saw timing impact us in the quarter and in the segment were in Med Surg specifically around clearing a backorder in the US as well as in the Pharm Systems which tends to have some lumpiness associated with large customer purchases.
So if you exclude that as commented earlier underlying growth was lower than reported and those we view as one-time activities that were just in the first quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Taylor with Barclays.
It's actually Dan in for Matt.
And I had a question on the visibility you have in Biosciences.
We've seen improvements there and you guys picked up your expectation for the year.
But just into account conditions and the pressures that you've talked about in the US restructuring market just wondering if you can address picking your expectation is that really a function of both the US and OUS or just OUS? As you know that we're continuing to see in the US market with the recently released NIH funding continued stability in that market.
But ex-US we also saw some turnaround in Western Europe which was positive for us.
And also we continued to see strength in emerging markets.
So US stabilization and growth in Western Europe would have been the biggest turnaround.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
First off obviously European safety has been a nice growth driver here following the adoption of the safety directive last spring.
Are you still going to suggest that there's a pretty significant proportion of hospitals that are not yet compliant with the directive? And so Vince help us think a little bit about how you frame the ongoing opportunity and then just help us think about the duration of the tail-wind.
Yes we did see an uptick in European safety this quarter.
And what was significant was we saw some uptick in Southern Europe for the first time.
And so some of the first significant orders to matched geography.
So there is a lot of runway here.
There's still runway in Northern Europe as well.
So we think the story has a few years to go in terms of ramping up.
We would continue to think that this is not a step change kind of gain that it's more of a hospital-by-hospital convert as these countries come online.
So not US step-change situation but kind of a steady movement in terms of conversion.
Tom is there anything else you'd like to add to that? The only other thing to mention is you know the US is quite mature in the 90s just to put it in perspective.
We see EU overall at about 60% converted for catheters about 15% converted for injection systems and I think about 45% for blood collection systems.
So I think that just reinforces as Vince mentioned there's still some room and several years of conversion to go there.
Our next question comes from the line of Derik De Bruin with Bank of America.
Was there any change to tax rate guidance for 2014 just to remind us on that? And I guess do you expect any impact from the weather in the US in the second quarter? The tax rate guidance stays the same 23.5% to 23.7%.
So there is no change in that.
The tax rate in the first quarter was as anticipated.
In terms of the weather very difficult to say whether we'll see any impact from the weather or not.
And I guess there's probably not but who knows what's going to happen in February and the rest of the quarter.
But no so far.
Our next question comes from the line of Brandon Couillard with Jefferies.
Vince with the Simplist morphine product shipping in the second or third quarter could you quantify the addressable market size for that specific product? And do you think you have enough approvals under your belt at this point to broadly go to market and capture market share or do you feel like you still need a few more approvals to make a broader push there? We haven't broken it drug-by-drug but it is one of the bigger ones now.
And so it's a step-up for us in terms of addressable market.
We said the market is about $1.2 billion in the US and we're targeting about 60% of that so over $700 million.
But Tom can comment on the kind of the competitive dynamics and the menu in terms of where we are and how we seize that? Tom? I think we think about it in two ways.
One is just regarding morphine and its relevance we have three drugs on the market today if you think about the value of a prefilled drug delivery system and its ability to help reduce errors in the delivery process.
The drugs that we on the markets today some of them are sizeable in terms of market size but are not necessarily high on the ranking of drugs associated with medication.
Morphine really represents the first drug which is in the top 10 list of drugs associated with serious medications.
So we see that the value proposition for morphine is really a key catalyst for us in that category.
Are we still looking to broaden out our menu within the prefilled space? Absolutely.
And I think as was mentioned earlier from Chris we do have four additional drug approvals pending with the FDA and under varying stages of review.
And so overall as we discussed previously this is a very new initiative and it is going to take some time for these products to gain traction in the marketplace.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Frelick with Canaccord.
Vince could you share some ways for acquiring the Alverix business? I assume you want to do more of the product menu.
And do you have plans for the mini product that Alverix has? We bought Alverix.
They were a supplier I think as most people know of the Veritor system.
And we were going to be co-developing a next-generation system with them.
It made sense from a financial standpoint to bring that in-house and get complete control of it.
We are in the process of continuing to ramp up that menu.
We're still waiting for RSE approval in terms of the CLIA waiver but the product is now intended to have some placements.
So it just made a lot of sense as we expand the menu and continue to move into the POC space that we brought that technology in-house.
Our next question comes from the line of Vijay Kumar with ISI Group.
One in China the 25% was really strong.
I think it came in well above what some of your peers are reporting.
Can you tell us what's driving the strength and the sustainability of the strong double-digit? And the second one was in the MAX.
Are you seeing any pickup in system placements or give any color on installed base? China we continue to do well across the board with our entire portfolio.
So it's balanced with Medical seeing the biggest part of that business and a very strong performance in our infusion business.
So strong across the board Medical being the largest.
And I think we're seeing the benefits of our ability now to move into tier-2 to expand the distribution in China.
And all of that is going quite well.
In terms of BD MAX I think Bill Kozy will comment on that.
We placed just north of 40 new MAXes particularly in the US and Europe and that would put our total placements to date just a little bit beyond 300.
Of course when we get the menu for the Enteric and some of the other menu that Vince mentioned that will continue to help us.
But we're comfortable with our placements for the quarter and our outlook for the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen and Company.
Just like some of the competitors in the US microbiology market have been pretty well over the past few quarters can you just provide an update on competitive dynamics end-market trends and core I would say US microbiology market? And then in light of MALDI-TOF and Kiestra have they increased the catheter equipment mix in microbiology had any effect on your visibility there? The fact that we're selling more catheter because of Kiestra and what not we have a very good view on that pipeline and we're doing well in core microbiology in the US and globally.
And Bill anything else you'd like to add to that? No just to echo Vince's comment we didn't have any Kiestra placements yet in the US.
So all of our growth in the US on that side was driven by very very solid BACTEC and PHOENIX activity as well as the Point of Care reference.
So that total grouping of products that we tend to call Infection Prevention and Management and you got microbiology in there and Point of Care and Kiestra if you just looked at the US we got nice mid-single-digit growth in the quarter which we were pleased with.
Our final question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with Macquarie.
Vince on the emerging markets if you strip down about half of your growth is still coming from emerging markets.
And I guess as a manager given all the noise that we hear about what are you looking at what are the data points you're looking at to kind of track or what you're focusing on to see whether or not some of the growth slows down from these very high rates? Obviously there's a long runway there.
Just curious given some of the challenges what you're looking for? The teams in the emerging markets will tend to have scorecards and they're looking at what's happening with various GDP statistics then they're looking at healthcare spending and how healthcare spending is moving year-on-year whether it's catheter or whether it's starting to move from bricks and mortar supplying those hospitals.
So there's a number of different measures that they're looking at.
And then I don't think they're more tender-driven.
They're looking at the follow-up tenders in terms of what's in the queue to be brought.
Well I think I'd say that there's government health needs and their priority.
Our focus on collaborating around the significant governmental agenda for their health programs for the coming years and almost all governments around the world have got that is a key point of engagement.
If you link that to all the factors that Vince mentioned we kind of get a constant rolling view of what we want to be doing in that particular targeted market.
And then lastly we'll be in contact with the NGOs in those regions in terms of what they're looking to do and the programs that they have so that we can stay on top of those.
So those are kind of broadly what we look at.
That was our final question.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to Vince Forlenza for any additional or closing remarks.
So thank you to all of you for participating in our call today.
We said we were pleased with the strong start to the year.
We're happy to take up the bottom end of our values and we look forward to moving ahead with a strategy as we have it and updating you on the next quarterly call.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's Second Fiscal Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through May 8 2014 on the Investors page of the bd.com Web site or by phone at (800) 585-8367 for domestic calls and area code (404) 537-3406 for international calls using confirmation number 24652897.
(Operator Instructions) Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki VP of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin.
Thank you Kristy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our second fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our second fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Bill Kozy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Vince is not able to join you today.
He is recovering nicely from orthopedic procedure and will be back to work next week.
Also joining us today are Chris Reidy Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Administration; Tom Polen Group President; Linda Tharby Group President and Alberto Mas President of Diagnostic Systems.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Bill.
Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
As we stated in our press release we are pleased with our performance in the second quarter.
Our results this quarter highlight our consistent performance and the benefit of our diverse geographic and product portfolio.
We delivered solid revenue and EPS growth where were in line with our expectations.
Revenue growth in the second quarter was driven by our Medical and Biosciences segments.
Diagnostics' international growth was partially offset by continued challenges in the U.S.
which we will provide some color on later in the call.
We saw continued strong international safety and emerging market sales and they remain as the key growth drivers for the company.
Based on our solid results for the second quarter and the first half of the year we are reaffirming our previously communicated currency-neutral revenue guidance and we are raising our adjusted EPS guidance for the full fiscal year 2014.
On Slide 5 we have outlined our second quarter revenue and EPS results which I will speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
Total company revenues were solid increasing by 5.1%.
Fully diluted EPS came in at $1.45 growing at 10.1% over the prior year.
On an adjusted basis EPS of $1.53 grew 15.8%.
Now I would like to turn things over to Chris to give you more detailed discussion of our second quarter financial performance.
Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by discussing the key financial highlights for the second quarter.
As Bill just mentioned we delivered solid performance.
Revenue growth in the second quarter was in line with our expectations.
We experienced strong growth in our Medical and Biosciences segments which were aided in part by timing of orders.
As Bill just mentioned there were some challenges in the Diagnostic segment particularly in the U.S.
I'll speak to that in just a moment.
In the second quarter performance improvements in our gross profit margin were more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency.
On a currency-neutral basis we improved gross profit by 60 basis points.
Our tax rate improved substantially due to geographic mix and some discreet one-time items.
This benefited earnings by about $0.03.
Adjusted earnings per share were $1.53 and grew 15.8% in the second quarter.
Also during the second quarter we completed an additional 24 million of our approximate $450 million share repurchase plan for 2014.
This brings our total share repurchases year-to-date to 213 million.
As Bill just mentioned we are reaffirming our currency-neutral revenue growth guidance and raising adjusted EPS guidance for the total year.
On Slide 8 I will review our revenue growth by segment on a currency-neutral basis.
Organic revenue growth was 5.1% for the total company.
The impact of price erosion was about flat in the quarter.
And as a remainder the SSI acquisition is now included in our base.
BD Medical second quarter revenues increased 6.3%.
Growth in this segment was driven by a range of new products emerging market strength and some timing benefits.
Growth in Diabetes Care was 10.4%.
This reflects continued strong sales of pen needles which includes our Nano and AutoShield Duo products.
Medical Surgical Systems growth was 4.4% led by emerging markets and international safety sales.
Pharmaceutical System growth was 6.6%.
As we expected and as we typically see in this business this reflects a favorable impact from a timing of orders.
Timing of orders in the quarter positively impacted growth by about 350 basis points within the Pharmaceutical Systems unit.
BD Diagnostic second quarter revenues increased 1%.
Solid sales in the Preanalytical Systems unit and the BD MAX GeneOhm platform were partially offset by a decline in our Women's Health and Cancer business.
This was due to extended cervical cancer screening intervals and U.S.
share losses.
BD Biosciences revenue growth was 10.2% versus the prior year period due to solid clinical and research instrument placements and reagents along with strong emerging market growth.
Growth in this segment also benefited from the timing of a government order in Latin America a large tender order in Africa and more normalized stimulus spending in Japan.
These items benefited growth by about 350 basis points.
Growth in the second half of this year will decelerate due to these timing items.
Moving to Slide 9 I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the second quarter.
As we expected softer growth in the U.S.
was supplemented by continued strong international growth.
BD's reported U.S.
revenues increased 0.2% versus the prior year.
We view the environment in the U.S.
as constrained but stable.
Revenue on our U.S.
Medical segment increased by 5.2% which was largely driven by timing of orders in our Pharmaceutical Systems business and strong growth in Diabetes Care.
U.S.
Growth and Diagnostic segment declined by 6.4%.
This was due to the challenges I just mentioned a moment ago coupled with the mild flu season.
Growth in the U.S.
this quarter was largely impacted by challenges in this segment.
We are seeing some stabilization in our U.S.
Biosciences business which experienced growth of 1.4%.
Moving on to international we continue to see strong growth.
Revenues grew 8.5% currency-neutral with growth coming from all three segments.
Medical segment grew 7.0% and Diagnostics grew 8.1%.
This reflects strong growth in emerging markets and international safety sales.
Biosciences grew 14.3% and benefited from the timing items I just mentioned.
Our Biosciences segment also experienced strong growth in emerging market.
On Slide 10 we continue to see strong growth in emerging markets which accounted for approximately 24.5% of our total revenues.
Emerging market revenues grew 13.9% currency-neutral over the prior year.
This was driven by strong performance across all segments in those geographic regions.
Slightly slower growth in China of 17% reflects a tough comparison to the prior year period.
We continue to expect low double-digit growth in emerging markets and growth in China is expected to be in the 20% range for the balance of this fiscal year.
Moving to global safety on Slide 11 currency-neutral sales increased 4.9% and grew to 531 million in the quarter.
Safety revenues in the U.S.
were about flat.
Our international sales grew 11.2% currency-neutral with emerging markets growing about 20%.
Medical Safety sales grew 4.4% driven by a range of safety engineered products.
Diagnostic safety growth was 5.5% in the quarter.
As I mentioned earlier the benefits of our SSI acquisition have annualized and are now included in the base.
This impacted our U.S.
safety and medical safety growth rates in the quarter.
Moving on to gross profit on Slide 12 positive performance in the quarter reflects benefits from ReLoCo and other continuous improvement initiatives and pension savings.
These items will more than offset by an unfavorable currency and higher raw material and startup costs.
Our gross profit guidance remains on track for the year.
Slide 13 recaps the second quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency-neutral results on an adjusted basis.
As we discussed revenue and gross profit were in line with our expectations.
SSG&amp;A increased about 1.4% which reflects the benefit of the one-time item in Europe.
R&amp;D increased 3.8%.
This remains in line with our expectations at 6.1% of revenue as we continue to invest in new product development and innovation.
Operating income grew 13.5% in the quarter reflecting our ongoing focus on earnings quality at the corporate and business unit level.
Our tax rate declined by 170 basis points which benefited from geographic mix and some discreet one-time items.
In the quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.53 which is a 15.8% increase versus the prior year.
On Slide 14 we will review our revised outlook for the total year.
As we mentioned earlier we are reaffirming guidance for currency-neutral revenue growth and raising guidance for adjusted earnings per share.
On a reported basis our guidance assumes a Euro exchange rate of $1.37.
Reported revenue growth is being negatively impacted by other currencies.
As such we are lowering our reported revenue guidance by 50 basis points.
In our Medical and Biosciences segments we have increased our revenue growth expectations.
Our revised guidance in Medical of 5.5% to 6% reflects solid core growth and a benefit from new product launches.
The Biosciences segment is now expected to grow 4% to 5% reflecting continued international growth.
We now expect the Diagnostic segment to grow about 3% to 3.5% due to some of the U.S.
challenges we mentioned earlier in addition to a lighter flu season than anticipated.
Adjusted earnings per share of $6.22 to $6.25 reflect the benefit of an improved tax rate for the total year partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency.
Our expected tax rate is 23% to 23.5% contemplates a more favorable geographic mix.
Moving on to Slide 15 I'd like to review the revenue guidance in further detail one with the facing for the second half of the year as it is compared with a particularly strong back half of 2013.
I'll speak to this slide in a currency-neutral basis.
As you can see we delivered strong growth in the first half of the year where the total company revenues grew 5.9%.
Strong growth in the Medical segment of 7.4% benefited from timing in our Medical Surgical Systems and Pharmaceutical Systems business and the acquisition contribution from SSI.
You will see that the growth rate is expected to return to about 4% to 4.5% in the back half of the year as to normalizing for those items.
We are also contemplating less favorable pricing.
For the total year we expect the Medical segment to grow between 5.5% to 6%.
Diagnostic growth in the first half of the year was 2.6% a benefit from share gains and point of care flu sales were offset by the U.S.
challenges we mentioned earlier in Women's Health and Cancer.
In the second half of the year we expect revenue growth to rebound a bit.
Our revised guidance of 3.5% to 4.5% for the second half contemplates strong KIESTRA placement.
For the total year we expect the Diagnostic segment to grow 3% to 3.5%.
Despite the challenges we are facing in the U.S.
Diagnostic Systems business we are still seeing success in our international businesses and are making good progress with various new product launches.
We are confident we can continue to deliver solid growth in this segment.
Our Biosciences segment grew 8% in the first half of the year.
The strong growth was driven by the timing of orders I mentioned earlier.
We expect growth in this segment to be between flat to 2% in the back half.
It will be weighted more heavily in the third quarter.
As you may recall the fourth quarter of last year was particularly strong as a result of the stimulus spending in Japan which presents a difficult comparison.
For the total year we expect the Biosciences segment to grow about 4% to 5%.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Bill who will provide a more detailed update on our progress around our key initiatives.
Thank you Chris.
Moving on to slide 17 I'd like to review the program and product launches in our Medical and Biosciences segment.
In the Medical segment we continued to rollout our new BD Simplist line of prefilled generic injectables.
We currently have four drugs approved by the FDA and have applied for four additional drug approvals.
As expected we recently launched the morphine product.
As we have been sharing with you this is still a very new initiative and it will take some time for these products to gain their traction in the marketplace.
In our Biosciences segment we recently launched our BD FACSPresto CD4 and Hemoglobin Analyzer.
The BD FACSPresto expands the ability to stage and monitor HIV/AIDS patients close to their homes.
It is an easy-to-use system that meets the need of resource limited setting.
The FACSPresto can be easily transported and operates off a rechargeable battery enabling patients even in remote settings to receive critical CD4 testing.
Early customer feedback has been very positive.
Also this year we have launched three dyes and plan to add several additional dyes to the surgeon portfolio.
Turning to Slide 18 you will see the various product launches and diagnostics.
On our BD Veritor platform we launched our Strep A Test in the U.S.
this past quarter.
We also received clear waivers on both our Strep A and RSV tests making these tests more accessible to clinicians in the U.S.
To-date we have made over 12 000 Veritor replacements.
On our BD MAX molecular platform we look forward to the U.S.
launch of our Enteric Bacterial Panel and CE marking of our Enteric Parasite Panel later this year.
These tests which traditionally take three to five days to achieve results it can be completed in minutes which also reduces the need for unnecessary antibiotics in the meantime.
We are excited about the unique assays in our pipeline which combine our deep microbiology know-how with our molecular capabilities.
Our BD Onclarity HPV Assay was launched recently in Europe.
This assay runs our new Viper LT automated platform which is capable of both SDA and real-time PCR molecular amplification formats.
During the second quarter there were numerous installations across Europe and Asia.
We will add our CT/GC assay for the Viper LT as soon as we receive CE marking which is expected in the next quarter.
We are also expecting U.S.
FDA 510(k) clearings of CT/GC on the Viper LT in the third quarter.
Of course we will continue to update you as we do make progress on these pipeline initiatives.
On Slide 19 before we open the call to questions I would like to reiterate the key messages from the presentation today.
First we are pleased with our consistent solid performance in the second quarter and our results here today.
Second we continue to execute on our strategy and deliver top and bottom line growth and margin expansion.
Third we saw solid growth in our medical and biosciences segments and continue to be pleased with the progress we have made on the key growth drivers across our various businesses and regions.
Despite challenges we are facing the U.S.
diagnostics systems business we are confident we can continue to deliver solid growth in the diagnostic segment.
Finally we are positive about our outlook for fiscal year '14.
We are committed to delivering current neutral revenue growth of 4.5% to 5% and 11% to 11.5% adjusted EPS growth.
Our diverse product and geographic portfolio and the operational effectiveness programs we have in place provide BD with a strong foundation.
We believe we are well positioned for continued success in fiscal year '14 and beyond.
Thank you.
We will now open the call for questions.
Thank you.
The floor is now open for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from the line of Brandon Couillard of Jefferies.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I didn't catch if Alberto is there or not but if so could you elaborate on the U.S.
Diagnostic Systems business in the second quarter slowed materially even though Quest has already been in the run rate? And then the guidance implies an acceleration in the back half could you quantify the effect of the KIESTRA placements in that acceleration? Sure.
This is Bill.
I'll take a first shot and Alberto is here and I'll ask him to comment also.
One thing I will do is let me just give you our view on Diagnostics including the U.S.
piece.
Our international growth is up about 6% in the second quarter and year-to-date it's at about 7%.
We're continuing to see good solid growth in the core part of our microbiology business and particularly our BACTEC business and our IDAST business are solid at round 4% or 5%.
Also in the second quarter we had a very strong degree of placements with the BACTEC FX.
That's one of the best quarters we've had in quite some time.
That's a big part of some of our second half projection here that we will talk about.
Additionally the emerging markets continue to be pretty strong both China and Latin America growing at strong double-digits contributing to an overall emerging market growth rate around 10%.
Now the equation of KIESTRA we do have very strong demand and as Chris indicated in his comments we've got expectations for a strong placements in the second half of the year.
I'll give that part to Alberto here in a second.
Additionally our POC our Point of Care category share gain which was somewhat dampened by weak flu season still should promise gives us some encouragement on the second half of the year as does the MAX GeneOhm growth that we experienced in the quarter.
To get at the challenge part its Women's Health and Cancer and it's in the United States.
You might recall last year we described to you a major account loss.
That of course is still playing out in fiscal year '14.
Chris already mentioned the interval testing and the impact on cervical cancer which is ongoing particularly on our SurePath reagent business.
And we've had some sales erosion on our ProbeTec platform again concentrated in the U.S.
We're hoping that we get Viper LT launched in the third quarter with CT/GC which I mentioned in my remarks.
That's key to defending that business and slowing down some of that sales erosion.
Let me just slip in.
Alberto any color you would like to add particularly around the KIESTRA placements in the second half? Yes.
If I focus on why we think the second half is going to be stronger it's some of the underlying positive trends that we are seeing in the business are highlighted in the second half.
And again the KIESTRA obviously are going to be beginning to be placed in the market more strongly in the second half and into next year.
We actually feel very positive about the demand patterns that we are seeing going forward.
One of the things that is driving that is our expected launch of ReadA Compact which was one of the components of the Lab Automation KIESTRA that we will expect in the next month and a half.
We have it in four sites right now and with very positive feedback.
We are expecting a global launch of that platform in the next couple of months.
So that should be certainly an accelerated growth for the second half and in the future.
MAX again we are expecting -- we had a good quarter.
We expect even stronger quarters in quoting the next couple of quarters and going forward.
So this is an accelerating product line for us.
And we are pretty much where we expected to be in overall revenues.
As Bill said BACTEC placements should begin to generate reagent revenue in the second half and going forward.
And again lots of the Viper LT will enable us to begin to -- it's a good tool for us to begin to defend our CT/GC business going forward as well.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
I was just wondering if you could -- I know you mentioned a couple of times the different timing orders and the impact within the individual businesses.
What's the impact in aggregate I guess for the quarter the 5.1 currency-neutral what would that have been in your estimate excluding some of these one-time factors or timing factors? Great.
This is Chris.
The way to think about that is really on a first half/second half because there is some timing even between the first and the second quarter.
So if you look at the first half that's 5.9% that we had year-to-date about 40 basis points of that was the lift from the SSI acquisition.
And then there was about 50 basis points of timing of orders and so that's from systems the BDB orders that we talked about and some Med/Surg timing of orders.
On top of that you have a little bit of favorable pricing in there and you had the Japan stimulus which is accelerated this year year-over-year as we said it all came in the fourth quarter.
So if you normalize all of that we get in the 4.5% to 5% range for the first half of the year.
Then if you look at the second half the 3.5 to 4 that we showed the timing of orders brings you back to 4 to 4.5.
The Japan stimulus and the unfavorable pricing flip get you in that 4.5 to 5 range.
So that's the way to think about first half/second half.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Bill just thinking about your commentary on China and specifically the Biosciences slowed down in the back half of the year; can you give us a sense of how you expect your accounting to trend in the back half of the year relative to Biosciences? Some of your peers have talked about delays at the Ministry of Health is specifically affecting capital.
I am wondering what impact if any that could have on your flow business.
Thank you.
Hi David.
Linda is obviously here with us and she is closest to that.
Let me just pass that question over to her and ask for her comments.
You are specifically interested in China David in second half impact on government influence.
Good morning David.
It's Linda here.
So we continue to see in our Biosciences business very strong growth in China and we are seeing that come not only from the clinical market and expansion in lab presence and flow cytometry there but also really strong presence from Accuri which is our personal flow.
So we continue to see our growth in the very high double-digits in China in the back half.
And at this point we are not projecting anything with respect to a slowdown in that market due to a good balanced portfolio between both our research and clinical settings.
I would like to take the opportunity to just emphasize as I mentioned in prepared remarks the 17% that we had in this quarter was driven more by the -- they are difficult compared to the second quarter of last year.
So we see the rest of this year being in the 20% plus range.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Roman of Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
This is actually Matt McDonough in for David.
Continuing with emerging markets I was hoping you could provide a little bit more detail just on some of the moving parts the different dynamics; you're now talking extensively about the China slowdown being driven more by the comp than actual slowing but could you perhaps talk about trends you are seeing in other markets? Sure I can -- let me make a couple of comments here.
First of all as we look at the scale of our emerging markets China and Latin America are very very critical drivers both in terms of scale and growth.
Chris has already commented that we really see sustainability in China around that 20% number for the remainder of that year.
We are seeing similar types of numbers coming out of Latin America.
It's across -- I hate to generalize to your question but it's pretty much strength across all of our businesses medical diagnostics and biosciences all reflecting very very strong double-digit growth in each of those markets.
That's supplemented a little bit at a lesser scale by Middle East and Africa.
But think about China and Latin America as real drivers of our emerging market growth particularly at this window and time in fiscal year '14.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Mike Weinstein of JP Morgan.
Thank you good morning.
So just a couple of questions number one just one income statement question in the SG&amp;A lines you called out some benefit from Europe.
I hope you could just clarify what that was?  I think we are not hearing you.
Operator can you help us repeat that question? We didn't catch it.
Is it a bad connection? Yeah.
No I think we got a bad connection.
I am sorry we just can't hear you.
I apologize.
We can't catch it.
No worries.
I will try again.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Richard Newitter ofLeerink.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
I notice that price -- I think you said it was flat this quarter it was up about 40 bips last quarter can you maybe just comment on what you are seeing there in the environment and expectations for the rest of the year? Yes.
So this is Chris.
I'll take a shot at that.
The second quarter pricing was just about where we expect it to be.
It was flat to slightly down a couple of basis points right where we expected as we said pricing in the first quarter was a little bit better than we expected.
So we had adjusted the pricing guidance for the year to about 20 basis points down.
As we have been saying it's all about the second half of the year and particularly the fourth quarter.
So we are still looking at it being down about 20 basis points for the year based on fourth quarter tenders that we are looking at and the pressures we see there really no change since last quarter on that kind of in line with where we were.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Douglas Schenkel of Cowen and Company.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
My first question is it appears you terminated European diagnostic distribution agreement in the quarter.
Was there any revenue impact in the quarter and do you expect any hangover associated with that? And I guess the second question somewhat related is SG&amp;A was quite a bit lower than we expected in the quarter and dropped quite a bit sequentially.
It's unclear if your guidance implies that this going to continue.
Could you just talk us through how we should think about SG&amp;A over the balance of the year? Thank you.
Sure.
The SG&amp;A was 1.4%.
As we mentioned there was a one-time item in Europe that benefited us.
It was collection of receivables that had been written off that we collected.
That does flow through to the year.
We increased the earnings per share by $0.03 but offsetting that was the impact of foreign exchange.
As you saw that we adjusted our reported revenue guidance for foreign exchange that actually flows down through the EPS as well.
So that was a couple of cents.
So that foreign exchange pressure offset the benefit of the one-time item and then the [3%] (ph) rise that we had in EPS was essentially attributable to tax rate declines.
So SG&amp;A for the rest of the year absent that one-item will be still in the range basically that we had guided to.
This is Bill.
We did discontinue a distribution arrangement in Spain related to a couple of our businesses primarily with a Preanalytical systems relationship that does not carry any revenue impact for us on a go-forward basis.
It's just a realignment of how we are going to go to market in that particular country.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Mike Weinstein of JP Morgan.
Hi.
(Indiscernible).
So just a follow-up on that the SG&amp;A the receivable benefit this quarter was about $0.03 is that what you said? It was actually more like $0.02.
It is just slightly more than $0.02 and it was exactly offset by the FX pressure which is slightly more than $0.02.
Perfect.
Okay.
And then just want to focus on the Biosciences business.
It's hard to separate out the one-time positives in the first half in terms of versus the second half.
Can you just talk a little bit more about the underlying business and maybe try and give us a better picture to how that second half would look actually the orders that pull them to the first half? Hi Mike.
Let me start by just saying the best way to think about that is for the guidance for the full year.
So there is lots of puts and takes quarter-to-quarter and as you remember the big impact in the fourth quarter.
At the end of the third quarter last year I think our Biosciences growth rate was 0.9%.
I don't think we are close to 12% in the fourth quarter.
So lots of puts and takes.
But when you boil it down or running about what we are for the year with our guidances for the year in Biosciences.
And that's probably the way to think about the underlying business.
This is Bill.
I think the big factor to remember in that fourth quarter was the movement in fiscal year '13 of the Japan stimulus spend into the fourth quarter of '13.
So our fourth quarter of '14 is up against a very unusual comp a very strong Japan stimulus driven comp from FY'13.
That's really the single biggest factor on that second half Bioscience growth.
Okay.
And then just to comment about less favorable pricing in the second half what does that tie to? I think I didn't catch that whole thing.
I heard -- less favorable pricing in the second half of the year Chris.
That's consistent with what we have been saying.
I mean as we looked at vendors particularly in Europe they come primarily in the fourth quarter.
So I don't think you are going to see any much in the third quarter evidence either.
We will be sitting here next quarter still kind of guessing what it's going to be for the year.
But our best guess is kind of be down 20 basis points at this point.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Jeff Frelick of Canaccord.
Hi good morning folks.
I just wanted to follow up on the strong Veritor placements on where you are to-date.
Can you share kind of the mix U.S.
versus OUS on the 12 000 placements? Thanks.
Sure.
Let me just get back.
This is Bill.
I am going to give it to Alberto.
He is here.
Would you comment please? The big majority is in the U.S.
There is also a component in Japan and the rest is a lot less.
So those are the biggest components driving it.
In the U.S.
the season was milder as you probably already know in Japan it was slightly stronger than usual but it's mainly U.S-driven.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Matt Taylor of Barclays.
Hi guys good morning.
This is actually Elliot filling in for Matt.
I just wanted to touch on diabetes for a second another nice quarter there; can you touch on any of the underlying fundamentals in that market? And maybe any other areas within that segment that maybe of interest to you guys going forward whether it would be sensors or pumps or any other sort of product lines within that segment? That's been growing nicely for you guys that maybe of interest? This is Bill.
We did have a solid quarter in diabetes.
Interestingly enough we had double-digit growth both U.S.
and international both at right around 10% give or take a few basis points.
The U.S.
favorability is a continuing story.
It's really around pen needle growth and it's particularly been driven by our ongoing penetration with the Nano product.
We had growth in the quarter in the U.S.
on Nano that was well north of 50%.
So we are really driving our penetration rates with Nano.
We are wide now.
We are actually north of 25% on Nano penetration.
So that continues to be very very key to the Diabetes Care business.
International was also strong and you had -- emerging market growth is the driving contributor there.
Think about that being right around 17% 18% for the quarter similar comments to what I made before about emerging market Latin America and Greater China being the real critical drivers there.
In terms of what's next for us in Diabetes we have referenced the fact that we continue to do product development in the area of insulin infusion.
And at this point in time that is the high priority kind of product development activity in the company in the Diabetes Care business.
Our next question is from Vijay Kumar of ISI Group.
Hey guys thanks for taking my question.
I have a couple of specific questions on the Diagnostic piece and one was Women's Health.
In the past given this market conversion on related to end forecasting.
I think you said core to 60% number.
Where do you think we are? And second on BD MAX your comments were up pretty positive.
How many systems did you place in the queue and what kind of acceleration can we expect going forward? Thanks.
Okay.
This is bill.
Your question Vijay really on the interval testing we got it somewhere right now somewhere -- we think that about 60% to 65% of the physicians have adapted.
It's a hard number to grab on to but the takeaway is that we still think there is some room to go before you can see that there has been a significant 90% or higher adoption of a new interval testing.
On BD MAX in terms of our placements to-date we are right around 340 placements worldwide at this point in time.
Alberto double-check my numbers is that … That's correct.
It's 340 is around that number but we are seeing encouragingly a lot of reagent throughput that is coming to our machine.
So from a reagent perspective we are very really encouraged by what we are seeing and hopefully with the new launches of Enterix and other assays we should see that increasing a lot.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Jon Groberg of Macquarie.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
And Vince if you're listening I hope you feel better soon.
So Bill you guys obviously had another very strong quarter 5% growth which is great.
So I think you guys deserve some congratulations.
Obviously if you break it down to one blemish is diagnostics and if I look at your second half guidance for the year that's the one that you expect to improve in the second half.
So I know you've been answering some questions on it but maybe I can just -- if I think about the U.S.
specifically I think Women's Health at this point on your Diagnostic Systems is only like 10% to 13% somewhere in there in terms of the revenue.
So it seem like it's fairly small.
Can you maybe talk about all the different pieces of the business within the U.S.
and then whether or not you expect the U.S.
business specifically to improve in the second half to drive that increase to 3.5 to 4.5 for the second half of the year? Thanks.
Sure.
This is Bill.
I'll take a shot here.
There are four key factors on that second half guidance that we provided.
1) For sure if we have got this KIESTRA demand and we are expecting positive impacts from placements of KIESTRA and particularly in the fourth quarter more in the fourth quarter than in the third.
2) I mentioned the ongoing revenue performance of international.
We expect that to continue and again sustainably in that 6% or 7% range.
3) We are counting on BD MAX; we just commented on placements.
Alberto mentioned our reagent pull-through running a little bit ahead of our expectation.
That's a factor.
And then there is a minor one it's less important but we don't have any point of care drag in the second half and we took a little bit of a parachute drag on point of care in the first half.
That goes away in the second half.
So I'd say those four things are our key factors in upscaling that second half guidance.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Brian Weinstein of William Blair.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
You guys have talked a lot about some of the discreet benefits in the first half of the year but what about any discreet headwinds? Can you quantify anything on seasonality the impacts from flu maybe calendar impacts that your peers have been consistently highlighting as calendar first quarter headwinds that should abate in the remaining quarters of the year? Thanks.
This is Bill.
We steered down a couple of other -- the things that we are paying attention to.
We have to say that we didn't quantify any headwinds related to weather.
It was nominal if we had anything.
We did not quantify any headwinds related to U.S.
utilization.
I think Chris commented it's constrained but stable.
And so we couldn't quantify anything there.
I mean our commentary around -- our challenges if you would was all in that Diagnostic Systems area and it was all concentrated in the U.S.
So we could not if you would assign any of our shortfalls to any other external factors and I think that our ongoing international presence in emerging growth is kind of a foundation which shields us a little bit.
Some of my comments about the diversity of the regional and product portfolio; that really helps us to get through these sporadic regional or country-based activities that you can experience during the course of the year.
The thing I'd add is we did talk a little bit about the flu season being less severe.
The good news for us is we actually took share with the Veritor product and that helped make it essentially flat year-over-year so much less severe but upside on the market share.
But having said that flat year-over-year is not what we're shooting for so it's a little bit of a drag.
But that would be the only one that I would add.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Derik De Bruin of Bank of America.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
So a little bit on the Bioscience on the flow cytometry market particularly on the high-end I know we are starting to see some interest from researchers using some technologies like Mass Cytometry sort of like with the deal that Fluidigm did with the DVS business.
I'm just wondering how do you see the high-end Mass -- the high-end flow cytometry market can you quantify how much of your business is bad versus some of the more clinical aspects just a little bit more color on your businesses there.
This is Bill.
I'm going to turn this over to Linda.
I'm not sure she -- a few comments you have that kind of a detail here today or … Yeah.
What I can comment on is we certainly see very nice growth in our high-end research market.
We had several launches in that market in the last several years.
And with respect to the Fluidigm acquisition of DVS we feel very comfortable relative to our ability to compete in that area in terms of our ease-of-use that we have with our instrument versus CyTOF placements.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Larry Keusch of Raymond James.
Hi good morning.
Two questions; on Simplist and the morphine launch specifically obviously I know that's an important one for you guys and you'd made some brief comments but I'm wondering if there is anything that you can sort of add to that just relative to how that seems to be playing out? And then secondly just on the capital allocation side you're targeting $450 million of share repurchase for the year but again if you can remind us how you're thinking about deployment of cash and also how much of your cash currently is sitting overseas? This is Bill.
I'm going to turn the Simplist question over to Tom and then he'll pass it on to Chris for the second question if that's okay huh? Hi Larry good morning.
This is Tom.
So on Simplist just as a remainder as Bill mentioned we've got four drugs now launched in the Simplist format.
Morphine is as we have always said is actually our most significant launch to-date.
It is the first drug that's both in the prefilled device but it's also a high risk drug the strongest value proposition of all the products today and we view as a lead within our portfolio.
We are getting very positive customer response on that early on.
And as we've said before this is a very new initiative and we still do expect that it's going to take some time for us to start seeing that ramp come through in our numbers but positive overall feedback on morphine.
Good and to part two really no change from what we've said in terms of capital deployment.
We are still on track to do the 450 million of share buybacks.
As you see the dividend has grown over time.
We kind of like where the payout ratio is right now so really no change from that standpoint.
And from the outside the U.S.
cash the way to think about that is as we look at it between the cash on hand it's right now in the U.S.
at the end of this quarter is probably about 400 million out of the 2.6 global.
So a lot of it is outside the U.S.
But between the U.S.
cash on hand the cash flow and our legal entity and dividend structure we know issues over the planning horizon and having cash to support the dividend and the share repurchase.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my follow-up.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on M&amp;A if we should expect any additional activity here in the coming quarters? Really no change from what we had said in the past.
And we've done more M&amp;A over the last three years.
I guess we've done seven deals now in the last three years or so.
We are always looking for tuck-in acquisition.
As usual M&amp;A is lumpy.
So you don't do it just to do it.
You do it when you got the right prospect at the right price.
So no real difference in our M&amp;A strategy from where we've been over the last two years.
Thank you.
There are no further questions.
I'll now turn the floor back over to <a href="http://seekingalpha.com/search/transcripts?term=Vincent+A.+Forlenza&amp;sasource=participant">Vince Forlenza</a> for closing remarks.
This is Bill sitting in for Vince.
Thank you all for your attendance today and participation.
We appreciate your engagement and questions.
And we remain committed to finishing our fiscal year '14 for the discussion we had earlier.
Thanks very much.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's Third Fiscal Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through August 7 2014 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at (800) 585-8367 for domestic calls and area code (404) 537-3406 for international calls using confirmation number 69111053.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin.
Thank you Christie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our third fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our third fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Current quarter results include a pretax charge within R&amp;D of $9 million or $0.03 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations relating to program asset write-offs and obligations.
For the purposes of our conference call today we will refer to adjusted diluted earnings per share excluding this charge and other items detailed in the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are Chris Reidy Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Administration; Bill Kozy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Tom Polen Group President; Linda Tharby Group President; and Alberto Mas Vice President of Diagnostic Systems.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
As we stated in our press release we were pleased with our solid performance this quarter.
As you already know there have been a number of changes in the marketplace in which we compete but we are operating in a very dynamic health care environment.
Our consistent performance demonstrates that our strategy remains sound.
Moving on to our quarterly results.
We achieved record revenues this quarter and EPS growth was solid as we expected.
We saw strong core product growth coupled with our recent acquisitions which are overall performing in line with our expectations.
Revenue growth in the third quarter was once again driven by our Medical and Biosciences segments.
Diagnostics international growth was partially offset by continued challenges in the U.S.
We saw continued strong international Safety and emerging market sales and they remain key growth drivers for the company.
Based on our third quarter and year-to-date results we feel confident in our previously communicated revenue and EPS guidance ranges.
We will review our guidance for the full year in more detail shortly.
On Slide 5 we've outlined our third quarter revenue and EPS results which I will speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
Total company revenues were solid increasing by 4.6%.
Fully diluted adjusted EPS came in at $1.68 which grew 7.8% in the quarter.
Now I'd like to turn things over to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our third quarter financial performance.
Thanks Vince.
Thanks Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by discussing the key financial highlights for the third quarter.
As Vince just mentioned revenue growth was driven by both core products and acquisitions performing in line with our expectations with all segments contributing to growth.
The quarter was impacted by the reversal of some favorable timing matters from the first half of the year as we anticipated and shared with you earlier in the year.
Pricing was about flat for the quarter.
We also completed an additional $187 million of our share repurchase plan bringing our year-to-date total repurchases to $400 million.
As we continue to focus on new products and innovation we remain disciplined as we evaluate our portfolio.
In our reported results this quarter you will see a pretax charge of $9 million or $0.03 diluted earnings per share resulting from our decision to end the continuous glucose monitoring program or CGM.
We have reallocated those resources to other areas of our Diabetes Care portfolio in addition to our broader R&amp;D efforts.
Overall we are pleased with our results and we are on track to deliver on our commitment of 4.5% to 5% revenue growth and 11% to an 11.5% EPS growth for the full fiscal year.
On Slide 8 I'll review our revenue growth by segment on a currency-neutral basis.
Third quarter revenue growth was 4.6% for the total company.
BD Medical third quarter revenues increased 4.7%.
Growth in this segment was primarily driven by strong sales in our Medical Surgical Systems unit which grew 6%.
We saw a continued strength in emerging markets and international Safety sales.
Revenue growth in Diabetes Care was 3.6%.
This reflects continued strength of pen needles partially offset by an unfavorable comparison to the prior year period and the timing of the tender order.
We expect growth in this unit to normalize in the fourth quarter.
Pharmaceutical Systems growth was 3.4% which reflects the reversal of a favorable timing of orders that occurred in the first half of the year.
This is in line with our expectations and consistent with our communications on prior earnings calls.
BD Diagnostics third quarter revenues increased 3.7%.
The segment's growth was driven by strong sales in our Preanalytical Systems unit.
Growth in Diagnostic Systems was impacted by continued softness in U.S.
Women's Health and Cancer.
BD Biosciences revenues increased 6.6% driven by solid instrument placements new platforms and continued stability in the research spending environment in the U.S.
Growth was also aided by a favorable comparison to the prior year.
Now moving on to Slide 9.
I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the third quarter.
BD's reported U.S.
revenues increased 2.8% versus the prior year.
We view the environment in the U.S.
as stable.
Revenue on our U.S.
Medical segment increased by 4.4% driven by strong growth in Pharmaceutical Systems and solid growth in Medical Surgical Systems.
The Diabetes Care unit was impacted by the previously aforementioned difficult comparisons with the prior year period.
Revenues in U.S.
Diagnostics declined by 0.2%.
This reflects continued softness in Women's Health and Cancer due to extended cervical cancer screening intervals and U.S.
share losses partially offset by solid growth in Preanalytical Systems.
U.S.
Biosciences revenue increased 5.1% due to solid instrument placements reagent growth and a favorable comparison to the prior year.
Moving on to international revenues grew 6% currency neutral driven by growth in all 3 segments.
Medical segment grew 5% and Diagnostics grew 7.3%.
Growth in both segments was driven by emerging markets and international Safety sales.
The Biosciences segment grew 7.4% reflecting strong growth in Western Europe and a favorable comparison to the prior year.
On Slide 10 we continued to see strong growth in emerging markets which accounts -- accounted for approximately 25% of our total revenue.
Emerging market revenues grew 8.9% currency neutral over the prior year bringing our year-to-date growth to 12%.
Slightly slower emerging growth this quarter reflects an unfavorable comparison to the prior year in Latin America.
Growth is expected to normalize in the fourth quarter.
As expected and discussed on our last call revenues in China have returned to a more normalized growth rate coming in this quarter at 20.9%.
Sales of safety-engineered products in emerging markets grew 18%.
Moving to global Safety on Slide 11.
Currency-neutral sales increased 6.1% and grew to $569 million in the quarter.
Revenues in the U.S.
grew 1.2%.
International sales grew 12.4% driven by good performance in Western Europe Asia and Latin America.
Medical Safety sales grew 6.6% driven by a range of safety-engineered products.
Diagnostics growth was 5.7% in the quarter.
Both segments experienced strong international growth particularly in emerging markets.
Turning to Slide 12.
Gross margin performance in the quarter reflects benefits from ReLoCo continuous improvement and favorable pension expenses.
These items were more than offset by a mix raw material and start-up costs.
Currency had a favorable impact on gross profit by about 10 basis points.
For the total year we are reducing our gross profit guidance to between 51.2% to 51.4%.
This is largely due to the cost to remediate quality issues including an incremental investment in our manufacturing processes within the Pharmaceutical Systems business that impacts the second half of the year.
Additionally we are seeing continued margin pressures associated with the challenges in our Diagnostic Systems business.
Slide 13 recaps the third quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency-neutral results.
As we discussed revenues were in line and gross profit came in slightly below our expectations.
SSG&amp;A increased 3.4%.
R&amp;D increased 5.4% as we continued to invest in new products.
Operating income grew 4.7% impacted by a lower gross profit in the quarter.
Our tax rate declined by 50 basis points reflecting the benefits of favorable geographic mix.
In the quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.68 which represents a 7.8% increase over the prior year.
All of these items were in line with our expectations.
Slide 14 recaps the adjusted year-to-date income statement and highlights our foreign currency-neutral results.
I'll not review this slide in detail but I would like to note our year-to-date operating income growth of 7%.
Excluding the incremental impact of the medical device tax in the first quarter underlying operating income growth was 8.2%.
Also despite our lower gross profit expectations for the year we are still on track to deliver about 70 to 80 basis points of underlying operating margin expansion for the year.
As a reminder about half of the margin expense is the result of favorable pension expenses.
All other P&amp;L guidance remains in line with our previously communicated ranges.
Slide 15 illustrates our revenue guidance by segment.
We expect revenue growth for the total company to be between 4.5% to 5%.
For the BD Medical and BD Biosciences segments we expect growth to be at the upper end and Diagnostics to be at the lower end of our previously communicated ranges.
This assumes a euro-to-dollar exchange rate of about $1.37.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince who will provide you with an update on our product portfolio.
Thank you Chris.
Moving on to Slide 17 I would like to review the program and product launches.
As we remain focused on new products and innovation we're very pleased with the progress we've made.
This year we expect new products to account for approximately 16% of total revenue.
In the Medical segment we are continuing to make progress on our BD Simplist line of prefilled generic injectables.
We currently have 4 drugs approved by the FDA and we have applied for 4 additional drug approvals.
We are continuing to focus on the commercial launch of Morphine which was approved a few months ago.
As we have been sharing with you we continue to expect that this new initiative will take time to gain traction in the marketplace.
In our Bioscience segment we continue the launch of our BD FACSPresto.
FACSPresto is a portable instrument which is used to stage and monitor HIV/AIDS patients by analyzing their CD4 and hemoglobin levels.
This innovative instrument was created with resource-limited settings in mind and it can be easily transported to meet customer needs in rural areas.
We are also excited about our Sirigen dye portfolio which has been making news in the flow cytometry community for its capabilities.
We have launched 3 dyes throughout this year and we plan to launch 3 more before the end of the year.
Turning to Slide 18 you will see the various product launches in Diagnostics.
On the BD MAX our worldwide Enteric Bacteria launch is now underway with the U.S.
launch this quarter.
Our Enteric Parasite assay has also launched this quarter in Europe.
These unique assays combined our core microbiology and molecular competencies for a novel and rapid approach to enteric testing.
Finally we are pleased with our new GC/CT test has been approved on the BD Viper LT platform in both the USA and Europe.
This assay and platform combination will provide midsized testing facilities with the ability to use this smaller efficient instrument with improved assay functionality.
This is the second test approved on the Viper LT joining BD's CE marked Onclarity HPV Assay with genotyping capabilities.
As always we will continue to update you on the progress as we are -- that we're making with our various pipeline opportunities.
On Slide 19 before we open the call to questions I'd like to reiterate the key messages from our presentation today.
First we are pleased with our solid performance in the third quarter and year-to-date.
Second our consistent performance demonstrates that our strategy remains sound in this dynamic health care environment.
Third we're seeking the continued success with our key growth drivers of geographic expansion new products and acquisitions which are overall performing in line with our expectations.
Finally we are pleased to reaffirm our guidance for fiscal year 2014.
We believe we are positioned to continue our track record of delivering value to our customers and shareholders.
Thank you.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Rick Wise of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Let me start off with just a bigger-picture question.
I hate to quibble about yet another excellent quarter.
This was a slightly smaller beat in recent quarters.
Chris highlighted a couple of the moving parts there.
But just broadly anything we should appreciate about the quarter and the environment in a bigger-picture sense? And Chris given the healthy divisional performance with Medical Diagnostic Biosciences all at or above your fiscal '14 guidance year-to-date why wouldn't they do better if they've outperformed 3 quarters in a row through the fiscal year? So Rick I'll take the environmental piece then Chris will get into the guidance a little bit.
But we had a long discussion here about do we see anything really changing significantly globally and the answer to that is no.
We see the environment primarily as stable and not a whole heck of a lot of change.
We know other people have talked about maybe some increased volume coming from the ACA.
We don't think we've seen that yet.
So -- and the same is true in emerging markets.
We see consistency in emerging markets.
Obviously there's always some moving pieces with some of these tenders but nothing significant in the environment.
Chris you want to add...
Right.
And Rick yes you're absolutely right we are doing better in...
[indiscernible] mic.
It is on.
Well okay fine.
We are doing better in the Medical and Biosciences business.
We're coming down slightly on Diagnostics.
If you do the math that kind of takes you to the high end of the 4.5% to 5% range and we thought that the range was tight enough at this point in the year.
But you're absolutely right.
If you do the math you're a little bit better on BDX in the midpoint of the range.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Yes.
And just a follow-up question.
If the -- you talked about the "difficult U.S.
diagnostic environment." Maybe a little more color on that.
And does the expanding BD MAX and Viper menu help stem the difficult environment or ward off that you've been talking about? Or are these secular changes as opposed to company specific? Just help us understand that a little more.
So to that point first just one more comment on the guidance.
Keep in mind as we go into the fourth quarter that we had that large performance with Biosciences and that was really driven by Japan and the stimulus.
So you have a very tough compare there.
So that all also figures.
In terms of Diagnostics would you like to comment Alberto on what's happening in the U.S.
marketplace.
Yes I think the launches that happened this quarter in Enteric as Vince mentioned in Bacterial and Parasite in Europe will give us momentum to continue growth as expected in the MAX platform.
So I think that would -- definitely will be -- but most of the -- again the international growth is solid.
Our core growth is very solid.
And what we're seeing as we've been saying for a while now the headwinds are more in the U.S.
in Women's Health in terms of the interval testing some account losses because some of our overall platforms are aging.
But fundamentally we're not seeing any as Vince reiterated any huge changes.
We just have to execute on our strategy.
And we think we're up to about 70% conversion on the intervals now.
But thanks for your questions Rick.
Your next question comes from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Vince it's nice to have you back.
It wasn't the same without you last quarter.
Thank you for the [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions one strategic and one very specific for Chris.
So Vince if we go back to last -- I think if we go back 10 years and think about your diabetes initiatives specifically the ones to expand your diabetic reach we talk about the strip and meter business with Nova Biomed and obviously the CG mass initiative you announced this morning.
So you clearly want to get bigger in diabetes but some of these partnership models to be frank haven't really worked well for the company.
So do you think in light of some of these partnership models these last 5 to 10 years your view on how to get bigger in diabetes changes at all? You've got a lot of reach but not enough products and these partnerships aren't working.
So a very directed question there and I had one quick follow-up.
Sure.
So I don't think it's an issue of it being a partnership model.
I think that specifically right now this was an issue of technology that we had brought into the company a long time ago.
The fact that we partnered on the development of it was really not the issue.
The issue was did the technology work or not.
And when we got into some human testing we saw some issues.
And so there was a technological failure.
It had nothing to do with the partnerships.
But we think that the partnerships we've put in place with the JDRF are very important and we've very enthused with the partnerships that we have on the infusion area.
So I certainly wouldn't draw that conclusion.
Where I would agree with you is that we're working hard to expand the product portfolio and this gave us the opportunity to reinforce some of the other programs in Diabetes Care.
So I think we're optimistic about the other programs and we'll be moving ahead.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You think you're any more likely Vince to pursue M&amp;A in diabetes? Is this more likely externally? Or are you still comfortable internally you can grow the portfolio? Well we're still comfortable internally we can grow the portfolio and we're making good progress on our other programs.
But like -- each one of our businesses are challenged with developing solutions for the customer okay? Whether it's Diabetes Care or Diagnostics or MedSurg yes you've seen what we've done across the portfolio.
Diabetes Care would also fall under that blueprint.
Chris? Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just last quick one for me.
Chris just the gross margin guidance change for the year obviously not very dramatic.
But the outset for that wasn't clear to me.
Is it likely that you offset that pressure through SG&amp;A or more through R&amp;D? It's actually a little bit of both.
We're running -- if you look at where we are year-to-date and with the slight improvement on revenue that we were talking about holding the SG&amp;A line about where we expect it is giving us a little bit more leverage in the fourth quarter.
R&amp;D is a favorable compare in the fourth quarter.
And I'll remind you that on SG&amp;A last year we had legal expenses related to RTI in the fourth quarter.
So there's a little bit of an easy compare in the fourth quarter as well.
The combination of all those factors gets you down to the 7% of operating margin improvement.
Okay.
Thanks David.
Your next question is coming from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the Diabetes business.
Can you maybe just talk through I guess where exactly you are with some of these other opportunities? I know you talked about the Infusion.
That's just -- what would be the expected timeline by which you may have some new announcements to make within Diabetes? So Bill Kozy will take that question.
Bill? Yes we're focused on the portfolio on Diabetes on 2 programs.
First is the insulin infusion.
And we're not ready yet to talk about the exact time but it's certainly within the business planning window here over the next 24 to 36 months that we expect to make significant progress on insulin infusion.
And then as we've mentioned before we are looking at right now organically internally at type 2 opportunities within the -- for insulin delivery.
And it's really just too early for us to start talking about that but those are -- in terms of portfolio management those are the 2 priorities in that R&amp;D development cycle with Diabetes Care.
Your next question comes from David Roman of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted just to come back to the pipeline a little bit.
I know Vince in your prepared remarks you did you walk through some of the milestones with respect to product launches both in the U.S.
and elsewhere.
But very specifically as you look at maybe BD Diagnostic Systems and then also the BD Rx business when do you think we can see some of the initiatives in each of those segment lines start to overwhelm some of the macro pressures that you're facing in each of those categories? And how long really -- how long do you think it takes to build scale there? Well let's start with Diagnostics.
We expect that this interval issue is -- we're up to about 70% conversion.
It's hard to say exactly how much more we have left in that but we've been thinking it's more than a year before the rest gets converted.
I don't know if it tops out at 80% where we might fall.
In terms of ramping up the growth rate we expect as we move forward into next year and whatnot it -- this business will be improving.
We're excited about what we have going on with KIESTRA.
And with these new launches that we talked about with the enteric assays it's going to give us more traction.
The last other key piece of course is going to be the BD Viper and getting traction outside the U.S.
both on chlamydia and HPV.
Alberto do you want to add anything more to that? I think the only thing that I'll add is that the account loss that we've been talking in last quarters will be played out mostly this fiscal year a little bit still in the future but mostly in this fiscal year.
So that will make it easier from a growth perspective.
Yes and that's why I was thinking that when you look at those product launches and you think about annualizing that you'll start improving forward in that.
Now BD Rx.
Tom? Right.
This Tom.
I think as Vince mentioned before we have 4 drugs approved by the FDA and have applied for 4 additional drug approvals.
Well at this point we're really focused on the commercial launch of the Morphine as that's our most important drug approval so far.
So once we make some progress with the Morphine launch we'll have more information to share with you on our outlook going forward.
Again as we've previously said on prior calls this is still a relatively new initiative for us and it's going to take some time for us to see traction on these products in the marketplace.
It's not a fast version product yes.
It's going to take a few more months for us to understand where we're really at with Morphine.
We see that as a [indiscernible].
And we'll circle back yes.
Okay? Your next question comes from Vijay Kumar of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So maybe one -- first a big-picture question for you.
And I mean Diagnostics right you can see the environment changing a lot of consolidation going.
And clearly you guys have seen the effect just given the compare of landscape.
Do you feel like you guys are at scale within this unit? Or do you feel like you need to add particular platforms just given what some of your competitors like Roche Danaher some of the large guys what they're planning right? So I'm just trying to think in this changing health care landscape how do you feel about your Diagnostic positioning.
So we actually feel pretty good about our Diagnostic positioning.
We don't think there's a lot of crossover for example in terms of applying hematology applying microbiology.
We think it's a much more potent strategy to have a complete solution like we had put together in the infectious disease microbiology area where we now have total lab automation.
What we think we have to do is execute on the programs that we have in place and continue to drive in those segments.
We have a lot of pieces like the previous questioner asked.
David asked about when is it going take you -- how long is it going to take to get to scale? We have to implement on the assays and the menus that we have talked about and get approval through the FDA.
And we're working to get Totalys approved for example right now.
So it's building out those complete solutions before even getting broader in Diagnostics.
It's more the strategic priority.
Your next question comes from Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Robbie Marcus in for Mike.
Maybe just ask the first question.
You put up another good quarter in Safety products really good outside the U.S.
just 1% growth in the U.S.
Can you talk about what kind of runway you see there both in the U.S.
and o U.S.? and how much longer can this good growth last for? Sure.
Tom Polen will answer that question.
This is Tom.
So Safety continues to really remain largely in line with what we've discussed in the past.
We see the U.S.
acute care market in particular is -- it already is highly converted and so we're not expecting any significant trajectory change there going forward and it is mature.
The U.S.
is -- or the EU is continuing to actively convert and we see emerging markets at still quite an early stage.
Just maybe a little bit more perspective on that.
The EU is just under about 50% converted for catheters and about 15% converted for injection devices.
And we continue to see really positive market response to the new legislation with strong growth in both Safety catheters and injection across the majority of the Western European market.
I guess it's still early and we're seeing some really promising signs of broadening Safety implementation and potential in Southern Europe.
And certainly the rate of conversions varies by country there.
Maybe just a comment on emerging markets Safety there continues to go well as you just mentioned and we're growing double digits really led by Asia and Latin America in emerging markets.
Again it's still early.
We're seeing good progress.
We're seeing continued interest in partnering in a number of emerging countries who are really committed to the safety of their health care workers.
So I think x U.S.
we see a good runway ahead still.
Your next question comes from Brian Weinstein of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on kind of a question that was just asked a little while ago.
And that is given the struggle that you've had in Diagnostics it would seem to me that it would make sense to continue to invest heavily in some R&amp;D there in specifically places where you have an advantage like in micro where there's new ID products coming out and direct-from-patient products that are beginning to emerge in micro.
Can you comment specifically about that -- those types of projects within micro? And then are there areas within Diagnostics that you think might be interesting for additional investments? Yes sure.
Alberto Mas will talk to that.
Alberto? So it's -- definitely our core credibility market is in our microbiology franchise that we've built over many many years.
We're very credible there and we base our strategies on that.
And we are definitely watching the radar screen in terms of any technologies and capabilities that we need to add to that portfolio including all the Directed detection that you mentioned is definitely on the radar screen and we'll be monitoring that space in -- over time and within our -- on microbiology.
This is Vince.
We'll continue to invest in our molecular platforms as well as obviously as -- rapid detection methods.
We have the partnership with Bruker [ph].
So we are really focused in this area.
And as Alberto said it will be a matter of internal and external kind of plug-in thing.
Your next question comes from Derik De Bruin of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So could you talk a little bit about the HPV program? I mean that's another market where HPV pricing has obviously been coming under pressure.
I guess -- and specifically pressure driven by your major competitor in the CT and G market.
Can you talk about how you're pricing that product and sort of your expectations for when that is approved in the U.S.
where you'll price it? And I guess how do you see the HPV/AIDS business the molecular business synergizing with what you currently have with your opportunities for bundling and gaining some share back? So we wouldn't get into the specifics of how we price the product.
We would certainly price it competitively.
We think we have a good cost position on this product.
So we will have flexibility and we think we can be very competitive with the HPV product.
And we don't think about so much as bundling as we do about complete solutions for the customer total automation a complete menu and providing more value for the customers.
Your next question comes from Jon Groberg of Macquarie.
So maybe just a couple of clarifications.
First on gross margin.
Chris would you mind -- I think pricing seemed like it's actually coming in better than you anticipated at the beginning of the year.
So can you maybe just give me -- just help us understand exactly again why gross margin is going to be a little lighter than you expected? And then on the launch of the new CT/GC product I'm just curious you had that day.
You mentioned Alberto the loss in the U.S.
Is there any way for you with this new launch -- are you going to -- aggressively trying to gain back that market share? Or -- I'm just -- I'm trying to think how you're going to go about in the U.S.
with the launch in CT/GC if it's just about stabilizing your share or if you're able to think about more aggressively going after regaining markets that you've had in the past.
Sure.
Let me start with the pricing and gross profit comment.
As we've been saying all year on our pricing focus the fourth quarter is where we expect to see some negative pressures.
Having said that Q3 was slightly favorable to our expectations and year-to-date pricing is slightly favorable.
So as we now look at we would anticipate that we'll finish the year flat to slightly negative on pricing which is a little bit of a lift.
And to your point that drives a little bit of a lift in gross profit.
But going back to gross profit the way to probably think about is for the full year we're anticipating consistent with our original guidance that the drag from FX would be about 60 basis points.
Now originally we said that we thought we could offset that operationally with a positive 60 basis points and that was driven by the ReLoCo effort pensions and continuous improvement.
Now we expect that to be flat to up 20 basis points operationally.
And the impact was the continued pressure from Diagnostic Systems.
We brought that revenue guidance down.
And that certainly has a mix issue so that's dragging us down a bit.
And as we talked about in our remarks the remediation of the quality issue on -- in Pharm Systems and the related spend on improving the manufacturing processes puts pressure on it.
But the bottom line is we still expect on an operational basis to be flat or slightly up 20 basis points and the margins are in that 51.2% to 51.4% kind of range.
So still very solid margins with a potential for a little bit of lift year-over-year.
Your next question comes from Bill Quirk of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Two questions for me.
First off just on emerging markets guys.
It did slow down here in the quarter.
I would love some additional color there particularly considering that we are heading into what looks like probably the most difficult comp here in the fourth quarter.
So in emerging markets we had strong performance but there was a timing issue in Latin America on a tender.
And that was really the issue.
Otherwise as we mentioned in the prepared remarks China bounced back to where we expected it to be.
And overall we were pleased with the performance with that.
Yes the big thing was Latin America.
The year-over-year compare in Latin America was difficult because last year's third quarter was up over 18% in Latin America and that's the timing of tenders that hit last year that didn't repeat.
So that was the big driver.
And Vince said China's back up over 20%.
We're seeing good double-digit growth in EMEA.
India is very solid.
And we are seeing some other timing of tenders in other parts but we expect that to bounce back to more normalized growth rates going forward.
Your next question comes from Doug Schenkel of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to start with a question on Sirigen and then just as a quick one on Women's Health.
So on Sirigen you noted the launch of 3 new dyes plans to launch 3 more by year end.
I believe there's also a couple of new lasers available.
In combination this allows for flow cytometry customers to perform higher parameter analysis on existing traditional flow cytometers which also importantly allows customers to subsequently store up the cells if they so choose.
So it does seem like you're moving towards a completely competitively unique value proposition with the addition of these dyes and lasers.
With all that in mind how many more dyes are expected in 2015? And how would you describe the demand for higher parameter analysis given some of the bioinformatics hurdles that exist in flow cytometry? And then quickly on Women's Health would you be willing to quantify the year-over-year impact of intervals versus the loss of the account? And you did indicate the vast majority of the burden associated with the account loss is expected to be incurred by the end of the fiscal year.
When does that negative base effect get annualized? Is that really in the second half of next fiscal year where the account loss becomes less of a headwind? Sure.
So I'm going to move you into the flow cytometry marketing group.
You really stated the value proposition very well but I'll turn that to Linda.
Thanks so much for the question.
So as you noted doing multiparameter analysis in flow cytometry is becoming more and more important.
So very excited about the opportunity to bring together as you mentioned both the improved colored parameter on our flow cytometers with the Sirigen platform.
So we did discuss that we intend to repeat the performance that you saw in Q4 that we saw in terms of new launches of dyes that we saw in Q3 which is 3.
I can't speak on a go-forward basis but you would expect us to continue to roll out many new dyes and many new SKUs related to our Sirigen platform.
It's really helping to power both the traditional immunology and also some expansion into single-cell parameter analysis in the broader area of genomics.
So very excited about that.
Alberto are you going to pick up the other piece? Yes.
In terms of the -- our SurePath business we estimate that about 2/3 of the impact is driven by interval extension and 1/3 more or less off from an account loss perspective.
Just to put it into perspective as well the performance of the quarter if you normalize for the big account loss that we've been referencing would have been 3.9%.
So I want to put that into context as well.
And this will normalize in the first half of next year.
3.9% positive.
3.9% positive yes.
Your next question comes from Richard Newitter of Leerink.
Research Division</strong> Vincent if I could just ask a quick big picture and then just a follow-on if you have time.
The sort of the bigger picture just we're seeing more consolidation particularly across the medical device landscape.
But elsewhere in health care scale is increasingly becoming a topic of focus.
I'd love to just hear your thoughts on where within your businesses you think scale actually has a significant advantage if at all.
And if you can comment on your view just of the consolidating landscape that we're seeing and where Becton stands today.
So we're not a believer in scale for scale's sake.
Our strategy is really focused on creating complete solutions for the customer and driving value that way.
We think that that aligns much more with the basic customer needs and how buying processes are evolving.
So we really think strategically around each one of these business units and how they can build out solutions.
And if you look at how we might work across business units to create more complete solutions it's a second element of our strategy that we are developing.
All of that lines up with -- more with our plug-in M&amp;A strategy.
And so that's really the core of what we're trying to do.
And certainly there are people who are playing this out differently in terms of just more and more breadth but that's not what we're attempting.
Your next question comes from Glenn Novarro of RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First just a follow-up on the gross margin.
I understand the issue that you're facing here in the near term and the offset being lower SG&amp;A.
But as you look at the gross margin going forward what specifically can you do to address some of the pressures that you're facing? For example as you look at ReLoCo is there a little bit more from ReLoCo that you can extract? And then second on the ACA and volumes Vince I understand that you said you didn't see much of a benefit here in the quarter.
But I would imagine hospital volumes and physicians are just going to pick up and momentum's going to grow from the ACA.
So does this benefit your U.S.
business over the next 6 to 12 months? I'll start on the gross profit margins.
I think if you look at the performance that we would have had excluding these 2 pressures which are focused on in-year pressures we would have had 60 basis points of improvement.
ReLoCo has been very successful for us.
It's -- we're still seeing benefits from that this year of around $30 million.
And initially it was a bit larger but we're still seeing some benefits from that.
So without giving guidance on gross profit margin for future years which we will do on the next call I don't think you should view this kind of pressure as having a significant impact on our ability to drive margin growth either at the gross profit or at the operating margin going forward.
Your next question comes from Matthew Taylor of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Dan in for Matt.
I just had a follow-up on SG&amp;A.
It came in better than we're expecting it.
It's actually lower than it's been for a while.
So I just wanted to ask is there -- was there anything like deferral of spend at least on a percentage of sales basis that like helped this quarter? Is this like a base where we can kind of like further leverage off of? I'm just kind of curious for some more color there.
Yes the best way to look at SG&amp;A I think is for the year-to-date and I think that's a pretty good indicator of where we'll be going forward.
You're right we're seeing some positives.
We'll actually see a little bit more of a positive in the fourth quarter as I mentioned with the easy compare.
But we are seeing leverage in the SG&amp;A line.
So that's positive.
Your next question comes from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Yes on the operating margin outlook I know that you had mentioned half of the expansion this year is coming from favorable pension.
Just how should we think about -- that the opportunities for margin expansion? You commented on gross margins seemingly having a runway for expansion but you did also mention quality spending.
How long does that last? And are you still kind of more in the investment spend area for emerging markets as well? Well we are investing in emerging markets.
We're continuing to do that as we have said.
So we have that investment.
We are making the investment this year.
And we're just in the middle of our budgeting process so how much of that extends into future years is still a question.
Right now it's a focus in-year more than anything else but we'll give more color on that going forward.
And so overall we are making the right investments.
We're investing in R&amp;D but at the same time being very focused on reducing SG&amp;A and improving the gross profit line as we said through ReLoCo.
So there's a lot of levers that we're pulling while still making sure we're making the right investment that makes sense to drive future revenue growth and drive both.
And we think we have evidence that we've been able to do that consistently to drive additional margin growth.
Last year it was 25%.
And this year 70% to 80% with about half coming from pension.
But again continuous improvement in driving additional margin.
So we'll talk more about that as we give guidance for next year on that as well.
Our last question is coming from Bill Quirk of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up.
I'm just thinking about microbiology guys.
You've been in a nice position here relative to your principal competitor having some manufacturing challenges over the better part of the last year.
Supposedly this is going to be rectified here roughly by the end of this year.
So how are you thinking about that competitive dynamic and just the franchise in general? I think in terms of microbiology we feel very good about the product line that we've put together.
Alberto would you like to comment further? Yes we definitely have had a strong quarter especially in our BACTEC blood culture business that also was -- began to pick up in the last quarter.
But we're seeing very very healthy growth rates in that part of the business for sure.
All right.
Well thank you very much.
Are there any more questions operator? There are no further questions.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Vince Forlenza for closing remarks.
I want to thank all of you for joining us today.
It was a pleasure updating you on the quarter.
We look forward to getting back with you next quarter and providing you with our guidance going forward.
But we're very pleased with the strong results and thank you for your attention.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's Fourth Fiscal Quarter and Full Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through November 11 2014 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at (800) 585-8367 for domestic calls and (404) 537-3406 for international calls using confirmation number 14009656.
[Operator Instructions] Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin.
Thank you Christie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our fourth fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our fourth fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are Chris Reidy Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Administration; Bill Kozy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Tom Polen Segment President; Linda Tharby Segment President; and Alberto Mas President of Diagnostic Systems.
At this time we would like to announce some leadership changes which took place on October 1.
Beginning in fiscal year 2015 we will organize BD into a 2-segment structure which consists of a Medical and Life Sciences segment.
Tom Polen has been promoted to the role of Segment President for BD Medical.
This segment is comprised of the Medical Surgical Systems Pharmaceutical Systems and Diabetes Care business units.
Linda Tharby has been promoted to the role of Segment President for our Life Sciences segment.
This segment is comprised of the Preanalytical Systems Diagnostic Systems and Biosciences business units.
In their new roles Linda and Tom will continue to report to Bill Kozy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
For the purposes of today's call Tom will answer any questions related to Medical and Linda will answer any questions related to Life Sciences.
As we stated in our press release earnings per share were impacted by some onetime charges this quarter.
Further information about these charges and other adjustments in the current and prior year can be found in the additional reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures.
For the purposes of our conference call today we will refer to adjusted diluted earnings per share excluding these charges.
The medical device tax in the first quarter of this fiscal year 2014 was $14 million or $0.05 per share.
In certain circumstances we will also exclude the medical device tax from our results.
Please note that all fiscal year 2015 guidance provided is on a BD standalone basis.
As we move closer to our anticipated closing of the CareFusion acquisition we will provide more explicit guidance on the pro forma financials for the combined company.
We would also like to remind everyone that going forward adjusted EPS will also exclude the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles.
When we refer to EPS in our remarks unless otherwise noted we are referring to adjusted cash EPS.
Also guidance will be provided for Diagnostics and Biosciences for fiscal year 2015.
However beyond 2015 our guidance will reflect our new structure.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
Before we discuss the company's performance I would like to comment briefly on the organizational changes Monique just walked you through.
Last November we had announced the promotions of Linda and Tom to Group President as well as several other leadership changes.
Over the past year we have continued to bolster our leadership structure to help ensure our future success and continued development of our senior leaders.
This new structure is more reflective of the company's strategy and increased focus on growth as we develop more impactful solutions for our customers.
The change to a 2-segment structure will also enable us to seek strategic synergies across our portfolio with the CareFusion business being reported within our Medical segment once the transaction is completed.
We are extremely pleased to have Tom and Linda in their new roles as they help lead the company through our next phase of growth.
Turning to Slide 4 I would like to highlight some key achievements in fiscal year 2014.
First our strategy of investing and innovating for growth continues to deliver results as evidenced by our strong finish to the year.
Revenue growth was a -- was robust at 5.2% which includes 20 basis points of growth from acquisitions.
Our core remains strong and our product pipeline continues to drive growth across the portfolio with new products as a percentage of revenue going from 13% to about 15% over the past year.
Second we have continued to strategically invest in higher-growth emerging markets.
We made an incremental investment of $40 million in fiscal year 2014.
Emerging markets grew over 12% and continued to be a key driver of growth for the company.
We have one of the highest percentages of sales in emerging markets in our peer group at about 25% of total revenue.
And third we have continued to refine our operating effectiveness and efficiency initiatives which continue to drive underlying margin expansion.
Our ReLoCo program has benefited us incrementally by more than $30 million this year.
We remain focused on these programs and also on efficient utilization of our global shared service centers and end-to-end process improvement opportunities.
Fourth we completed our 42nd consecutive year of dividend increases and also repurchased $400 million in shares through our share repurchase program which highlights our effective deployment of capital.
Finally we have built a strong foundation for continued growth.
We continue to proactively adapt to today's dynamic health care environment by transitioning from a product-focused company to a customer-focused provider of health care solutions.
Our announced acquisition of CareFusion helps us significantly accelerate that strategy.
The powerful combination of the 2 companies will further enable us to deliver end-to-end solutions that increase efficiencies reduce medication errors and improve patient safety in both hospitals and pharmacies.
Moving to Slide 5 you will see the guidance for fiscal year 2015 on a currency-neutral basis.
For fiscal year 2015 we expect currency-neutral revenue growth of 4.5% to 5% based on our current view of the environment.
Of course we have contemplated a number of factors that could bring us above or below that range including pricing a stronger or weaker flu season than expected product launches emerging market growth macroeconomic conditions and the impact of the Affordable Care Act.
On the bottom line we will continue to drive high-quality earnings growth.
For fiscal year 2015 we expect adjusted EPS growth to be between 8% and 9%.
When excluding the unfavorable impact of the suspension of our share repurchase program EPS growth would be between 9% and 10%.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Chris who will walk you through our financial performance in the fourth quarter along with additional details about our fiscal year 2015 guidance.
Thanks Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin on Slide 7 by discussing the key highlights for the fourth quarter which I'll speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
We are pleased with our fourth quarter results.
Solid revenue growth of 4.6% was driven by our Medical and Diagnostics segment.
As we anticipated and communicated on our last call pricing declined about 50 basis points in the quarter bringing the total year pricing impact to about flat.
Biosciences growth was impacted by an unfavorable comparison to the prior year as we expected.
We continue to see strong growth in emerging markets and international safety sales.
We also experienced a tax rate benefit in the quarter which was offset by unfavorable currency.
This quarter we recorded EPS pretax charges totaling $46 million or $0.15 per share which primarily consisted of a workforce reduction charge as a result of operational restructuring activities.
Adjusted EPS growth in the quarter was strong at 13%.
On Slide 8 I'll review our revenue growth by segment on a currency-neutral basis.
Fourth quarter revenue growth was 4.6% for the total company.
BD Medical fourth quarter revenues increased 6.1%.
Growth in this segment was driven by good performance in all 3 business units.
Medical Surgical Systems' growth was 4.7% with continued strength in emerging markets and international safety sales.
Growth in Diabetes Care was 8.1%.
This reflects the continued strength of pen needle sales and a favorable comparison to the prior year.
Pharmaceutical Systems' growth of 7% was favorably impacted by ordering patterns.
For the total year the Medical segment grew 6.3% which was aided by a nonannualized acquisition.
This contributed about 30 basis points bringing organic growth to 6.0%.
BD Diagnostics' fourth quarter revenues increased 4.2%.
The segment's growth was driven by solid sales of Preanalytical Systems' safety-engineered products and solid growth in Diagnostic Systems.
Diagnostic Systems benefited from strong sales in microbiology and continued progress with our KIESTRA rollout.
For the total year the Diagnostics segment grew 3.3%.
BD Biosciences' revenue growth was about flat in the quarter which was impacted by an unfavorable comparison to the prior year.
You may recall last year we had a particularly strong fourth quarter related to timing in Western Europe and Japan's stimulus revenues.
For the total year the Biosciences segment grew 5.5%.
Moving to Slide 9 I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the fourth quarter on a currency-neutral basis.
BD's reported U.S.
revenues increased 2.3% versus the prior year.
We continue to view the hospital environment in the U.S.
as stable.
Revenue in our U.S.
Medical segment increased by 3.4%.
Strong growth in Diabetes Care was driven by pen needle revenues which include our BD Nano and BD AutoShield Duo product.
Growth was also aided in part by a favorable prior year comparison as previously mentioned.
U.S.
Diagnostics' results were flat for the quarter.
This reflects solid growth in Preanalytical Systems and strong growth in microbiology.
This was offset by continued softness in Women's Health and Cancer due to extended cervical cancer screening intervals.
We also continued to experience U.S.
share losses in our ProbeTec business which is consistent with what we've communicated the past 2 quarters.
U.S.
Biosciences' revenues grew 4.4% driven by solid reagent and instrument growth.
Moving on to international.
We continue to see strong growth.
Revenues grew 6.2% driven by solid growth in Medical and Diagnostics both of which grew 7.8%.
Both segments experienced strong growth in emerging markets and international safety sales.
Biosciences declined 1.8%.
This was due to the aforementioned prior year comparison primarily due to timing in Western Europe.
For the total year U.S.
revenues grew 1.9% and international revenues grew 7.6%.
On Slide 10 emerging market revenues grew 13.2% currency-neutral and accounted for over 26% of our total revenues.
This strong performance was driven by growth in Medical and Diagnostics.
China revenues grew by 21.4% and safety sales in emerging markets grew by 18.6%.
We saw a double-digit growth across all emerging markets in the fourth quarter and for the total year.
As we continue to build our infrastructure and focus on localized R&amp;D it is evident that our investments in emerging markets continue to drive robust growth for the company.
Moving to global safety on Slide 11.
Currency-neutral sales increased 5.5% and grew to $566 million in the quarter.
Revenues in the U.S.
declined about 0.8% which was impacted by an unfavorable comparison to the prior year.
International safety sales grew 13.7%.
Medical safety sales grew 6.4% while Diagnostics grew 4.6% driven by a range of safety-engineered products.
For the total year safety revenue grew 6.6% currency-neutral driven by strong international growth of 12.3%.
Turning to Slide 12.
Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of about 80 basis points on our gross profit margin in the quarter which was higher than our expectations.
On a performance basis margin expansion was driven by positive contributions from ReLoCo continuous improvement and pension.
These contributions were more than offset by the unfavorable impact of mix pricing start-up-related costs and raw materials.
Slide 13 recaps the fourth quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency-neutral results.
Since we've already discussed revenue and gross profit I'll move down the income statement to SSG&amp;A.
As a percentage of sales SSG&amp;A decreased in the quarter.
This was driven by sustained cost containment a favorable comparison to the prior period's legal expenses and favorable pension benefit.
R&amp;D was 6.0% of sales in the quarter which was in line with our expectations as we continue to invest in new products and platforms.
Operating income grew 10.1% driven by solid revenue and gross profit growth coupled with better leverage in SSG&amp;A.
Our tax rate improved 280 basis points over the prior year which was largely contemplated in our guidance.
The improvement was due to favorable geographic mix.
Adjusted EPS in the quarter was $1.68 or an increase of 13%.
Turning to Slide 14 I'd like to walk you through our expected revenue guidance for the full fiscal year 2015.
In summary we expect revenue growth of 4.5% to 5% on a currency-neutral basis.
From a timing perspective we expect currency-neutral revenue growth in the first quarter to be below the low end of this range due to an unfavorable comparison to the prior year period.
On a reported basis revenue growth is expected to be between 2% and 2.5% reflecting an FX headwind of 200 to 250 basis points.
This assumes a euro-to-dollar exchange ratio of $1.27.
At current spot rates all major currencies relative to the U.S.
dollar are down about 8% versus the first quarter of 2014.
We expect this unfavorable impact to be most acute in the first quarter with a headwind greater than 250 basis points.
We expect the currency impact to moderate through the rest of the year.
Moving on to the segments.
We expect BD Medical to grow between 4.5% to 5%.
This is a slightly lower growth profile than we experienced in fiscal year 2014 due to share gains and a benefit from the SSI acquisition.
We expect our Life Sciences segment to grow about 4.5%.
And within Life Sciences we expect Diagnostics to grow between 4% to 4.5% and Biosciences to grow about 4.5% to 5%.
Our acquisitions have annualized and will be included in our base going forward.
This excludes our 2 most recently closed acquisitions which are not expected to contribute materially to revenue in fiscal year 2015.
We expect revenue growth to continue to be driven by new product launches in all 3 of our segments continued growth of safety-engineered devices and emerging markets.
We anticipate emerging market growth in fiscal year 2015 to be broadly in line with 2014 growth.
The growth drivers I just mentioned will be partially offset by the expected unfavorable impact of pricing pressure.
Based on our current view of the environment we expect pricing to normalize at about 30 to 40 basis points of pressure for the year.
Now moving on to Slide 15.
There are a number of moving parts that impact earnings per share in fiscal year 2015.
For modeling purposes and to ensure consistency I'd like to provide more color on EPS guidance.
When we announced the CareFusion acquisition we informed you that we would be moving to an adjusted cash EPS basis to increase transparency into our underlying business performance.
Going forward that means that we will add back the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles to adjusted earnings per share.
For fiscal year 2014 this changed our adjusted EPS from $6.25 to $6.50 which is ratable across all 4 quarters.
For fiscal year 2015 we expect to grow earnings by about 9% to 10% on an underlying basis.
This is very consistent with the earnings growth profile we have communicated for some time.
The unfavorable impact of the suspension of our share repurchase program is worth about 100 basis points bringing earnings growth to 8% to 9%.
Assuming current spot rates the unfavorable impact of foreign currency is about 400 basis points bringing adjusted earnings growth to 4% to 5%.
From a timing perspective the impact of unfavorable currency will be most acute in the first quarter similar to revenue.
In the first quarter we expect EPS to be about flat when compared with the first quarter of fiscal year 2014.
For the first half of the year we expect currency-neutral earnings growth to track slightly below our guided range of 8% to 9%.
Turning to Slide 16.
I'd like to walk through our additional elements of our guidance for the full fiscal year 2015.
As a reminder all fiscal year 2015 guidance will exclude the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles.
We expect gross profit margin to be approximately 52%.
Performance improvements are largely offset by negative currency translation pricing pressure and pension.
Our ReLoCo cost savings program is expected to deliver savings broadly in line with benefits experienced in fiscal year 2014.
SSG&amp;A as a percentage of sales is expected to be about 25%.
Our guidance also reflects continued investments in emerging markets as well as costs related to new product launches.
We expect our R&amp;D investment to be in line with fiscal year 2014 at about 6% of revenues.
We continue to invest in new products and platforms including incremental R&amp;D investments in emerging markets.
As a result of the items I just detailed operating margin is expected to be between 20.5% and 21% of revenues.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency we expect our underlying operating margin to improve by about 40 to 50 basis points.
This also excludes pension headwinds which equal approximately half of the margin expansion.
We expect our tax rate to be between 21.5% and 22.5% as we continue to see improvement from geographic mix.
For fiscal year 2015 we anticipate our average fully diluted share count to be broadly in line with fiscal year 2014.
Cash flow is expected to remain strong with operating cash flow of about $1.85 billion in fiscal year 2015.
Capital expenditures are expected to be about $625 million.
Our guidance also contemplates the GenCell acquisition which does not materially impact earnings.
With respect to our anticipated CareFusion acquisition things are progressing according to plan and we do not have any updates to the financial parameters we've described when we announced the deal last month.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince who will provide you with an update on our product portfolio.
Thank you Chris.
Thank you Chris.
Before I review our pipeline I would like to take a moment to provide a quick integration update on the CareFusion acquisition and make a few remarks about our recent acquisition of GenCell.
While we announced the -- we just announced the CareFusion acquisition 1 month ago our planning efforts are in line with where we expected to be and are off to a great start.
I've had the opportunity to visit CareFusion's headquarters and have met with a number of the CareFusion associates.
As we spend more time together I feel even more confident that the complementary nature of our 2 companies will make for a successful integration.
As we shared with you on our investor conference call on October 6 Bill Kozy is leading this integration effort.
Our integration team is in place which includes key members from BD and CareFusion.
There has been a great deal of planning hard work and activity in a short period of time.
In a sizable acquisition like this the success of the integration is of critical importance and we will continue to keep you updated as we move forward.
We are also underway with the integration activities of our latest acquisition in the Life Science area with our acquisition of GenCell.
GenCell is a small biotech company that has developed proprietary technology to address key biological analysis protocols for library preparation for Next Generation Sequencing and genotyping applications.
These technologies automate library preparation workflow making it more efficient reliable and less costly to perform.
Next Generation Sequencing is a fast-growing space that represents a great opportunity for BD.
As the NGS market moves to the clinic BD is well positioned with relevant experience in bringing products from research to clinical markets preanalytical sample collection and sample preparation in Diagnostic Systems.
BD will combine this experience with GenCell's proprietary technology to meet unmet needs with upfront NGS workflow.
Moving on to Slide 18.
We have been discussing our robust pipeline for some time now.
And in fiscal year 2014 there were a number of product launches.
I will not review them in detail but they are highlighted on Slides 18 and 19.
We are committed to the successful ramp-up of these products while we also look to the future and continue to expand our portfolio.
Moving on to Slide 20.
We have some new product launches that we would like to share with you.
We are very excited about a new product in the insulin infusion set category which we -- which you have heard us talk about for some time now.
This new product introduction is the result of the work we have been doing together with the Juveniles -- Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation.
The BD infusion set is aimed at improving the consistency of insulin delivery for the users of durable infusion pumps which aligns with the clinical goal of tight glycemic control and avoiding hyperglycemic episodes.
We expect FDA clearance for this product in the second half of fiscal year 2015.
We will update you on the product launch timing as we continue to make progress.
For BD Simplist we recently received FDA approval of midazolam.
As we shared with you recently BD Simplist requires a change in clinical processes and uptake has been slower than expected.
Those who have converted are pleased with the product.
We have taken actions to reprioritize our portfolio to focus on drugs where a ready-to-use prefilled syringe is most valued by our customers specifically those with the highest risk of medication errors or those used in the urgent care setting.
The next 2 drugs meeting those criteria are hydromorphone and heparin both expected to launch in 2016.
We will continue to keep you updated as our launches progress.
In Biosciences we recently launched in Europe the first component of our BD OneFlow Solution for clinical reagents.
This reagent and standardized instrument solution provides powerful analysis capabilities to improve efficiency accuracy and objectivity in leukemia and lymphoma diagnosis.
We also recently launched 3 new BD Horizon dyes and will be anticipating launching several more dyes in 2015.
Our novel BD Horizon dyes based on Sirigen technology are used by external researchers to perform complex multi-color analysis and have increased the number of parameters or colors by which single cells can be analyzed using flow cytometry.
In fiscal year 2015 we expect to launch the X-14 research instrument to deliver high-performance multi-color analysis with a compact footprint and a unique optical configurations to enable use of traditional or the novel BD Horizon Brilliant reagent portfolio for a wide variety of research applications.
We are also looking forward to the launch of our BD FACSVia instrument.
The FACSVia is based on the Accuri platform and is a low-cost easy-to-use instrument for clinical applications.
We're targeting this launch primarily for emerging markets with an initial focus on China.
On Slide 21 you can see the anticipated products in our Diagnostics business.
On the BD MAX we will be building upon the solid base of our novel assay launches in 2014 such as MRSA XT and our Enteric Panels.
Our enteric strategy for 2015 includes assays for parasites as well as extended bacterial and viral testing.
The availability of rapid molecular tests in these areas represents a significant improvement to the current testing methods available today and we are confident that this will bring meaningful benefits to our customers.
Our GC/CT assay is expected to launch in Europe in the third quarter of this year.
This is a test that we currently have on our BD Viper instrument which will now be available for our BD MAX customers as well.
We are expecting the full launch of the BD Totalys system in our Women's Health and Cancer area.
This front-end automation system for screening cervical cancer has already been well received in Europe this year and we look forward to its launch in the U.S.
As you can see we continue to have strong opportunities in our pipeline and we look forward to sharing our progress with you as we make progress throughout the year.
Before I summarize the presentation and open up this call for questions I'd like to take a moment to address the Ebola epidemic.
We have been working with a number of foundations to provide essential medical supplies and support and have donated about $850 000 to date in cash and products.
We have provided Safety Syringes Vacutainer tubes E-Z Care and Scrub products and the BD Insyte Autoguard with blood control to train -- and also to train and equip health care workers.
With the recent launch of the Total Nucleic Acid kits on the BD MAX the Diagnostics team has been working closely with multiple organizations to develop fully automated diagnostic tests for Ebola detection.
Our molecular scientists and global partners are actively pursuing a fast accurate and fully automated molecular detection solution that would fit in with the needs of the developing world which is most impacted by the disease.
We will continue to use our clinical knowledge and expertise to assist in this outbreak and fulfill our mission and purpose of helping all people live healthy lives.
On Slide 22 before we open the call to questions I'd like to reiterate the key messages from our presentation today.
First we are pleased with our strong fiscal year 2014 results.
We have exceeded our financial and operating goals for this year which delivered strong financial results and continued operating efficiencies.
Second our core remains strong.
Our investments drove robust revenue growth of 5.2% and we continue to deliver high-quality double-digit earnings growth of 11.4% this fiscal year.
We expect to deliver a similar growth profile in fiscal year 2015 with top line growth of 4.5% to 5% and earnings growth of 8% to 9%.
We're pleased with the financial performance we continue to deliver and believe we have built a strong foundation for future growth.
Third we continue to evolve and remain dedicated to becoming a customer-focused provider of health care solutions.
We are excited about the acquisition of CareFusion and look forward to updating you as we continue to make progress.
The powerful combination of these 2 companies will significantly accelerate our strategy.
Finally we continue to deliver superior health care products to our customers and value to our shareholders.
We look forward to 2015 with enthusiasm and confidence.
Thank you.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So I want to start with the guidance.
It looks like the -- if I look at your FY '15 guidance versus consensus the underlying picture's the same but the principal difference is the impact from FX looks like it's a little bit more than The Street was modeling.
And obviously The Street was still assuming a share count.
So when we think about the base off of which we add in CareFusion any additional comments you want to make? I mean you said at the time of the CareFusion acquisition double-digit EPS accretion in year 1.
Anything else we should be thinking about just to get our models more in line with your comments today? So Mike it's Vince.
It was really difficult to understand what you were saying.
What I picked up was that the guidance for 2015 was broadly in line on an FX-neutral basis.
And so underlying it was pretty much I think what you would have expected most people would have expected but also some people did not have the share -- cessation of the share repurchase in their estimates.
So that was the first point.
The second point was you were asking us was there any update to the acquisition guidance that we're giving at all? There really isn't but I'll ask Chris if there's anything else he'd like to say on that.
I'd like to say a couple of things Mike.
You're absolutely right that there was a mixed bag out there a lot of moving parts apples and oranges in terms of looking forward on '15 not the least of which is moving to a cash EPS.
So I think this chart that we -- we've put up Slide 15 was an attempt to kind of walk through that so we're all on the same page.
So we got you the cash EPS.
What we wanted to show is the underlying performance is very strong and consistent with what we've done over the last few years and what we have as a goal is the 9% to 10%.
We do get an impact of the fact that we're suspending the share buybacks in anticipation of the CareFusion deal of about 1% and then the other is the headwinds from foreign currency.
And we went into some detail to kind of give you not only the sense for the year but how much of that impact is in the first quarter.
So hopefully that gets everybody on the same page.
In terms of going forward on CareFusion we'll provide much more clarity on that as we approach the deal and the deal close.
And really nothing to update from what we talked about upon the announcement of the deal of the significant low-teens kind of accretion and the performance from an ROIC standpoint et cetera.
So really just a reiteration of that.
Nothing new to report.
We'll certainly keep everyone up-to-date as the deal progresses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I can follow up with one other question.
And hopefully the connection's fine here.
We've had companies report different data points on the emerging markets this quarter.
Your performance was strong but we've had companies talk about Brazil not really growing this quarter.
And that's as much outside of health care as in.
And then there's been a number of reports about China slowing outside of health care.
Are you seeing either of those end markets slow in your business? Any reason for concern that you're seeing? So Mike this is Vince.
No we haven't seen emerging markets slowing down and that's across-the-board in our product categories.
So it appears to us that even though there's some macroeconomic factors out there in those marketplaces for our categories and kind of fundamentals the governments are still investing in health care and we saw a strong performance across-the-board not just in China but in all geographies.
But thanks for those questions.
Your next question comes from the line of David Roman of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I want to start with one question Vince to follow-up on your pipeline discussion at the end of the call and most specifically on the BD Rx side of the business.
I think you did give us a number of updates about key new products coming in the 2016 time frame.
But maybe you can just sort of help give us a broader update on that franchise how things are going with respect to gaining traction with group purchasing organizations and where you are sort of in developing an appropriate-sized product bag to make yourselves more competitive with the bigger players.
Sure.
So as I mentioned in my remarks it has been going slower number one and we have started to get some traction in the last quarter.
But it's really fundamental to us to reorient that product line towards products that are really -- it's where safety errors drug errors are much more important from a safety aspect.
And I mentioned that we'll have 2 drugs coming out in 2016 which have those characteristics.
So we're on a ramp that is slower than we thought.
So we don't believe we're going to hit those initial targets in the time frame that we were talking about a couple of years ago.
But we remain committed to the business.
Anything else you would want to say from a portfolio standpoint Tom? David this is Tom.
I think Vince the only thing I can add is that -- to your question David we actually have put BD Rx successfully to a number of the large GPO agreements so we do have that in place.
We have 4 drugs launched today.
As you think about -- really one of those fits that high-risk high-value molecule that's morphine.
And as Vince mentioned earlier the next 2 that fit that high need in a prefilled format are launching in 2016.
So we'll continue to keep you updated as those progress.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I ask a financial follow-up question? Sure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So maybe just looking at the guidance just on cash flow for fiscal 2015 and maybe Chris you could sort of comment on what looked to be a very significant step-up in CapEx in the fourth quarter.
It looks like almost it's a doubling of where the run rate has been on a quarterly basis.
And then what sort of drives the -- what's driving the CapEx side and what's driving the $100 million increase in free cash flow guidance for fiscal '15? Sure.
So the CapEx situation as we had talked about a few times last year we're looking at spending more capital internationally and some of that is going into our plants within China for example.
And so a lot of that hits -- it's a lumpy kind of thing and we knew it would be and we kind of expected it to hit in the fourth quarter.
So we weren't surprised by that.
And so we came in about where we expected to for the year.
We have ramped that up again next year and pretty much for the same reason a little bit more in the way of international spending which we think is prudent and certainly is resulting in good returns.
In terms of operating cash flow really it's the total income flowing down through the operating cash flow.
Sometimes that gets a little lumpy as you know in terms of timing of payments et cetera and the working capital.
But as we look out next year we see most of that flowing through and everything else kind of staying neutral.
So you get the benefit of that going up in the total cash flow.
Your next question comes from Rick Wise of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First U.S.
Medical can you give us a little more color? U.S.
Medical seemed a bit soft.
I mean I guess that's U.S.
Safety.
Any more color on what's happening there? I mean it sounds like you see the environment as stable.
Just remind us again what's happening there -- happened there in the fourth quarter and what may or may not change in the year ahead.
Sure.
Tom Polen will do that for you Rick.
Rick this is Tom.
So as you said as we've mentioned before the U.S.
market we do view as mature from a Safety perspective but we also view it as stable.
One of the things to note is that in addition the U.S.
Safety sales in the quarter did reflect a small regional reclassification of certain sales related to the Safety Syringe acquisition.
And so with that reclass actually growth was slightly positive for the quarter in the Medical segment.
And due to this change our U.S.
Safety growth rate may be just a little bit lighter for the next couple of quarters with a corresponding uptick in international as that reclassification annualizes.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Got you.
And Vince some of your recent public comments on G&amp;A you basically said I think publicly that x the China investment and EVEREST that G&amp;A is coming down and you're starting to see it come down.
You used language like that if I'm quoting you accurately.
Just remind us where are you with those investments.
And just specifically on China do you have to keep spending the $40 million per year to drive the growth we're seeing? Does that come to an end at some point? Just any more color there would be helpful.
Sure.
So Rick that's 2 pieces.
One is overall G&amp;A has been coming down as a percent of sales as we move processes into shared service centers around the globe and we believe we have much more to do in that area number one.
Number two as we look at synergies with CareFusion we'll be taking an all-in company look at that from an end-to-end business process standpoint.
So more work to be done there and more opportunity.
Now in terms of investments in emerging markets it's more the investment in the sales and marketing side.
There is some investment in G&amp;A but less going into G&amp;A more going into coverage build as we build into Tier 2 in China and we continue to expand coverage in other geographies.
In this plan Rick for 2015 we continue to have a significant investment in emerging markets to drive top line growth.
So it's not so much G&amp;A as it is the sales and marketing side.
Your next question is coming from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
This is actually Scott Lange in for David Lewis.
Just 2 quick ones for me.
First Vince or Bill you've now had the chance to spend some more time with CareFusion management and delve a little deeper into the integration planning.
Can you share your updated thoughts around the fit of Infection Prevention? And also the ventilation business and whether that's a priority longer term for the pro forma company? So I'll take that one.
We're still very early on in terms of looking at the portfolio.
What I've said is that we will go through the same kind of strategic review we go through all of our product lines number one.
Number two we'd be looking to see if we can develop leading positions with those product lines.
And then based on that we'll decide exactly where we're going to invest our money.
And that work will go on over the next few months and will crystallize where we're going to come out but it would be premature to say anything past that.
We have seen some very exciting opportunities in those businesses.
So we'll get back to you later as we clarify both strategically and financially on the deal.
Fair enough.
Can you also comment a little bit on share dynamics within Diagnostics in particular in the molecular space? And also give us some color as to why restructure the operations now versus later on down the line? So I'll take the second half of the question and then I'll ask Linda and Alberto to comment specifically about Diagnostics and Life Sciences.
So the work that we started was about a year ago to look at more solutions for the customer and we started around individual businesses.
You saw that in microbiology with the acquisition of KIESTRA and you've seen how successful we have been with that plug-in acquisition.
Linda's role on the Life Science side started with 2 of the 3 businesses and the idea was to begin the work on what strategies can we develop more broadly around solutions leveraging across the segment.
We have not restructured the segment nor restructured those businesses.
But this is more of a strategic thrust looking at how we work across businesses and strategies that cross -- that can cross those businesses.
And Linda started that work a year ago and we will accelerate that work.
Some of that work resulted in the acquisition of GenCell.
So that's that piece.
If we come to what's happening in Molecular Linda I'll ask you to make a first comment and maybe Alberto will fill in some details.
Sure.
So thanks Linda here.
So first on the Molecular side just broadly.
As we've reported we continue to see some share loss relative to our ProbeTec business; and also in our Women's Health and Cancer also affected by the interval testing.
We also though on a share gain are doing very well with our core micro business with our flu business and also increased placements on our MAX systems.
Alberto I don't know if you want to add anything to that.
No I think that's where -- we're seeing most of the share loss in the ProbeTec business as you mentioned.
On some older platforms we're seeing some much more modest share erosion in some of the MRSA.
But with the new assay in MRSA XT we think that we can actually regain the momentum backwards.
And also with our enteric launches and -- we think that we can build that momentum.
But we're growing the other categories in MAX.
So we're actually very happy with the momentum that we're actually getting with the platform.
Alberto you might want to comment on where we stand with that one big account that we lost which has been the majority of the share loss.
That's on the CT/GC side and it's -- we expect a little bit more of -- it's mostly behind us is the good news.
Yes.
So that's going to be annualized into -- going into next year.
There's still a little bit still left in the first quarter but to a much lesser extent this year.
And after that we're basically done and annualized.
So year-on-year we're starting to see the growth rate in that business go up when you net all that together right? Correct.
Your next question is coming from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just want to go back Chris on the comments you'd made on the operating margin side.
Can you maybe just go back and parse out how much of the operating margin movement is related to FX and pension? And then what the kind of core expansion is for '15 relative to what you saw in '14? Sure.
So let's start Kristen with '14.
'14 was basically about 70 basis points of underlying margin expansion which was in line with what our expectations were.
But as we had said throughout last year we actually had a pension tailwind last year based on where the interest rates were as of the beginning of last year.
So that accounted for about half of that.
And then on a -- on a kind of a reported basis including FX you had about 70 basis points of FX pressure.
And then just to complete the dots there you also had additional 20 of the medical device tax which flowed into the first quarter.
So essentially the way to think about that is 70 basis points underlying and offset essentially by FX and then a little bit of pressure down of 20 basis points for Medical device.
As we look at '15 we're looking at the underlying margin expansion being 40 to 50 basis points.
But as you probably know pension flips the other way and the interest rates go the other way.
And about half of that 40 to 50 will be pension headwinds going forward.
We get a little bit of pressure from FX and not quite as much on the margin basis as you saw this year.
So probably 20 basis points or thereabouts of pressure from FX in the operating margin going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the pension amount is not included within the 40 to 50.
So it's 40 to 50 underlying.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> And then pension takes that down about half? About half exactly.
So kind of a flip to the story in '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And then just in terms of CareFusion I know there's been a lot of discussion out there on their aspirations for operating margin improvement.
So I think they've quantified about 100 basis points here.
Can you maybe just help us understand what you've said related to the acquisition with the incremental cost synergies and some of the margin expansion that you may be looking towards that may perhaps double count if -- some people are looking at their targets? Sure.
Yes thanks.
So what we had said when we made the announcement is that there would be $250 million of synergies as you know.
Now when we were looking at the pricing and what we would be interested in paying for CareFusion we did our own modeling.
We actually did baseline that at around 70 basis points of margin improvement which is quite frankly still pretty high-stepping to get to 70 basis points and a lot has to happen.
So that's the way we valued it and the $250 million was incremental to that.
If you were modeling 100 basis points a year for the next 3 years you should think maybe $200 million on top of the 100 basis points.
So there is about a $50 million overlap on some of the things that we think are more likely to be done as we -- through synergies than would have been able to be done on a standalone basis.
Your next question comes from Bill Quirk of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> First question just hoping some additional details on the Diabetes franchise.
I'm just trying to get a little better handle on the background from the underlying growth and just talk to us a little bit about the sustainability here.
Sure.
Tom Polen can take that.
You saw it was another strong quarter for Diabetes Care.
Tom? Bill this is Tom.
As you mentioned overall a strong year for diabetes driven as Vince mentioned before by new product launches specifically the Nano Pen Needle which continues to have very strong adoption around the world.
I think in regards to your question around underlying growth obviously in Q4 we did have a very strong quarter at 8.1%.
Q4 was favorably impacted by a prior year comparison and we do believe that that growth rate is a little bit above the underlying growth of the business.
And so we think back in perspective of the Medical segment growth in '15 guidance being in that 4.5% to 5% we certainly see Diabetes Care on the upper side of that as one of the higher-growth businesses within the segment.
And we see that sustaining going forward which is maybe not at that rate that you're seeing in Q4 due to some onetime activity there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then just thinking about the flu season.
Obviously the Southern Hemisphere has been going through or went through a pretty severe one.
There's some expectations here that we're going to see that ramp up this year as well.
Certainly we've seen some companies suggest that we've seen a little bit of stocking of product ahead of kind of the traditional season.
So I'd be just curious what you guys are thinking about the flu season here for this coming year or kind of what's dialed into guidance et cetera.
Alberto will take that one for you.
So our assumption is based on a normal flu season that's what's incorporated into our numbers.
Having said that we are seeing some early stocking.
You're right.
But right now we're not taking -- we're not assuming the assumption that this will -- that this eventually will filter through the system.
And we're still assuming that overall it's going to be a normal flu season.
If it's above that obviously we'll communicate that at that point.
Your next question is coming from Doug Schenkel of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Your initial growth guidance range for the year is a little bit more narrow than we've seen from you guys.
Last couple of years you've guided to a broader range.
This year it's a little bit tighter.
Just wondering if that is indicative of more confidence in the outlook better visibility heading into fiscal '15 or something along those lines.
So I would say probably better visibility and we've had a couple of years of a more stable environment.
So that kind of gave us the confidence to narrow the range nothing more than that at this point in time.
We narrowed the range last year fairly quickly.
I think right at the end of the first quarter we narrowed it pretty closely.
So not that different.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And years ago when we saw big changes in oil prices we used to talk about related fluctuations in resin prices and how that might impact your margin outlook.
Over the years you've clearly made pretty significant efforts to mitigate this impact.
I just wanted to make sure that there isn't any potential for margin benefit associated with this dynamic heading into fiscal '15.
So there's 2 different things going on.
One is the price of oil is coming down and of course we would see that as a good thing.
But there is not the capacity in the resin market to let all of that flow through.
In fact there was a problem at one of the plants.
There was a fire at one of the suppliers.
So capacity is tight.
So we are not forecasting that flowing through for the time being.
That could change over time.
But right now we don't have any visibility to that.
And you do get a little bit of a lift in terms of shipping prices or whatever from vendors as oil prices go down and that's already baked in.
Your next question comes from Brandon Couillard with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Vince or Chris in terms of the debt related to the CareFusion deal are you able to lock that in those debt terms in earlier rather than later at all? And when would you expect to complete or start the financing or the funding for that? Yes the answer is you can.
As you know the interest rates ticked down a bit fortuitously and so we were able to take the opportunity to lock in some of that appropriately.
And so we did take the opportunity to do that.
We're in the process of rolling that out right now in terms of when we would actually do the financing.
As we get greater visibility to different things like HSR that type of thing we'll have more confidence.
But clearly you want to do that in advance of the closing as you're gaining confidence in terms of the -- when the timing more than anything else of the close from an HSR standpoint.
So you would see us do that in advance particularly to take advantage of the rate environment.
Research Division</strong> And secondly in terms of the restructuring or workforce reduction what should we anticipate for the payback for that action to be in '15? It's in the guidance and so some of that does flow through.
Maybe a 1/4 of that amount would flow through because of the amount the severance payment and the like.
Your next question comes from Brian Weinstein of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> A question on the infusion set launch.
It looks like it's a little bit ahead of where the guidance was for the launch.
Can you talk about what changed there? And also can you comment a little bit on the market opportunity and how fast you expect to penetrate this? So it's very close to what we were thinking Brian.
So nothing significant changed.
We're making good progress on getting the manufacturing equipment installed and whatnot that's probably the biggest thing.
But Tom anything else that you would say on that? No I think we'll obviously continue to update post approval more information on our launch timing.
We're certainly Brian we're very excited about the -- this is a logical adjacency to our core diabetes pen and syringe business and add another growth driver to that organization.
And we do see the opportunity to take that product both direct and through partnerships and I think that's all we'd comment on at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Chris can you comment a little bit about FX exposure by currency and kind of update us on that? And then typically we had thought about 30% to 40% of your top line exposure kind of falling through to the bottom line given the fact that you're not doing any hedging.
Has that changed at all? Sure.
So the impact that you will see -- because clearly everyone knows that the euro is down comparatively with all of last year all of '14 for the most part.
In fact we pegged this at $1.27 it's down even a tick from that.
And -- but then you also see weakness in the Japanese yen year-over-year.
The Brazilian real is weak.
The Canadian dollar is weaker.
So all of those things as I said my prepared remarks they were significantly down particularly in the first quarter.
And so that's why the impact in the first quarter is greater on the bottom line than the 400 basis points we said for the year.
It's really impacting the first quarter.
In terms of the other way to think about it it's difficult to give any kind of direction on that because as you know we have the profit and inventory impact and we've talked a lot about that.
If you remember in the first quarter of last year it was kind of hitting us.
And so it's hard to give any particular guidance around how much drops to the bottom.
It depends on an awful lot of different factors.
So it's hard to model is probably what I'm saying because of the profit and the inventory piece.
Your next question comes from Vijay Kumar of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I think most of my questions have been asked.
I had a couple of follow-ups.
One I guess Chris you were mentioning on the deal closure timing.
So apart from HSR is there -- are there any other regulatory approvals that we need to be aware of which could cause some uncertainty around the closure timing? Well it is the HSR and Europe the equivalent in Europe would be the other.
So those would be the most variable.
And then obviously you have the SEC review.
We'll be filing the S-4 shortly very shortly and then that kind of starts the clock on their review.
And which the hope is that the 2 of them come together nicely but it is very variable.
So we'll update you more on that as things progress.
Research Division</strong> And then one follow-up on the guidance front.
When you look at your Life Science segment really I thought the growth assumptions out there were better than expectation.
I mean particularly on Bioscience.
Is this all new product driven? Or can you talk about sort of what's really driving growth in the Biosciences? So in Biosciences you saw some really nice bounce back last year in the high-end instrumentation and some good performance with the Sirigen dyes as well.
So you have that as the fundamental.
And I think Linda we're forecasting that to continue to improve and you have some new products that you're launching.
Yes.
So thanks Vince.
So across the board in our Life Sciences business first of all you saw we see increased stability in both U.S.
and Europe in terms of the funding environment and then very strong performance in our emerging markets business.
So as Vince commented on our Life Science research reagents very strong performance upside in clinical or instrument base and also our AB business.
So across the board seeing some nice growth.
We expect again 4.5% to 5% heading into next year which is pretty much what we saw this year.
Your next question comes from Glenn Novarro of RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions on the gross margin.
If you look at fiscal 4Q it came in 70 basis points below our forecast.
Now I'm just wondering did the gross margin come in below your forecast as well? And I know pricing wasn't a big hit and I was wondering if you can give us any put and takes and any additional color.
And then as my follow-up I think you may have -- hopefully I wrote this down correctly you're guiding to a 52% gross margin for fiscal '15 which is an improvement over fiscal -- just over fiscal 4Q.
And if I wrote this down correctly what are some of the improvements and drivers of the better gross margin for next year? Okay.
So let me take a shot at that.
For the fourth quarter it came in pretty much upon our expectations.
So we had been talking about the drag from pricing in the fourth quarter all year long.
So that hit about where we expected.
The only thing that I would say it was probably about a 10 basis points more FX drag than we had anticipated so that was the biggest difference from what our expectations are.
And then I'm trying to think of what your other question was.
Oh the -- in terms of going forward margin guidance take a look at the chart that we took you through on Chart 16 because we reset on an adjusted cash EPS basis.
And so the full year gross profit margin for fiscal 2014 was 51.2% but then adjusted on a cash EPS basis kind of new foundation that's 52% and our guidance was about 52% as well.
Now we actually get a little bit of a lift from operational improvements the traditional things ReLoCo and continuous improvement.
But we also said that we have some unfavorable pricing in '15 and some pension headwinds as well and the combination of those things get you at about 52%.
So hopefully that gets you there.
Your next question comes from Richard Newitter with Leerink Partners.
Research Division</strong> This is Ravi in for Rich.
Just a question on the Ebola and potential government spending.
Is there any of that built into the Biosciences guidance? Or are you considering any potential spending allocation increases there in that segment? No we have not built that in -- we don't have any direct visibility to any program that we could put in at this point in time.
As we said we are doing some work with partners on some diagnostic test development but we don't think it's a big opportunity at this point.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then sort of maybe the last one is a little bit more on GenCell trying to understand the company's longer-term aspirations in Next-Gen Sequencing.
Sure.
Linda can talk to that.
So thanks.
Very excited about the acquisition of GenCell.
Really if you think about the company GenCell and then the NGS space we really see a big movement now occurring from the research to the clinical space.
And as we looked at overall NGS and an upfront sample and library prep the fact that this takes upwards of 2 days to occur today is just too long if we bring it to the clinic.
So GenCell really provided us the opportunity to get into that library prep space and really consolidate the workflow automation scalable throughput.
So a lot of advantages we see here.
And then as you think longer term about BD's position in the space thinking about the work we do today with QIAGEN on our sample collection side and being able to expand upon that right through to the work we do in Diagnostics.
As this moves to infectious disease we see a lot of opportunities to provide BD skills combined with the technology of GenCell over the long term.
So this is a very targeted play that Linda was talking about.
We're not talking about going into sequencing.
This is really leveraging as Linda was mentioning capability we have that comes out in Molecular Diagnostics and sample processing PAS also in sample collection and sample processing that we have had a joint venture that's what Linda was mentioning.
For a number of years now that has been growing quite nicely.
So it's a sample processing laboratory prep automation leveraging the skills we have down at DS.
So it's all of that together but in a very targeted way.
Your next question comes from Derik De Bruin of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A lot of my questions have been answered but I just want to clarify something.
On your guidance for '15 does this include anticipated financing for the CareFusion acquisition in your interest expense? I guess can you give us some clarity on sort of like your net interest income or interest expense guide? Sure.
No it doesn't anticipate any additional financing for CareFusion.
We wouldn't know the timing et cetera.
So it's not in there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the -- even on an adjusted fiscal '14 basis your -- even in '15 your tax rate's down pretty significantly next year.
How sustainable is that? And can you remind us on the combined tax rate that you're looking at for BD and CareFusion? Sure.
So as you've seen over the last 3 or 4 years we've made very good progress on the effective tax rate bringing it down from somewhere north of 28% to this current range.
You saw a good performance.
We've done a lot in terms of building out legal entities internationally and putting structures in place.
So you continue to see the benefit of that flowing through the rate as well.
And as we think about the combination with CareFusion I think as I mentioned when we had that call that we just took their tax rate and our rate combined.
We didn't evaluate it or we didn't include any synergies.
What we did include is the tax yields from the financing the debt that we had.
So that was in the neighborhood of 50 to 100 basis points.
Hard to calculate because there's a lot of moving parts so we gave you the number.
But longer term we do see an opportunity to get some synergies and to put some of their revenues into our structure.
And as we drive their revenues internationally you'll see some benefit of that as well.
But that's more blocking and tackling that needs to occur over the first couple of years and will bear fruit going forward.
So continued sustainability of the ability to get the rate down.
I think I've talked about the fact that when we look at our peer group they tend to be still better than where we are.
We're getting closer but that's stuff that is basic blocking and tackling that we've been putting in place for years and we're now seeing the fruit of that each and every year.
One thing that I would mention about next year is that we do have the potential for the R&amp;D tax credit to be reenacted.
And so the way to think about that is if it does happen the low end of our range would be more likely.
And if it doesn't we'll be above that but it does contemplate the potential for that to occur as well.
I guess my answer was too long.
Your next question comes from Mark Massaro of Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a question for Alberto.
Could you please update us on the installed base of the BD Veritor maybe discuss the competitive environment dynamics? And are you guys planning any additional investments in the technology I'm thinking maybe cloud-based solutions or the like? Yes.
So our -- we estimate our installed base at the end of the quarter to be around 14 000 units.
So that's where we are on that.
And yes we are working on our next-generation Veritor that will have connectivity associated with it.
So yes we are working on that in addition to other assays as well.
Yes.
Okay.
Thanks very much Mark.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just a quick follow-up.
What is the timing of CT/GC on BD MAX? So as mentioned the -- in Europe we're -- it's filed so we're waiting for the approval that we're estimating around Q3.
That's when we estimate the approval in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then for the U.S.? For the U.S.
we're working on a next-generation assay that will be more into '16 and we'll update when we have a little bit more visibility on the date.
With that I will turn the floor back over to Vince Forlenza for closing remarks.
Okay.
So thank you very much for your participation today.
It was a pleasure to update you on a strong performance in 2014 and some strong guidance for 2015.
We will be updating you on progress with the CareFusion acquisition as that gets closer and we look forward to doing that and talking to you soon.
Thank you very much.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's First Fiscal Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through February 12th 2015 on the Investors page of the bd.com website or by phone at (800) 585-8367 for domestic calls and area code (404) 537-3406 for international calls using confirmation number 64069271.
I would like to inform all parties that your lines have been placed in a listen-only-mode until the question and answer segment.
Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin.
Thank you Christie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our first fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at bd.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our first fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the bd.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are Chris Reidy Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Administration; Bill Kozy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Tom Polen Segment President; Linda Tharby Segment President; and Alberto Mas President of Diagnostic Systems.
This quarter we recorded pretax adjustments totaling $97 million or $0.34 per share.
These adjustments consisted of acquisition related charges legal charges and the amortization of acquisition related intangibles.
Last quarter we noted that we would be moving to a cash EPS basis going forward.
These adjustments were also made for the first quarter of fiscal year 2014 for comparison purposes and can be found in the appendix of the Investor Relations slides.
I would also like to note that the guidance provided today is on a BD standalone basis.
If we close on the transaction before the end of the first calendar quarter we plan to provide guidance for BD's together with CareFusion on our regularly scheduled second quarter earnings conference call.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
As we stated in our press release we're off to a really good start this fiscal year.
We're pleased with our first quarter results with strength coming from both our Medical and Life Science segments.
Our first quarter results were also aided by a stronger than expected flu season.
Our core business remained strong which is consistent with the results we've recorded for the past 10 consecutive quarters.
We continue to have a robust pipeline with recent product launches continuing to gain traction.
Growth in the quarter was also driven by strong sales in emerging markets and safety engineered products.
Our pending acquisition of CareFusion remains on track with an expected closing date before the end of the first calendar quarter.
I will provide an update on our integration planning later in the call.
Overall things are progressing quite nicely.
Our solid revenue growth in operating performance this quarter in combination with our performance in fiscal year 2014 gives us the confidence to raise our fiscal year 2015 currency-neutral revenue and earnings guidance.
Moving on to slide 5 I will review our first quarter revenue and EPS results which I will speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
Total company revenue growth was strong at 5.3%.
Fully diluted EPS came in at a $1.20 which included a number of charges which Monique just mentioned.
Adjusted EPS was $1.53 which represents growth of 15.4% over the prior year.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Chris who will walk you through our first quarter financial performance and updated guidance.
Thanks Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin on slide 7 by discussing the key highlights for the first quarter which I'll speak to on a currency-neutral basis.
As Vince just mentioned we are pleased with our first quarter results which were ahead of our expectations.
Revenue growth of 5.3% was aided by stronger flu season in last year.
This contributed about 80 basis points to grow.
Our tax rate declined year-over-year representing the impact of the reinstated R&amp;D tax credit as we had contemplated in our guidance.
Adjusted earnings per share of $1.53 grew 15.4% in the first quarter when compared with the prior year.
Earnings were ahead of our expectations primarily due to stronger revenue growth coupled with a lower tax rate.
As Vince just mentioned our strong performance in the first fiscal quarter gives us the confidence to raise currency-neutral revenue and EPS guidance for the year which I will talk to in more detail in a few moments.
On slide 8 I'll review our revenue growth by segment on a currency-neutral basis.
As you know we have recently moved to a two segments structure for transparency and to align with how we provided guidance we are providing additional summarized information for the Life Sciences segment.
As I just mentioned first quarter revenue growth was 5.3% for the total company.
The impact of pricing pressure in the quarter was about 20 basis points as expected.
BD Medical first quarter revenues increased 4.2%.
Within the Medical segment Medical Surgical growth was 6.8% this quarter aided by strong international safety growth.
Diabetes Care growth of 3.6% reflects continued strength of pen needles partially offset by order timing in the US and an unfavorable comparison for the prior year.
Pharmaceutical Systems' decline of 1.9% was unfavorably impacted by ordering patterns subsequent to strong fourth quarter revenue growth.
This was inline with our expectations and consistent with our communications on our last earnings call.
BD Life Science first quarter revenues increased 6.5%.
The segment's growth was driven by strong sales across its three business units.
Growth in Diagnostics was 6.5%.
Preanalytical Systems' growth of 5.2% was driven by safety-engineered products and geographic expansion.
Diagnostics Systems growth of 7.8% was driven by core microbiology growth which reflects a stronger flu season and strong blood culture performance.
We continue to capture significant share with our Veritor platform.
We now have over 15 000 instruments and used today at hospitals clinics and doctor's offices.
We also continue to see good traction with the BD MAX platform.
Biosciences' revenue growth was 6.7% in the first quarter driven by strong instrument placements and international growth.
Moving to slide 9 I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the first quarter on a currency-neutral basis.
BD's US revenues increased 3.7% versus the prior year which benefited from some timing in the medical segment and flu sales in the Life Sciences segment.
We view the hospital environment in the US as stable to improving slightly.
Revenue in our US Medical segment increased by 3.6%.
This was driven by pharmaceutical systems order timing a favorable comparison to the prior year and solid growth in medical surgical systems.
The Diabetes Care unit was partly impacted by the aforementioned timing of orders.
US Life Science segment grew 3.9% strong diagnostic systems US growth was negatively impacted by continued declines in our women's health and cancer business which have been – we have been discussing for some time now.
Biosciences growth reflects strong research and clinical instruments placements.
Moving on to international.
We continue to see strong growth.
Revenues grew 6.4% driven by solid growth across both our Medical and life Sciences segments which grew 4.6% and 8.5% respectively.
Both segments continue to experience strong growth in emerging markets and international safety sales.
Medical results were negatively impacted in part by the previously mentioned ordering patterns in pharmaceutical systems.
On slide 10 emerging market revenues grew 12.4% and accounted for 26.5% of total revenues.
This strong performance was driven by growth across both segments.
China revenues grew 23.1% and safety sales in emerging markets grew 17.8%.
Strategic investments in emerging markets continue to drive robust growth.
Moving to global safety on slide 11.
Currency-neutral sales increased 5.9% and grew to $573 million in the quarter.
Revenues in the US declined 1.9% which was impacted by an unfavorable comparison to the prior year.
International safety sales grew 16.1%.
Medical and Life Science safety growth was 6.6% and 5.3% respectively.
Both segments results were driven by strong international growth particularly in emerging markets.
Turning to slide 12.
Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of about 70 basis points on our gross profit margin in the quarter.
On a performance basis margin expansion was driven by positive contributions from continues improvements and favorable mix.
These contributions were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of pricing and pension.
We also incurred some one time cost related to the Kiestra platform which included the integration into our business information systems.
Raw materials were about flat in the quarter.
For the full fiscal year gross profit expectations remain inline with our previously communicated guidance.
Slide 13 recaps the first quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency-neutral results.
Since we've already discussed revenue and gross profit I'll move down the income statement to SSG&amp;A.
As a percentage of sales SSG&amp;A decreased in the quarter.
This was driven in part by sustained cost containment.
R&amp;D was 6.3% of sales in the quarter operating income grew 10.1% driven by solid revenue and gross profit growth coupled with better leverage and SSG&amp;A.
Our tax rate improved 380 basis points over the prior year.
The improvement was due to continued favorable geographic mix and the impact of the R&amp;D tax credit reinstatement which was contemplated in our full year guidance range.
Adjusted EPS in the quarter was $1.53 or an increase of 15.4%.
Turning to slide 14 I'd like to walk you through our expected revenue guidance for the full fiscal year 2015.
In summary we are increasing our guidance and now expect revenue growth of about 5% for BD in total.
This increase reflects our improved performance in the first quarter relative to our overall expectations.
On a reported basis revenue growth is expected about flat to a decline of 1%.
This reflects a currency headwind of about 600 basis points and assumes the euro-to-dollar exchange rate of $1.14.
At current spot rates all major currencies relative to the US dollar are down about 15% to 20% versus last year.
We continue to anticipate pricing pressure of 30 to 40 basis points for the year.
We are increasing our adjusted earnings guidance to 9% to 10% growth currency-neutral.
This is an increase from our previous guidance of 8% to 9% growth reflecting an improved revenue growth profile along with lower oil prices.
On a reported basis earnings growth is expected to be about flat to 1% reflecting a currency headwind of about 900 basis points.
All other full year guidance ranges provided on our November earnings call remain unchanged.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince who will provide you with an update on our product portfolio.
Thank you Chris.
Moving on to slide 16 and product launch updates in the Medical segment.
We recently announced the FDA approval of the BD Intelliport Medication Management System intended for manual IV bolus injections.
This product is the first and only solution providing real-time drug identification dose measurements and allergy detection at the point of injection.
Real-time wireless data collection is sent directly from the patient bed side into their electronic medical record.
This product underscores our commitment to BD's medication management franchise and is complementary to CareFusion's smart pump and informatics platform.
This represents the next wave of patient safety related products.
In Diabetes Care we're looking forward to the FDA submission for our approval of our new BD infuse insulin insulin infusion set this fiscal year.
We expect a product launch in 2016.
This product will improve the consistency of insulin delivery for insulin pump users.
On slide 17 you can see the anticipated products in our Life Sciences segment.
Within the Diagnostics business our BD MAX molecular instrument continues to gain traction with customers and we remain focused on menu expansion on that platform.
We anticipate launching a number of new enteric panel assays including enteric parasite in fiscal year 2015 followed by enteric viral and extended bacteria also in 2016 we expect to launch the Vaginitis and Vaginosis assays.
As Chris mentioned earlier we've seen a lot of success and we continue to gain notable share with our BD Veritor instrument.
In 2016 we expect to launch the next generation of this instrument which will have smart device features.
We continue to anticipate the full launch of BD's Totalys system in our Women's Health and Cancer area for cervical cancer screening automation.
Within Bioscience's we have launched another of our BD Horizon dyes based on the Sirigen technology.
As we have been sharing with you these dyes are enabling significant gains in multi-parameter flow cytometry analysis.
We continue to anticipate the launch of two additional instruments towards the end of this year the BD X-15 high parameter multi color research instrument and the BD FACSVia low cost clinical instrument.
The FACSVia is primarily for emerging markets with an initial focus on China.
The diversity of these instruments both in application and target demographic illustrates the wide customer base that we are enabling.
In addition to these new product launches we are also focused on successful commercial launches of our many recently launched products.
As you can see we continue to have strong opportunities in our pipeline and we look forward to sharing our progress with you throughout the year.
Moving on to the CareFusion acquisition timeline on slide 18 we continue to make progress in finalizing this acquisition.
We successfully completed the Hart-Scott-Rodino review process in November our financing was secured in December and most recently the CareFusion shareholders voted to approve the transaction on January 21st.
Regarding Europe we plan to file our final submission tomorrow.
The EC has a 25 working day review period to decide whether to clear the transaction or enter into a second phase investigation.
Assuming EC clearance at the end of the review period we expect to close the transaction before the end of the first calendar quarter.
Regarding integration planning and talent retention things are on track and in terms of the value drivers we've outlined we remain confident that we will deliver on these commitments.
As a result of the financing structure we communicated in November we expect the acquisition to be accretive to cash earnings on a high teen percentage basis for the total company in fiscal year 2016.
We continue to expect to deliver $250 million of cost synergies which will be fully realized in fiscal year 2018.
As we focus on de-leveraging we will consider appropriate timing to restart our share repurchase program which we expect when we return to a leverage ratio of about 2.5 times gross leverage.
We remain enthusiastic about the financial and strategic benefits of this acquisition for our shareholders and customers.
On slide 19 before we open the call to questions I'd like to reiterate the key messages from our presentation today.
First we are pleased with our strong start to fiscal year 2015.
We are delivering on our commitment to top line growth bottom line growth and underlying margin expansion.
Second our core business is strong as evidenced by our consistent performance for the past 10 quarters.
We continue to see good performance in both segments coupled with strong growth in safety and emerging markets.
Our strategy continues to deliver results as evidenced by our performance for this quarter.
Third we are on-track for anticipated CareFusion acquisition.
Teams across both organizations are hard at work planning for a successful integration.
The powerful combination of the two companies will further enable us to deliver end-to-end solutions that increase efficiencies reduce medication errors and improve patient safety in both hospitals and pharmacies.
Finally our strong financial performance in the first quarter enables us to raise currency-neutral revenue and earnings guidance for fiscal year 2015.
We look forward to the future with confidence.
Thank you.
We will now open the call to questions.
Thank you.
The floor is now open for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Your firs question is coming from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Hey good morning.
Good results today.
I was just wondering if you could walk through the guidance and just kind of the components that gives you confidence.
How much I guess is flu that's adding to the increased top line? And can you maybe just walk us through your commentary around lower oil costs and resin costs and how that could be contributing as well to the EPS line? Chris can do that but we had strong performance across all of our businesses with flu on top of that.
And flu was a combination of a stronger season and continued share gains in that business.
So that’s kind of behind what we saw on the revenue side plus we see good growth in emerging markets.
We haven’t seen any turndown in any of our emerging markets.
Though look at Brazil and we are – we're careful about that and keeping an eye on it because from an macroeconomic standpoint you'd be concerned but we saw good performance there this quarter.
So good emerging markets good across the portfolio and good flu that’s what got us to the top of the range.
Chris if you want to walk through the rest of it? That sums it up in terms of the top of the range flu certainly helps and we see that sticking.
We don’t know what's going to happen in the next quarter regarding flu but so far it’s been strong and again that’s been a combination of a strong flu season as well as our taking share.
So that’s really what's driving the top line.
The bottom line is a number of things certainly the contribution of the stronger revenue growth including the lift from fluctuations then as we look out at our cost structure we do see the decline in oil prices.
That’s going to have more effect in the back half of the year.
It’s not directly related to the price of oil.
The resin prices are going down about – at a one third rate of the oil price decline and some of that has to do with the dynamics of the market and others – in other industries still having a high demand.
But we do see some impact to that.
But you get about a half of year that because it runs through inventory.
So I think on the EPS contribution from flu or contribution from oil prices as well as the fact that we've got some upside on the tax side as well coming a little bit to the low end of the range primarily driven by the R&amp;D tax credit that was re-enacted.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Hi guys.
Can you hear me okay? Yes.
Good morning Mike.
How are you? Okay.
Perfect.
I just wanted to circle back on two things.
So one the CareFusion commentary just with regards to the accretion.
The high-teens accretion commentary is that commentary first 12 months or is that FY 2016 commentary? And then second I was hoping you could spend a little more time on the China performance this quarter which was north of 20% and I was hoping you could shed more light there.
Thank you.
Yes.
Mike on the first one it is consistent with what we said in the past fiscal year 2016.
And then on China Mike we continue to see strong performance pretty much across the board in China.
And so the Medical segment continues to do very well.
We're continuing to kind of expand our footprint there and as that’s happening we see the government continuing to spend on healthcare.
We have not seen any slowdown.
We track a number of measures.
So we haven’t really seen any significant issues in China.
Tom would you want to comment at all on the Medical side Linda on the Diagnostics and Life Sciences.
I think you said we had a very strong north of 20% growth in the Medical segment in China this quarter and we continue to see strong performance across all three businesses in the segment.
On the Life Sciences segment again over 22% growth this quarter and we continue to see as expansion occurs in healthcare amongst different tiers strong opportunity continuing for us in the China market.
So pretty much across the board Mike.
Thanks for the question.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
Just one quick question maybe for Tom or for Vince.
I wonder if you could discuss the development of the pro forma growth story with CareFusion.
Specifically what I wanted to center on was how long is it going to take to really see benefits from CareFusion international product registration and sort of what provides that confidence that the underlying CareFusion growth can sustain pro forma top line around 5% until that process sort of plays out and develops? So confidence and timelines any development thoughts would be very helpful.
Sure.
We're doing a lot of work on that right now and Tom can comment and kind of bucket this thing for you in terms of near term opportunities where we don’t have registration issues registration and then longer term some of the kind of market development stuff.
So Tom why don’t you walk us through that? Yes.
Hi David.
Good morning.
So as we've shared in the past we look at revenue opportunities really evolving more in the 17 plus timeline.
And we see that in in kind of three different buckets.
The first is there is a series of products in the CareFusion portfolio that do not require registration in emerging markets and ex-US and those would be primarily around the Roland Pyxis portfolio for pharmaceutical dispensing and automation.
Then you've got – so that’s the near term horizon.
And in the mid term horizon then you've got products which do require registration but fit into very strong existing BD channels.
And so those were the portfolio components such as IV valves sets chloraprep can fit into that category where we got the existing infrastructure and it’s really sold as integrated solution with our current portfolio.
And then I put the other third kind of horizon there as more complex capital that – such as pumps in certain markets where they are not already registered.
And those require both registration as well as building some basic infrastructure around service et cetera of that type of capital.
And with that said they do have of course through the CMD [ph] equity stake that they took position in a company that does have pumps registered in a series of emerging markets and we see that as a near term opportunity.
But we're actively working with the CareFusion team on just further defining and putting timelines around each of those sub-components and we'll be sharing certainly more of that after close.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
This is actually Kyle calling on behalf of David Roman.
Thanks for taking the question.
Sure.
Good morning Kyle.
Morning.
I just wanted to talk a little bit about your woman's health segment and diagnostics.
You called out kind of the extended interval screening for roughly a year now it’s creating a headwind to growth in that segment.
When can you see interval screening is kind of fully incorporated into excuse me as fully incorporated as behind you and when do you see yourself as lapping that headwind going forward? Sure.
Linda will take that.
Good morning Kyle.
So declines from our increased interval recommendations we look at continuing for another 12 to 18 months as more physicians adhere the recommendation.
So we estimate at this point about 70% are using the increased interval timelines.
And I think of note this is obviously affecting us in the US and we continue to see very strong growth ex-US on our share path platform.
Thanks Linda.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Rick Wise with Stifel.
Good morning everybody.
Couple questions.
Maybe touch if you would on the current NIH budget proposal.
I think it was a better proposal than we've seen 3.3% I think in Obama's proposal.
Is that good bad neutral in your view? We feel more optimistic on the outlook as a result and maybe talk about US bioscience and was it helped by end of quarter budget releases? So I think that it’s a good thing.
I think that’s better than its been for quite sometime.
We'll have to understand their priorities and how they spend that.
Certainly we're hearing about the whole program in next generation sequencing and the million people individuals they are looking to do.
But overall I would say it’s a nice positive.
So things heading in the next direction.
I think there is going to be continued debate in congress over this as well with some let say thinking that supporting research is an important part of an innovation strategy for the country and that’s becoming more rationale debate.
I think we're past the sequestration.
But Linda do you have any other thoughts you might want to add? I think Vince summed it up very nicely maybe the only the thing that I would add on the comment around priority of spending obviously we're looking at how much goes into areas like core immunology versus translational research and of course with our acquisition of GenCell we're very excited about the news happening in the US on personalized medicine.
Maybe the only thing we're watching on a global basis is the spending in Japan where we're seeing some reductions overall and push-outs in spending in that environment.
Yes.
There was a little bit more than a 3% reduction Linda if I remember correctly in Japan.
And so we're watching that and we know that’s going to give us a little bit softness in the back half of year in biosciences but overall positive.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Derik De Bruin with Bank of America.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Derik.
In your microbiology segment there is a number of new technologies that are emerging for both pathogen ID and in particular for antibiotics sensitivity testing.
That potentially accelerate and automate the process in AST.
Could you sort of talk about what you're doing in tech development in that area and how you see about protecting that franchise as some of these new technologies go out? This goes on to a question on can you sort of like update us on Kiestra and where you're on that and how many systems have been installed? Thank you.
So on Kiestra we haven’t said how many systems have been installed but we're continuing to make good progress.
We've got a very nice pipeline on Kiestra and we're expecting very strong growth there this year and continued demand.
But Alberto do you want to talk a little bit about rapid detection methodologies.
So we are – good morning.
We are definitely watching the space very actively and I would like to highlight as well the partnership that we have from a multi-talk perspective with Bruegger we're partnering with them not only on current technology but potentially making an evolution next step bringing our expertise in microbiology to their expertise from an instrumentation perspective and making an impact to the market that way.
Okay.
Thanks for the question.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Great thanks.
So with the CareFusion acquisition closing next quarter or it seems like it's going to close next quarter when should we start to see some of the costs and revenue synergies leak through? So we said we're – our expectation is that by the end of the first calendar quarter it should close as long as we do not get a – I'll call it a second request from the EC just to make sure you understood what we said a few minutes ago.
And so with that in terms of when do we expect to see the synergies was that the second part of your question? Yes.
So let me jump in on that at the next earnings call what we will do is tell you what the new color looks like on a combined basis for the remainder of 2015.
So we'll address that then.
We have obviously talked about the accretion in the high teens for fiscal year 2016 and again a lot of that driven by cost synergies.
I think Tom addressed it on an earlier question the timing of revenue synergies which were not baked into that sort of more of a longer term synergy.
Yes.
First revenues I think Tom said starting about fiscal year three years out basically is what we said and that’s really driven by product registrations as much as anything else.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from Vijay Kumar with Evercore ISI.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Maybe a big picture question for you.
Historically you guys have been pretty conservative when it comes to cap deployment.
You've been extremely focused on organic the core if you will.
And now that you've done the CareFusion deal you've seen a lot of enthusiasm around the stock with investors cheering your strategy.
As we look forward at this company right is this a new Becton Dickinson how is management thinking about cap deployment? Can you please just contrast sort of the old versus the new strategy if you will? Well I would say that we move from a phase of being primarily tuck-in acquisition building our acquisition capabilities but at the same time being strategy driven and when that strategy calls for a larger acquisition that made sense both strategically and financially we did it.
And that is still the way we think about things.
It has to have attractive returns and it has to have a clear and compelling strategy that hasn’t changed it all.
And so as we do this we'll continue to build our capabilities.
We have gone through a large integration process.
We'll step – we always – we'll continue to step back and look at the corporate strategy and look at what is the next logical move.
And that could be a series of tuck-in so something somewhat larger.
But right now we are focused on CareFusion getting that integrated and getting both the cost and the revenue synergies as we look forward.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Doug Schenkel with Cowen and Company.
Hey good morning guys.
So I want to go back to I think what was really the very first question in the Q&amp;A session.
FX and revenue growth was much better than consensus in the first quarter and it was strong across all businesses not just diagnostics and flu.
It was broader than that.
And yet it looks like your revenue guidance for medical and biosciences was unchanged really all it looks like you did was bump up diagnostics.
And this seems pretty conservative relative to your tone and certainly the balance Q1 beat.
Keeping in mind running off a few things off the top of my head I mean women's health should presumably return to growth over the course of the year as you annualize the account loss.
It seems like China momentum if anything's building in really all segments based on your prepared remarks there was some timing dynamics that actually seemed to push some revenue out of Q1 into the balance of the year and you clearly have a good pipeline of products.
So I'm just wondering what's behind this? Should we view this as a continuation of your practice of being conservative with guidance increases earlier in the year along the lines of what we've seen the last couple years? Is it about an uncertain macro environment? Just trying to dig in here.
And then I guess related to that the stronger than expected performance we've seen in the last couple quarters has that allowed you to accelerate some of the investment that you need to make as you head into the CareFusion deal? Thank you.
So starting with your last part of your question I think our investments are really on track with what we expected for CareFusion and other things that we're pursuing within the company whether it’s GenCell on the Life Science side or in Intelliport or whatever.
And so that really remains on track.
Now in terms of the – absolutely we feel good about the first quarter and how it went.
We didn’t change the bioscience guidance because of the issue that Linda was putting on the table which was what's happening in Japan with research spending being I think it was 3.5% somewhere around there approximately.
And so we're going to have a tough compare in the back half of the year in biosciences.
Good performance improving performance but from a market standpoint internationally that’s going to impact us.
So that’s why we didn’t change it there.
Diagnostics we did and I would say on medical and Tom can comment this we are pretty much where we expected to be.
It was strong and there was some puts and takes within that.
And so we are encouraged about the remainder of the year but we though 5 was about right do you have any comments you'd want to make on medical.
Hi Doug.
This is Tom.
I think obviously in the quarter we were at 4.2% growth versus our guidance for the full year of 4.5 to 5.
So obviously weren’t looking to raise from there.
But we are confident that we were expecting a slightly lighter first quarter its well within our expectations.
We knew after a very strong performance in Q4 in pharma systems we are expecting some lighter ordering patterns in Q1 and a big higher year comparison in diabetes care.
And so our Q1 performance is right in line with our expectation and it does reinforce our confidence and our full year guidance so for the medical segment.
Thank you.
Your next question comes… Do you have anything else you'd like to add? Maybe just one other comment Doug on the Life Sciences side for Biosciences in particular which is our competitor in Western Europe and particular we had a pretty strong first quarter sorry light first quarter last year.
So we're working off a weak competitor ourselves.
So one last I like to we saw a good performance across all of emerging markets.
We're watching what happens in Brazil and whether that situation changes.
And the reason I put it on the table is because we've seen good performance but we're reading about some of our peer companies which are not doing as well.
So we're watching it and I think we've got a good organization.
We're on top of it but that was another part of our thinking.
Thank you.
Your next comes from Rich Newitter with Leerink.
Hi thanks for taking the questions.
Just going back to cervical path testing it sounds like your comments relative to a competitor a little bit more conservative about the market outlook.
They seemed reluctant to call it bottom but things have improved the declines have gotten less bad.
And they also called out market share gains.
So I'm wondering if you can maybe help parse that out a bit.
Do you think the market may be – the margin is getting close to a bottom anything on market share? Sure.
Linda will take that.
So thanks Rich.
So as we commented earlier we see about 70% of the market now having transition to interval testing.
So continued impact of that and we also are seeing specific to the US market some competitive loss occurring on that side and again ex-US very strong performance on the platform.
So with 70% it’s difficult to say does that finish off at 85% to where that goes.
There probably would be some people who never make the change.
So we're thinking it’s at least another year before we see the market flatten out.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Glenn Novarro with RBC Capital.
Hi good morning guys.
On safety two questions here.
In the US I think you called out a tough comp.
So maybe talk about how you see safety playing out for the rest of the year? And then outside the US you called out very strong emerging markets in the quarter.
Can you talk about how Europe performed in the quarter and your outlook for Europe for the rest of the year? Thank you.
Sure.
So US safety and I think that’s what you are referring to was down a little bit but there was a product line that it was SSI it was an acquisition it was all reported in the US last year and now we're reporting it in each of the regions where it sold.
So that was the impact year-on-year.
Otherwise you're really seeing no change in US safety sales.
And Tom maybe you want to comment on safety sales outside the US and what you're seeing? Sure.
So we were basically flat in the US when you take that reclassification and Glenn you'll see that continue to annualize that effect in the US for the next couple of quarters.
It will be – that re-class will be out like Q4 but you will see that have a slight drag on the US safety reported numbers for the next two quarters as well.
Internationally we were really pleased with 16.1% international safety growth really driven by very strong performance in emerging markets.
We continue to grow into the double-digits really led by Asia and Latin America.
And we're seeing good progress and continued interest in partnering in the number of emerging countries who continue to improve the safety of their healthcare worker.
So continued strong trajectory in emerging market performance there.
So in Europe it was 0.9% growth but it was all driven by unfavorable timing in the pharma systems business.
The usual lumpiness we see within that business anything else you want to comment on… Life Science strong and med surg but really what we saw in pharma systems which we expected was this ordering pattern and that really hit you in Western Europe.
So underlying we're releasing no change.
And as expected.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Larry Keusch with Raymond James.
Just a couple quick ones for you.
Could you just I'll rattle them off.
How much was the R&amp;D tax credit worth within the tax rate? And then secondly can you remind us of resins how much of that was in cost of goods just trying to get a sense of magnitude of your resin spend.
On the last one in terms of resins about $260 million and so again as you think about that oil prices declined about 40%.
We see resin prices about a third of that rate and only about a half of it gets impacted because of the capital rolling [ph] inventory.
The first part of the question was… The tax credit the R&amp;D tax credit? On tax credit.
So as we had said on the last call that if the R&amp;D tax credit was enacted we would be at the low end of our guidance range for the year which is the way to think about that towards the low end.
Because if you really look at what they did they didn’t do it the way they had done in the past and extended out for this full year.
We only re-enacted it through offers fiscal quarter December 31st of last year so you got to catch up but you didn’t get the benefit of the next three quarters.
But even with that it had a good impact in bringing us towards the low end of our tax rate range which to remind you was 21.5 and 22.5.
So things towards the low end of that tax rate primarily driven by the R&amp;D tax credit enactment.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Brian Weinstein with William Blair.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for sneaking me in here.
With respect to your Veritor product you've called it out a couple of times on these calls as being particularly strong on placements.
Obviously has an approval on the molecular side for a CLIA waiver.
Can you talk about the potential impact from that product launch and your general thoughts about the need for a molecular product in the point of care or CLIA waived chatting? Sure.
Alberto will take that.
Yes.
We are seeing the new product potentially over time impacted more on the hospital segment than in the point-of-care and retail segments where we are particularly strong in.
So that will be a little bit of a transition over time in certain segments of the market.
Okay.
How we're doing.
Any more questions? Your next question comes from Mark Novarro with Canaccord Genuity.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Maybe just to follow up on that flu question.
Obviously flu prevalence was significant in the quarter and continues to trend above last year's levels.
What was your flu revenue in the quarter and can you comment on what you're seeing presently in the competitive environment? And finally to what extent do you think your investment in smart device features can potentially accelerate your run rate somewhere above 1000 per quarter? So Alberto why don’t you comment on what you're seeing competitively how you see importance of the smart features the connectivity and what not and then I think we'll take a look at what the flu sales were.
Yes.
In terms of the competitive environment about a third of our growth versus prior year is driven by share gains and most it’s the [indiscernible] that we're seeing the gains.
In terms of our next generation Veritor system it will have connectivity associated with it which will be a very positive obviously from a physician emphasis but also integrated delivering networks so they can actually get a better sense of the quality and the compliance of the flu.
In addition to that we'll have other features like bar coding and other capabilities so we can develop future assays on the platform.
The flu contributed about 80 basis points to our growth if I remember right Chris.
So if you translate that to the year its worth about 20 basis points or so based on where we are today.
Thank you.
Our final question is coming from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Hey thanks for the follow up.
I just wanted to go back to the CareFusion deal and I wanted to get your thoughts on what you consider to be the underlying sustainable growth rate of that business.
How you're looking at that and integrating.
I think one of the other questions had mentioned about a 5% top line growth.
And I'm just wondering if that's what you are expecting from that franchise and how to think about that.
Thanks.
So when we value the deal we did not value it at a 5% growth rate we are looking more at it underlying growth rate that was about 3.5%.
and what we said is the challenge over the long-term based on the work that Tom was describing was that BD is about a 5% grower as we're seeing on the call today and the work would be try to accelerate their growth rate up to forward into the 5%.
But we didn’t start out with saying it’s a 5% grower that is the work that we're doing and that would be a goal that we would have and we're working to try to put those plans in place we'll be dependent on the three buckets that Tom talked about over time the geographic expansion and we're very also excited about long run how we leverage smart works and what other applications could be put on that.
Tom do you have anything else you want to add to that? Maybe the only thing to add is as Vince mentioned I think we see them in at 3 3.5% underlying growth rate.
We certainly recognize that’s primarily based on being a US company which is very comparable or even slightly better than our US base growth rate.
That’s of course we're 60% international they will be less than 25% we're 25% emerging market they are less than 10% emerging market.
And so right that that 3.5% underlying primarily US business we see an opportunity to really accelerate that based on international growth opportunities and continue to expand that as a percentage of the total sales.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Vince Forlenza for any additional or closing remark.
Well thank you very much for your participation today.
We look forward to updating you as we move closer to the CareFusion acquisition.
We are very excited about the start of the year and the strong start in core business and thank you very much for joining us.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time.
And have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's second fiscal quarter 2015 earnings call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through May 14 2015 on the Investors page of the BD.com website or by phone at 800-585-8367 for domestic calls and area code 404-537-3406 for international calls using confirmation number 21629817.
I would like to inform all parties that your lines have been placed in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer segment.
Beginning today's call is Miss Monique Dolecki Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin.
Thank you Christy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our second fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at BD.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our second fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss the non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the BD.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are Chris Reidy Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Administration; Bill Kozy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Tom Polen Executive Vice President of BD Medical; and Linda Tharby Executive Vice President of BD Life Sciences.
This quarter we recorded certain pre-tax adjustments which primarily reflect acquisition-related charges and financing charges.
Details of these and other smaller charges can be found in press release attachments or the appendix of the Investor Relations slides.
As a reminder our second quarter results are on a standalone basis and represent only BD.
We will report combined BD-CareFusion results beginning with the third quarter of fiscal year 2015.
In preparation for the newly combined company or new co-reporting we have also provided slides which illustrate changes to our P&amp;L our new reportable segments and the way we will report our geographies going forward.
In addition we have also provided pro forma historical revenue information on a combined basis consistent with our new reporting structure.
They can also be found in the appendix of the Investor Relations slides.
Also for the purposes of today's call we will provide guidance for BD as a standalone company for the balance of fiscal year 2015 in addition to the combined BD-CareFusion outlook.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
As we stated in our press release we are proud of our final standalone quarter as we welcome CareFusion to BD.
Our results this quarter highlight our consistent performance and the benefit of our diverse geographic and product portfolio.
We delivered solid revenue and EPS growth which were in line with our expectations.
Year-to-date we delivered revenue growth of 5.1% and adjusted EPS growth of 11.6% which reflects a growth profile consistent with our external commitments and long-term goals.
As you already know we officially consummated the acquisition of CareFusion on March 17.
This transaction significantly advances our strategy in the Medical segment and accelerates our evolution into a customer-focused provider of complete solutions.
Integration activities are progressing as planned and the CareFusion business performance to date is mostly in line with our expectations.
Today we're pleased to share our financial outlook on a combined basis.
We are forecasting solid revenue and EPS growth consistent with our expectations and with high level qualitative guidance we've provided over the past several months.
On an annualized basis we expect pro forma organic revenue growth of about 4.5%.
We expect adjusted earnings per share to be between $7 and $7.10 which represents growth of about 19% to 20%.
On slide five we've outlined the guidance for BD on a standalone basis the impact of CareFusion for the remainder of our fiscal year and summarized the total guidance for our combined company.
As you can see we continue to expect BD on a standalone basis to grow at about 5% on the top line and about 9% to 10% on the bottom line.
The acquisition of CareFusion will add 23% to 24% accretion to revenues and about 10% accretion to earnings.
This results in revenue growth of 28% to 29% and earnings growth of about 19% to 20% for the total fiscal year.
On a pro forma annual basis which sums the organic results of both companies we estimate BD and CareFusion's organic revenue growth would be about 4.5%.
These financial metrics are consistent with our previously communicated high teens earnings accretion in fiscal year 2016.
We're also reaffirming our commitment to deliver $250 million of cost synergies which will be fully realized in fiscal year 2018.
We will continue to update you as we make progress.
Now I'd like to turn things over to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our second quarter financial performance and our fiscal year 2015 guidance.
Thanks Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by discussing our second quarter revenue and EPS results as well as the key financial highlights for the quarter.
Total company revenues was solid increasing by 4.9%.
Fully diluted adjusted EPS came in at $1.61 growing at 8.2% over the prior year reflecting a difficult comparison to the prior year period as expected.
As Vince mentioned earlier our results this quarter highlight our consistent performance and the benefit of our diverse geographic and product portfolio.
We experienced solid growth in both our Medical and Life Science segments.
We also saw continued strength in safety-engineered products.
We saw some softness in emerging markets mainly due to timing issues.
Conversely growth in the U.S.
was strong and I'll provide more color on these items in just a moment.
To summarize we feel very good about the final standalone quarter and the year-to-date results.
Our results year-to-date give us the confidence to reaffirm guidance for BD on a standalone basis.
We expect to continue to deliver a very consistent growth profile of 5% on the top line and 9% to 10% on the bottom line.
We're also pleased to announce that we've already begun to deleverage the debt associated with the acquisition of CareFusion paying down $650 million of the term loan at the end of April.
I'll provide more explicit guidance details for BD and CareFusion later in my remarks.
Moving on to slide eight I'll review our second quarter revenue growth by segment on a currency-neutral basis.
Organic revenue growth was 4.9% for the total company.
The impact of price erosion was about 10 basis points in the quarter.
Year-to-date pricing is better than our expectations but we are maintaining our full-year guidance of about 30 basis points of pressure.
BD Medical's second quarter revenues increased 5.4%.
Growth in this segment was primarily driven by our Medical Surgical Systems unit.
Medical Surgical growth was 7.5% which reflects strong international safety sales.
Growth in Diabetes Care was 4.1% reflecting solid growth of pen needles partially offset by an unfavorable comparison to the prior year period.
Pharmaceutical Systems growth of 2.6% also reflects an unfavorable comparison to the prior year period as expected.
BD Life Sciences second quarter revenues increased 4.4% primarily driven by Diagnostic Systems and growth in Preanalytical Systems.
Diagnostics Systems' growth of 7.8% was led by strong clinical microbiology sales.
We also continue to see good traction with the BD MAX platform internationally where we expanded our menu offering.
Preanalytical Systems' growth of 4.5% was driven by safety-engineered products and emerging markets.
Biosciences revenue growth was 0.8% in the second quarter with strong instrument growth in U.S.
and Western Europe.
This was unfavorably impacted by the timing of government funding in Japan as we expected and communicated to you on our previous earnings call.
Funding has been approved and we expect growth to normalize by the end of the fiscal year.
Moving to slide nine I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the second quarter.
Softer growth in our International business was supplemented by strong growth in the U.S.
BD's reported U.S.
revenues increased 4.5% primarily driven by strength in Medical Surgical Systems Diagnostic Systems and Biosciences.
We view the environment in the U.S.
as stable to improving slightly.
Revenue in our U.S.
Medical segment increased by 3%.
This was driven by our Medical Surgical Systems business which benefited from strong growth in our flesh (10:26) product line.
The Diabetes Care and Pharmaceutical System units were partly impacted by the aforementioned difficult comparison to the prior year.
The U.S.
Life Sciences segment grew by 6.1%.
This reflects strong growth in Diagnostic Systems of 7.5% driven by clinical microbiology sales.
Biosciences growth of 7.7% was driven by strong research reagent and instrument sales.
Moving on to International revenues grew 5.2% currency-neutral.
Medical segment grew 6.9% reflecting strong growth across the business and in international safety sales.
The Life Sciences segment grew 3.2% reflecting very strong growth in Diagnostic Systems of 8.1%.
This was partially offset by the aforementioned impact of the timing of government funding in Japan in Biosciences.
On slide 10 you will see that emerging markets accounted for approximately 25.2% of our total revenues.
Emerging market revenues grew 7.6% currency-neutral over the prior year bringing our total growth year-to-date to 10%.
In the second quarter emerging market revenue growth was negatively impacted by the timing of orders in China as well as in EMA.
We also experienced a deceleration of growth in Brazil due to a slowing in government orders as we expected.
We indicated to you on our first quarter earnings call that we would keep an eye on Brazil given the macroeconomic conditions there.
We expect our growth in that region to improve in the second half of our fiscal year.
For the total year we expect growth in emerging markets of about 10% with growth in China expected to be in the 18% to 19% range.
Safety revenues grew 10.8% in emerging markets due to the aforementioned items in China and Brazil.
Moving to global safety on slide 11.
Currency-neutral sales increased 8.7% and grew to $550 million in the quarter.
Safety revenues in the U.S.
grew 2.2% while International sales grew 16.3% currency-neutral.
Medical safety growth was 11.6% with strong international growth driven by all three businesses.
Life Science safety growth was 5.8% in the quarter.
Turning to slide 12 and our gross profit margin for the second quarter.
On a performance basis margin expansion was driven by favorable product mix and continuous improvement initiatives.
These contributions were slightly offset by higher pension expenses and other items.
Raw materials were about flat in the quarter.
Also you will see that currency did not have an impact on gross profit.
This was driven by translation adjustments recognized in the quarter due to the timing of inventory movements otherwise known as profit and inventory.
Slide 13 recaps the second quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency-neutral results on an adjusted basis.
As we discussed revenue and GP were in line with our expectations.
SSG&amp;A increased about 4.5% which reflects increased investments in emerging markets higher pension expense and an unfavorable comparison to the prior year.
R&amp;D increased 3.7%.
This remains in line with our expectations at 6.3% of revenues as we continue to invest in new product development and innovation.
Operating income grew 6.5% in the quarter reflecting solid P&amp;L leverage.
Our tax rate declined by 90 basis points which benefited from favorable geographic mix.
In the quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.61 which is an 8.2% increase versus the prior year reflecting a difficult comparison to the prior year period.
On slide 15 I'd like to provide a little more color on the revenue growth phasing for BD and CareFusion which operated on different fiscal years.
Most of you may already be familiar with CareFusion's publicly disclosed fiscal year 2015 revenue growth guidance of 5% to 7%.
As illustrated the results for CareFusion's fiscal year 2015 are in line with that guidance which we expect to land at about 6%.
We expect a revenue decline in CareFusion's fourth fiscal quarter of 5% to 7% due to a very tough comparison versus the prior year period in the infusion business which grew at about 40%.
Growth is also unfavorably impacted by a voluntary recall on the Respiratory Solutions business which I'll touch on in just a moment.
We expect growth to normalize in CareFusion's first fiscal quarter of 2016 and return to 3% to 5%.
This will result in BD's organic revenues growing 1% to 2% in the third quarter and about 4% to 5% in the fourth quarter driving rateable earnings in the back half of the year.
As Vince and I mentioned earlier BD has maintained a consistent revenue growth profile of about 5% which we expect to continue for the balance of BD's fiscal year.
To summarize and to arrive at BD's NewCo organic revenue growth we have combined BD's full fiscal year with CareFusion's second quarter and third quarter and our expectations of CareFusion's fourth quarter and for what would have been their first quarter of fiscal year 2016.
The result is pro forma organic revenue growth of approximately 4.5%.
For transparency we'd like to take a moment to provide some color on CareFusion's third quarter of fiscal year 2015.
Tomorrow we will issue our 10-Q.
The filing will show revenues net income and earnings per share for BD and CareFusion for the period ending March 31.
Due to the numerous adjustments for both companies there will be limited visibility into CareFusion's underlying business performance in their third fiscal quarter.
While we do not plan to discuss their third quarter results at length we wanted to share some of the key insights into the business performance in the quarter.
CareFusion's revenue growth was solid at 5.4% currency neutral.
Revenue growth was impacted by about 240 basis points from unfavorable currency translation.
While CareFusion has a relatively small international presence FX has been very volatile and has negatively impacted their results.
There are a number of items that negatively impacted operating margin in the quarter which we estimate would have been about 18% to 19% of revenues on an underlying basis or at about 19.5% year-to-date.
Prior to our completion of the acquisition CareFusion recorded a charge related to a recall in Respiratory Solutions.
We are anticipating lost revenues in addition to the remediation costs associated with this recall.
This was not contemplated in our original forecast for CareFusion and has an unfavorable impact of about $0.05 to earnings per share for BD's fiscal year.
We expect to be able to start shipping again by the end of our fiscal year.
On the dispensing side of CareFusion's business we are pleased with the traction of Pyxis ES.
As the CareFusion management team indicated previously there is a healthy demand for this product which also comes with a lengthier implementation process.
This is in line with our expectations.
And due to the more complex implementation process there has been and will continue to be a more significant investment of resources dedicated to Pyxis ES.
CareFusion's third quarter results reflect a more significant investment here in addition to lower revenue growth which was impacted by a pull-forward into the second quarter.
On the infusion side of the business CareFusion delivered strong results as the team worked to continue to install the record number of committed contracts it had coming into the quarter as well as to realize the benefit of the strong capital placements it had over last year.
As CareFusion's previous management team shared with you strong capital placements in the infusion business results in pressure on the overall company's margins in the short term.
We expect to see higher margin consumables in the long run.
Lastly we are pleased with the performance in the former procedural solutions business which lacked the vital signs acquisition last quarter and continues to leverage its clinically differentiated product portfolio.
As a reminder these businesses will be reported in BD's new reporting structure going forward.
Now moving on to slide 16 there are a number of moving parts that impact earnings per share in fiscal year 2015.
For modeling purposes and to ensure consistency I'd like to provide more color on EPS guidance.
Starting with BD's legacy business adjusted earnings per share for fiscal year 2014 were $6.50.
In fiscal year 2015 we expect to grow earnings by about 9% to 10% on an underlying basis.
This is very consistent with the earnings growth profile we've communicated for some time.
The unfavorable impact of foreign currency is about 10% which is an incremental 100-basis point headwind to the guidance we provided in February.
This contemplates a euro-to-dollar exchange ratio of about $1.11 and brings our current adjusted earnings per share to $6.43 to $6.50.
In addition we expect underlying currency-neutral accretion from the CareFusion acquisition of about 11%.
As I just mentioned we also have an unfavorable impact from the Respiratory recall of about $0.05.
From an investment standpoint we plan to accelerate our product registration process and international markets and this is dilutive to earnings by $0.02.
The net of these items results in 10% accretion.
Due to the volatility of FX movements we anticipate an additional currency headwind to CareFusion's earnings of about 100 basis points.
This results in NewCo earnings of $7 to $7.10 or growth of 19% to 20% on a currency-neutral basis.
While it's still too premature to talk in detail about fiscal year 2016 we think that it's important to be clear on the new baseline in which to calculate future earnings for BD.
As I just mentioned our new fiscal year 2015 EPS base for BD standalone is $6.43 to $6.50.
Starting from this point you can apply BD's traditional earnings growth profile of about 10% and then add our guidance of high-teens earnings accretion on top of that.
We hope this provides more clarity around the base earnings assumption to help in calculating the accretion from the transaction.
Another important element to note is that while we expect to deliver about 10% FX and accretion in fiscal year 2015 we are reaffirming our guidance of high teens accretion of fiscal year 2016.
Some of the anticipated accretion benefits have been accelerated into this fiscal year as we're able to reduce duplicative public company costs quickly.
From a phasing perspective this means that we expect to achieve approximately $40 to $50 million in synergies in fiscal year 2015 with the balance being fairly rateable.
We are committed to fully realizing $250 million in cost synergies in fiscal year 2018 but as Vince mentioned earlier we will update you on our synergy expectations as we make progress.
Now turning to slide 17 I'd like to walk you through the additional elements of our guidance for the full fiscal year 2015.
We expect revenue growth for NewCo to be 28% to 29% with BD Medical growing at 48% to 49% and Life Sciences growing at about 5%.
Gross profit as a percentage of revenue is expected to be approximately 52% to 52.5%.
BD and CareFusion have similar gross margin profiles when reclassifying certain items consistent with BD's legacy reporting structure.
As expected we do not anticipate material incremental synergy improvement in GP in fiscal year 2015 beyond the operational efficiencies in the company's base plans.
SSG&amp;A is expected to be about 25%.
The dilutive effect of CareFusion's SSG&amp;A profile is offset by our expected synergies resulting in a spend profile similar to BD's historical average.
As I just mentioned we continue to see a significant opportunity leveraging our global infrastructure to sell CareFusion's products and we are accelerating our product registration process in international markets.
We expect our R&amp;D investment to be in line with fiscal year 2014 at about 6% of revenues.
As a new company we will continue to invest in new products and platforms including incremental R&amp;D investments in emerging markets.
As a result of the items I just detailed operating margin is expected to be between 20.5% and 21% of revenues.
Similar to SSG&amp;A the dilutive impact of Carefusion's margin is offset by synergy achievement as we anticipate seeing an acceleration of operating margin expansion in the back half of this fiscal year.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency and pension expense we expect our underlying operating margin to improve by about 60 basis points to 80 basis points for the total fiscal year.
As you can see we expect our tax rate to be between 23% and 24% with a rate of 21.2% in the first half of BD's fiscal year and a higher blended tax rate for the second half of the year.
This reflects a new geographical mix of profits.
Please keep in mind this higher tax rate is reflective of the six-month impact from CareFusion.
Next while we normally don't provide guidance for these line items for clarity and for consistency we anticipate Interest/Other to be about $250 million and an average fully diluted share count to be 207 million for fiscal year 2015.
In fiscal year 2016 we're expecting an average fully diluted share count of $218 million.
In a sizable acquisition like this the success of the integration is of critical importance.
We are very comfortable that we are off to a great start and feel confident in our ability to deliver on the financial guidance we provided.
Of course we'll continue to keep you updated as we move forward.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince who will provide a brief update on our progress around our key initiatives.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Chris.
Moving on to slide 19 I would like to review the program and product launches in our Medical segment.
As we announced in March we closed our acquisition of CRISI Medical Systems following FDA approval for Intelliport.
It gives BD access to the injection safety market with a differentiated platform that we believe when combined with our new CareFusion portfolio will significantly enhance our growing end-to-end I.V.
medication safety offering.
Also we recently received 510(k) clearance on our Infusion – Insulin Infusion Sets.
We continue to expect a product launch in fiscal year 2016.
This product will improve the consistency of insulin delivery simplify the user's experience and it increase a patient's overall satisfaction with insulin pumping.
Turning to slide 20 you will see the various product launches in Life Sciences.
Within the Diagnostics business our BD MAX molecular instrument continues to gain traction with customers in Western Europe where our expanded menu is enabling increased placements.
We remain focused on menu expansion on that platform and in the second quarter we launched the new CE-marked GC/CT and GC/CT Trich assays on the instrument.
Within Biosciences we continued to anticipate the launch of two additional BD Horizon Dyes based on the Sirigen technology.
As we have been sharing with you these dyes are enabling significant gains in multiparameter flow cytometry analysis.
We also anticipate the launch of two instruments the X-14 high-parameter multi-color research instrument and the BD FACSVia clinical instrument aimed to enable increased market adoption in emerging markets particularly in China.
In addition to these new product launches we are also focused on successful commercial launches of our many recently launched products.
As you can see we continue to have strong opportunities in our pipeline and we look forward to sharing our progress with you throughout the year.
On slide 21 before we open the call to questions I would like to reiterate the key messages from our presentation today.
First we're proud of our final stand-alone quarter.
We have built a strong foundation for future growth while delivering on our financial and operational goals.
Second we continue to evolve into a customer-focused provider of complete solutions.
The combination of the two companies will further enable us to deliver end-to-end solutions from drug preparation through dispensing and administration that increase efficiencies reduce medication errors and improve patient safety in both hospitals and pharmacies.
Based on our visits with customers early feedback has been extremely positive as they see the value we can deliver by improving both cost and outcomes.
We very much look forward to growing our business together with CareFusion.
Third we are pleased with our solid NewCo financial performance.
Given our proven track record of success we are confident in our ability to integrate this sizable acquisition.
We believe we can continue to deliver on our commitments and further leverage our capabilities as we strengthen this new company.
Finally we are well-positioned for continued success in fiscal year 2015 and beyond.
We look forward to the future with confidence.
Thank you.
We will now open the call to questions.
Thank you.
The floor is now open for questions.
(Operator instructions).
Thank you.
Our first question is coming from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
I was trying to - Good morning David.
I'm just trying to slip in two quick ones here.
I apologize.
The first one thanks for the earnings bridge you provided into 2016.
They're just for clarity I think in light of some other competitive reports.
If you think about fiscal 2016 and the bridge you provide it kind of sticks you in sort of the mid-$8s mid-$8 range for fiscal 2016.
I just wondered if you comment on whether that's a reasonable range.
And my second question is just digging in deeper Vince on CareFusion you have two specific elements.
You talked on the deal announcement about Pyxis and the tailwind of Pyxis.
Can you talk about in light of the sequential change in growth rates how you're thinking about that Pyxis tailwind across multiple quarters and any updated thoughts on the backlog? And then on the Respiratory recall are we still talking about NV and (30:21) ReVel? And maybe you could quantify perhaps the impact on revs or growth that that recall is having.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let's do the CareFusion side first.
And what I would say and then I'll ask Tom to comment is we really don't have any change in our perspective on the growth rate around Pyxis.
We see solid customer demand.
We see a continued strong backlog.
The thing was quite lumpy as we went through the transition in terms of ownership but in terms of fundamental demand I don't think we don't see any changes.
Tom? Hi David.
This is Tom Polen.
Certainly on Pyxis we still are at a record high in terms of the backlog itself.
And I think as prior management had talked about in CareFusion the insulation is a more complex insulation than the predecessor product.
And now that we own CareFusion we're very very focused on driving forward to improve our ability to install the systems in a fast and more efficient manner.
And so a lot of those core BD process improvement strengths we actually have now our Lean and Six Sigma teams engaging very deeply with that ES organization to help lean that out and hopefully shorten that cycle time as we move forward.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> David on the 2016 I think that's why on chart 16 we gave the basis of $6.43 to $6.50 and then you would grow that at around the 10% that we normally guide to and then grow that by the high-teens accretion and it puts you right into that range that you mentioned in the mid-$8s.
So I think we're comfortable with that.
But what I would point out is that there's still models out there that aren't getting the number of shares right and so that's why we actually gave the 16 shares of the $218 million.
I'd also caution on tax rate the tax rate we're giving for 23% to 24% this year only has the 27% to 29% CareFusion impact for half a year.
So when you annualize that next year you get another tick-up or so of a percent in the tax rate.
So I'd caution on that.
And then interest expense is always difficult to calculate going forward.
So we gave the base for this year and should be able to use that going forward.
So those are the three that I think a number of models out there aren't getting right but in terms of the general neighborhood it's right on.
So I'll turn it back over to Tom and he'll come back to the recall for you David.
Hi David.
This is Tom.
So the recall is not on ReVel it's on AVEA.
And just maybe a little bit of comments on that further to those that Chris and Vincent made.
So prior to completion of the acquisition CareFusion had initiated the process for that AVEA ventilator recall.
We've since notified the FDA and applicable customers.
We're not aware of any patient injuries resulting from the defect and we're doing this proactively.
As Chris mentioned a liability was recorded on the CareFusion opening balance sheet for the cost to remediate.
We have identified the root cause we're actively handling the remediation.
However during that remediation period we're going to be unable to ship the new AVEA ventilators for a period of time here in the second half.
We do expect to begin re-shipping this summer and so we'll see some sales growth headwind in that business unit while that product's on hold which will alleviate as we begin to ship again in the second half of this fiscal year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay thanks Tom.
Thanks David.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Mike.
Can you hear me okay? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We can now.
Now we can yeah Mike.
Perfect.
I'm sorry.
So I've got a long list of questions but I'm going to try to narrow it down.
So let me start with the CareFusion portfolio.
The ventilator business is giving you – or at least the Respiratory business is giving you a little bit of a headache with the recall.
But can you just talk more broadly how you're thinking about some of those assets Respiratory and other some of the lower margin consumable pieces within the CareFusion portfolio and whether those will stay with the company longer term? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Mike.
So as we previously said we're going through a strategic review process with those businesses.
We've actually tied that process into our normal strategic planning process now which I think you're familiar with.
It goes on basically during the summer and wraps up then.
So we're working hard to get to a decision.
We want to go through this and look at it both strategically and financially in terms of the value that we can create.
And so we want to get to answers over the next few months.
We do see some opportunities in those businesses so we want to be thoughtful about this but we haven't made a decision yet.
Okay.
It sounded like from the BD side that growth actually should get better in the second half of the fiscal year.
Japan and the Biosciences business sound like it will start to improve off of what was obviously a very difficult quarter for that piece.
The Latin American business sounded like it was going to get better China sounded like it was going to get better.
So are there any offsets that we should be aware of relative to what was basically a bunch of positive comments for the second half relative to the second quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't think there's any significant negatives Mike that we're talking about.
We do think that Mexico is going to get a little better.
I think that getting into a little bit more detail that we're not expecting Brazil to get better.
We expect that to be continued softness for the balance of the year.
You're right about Japan coming back because we know that the funding has been released in Japan.
So we're confident on that piece.
And there was coming back to China we do expect that was really timing within the quarter and China's gonna grow around what 19% or so Chris if I remember 18% to 19%? So yeah I would say that's a pretty good picture.
For the most part most of those items that you talked about we contemplated in the last call and pointed towards.
I think the only watch-out is still Brazil.
We do expect that to rebound a little bit based on timing of orders but as you know the economic environment there is still under a lot of pressure.
So that's still a watch-out.
Okay.
And then two more real quick for you Chris.
So one the accelerated paydown of some of the debt is positive and it looks like there's the opportunity for the debt load to reduce faster than what we were originally assuming so could you talk about that? And then second on the pro forma tax rate I just want to push back a little bit.
The BD's pro forma tax rate was basically running at 22% plus or minus.
CareFusion's was coming down through a number of initiatives that they had.
But even if we look backward and assume that their rate stayed where it was you guys shouldn't be at 25% plus.
You guys should be probably more in the 24% to 25% range before any tax strategies.
So can you just talk a little bit about that and whether there's some conservatism there on the guidance? Thanks.
Sure.
So let me address that piece first.
That's what I was implying.
We gave guidance for the remainder of this year of 23% to 24%.
And the point I made that next year they still are at 27% to 29% based on their own previous guidance.
And so when you put the full weight of that in next year you are in that range of 24% to 25%.
So I didn't mean to imply we're over 25% but it's a little bit up from the 2015 guidance that we gave of 23% to 24% just based on the weighting.
But that brings you to the zone that you talked about.
In terms of the paydown of the debt this was in line with what our expectations were as we described if you recall in 8-K in November we talked about that.
And what we were guiding to is committing to be being below 3 times leverage within a couple of years.
And so the $650 million of paydown was right in line with that.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Mike.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Roman of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
I wanted to start on the BD Diagnostics business which showed very strong performance in the quarter particularly in the U.S.
And I was hoping you could go into just a little bit more details into the underlying drivers there and what we're seeing from some of the new product launches that you introduced a number of years ago whether it's Veritor or BD MAX or something going on in the underlying business.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I'll turn it over to Linda Tharby.
Good morning David.
So yes good strength in our business in the U.S.
That was driven by our core blood culture business so a number of placements there and increased share position and the pull-through on that.
And also as you noted on our flu business continued to gain share in both our Veritor platform and then a strong early flu season which we saw the tail on that in the second quarter.
Thank you.
Your next question - President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So it was really core microbiology that drove it.
Thank you David.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Brian Weinstein of William Blair.
Thanks for taking my question.
Vince you had mentioned some acceleration in spending for product registrations.
Maybe Tom can speak a little bit to specific products that you're talking about and does this change the timing of expected revenue synergies that might come from those products? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Tom you want to talk to that? Yeah.
Hey Brian.
This is Tom.
We're specifically focused right now on – we've talked a lot about China obviously being a high area of interest for us from a synergy perspective.
And so that's right now the primary area that we're focused on registrations in.
There are other geographies.
So as we have shared in the past we're looking at -- the revenue synergy opportunities being more in the 2017-plus window.
And as you know registrations in China typically can be up to a two-year process.
And so we don't see that changing but we see us just getting a jump start on moving forward with what we've already shared.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Brian.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Brandon Couillard of Jeffries.
Thank you.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Quick one for Chris.
In terms of the operating cash flow outlook for the year are there any discrete cash outlays related to the acquisition to be aware of either in the back half or as it relates to next year? I wouldn't say anything specific to point to.
Obviously we have impacts of the cost that we're driving to get synergies so that's obviously cash but that's one of the reasons why we wanted to give some guidance on what the combined company was.
And that would be about $2.1 billion on that NewCo basis for the remainder of the year.
If you remember we were at about $1.85 billion and about half of the CareFusion operating cash flow runs around $250 million or thereabout.
So on a combined basis so nothing really to point to there.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Rick Wise of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everybody.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Rick.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Maybe just to start with a bigger picture question Vince for you just reflecting again on the strategic rationale for CareFusion.
I know it's early in the process but Vince do you feel like you're seeing any early indications that putting CareFusion in Becton is having just an impact on the kinds of conversations you're having with hospitals about your concept of continuum of care? I'm asking less about new business one but is it changing conversations? Do you feel more optimistic that it's going to change your dialogue with these customers? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Rick absolutely.
I had the opportunity to go out in the field and I visited quite a few customers.
In fact we had a number of people from the management team out with CareFusion and BD sales reps.
And I would say it is a – it's a very full and deep conversation around the process.
It's not just about the product.
It's about the integration of that product into the process and the IT components.
And so it's – it is a very different conversation with the management team at these hospitals.
So I was very encouraged by the feedback that I got directly in person from these accounts.
So yeah I would say so.
I feel real good about it.
Tom was out there with me.
He was on a second team and we hit quite a few large customers.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just wanted to I guess talk through – I guess for clarification I guess you mentioned that the U.S.
benefited from – in the Diagnostic business a stronger flu season.
Any way to quantify that from a broader top-line perspective? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think the comment was really back about the previous quarter not so much in this quarter.
Very small in this quarter.
I mean we're talking like $3 million.
So negligible.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Vijay Kumar of Evercore ISI.
Hey guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
So Vince I just want to go back to the earlier question on sort of having this breadth of product portfolio.
I think in your prepared comments you sort of touched upon it.
And we certainly see consolidation being a team within the whole med supplies channel.
Now I'm just curious do you feel like from an assets perspective do you have the right mix of assets? Do you have the right breadth as you go after these larger accounts in a changing healthcare environment? Sort of what are your longer term thoughts on the mix of assets? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I think in terms of the medication management space if you go back and look and remember that chart we showed you about medication management being a $20 billion industry and the breadth that we have across that I think we feel very good about that breadth.
I would say what was new for me in the field was the excitement that combining BD and CareFusion was bringing as the customers saw both the concept of Intelliport and CRISI added to what CareFusion already had.
And so I think with that we're in very good shape in terms of the portfolio.
I think that we're also excited about the small pump from Cesar Medical (46:15).
And including that in the portfolio we see opportunity there.
We do think that we will have to do more work in the long run as we think about expansion in emerging markets.
And as Tom mentioned earlier we've started the whole registration processes for the products that fixed.
But we do believe over the long run it's not so much an asset purchase as it is market development and it is strategic marketing to understand the needs in those areas and how we can drive that further.
Tom would that be consistent with your thinking? Absolutely.
I think one of the other things is maybe Vijay to answer your question around longer term is how we in the longer term leverage now the strength that we have in the hospital and begin to follow that into new care settings that are being driven by payer changes right as patients are moving into lower cost settings.
So we think we have optionalities going forward that maybe we didn't have in the past.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think that's a great point.
Thanks Vijay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Bill Quirk of Piper Jaffray.
Great thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Morning Bill.
So on microbiology we certainly noticed a trend over the past couple of years where we're seeing a relatively dearth of new products coming out of the chemistry and the immunochemistry side of the market.
On the other hand we're seeing a lot of innovation coming out of microbiology broadly speaking.
So can you comment a little bit on the drivers here for BD.
And I guess specifically help us think about how sustainable this increase that you saw in the quarter is maybe over the year and the next couple years.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think Linda can talk to that.
Sure.
So let me maybe handle the second part of the question first which is the sustainability of the growth.
So certainly for the U.S.
market we have been seeing improvements in that platform broadly on our core blood culture business.
bioMérieux had some issues in the front half.
We see them coming out of that now in the back half.
So we will see some stabilization back to more normal market growth rates in the back half.
But more broadly for our microbiology business we have been focused very much on improvements in our ID/AST platforms and also in our lab automation.
So our KIESTRA platform now we're very excited.
We're really starting to see increased placements now in the U.S.
which we'll start to see in the coming year.
So a lot of evolution in the core micro lab that BD is really driving.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
We're just getting started with KIESTRA in the U.
S.
We're just making our first placements.
We think that we have a long way to go as Linda was indicating with lab automation there.
As Linda also indicated we have gained some share in that business because both some competitive difficulties but some new products and new resins we've had out in the marketplace in blood culture.
So we're performing very well in that core business and of course on top of that then we're looking to continue to drive BD MAX and get that menu done but I think the business is doing a good job.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Larry Keusch of Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Wondering if you could just go back into the emerging markets growth which is you pointed out was slower than we'd been seeing in the past.
And I think you called out some timing of orders and some other things.
But I'm wondering if you could kind of dive back into that and help us understand why those businesses particularly China comes back.
And then also just so I understand the gaining of the synergies are you basically saying what's left over the $40 million to $50 million that you get this year what's left over from that out of the $250 million is ratable through fiscal 2018? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Chris why don't you start? Okay let me start with that one.
So the way I would talk about the synergies if you think about the $250 million over a three and a half year period kind of implies $70 million a year and about half of that – and half year would be $35 million.
That's why we're saying we really got a little bit more than that from a ratable standpoint in the initial six months.
But as we look out we see that as more of a pull-forward so the remainder of the next three years kind of gets you to that $250 million on a ratable basis.
Moving to your other question I think that what we were pointing to in the timing particularly in an area like China is the fact that it's not an indication of the underlying growth.
And China's been growing very nicely now as you know for a number of years and we're not seeing a tick-down that's significant particularly on the dollar increase.
Clearly the bigger the base that we have it will have an impact on the growth rate going forward.
But right now we're seeing the China business in that area of 18% to 19% and we wanted to point to the fact that this quarter was an anomaly of order timing.
The same is actually true in EMA where we had some order timing issues and so we wanted to make it clear that that was not systemic.
Now in Brazil a little bit different story.
We had some order timing based on government orders and government tenders but a little bit more of an issue there in terms of the economic environment.
But we do expect that to come back a little bit in our second half of the year but not as robust as it's been in the last couple of years.
So we just wanted to give you that kind of flavor.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And just to add a little bit more detail on China that was mostly Pharm Systems order timing; we're not talking about the government delaying orders.
Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> This is the normal lumpiness that we have globally in Pharm Systems.
Clearing customs.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah clearing customs.
So this was the normal stuff that happens there not a Chinese-driven situation.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Richard Newitter of Leerink Partners.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just a quick one on buybacks.
Can you just remind us what and when you might resume buybacks? Sure.
So we mentioned that we would be committed to paying down the debt and so that's our first order of priority.
And we're committed to getting under 3 times leverage in the next couple of years.
That'll be the priority.
So we don't envision any share buybacks during that period of time.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Doug Schenkel of Cowen &amp; Company.
Hi.
Good morning.
I guess I have a question for each of you.
Vince in one of the opening lines to your prepared remarks you indicated that CareFusion was performing largely in line with your expectations.
Did you use that language specifically and solely because of the AVEA recall? And then Tom what's the criteria you're using to evaluate potential divestitures and what's the associated timeline? Chris your comments on tax rate for fiscal 2016 just to be clear that guidance is based on weighting of geographic exposure solely and doesn't seem to incorporate assumptions for further tax optimization efforts.
And then Linda any update on Viper LT? It's been quiet on that front for a little while.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> There you go.
A good five-part question that you have.
It's funny because when I read that line I was wondering if somebody would ask me that question.
But the answer is yes it was the AVEA recall that I was referring to specifically when I said that.
So that's part number one.
Part number two was around I think the timing in terms of the portfolio if I remember correctly.
What we're working on is a process that is integrated with our strategic planning process.
So in terms of making the decisions we said that process is going to continue through the summer.
But we're looking to try to get to a real conclusion around that in that kind of timeframe.
And with regard to the tax issue from the very beginning we were saying that tax optimization is something we would expect to be able to get to but was not in our model because it takes a while to do that.
That's a lot of pick-and-shovel work.
So what I was referring to is that in the early years it's going to be 27% to 29% of their rate.
Our rate of 21.5% to 22.5% you get some shield for the interest obviously.
That would be in that 50 basis point to 75 basis point range.
That's a complicated calculation that has implications on foreign tax credits and a number of other things that offset it.
So when you put all that in the mix you would expect to be in the 23% to 24% this year and 24% to 25% next year but not contemplating any tax optimization because it won't come that quickly we wouldn't expect.
And we would expect that to be something a couple years down the road that we'll be able as we did with the BD tax rate to drive that down through optimizing tax structures.
We would expect to be able to do that but it'll take a little while to get there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And Linda on the Viper LT.
Yeah so on the Viper LT platform of course that's replacing our ProbeTec platform.
We're seeing some gains in Western Europe particularly with the ProbeTec CT Assay/ ProbeTec GC Assay that we talked about earlier on that platform and we're beginning to see traction in the U.S.
market on the platform.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay thanks.
Thanks Linda.
Thanks for the question.
All five parts.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Derik De Bruin of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi.
Good morning.
I only...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
HHave a two-part question.
So just thinking about the CareFusion organic revenue growth rate of the business going forward I mean you're talking about exiting in your Q4 their first quarter in that 3% to 5% range.
Is that a sort of a good basis just to think about the long-term organic revenue growth rate characteristics of that business? Assuming we're not talking about the synergies coming from international sales your base assumption for the core.
Yeah the way I would say that starts getting back into the range.
We've been saying all along that we see it more as a kind of a 3.5% underlying organic.
And I think that's about right.
If you notice on my chart 15 we said for the pro forma fiscal year 2015 it was around 3%.
But they had a particularly difficult compare in their fourth quarter which we pointed to of 5% to 7% down against a very significant quarter they had the prior year.
So if you normalize for that it takes you up to that kind of 3.5%.
So that's probably the way to be thinking about that going forward.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our final question is coming from Mark Massaro of Canaccord Genuity.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
This will be a two-part question here.
So you guys called out good performance in Western Europe on BD MAX.
Would be curious if you could describe the competitive environment in the U.S.
and what you're seeing and if that increased year-over-year in the United States.
And then secondly on Veritor could you update us maybe on your install base and thoughts on what the next gen Veritor will have that the existing platform does not have? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Okay so on the MAX platform specific to the U.S.
what we're seeing there is we have got – now we're seeing increased placements but leveled off in terms of quarters.
And we're really working on the efficiency of that platform and the reliability of that platform as well as the expanded menu.
So we're encouraged by what we see in Western Europe.
It's just going to take us time to get those assays through the FDA.
So look for more to come towards the back half of 2016 and 2017 on that platform.
And then the second part of the question is on the Veritor.
We continue to see expanded share placements on that platform.
I don't have the total number of placements now in the U.S.
market.
But continue to see expanded placements particularly in physician offices and in the retail setting.
The second generation we're really going to be working on as Tom mentioned earlier.
As we see care shifting to new environments it's really important for us on the interconnectivity of IT on those platforms.
So that's what the next generation of Veritor will bring in 16.
So total placements now on Veritor just over 15 000 placements globally.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay thank you for your questions.
Any more questions? That's it.
Okay.
So thank you very much for being with us today.
It was an exciting start to bring in these two companies together.
As I mentioned in my remarks we look forward to the future with a lot of confidence.
We're excited about the solution that we have pulled together and look forward to talking to you about it as the year progresses.
Thanks very much.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's third fiscal quarter 2015 earnings call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through August 13 2015 on the Investors page of the BD.com website or by phone at 800-585-8367 for domestic calls and area code 404-537-3406 for international calls using confirmation number 78953246.
I would like to inform all parties that your lines have been placed in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer segment.
Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our third fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at BD.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our third fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A section of recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance as we will speak to our revenue and earnings results on an adjusted basis which exclude certain items we recorded during the quarter.
These items primarily reflect purchase accounting adjustments that include the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles as well as adjustments to reflect CareFusion's inventory fixed assets debt and deferred revenue balances at fair value as of the acquisition date.
As a reminder our third quarter results now reflect the New BD which includes the results of CareFusion for the full quarter.
To provide additional revenue visibility into the New BD we will speak to our revenue results this morning on a comparable currency neutral basis which include BD and CareFusion in the current and prior-year periods.
The comparable basis presents current period revenues on an adjusted basis that excludes a small impact related to a purchase accounting adjustment to record CareFusion's deferred revenues at fair value as of the acquisition date.
Details of the purchase accounting and other smaller adjustments and the comparable-basis revenue results can be found in the reconciliations to GAAP measures in the financial schedules in our press release or the appendix of the Investor Relations slides.
Lastly we have provided slides that illustrate the new reportable segment and business unit structure of the combined company which can also be found in the appendix of the Investor Relations slides.
Copies of the release including the financial schedules and Investor Relations slides are posted on the BD.com website.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are Chris Reidy Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Administration; Bill Kozy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Tom Polen Executive Vice President of BD Medical; and Linda Tharby Executive Vice President of the BD Life Sciences segment.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
As we stated in our press release we are very pleased with our performance this quarter which was ahead of our expectations.
This quarter marks an important milestone in BD's history as it is the first time reporting our results as the New BD which combines the BD and CareFusion businesses generating over $3 billion in revenues in the quarter.
We continue to be on target with the integration of BD and CareFusion.
We've made excellent progress with our leadership assessment across the organization and are confident we have the team in place to execute on our strategy.
We remain on track to achieve our fiscal 2015 and 2016 accretion commitments.
Our solid results this quarter clearly demonstrate our early progress as the New BD.
This performance was driven by continued solid mid-single-digit top line performance from the BD business coupled with better than expected revenue performance across the CareFusion businesses.
Once again our solid results highlight the benefit of our diverse portfolio both on a product and geographic basis.
Additionally the operating leverage in the quarter demonstrates we're making good progress towards delivering on our synergy commitments.
Our strong performance to date and full-year outlook gives us the confidence to raise our adjusted diluted EPS guidance despite additional foreign currency headwinds.
Now I would like to turn things over to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our third quarter financial performance and our updated fiscal year 2015 guidance.
Thanks Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by discussing our third quarter revenue and EPS results as well as the key financial highlights for the quarter.
Total third quarter revenues of $3.1 billion grew 55.6%.
On a comparable basis revenues grew 2.4% which is above the 1% to 2% growth we had anticipated and communicated on last quarter's earnings call.
This reflects solid growth in line with our expectation of 4.7% in the BD business.
The CareFusion business declined 2% in the quarter due to a tough comparison in infusion which was better than the 5% to 7% decline we had anticipated and communicated last quarter.
Fully diluted adjusted earnings per share came in ahead of our expectations at $2.05 growing at 34.3% over the prior year.
Growth was driven by continued solid underlying performance of the BD business coupled with the inclusion of CareFusion.
As we just discussed CareFusion's revenue performance exceeded our expectations and we were able to realize some cost synergy benefits beginning in the third quarter which is sooner than we had anticipated.
However we continue to see an increasingly negative impact from FX given the year-over-year strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
As Vince mentioned earlier we are very pleased with our first quarter as a combined entity.
Our results year to date combined with our full-year outlook give us the confidence to increase our EPS guidance despite the increased FX headwinds.
These financial metrics remain consistent with our expectation for high teens currency neutral earnings accretion in fiscal 2016 from the CareFusion acquisition.
I'll provide more detailed guidance commentary later in my remarks.
We are also pleased to announce that we have continued to deleverage as we reduced the debt associated with the acquisition of CareFusion.
In addition to the $650 million paydown at the end of April we paid down an additional $250 million of our $1 billion term loan facility in July.
We remain on track to achieve our commitment of three times gross debt leverage within 24 months of close.
Moving on to slide seven I'll review our third quarter revenue growth by segment on a comparable currency neutral basis.
In the quarter pricing was about flat on a legacy BD basis.
Year-to-date pricing is better than our expectations.
As such we are revising our full-year guidance for pricing to be about flat year over year.
BD Medical third quarter revenues increased 1.6%.
Underlying Medical revenue growth was approximately 4% which includes normalizing for the tough comparison in infusion.
Growth in this segment was primarily driven by Medication and Procedural Solutions or MPS.
As a reminder MPS includes BD's Medical Surgical Systems unit as well as CareFusion's Infection Prevention and Medical Specialties businesses.
MPS growth was 5% which reflects growth across all platforms including strength in flush ChloraPrep and safety engineered products.
Revenues in Medication Management Solutions or MMS declined 6.1%.
The infusion business had a difficult compare to last year's June quarter which grew 40%.
The dispensing business also had a difficult comparison to the prior year.
However we are experiencing continued strong demand for our Pyxis ES product and it has continued to perform in line with our expectations.
Adjusting for the difficult comparisons underlying MMS revenues grew about 5% in the quarter.
Respiratory Solution revenues declined 2% reflecting the lost revenues associated with the previously announced recall as anticipated.
This was partially offset by favorable timing of other Respiratory Solution products which shifted from the fourth quarter to the third quarter.
Growth in Diabetes Care was 3.4% reflecting some softness in the U.S.
due primarily to the slowing of conversion from syringes to pen needles and flattening of price trends.
Offsetting this were solid sales in international markets.
Pharmaceutical Systems growth of 8% reflects favorable timing of ordering patterns as expected with year-to-date growth of 3.6%.
BD Life Sciences third quarter revenues increased 4.2% primarily driven by growth in biosciences and Preanalytical Systems.
Biosciences revenue growth was 5.1% in the third quarter driven by strong performance in research instruments and reagents and the timing of orders in our advanced bioprocessing business.
As we expected and communicated to you on our last quarter earnings call we saw a small favorable impact related to the timing of government funding in Japan.
Preanalytical Systems growth of 4.1% was driven by safety engineered products and growth in emerging markets.
Diagnostic Systems growth of 3.7% reflects solid core microbiology growth and double-digit growth in our BD MAX molecular platform partially offset by the impact of extended interval testing in the U.S.
and continued pressure in our ProbeTec Viper platforms.
Moving on to slide eight I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the third quarter on a comparable basis.
U.S.
revenues declined 1.5%.
I'd like to note that our third quarter results in the U.S.
are not indicative of our year-to-date results or our go-forward expectations as we expect growth in the U.S.
to normalize next quarter.
U.S.
Medical revenues declined 2.8% due to the aforementioned tough comparisons in Medication Management Solutions or MMS.
Normalizing for the tough comparison in MMS U.S.
revenues and U.S.
Medical segment revenues each grew about 2%.
We saw solid growth in our Medication and Procedural Solutions unit driven by flush and ChloraPrep partially offset by a tough comparison in Pharmaceutical Systems and the AVEA ship hold impact on Respiratory Solutions.
U.S.
revenues in Diabetes Care were about flat.
The U.S.
Life Sciences segment grew 2.9%.
This reflects strong growth in our U.S.
Biosciences business driven by research instrument and reagent sales and timing in our advanced bioprocessing business.
In our U.S.
Diagnostics business we saw continued strength in our core microbiology business and growth in our BD MAX molecular platform offset by the extended interval testing impact and continued pressure on our ProbeTec Viper platforms.
Moving on to international revenues grew 6.6%.
The Medical segment grew 7.4% driven by strong performance in Pharmaceutical Systems and international safety sales.
The Life Sciences segment grew 5.2% reflecting strength in Preanalytical Systems and Diagnostics Systems.
Moving on to slide nine before I get into the emerging market results I'd like to start with some comments on developed markets.
U.S.
revenues grew about 2% on an underlying basis as we just discussed.
In the non-U.S.
developed markets we saw strong performance with Europe Japan and Canada all growing in the mid-single digits on a currency neutral basis.
With the inclusion of CareFusion developed markets have become a larger and more impactful portion of the total company revenue base.
Moving on to emerging market results you'll see that emerging markets are presented on a legacy BD basis as this provides a more meaningful comparison to the guidance we have been providing all year.
Beginning in fiscal 2016 we will provide a bridge to a new emerging market baseline that combines BD and CareFusion.
With CareFusion revenues predominantly in developed marks emerging markets will clearly be a lower percentage of total company revenues on a combined basis.
It's important to note that emerging markets will continue to be a very important growth driver for the company.
In the third quarter emerging market revenues grew 11% currency neutral over the prior year bringing our total growth year to date to 10.4%.
This growth was driven by Latin America and China.
As we expected our growth in Brazil improved slightly compared with last quarter's growth rate.
For the total year we expect growth in the emerging markets in the BD legacy base of about 10%.
China growth for the third quarter was 15.4%.
We saw some softness in China and as a result have revised our growth outlook slightly lower to 16% to 17% for the total year.
Moving to global Safety on slide 10 comparable currency neutral sales increased 6.2%.
Safety revenues in the U.S.
grew 0.9% while international sales grew 13.5% currency neutral with continued strength in Europe which grew double digits as compliance with safety legislation continues.
Safety revenues grew 13.5% in emerging markets.
Medical Safety sales grew 7.4% driven by a range of safety engineered products including infusion disposables with strong international growth across Diabetes Care and Pharmaceutical Systems.
Life Sciences Safety sales which are driven by our Preanalytical Systems unit grew 4.3% in the quarter.
Turning to slide 11 and our gross profit margin for the third quarter foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of about 50 basis points on our gross profit margin in the quarter.
On a performance basis margin expansion was driven by continuous improvement initiatives and favorable raw materials.
These contributions were partially offset by higher pension expenses product mix and other items.
Slide 12 recaps the third quarter income statement and highlights our foreign currency neutral results on an adjusted basis.
As we discussed revenues were ahead of our expectations while gross profit was in line with our expectations.
SSG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was 24.3%.
We are very pleased with the leverage we are getting that includes the accelerated cost synergy capture as previously discussed.
When you look at the results on a comparable basis to what the combined company would have been last year we achieved 110 basis points of improvement year over year.
R&amp;D as a percentage of revenue was 5.7% which is slightly lower due to the timing of spending with the fourth quarter.
We continue to invest in innovation and expect R&amp;D spend to be about 6% for the full year.
Operating income grew 62.9% in the quarter on revenue growth of 55.6% reflecting strong P&amp;L leverage as the New BD.
Our tax rate increased by 110 basis points as expected due to the inclusion of CareFusion's U.S.-based results.
In the quarter adjusted earnings per share were $2.05 which is a 34.3% increase versus the prior year.
This reflects operating profit growth partially offset by the transaction impact on the tax rate interest expense and increased shares outstanding.
Earnings were ahead of our expectations due to the underlying strength in the CareFusion business as well as our ability to achieve some cost synergies and eliminate some costs in the third quarter that we had anticipated would take place in the fourth quarter.
On slide 14 I'd like to update you on our organic revenue growth profile and phasing in fiscal 2015.
Third quarter performance across the CareFusion business exceeded our expectations.
While some of the Respiratory Solutions sales reflect favorable timing in the third quarter we now expect organic CareFusion growth of about 3.5% for the fiscal year.
When combined with our continued expectation of about 5% organic BD growth we continue to expect about 4.5% growth for the full fiscal year.
Moving on to slide 15 there are a number of moving parts that impact earnings per share expectations.
For modeling purposes and to ensure consistency I'd like to provide more color on EPS guidance.
Starting at the top of the slide with legacy BD the guidance we provided last quarter of $6.43 to $6.50 assumed adjusted earnings per share growth of 9% to 10% on a currency neutral basis and an estimated unfavorable impact from foreign currency headwinds of about 10 percentage points.
Since our May update the dollar has strengthened further against the euro and other major currencies to which we have exposure such as the yen the Canadian dollar and the Brazilian real.
The result is that we now expect an additional 50 basis points of FX pressure to legacy BD EPS at today's spot rates.
Incremental FX pressure resulted in a reduction of about $0.03 to our estimated BD legacy adjusted earnings per share guidance to a range of $6.40 to $6.47.
The chart at the bottom of the slide presents our total company guidance.
As you'll recall we had expected about 10% currency neutral accretion from the CareFusion acquisition and a currency headwind to CareFusion's earnings of about 100 basis points which when applied to our May legacy BD base of $6.43 to $6.50 resulted in a May total company earnings guidance of $7.00 to $7.10.
Given the stronger than expected performance in the third quarter from the CareFusion business and our ability to realize some cost synergies and eliminate some costs earlier than we had anticipated this year we expect an additional 100 basis points of currency neutral accretion in fiscal 2015 partially offset by the incremental 50 basis points of headwinds from FX.
This gives us the confidence to raise our guidance to a range of $7.08 to $7.12.
With the revised BD legacy base for fiscal 2015 we remain comfortable with what we have previously disclosed in terms of our currency neutral legacy BD and CareFusion accretion profile of high teens accretion in fiscal 2016.
We will update you for the FX impact in 2016 when we give guidance in November based on rates in effect at that time.
Turning to slide 16 I'd like to walk you through the additional elements of our guidance for the full fiscal year 2015.
We expect total company currency neutral revenue growth of 28.5% to 29% with BD Medical growing 48.5% to 49% both of which are at the higher end of our previous ranges given better than expected CareFusion performance in the third quarter.
We continue to expect Life Sciences growth of about 5%.
Also to note beyond revenues and EPS all other P&amp;L guidance for May remains unchanged.
We continue to expect gross profit margin of 52% to 52.5% and SSG&amp;A and R&amp;D as a percentage of revenues of about 25% and 6% respectively.
Our operating margin and tax rate guidance also remain unchanged.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince who will provide a brief update on our progress around our key initiatives.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Chris.
Moving on to slide 18 I would like to go over the Medical &amp; Biosciences segment and the Life Sciences unit.
We remain excited about the Intelliport opportunity.
Excuse me one second.
We remain excited about the Intelliport opportunity our system for eliminating bolus IV injection errors at the bedside.
We're receiving early positive customer interest and we remain on track for commercial release.
We continue to expect to launch our insulin infusion sets in fiscal year 2016.
Our collaboration with Medtronic announced in June will enable BD FlowSmart technology to be made widely available to as many people living with diabetes as possible.
We had presented three different evidence posters at the American Diabetes Association's annual meeting with data on BD FlowSmart technology.
This included results showing a 75% reduction in pressure rise events or silent occlusions.
We are confident that this product will have a meaningful impact for diabetes patients globally.
Within Biosciences we continue to anticipate the launch of two additional BD Horizon dyes based on the Sirigen technology.
As we have been sharing with you these dyes combined with our high-end research instruments are enabling significant gains in multi-parameter flow cytometry analysis.
We also continue to anticipate the launch of two instruments the X14 high-parameter multicolor research instrument and the BD FACSVia clinical instrument aimed to enable increased market adoption in emerging markets particularly in China.
Turning to slide 19 you will see the various product launches in our Life Sciences Diagnostic unit.
Our BD MAX molecular instrument continues to gain traction with customers in Western Europe where our expanded menu that includes the CE Marked GC/CT and GC/CT/Trich assays launched last quarter are enabling increased placements.
We remain focused on menu expansion on the BD MAX platform and expect the Enteric Parasite assay to launch later this quarter in the U.S.
followed in fiscal 2016 by the Extended Enteric Bacterial and Enteric Viral assays in the EU and the U.S.
in 2016 and 2017.
In 2016 we also expect to launch GC/CT in the U.S.
and the Vaginitis/Vaginosis assays in the EU and the U.S.
We also expect to launch the BD Totalys system in the U.S.
in women's health and cancer for cervical cancer screening automation in the first half of fiscal year 2016.
As you can see we continue to have strong opportunities in our pipeline and we look forward to sharing our progress with you going forward.
On slide 20 before we open the call to questions I'd like to reiterate the key messages from our presentation today.
First we're very pleased with our results as the New BD.
Second our performance was driven by continued solid mid-single-digit top line performance from the BD business coupled with better than expected revenue performance from the CareFusion businesses.
Once again our solid results highlight the benefits of our diverse portfolio both on a product and geographic basis.
Third we are making significant progress successfully integrating CareFusion into BD while achieving cost synergies.
Fourth our strong performance in the quarter and our full-year outlook gives us the confidence to raise our guidance for fiscal year 2015.
Finally we look forward to the future with confidence as we continue to deliver on BD's strategy of providing complete solutions for global health care needs.
Thank you we'll now open the call to questions.
The floor is now open for questions.
Our first question is coming from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Thank you guys.
Good morning.
Maybe I'll start with just the question of now that we are a quarter in anything new or surprising that you found in CareFusion either positive on the opportunity side or negative that you have to deal with? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Mike I can't think of any significant surprises.
What I would tell you is that I think the implementation it's not a surprise we planned it out is going very well.
We're very much on track with what we expected.
As we think about both the cost synergies and the planning for the revenue synergies I think all that detailed planning has come together quite nicely.
I wouldn't say it's a surprise but I did mention in my opening remarks that the talent assessment and integration we feel very good about the team that we now have in place.
Now was it a little bit of a surprise in terms of the strong performance in the quarter of the CareFusion businesses? Yes we had communicated a revenue expectation that was less.
And so that was a bit of an upside for the short run but in the longer-run issues really nothing – really on-track performance.
Okay good.
Let's talk about China because there were a number of reports over the course of the earnings season from companies with issues in China most of them more consumer-facing companies than Becton-Dickinson.
But you did comment that you thought China was a little bit softer and your expectations came in a little bit.
So number one can you talk about that? And then second I was hoping you could spend a few minutes on the infusion opportunity in China which infusion pumps are still very very early in China.
That isn't a market that has really developed to this point.
And I was hoping you could talk a little bit about how you plan on developing that market.
I knew there was a product that you acquired from Israel that you thought might be a good fit and I was hoping you could you spend a few minutes on that.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Mike.
That's great.
So I'll take China in the quarter and then I'll ask Tom Polen to talk about the exciting opportunity that we have in the infusion business in China going forward.
So we did see a little bit of softness in China in the quarter.
It was mostly on the diagnostics side where we saw longer purchasing cycles for equipment.
And so that's what impacted the third quarter.
We did change the guidance to 16% to 17%.
It's down slightly from where we were last quarter.
We do expect that there will be some inventory adjustments on the medical side of the business in the fourth quarter and that's just being proactive with our distribution partners to make sure that they have the right level of inventory.
That's how we get to 16% to 17%.
But when we look at it more broadly it's still a very exciting opportunity for us.
We're still outperforming our peers but what is going on it's becoming very big.
And as it's becoming bigger just the law of large numbers is starting to come into effect here.
And so at these growth rates it's still going to be contributing significantly going forward.
And as you mentioned and asked about we see the opportunity in the core continuing but on top of that as we go forward the opportunity not just infusion but in other product lines.
But let me turn it over to Tom to talk about the opportunity in infusion.
Okay.
Hi Mike.
This is Tom.
So as we think about the opportunity in infusion maybe I'll break it into a time horizon approach.
And so across both consumables and capital we've actually recently just launched CareFusion's IV needleless connectors through our sales channel in China.
And so that's a near-term opportunity associated with the infusion process.
They're actually getting our first incremental sales from putting that through the BD sales force.
So that's actually in the market underway.
The next product that we're looking to launch there related to infusion are the infusion sets.
And those are actively being prepared for SFDA submission.
But those will be the next products to be launched.
And following that are the pumps.
As you mentioned the pumps per hospital bed in China are a fraction less than 10% of the ratios that you see in the U.S.
And we do see opportunities there confirmed by research we've done directly and in the market space.
We see both – and we've confirmed interest from customers for CME pumps broadly across hospital segments but we also actually see opportunity for Alaris in the very top tier hospital segment.
And so we're preparing registration for both of those products now in China with more to come.
But those will take a couple years to get through the SFDA process.
Tom I know you were coming up on a potentially new memorandum of understanding in China related to the medication delivery business.
Has that gone into place? Is there anything different about the new memorandum versus the prior one? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Mike I'm going next week to China to sign the new memorandum of understanding and so I'm really looking forward to that.
The last one was a couple years ago.
This will include infection control products as well and it will be focused on infusion therapy.
Perfect thank you guys.
Thanks Mike.
Our next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you good morning everyone.
I just had one question on the business and then one financial follow-up.
Maybe first on the business could you talk a little bit more about the Special Order Research Processing [SORP] franchise and just remind us how big that is? And one of the things we've seen across the biopharma industry is the resurgence of R&amp;D spending and to what extent that might influence that business on a go-forward basis? And I had one financial follow-up.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
So our SORP business is over $100 million and it's been a strong franchise for us for a long time.
And I think Linda at the high end of the research market you're now starting to see some real traction with that product line.
Hi it's Linda here a couple of additional comments to what Vince mentioned.
So with the addition of our Sirigen dyes and our multi-parameter flow analysis we're really able to drive multi-parameters up above 50 parameters now which is unheard of in the market which is fantastic and driving double-digit growth across that research platform.
The other area that you mentioned is spending.
Of course we're seeing stability in spending both in the U.S.
and Western Europe which is helping and also the NIH budget which just saw an increase recently with the passing of the 21st Century Cures Act.
So overall as we look ahead to our research business we continue to see strong performance and with the funding continue to see a positive outlook as we move forward.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes so as Linda says that it's more than just the SORP product line that I mentioned.
Linda is also talking about the standard research products which we're very excited about.
David did you have a follow-up on the financials? Is David still there? FY 2016 I just want to confirm that you're still comfortable with that which was taking the base BD earnings for FY 2015 growing that at 10% FX neutral then adding in a high teens accretion number.
And at that point in time you had talked about being comfortable with a mid-$8 number.
Has anything changed with respect to those assumptions and how should we think about changes in foreign currency in that context? You hit it on the head David.
As we said in and I said in my prepared remarks we have the baseline of what BD would have been in 2015.
You grow that 9% to 10%.
It's high teens accretion off of that but obviously currency neutral.
And so you've seen the strengthening U.S.
dollar impact that it had this year.
So that's why I said we'll address that on the next call based on where rates are at that time.
Got it thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning David.
Good morning David.
Maybe just a couple quick questions.
Chris just coming back to margins for a second here so they're obviously so far tracking higher than even our expectations so two things.
Where is the strength coming from the core BD? I think you talked about over 100 basis points.
So where is that strength coming from? And then as it relates to CareFusion you talked about some strength there.
Is this faster implementation of the synergy plan or frankly is the magnitude of some of the opportunities proving to be larger? So far what we're seeing is that the savings are coming sooner so I don't think it's a magnitude issue.
But we were able to get some savings right out of the box in the third quarter that we originally thought would have been fourth quarter items.
So you actually pick up an extra quarter of that because we'll get those same kind of savings in the fourth quarter as well.
So that's a nice little benefit.
In terms of the margin improvements core business as you know the raw materials when we laid that out on the gross profit side is certainly benefiting us.
That is offset as we always expected by some pension expense and the like.
And then on SSG&amp;A that 110 basis points improvement is fairly significant and that's certainly driving good operating margins.
So it's all of those things contributing to very nice margins.
Okay and then maybe just two product segment questions.
You talked about obviously CareFusion was stronger than expected.
Respiratory was much stronger than we would have expected.
I know some of that reflects timing but how much of that is timing? And then can you just update us on the progress on the recall either revenue impact or earnings impact? And then on the core company the only business line that looked a little weak to us was Diabetes.
Is there anything in particular we should focus on or is that simply order timing or stocking? Thank you.
Sure.
So before we move to Tom let me just say on the recall issue I'll remind you that we gave an estimate last quarter of the impact that would have.
That is already contemplated in our guidance and so we're in good shape from 2015.
And in 2016 it's really not material and I would just point out that this is a product line that's about $35 million in revenue so not material going forward either.
So I think we've got it contemplated both in 2015 and our expectations for 2016.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Tom do you want to take those questions? Sure.
Hi David this is Tom so just maybe one or two other comments on respiratory.
Some of the better performance we saw this quarter was driven primarily in our respiratory capital business with favorable timing of orders as one could expect within those capital-type businesses.
So that's the one point there.
Regarding the AVEA product as Chris mentioned it's about a $35 million product line.
We have not assumed in our guidance that that returns to the market within this fiscal year.
And so we don't see a risk for that from a timing perspective.
On diabetes and your question there as Chris had mentioned earlier we did see some softness in Diabetes Care growth of about 3.4% driven essentially exclusively by the U.S.
which was 0.3% growth.
And we really see that due to flattening of the price trend coupled with a decrease in the conversion rate from syringes to pen needles.
As we sell pen needles at higher prices than syringes slower conversion creates a drag on the revenue growth.
Now with that said more broadly we remain really excited about the future in Diabetes Care and we're focused on meeting needs of our customers and growth opportunities both in the core business as well as in new adjacent spaces such as the new upcoming infusion set launch in FY 2016 that Vince mentioned in detail with Medtronic.
Great thank you very much.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks David.
Our next question comes from the line of Larry Keusch with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning two questions actually dovetailing on your answers.
Stepping back on CareFusion I understand the comments around the respiratory business and the timing of orders.
But could you also speak to perhaps what else did a bit better there CareFusion broadly? And then separately on the insulin infusion set opportunity which I think is a really good opportunity for you guys could you help us think about either sizing that or putting some parameters around what this might mean to the company? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay Tom? Yes this is Tom.
So in the CareFusion business across the board we saw good growth as we mentioned.
In MMS underlying we were about 5% growth for the quarter.
So Pyxis ES and infusion are both doing well there.
As Chris had mentioned we had a very large 40% growth in the prior-year quarter in infusion which made a tough comp.
We also saw very good performance though in the Medication and Procedural Solutions business the legacy CareFusion products with a focus on both the ChloraPrep products but also the infusion consumables the IV sets valves et cetera so really positive momentum there.
As we think about the infusion set in Diabetes Care we haven't sized that opportunity.
But maybe some comments that I can mention is that we have received FDA CE and Health Canada approval.
At this point we're really focused on ramping up our manufacturing for that product and preparing for launch in partnership with Medtronic in FY 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Thanks Larry.
Our next question comes from the line of Rick Wise with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi Vince.
Hi Chris.
Hi everybody.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Rick.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Maybe starting off if you would with two product questions.
First on the pump side of the business Baxter reported that their pump business their pump system rebounded nicely.
And in talking to them after it I had the sense that one of your other competitor's regulatory and other dislocations are maybe helping out.
Are you seeing any benefits on that side of business? I assumed you all gained share in pumps.
But is going to be an incremental better number going forward? We do continue to do very well in our pump business.
That's probably what we would say there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay that sounds good.
Back to CareFusion on the Pyxis side just rereading last quarter's transcript you were saying that you're seeing improved – you're throwing additional resources into the Pyxis install process.
Acknowledging the complexity of the installs are you gaining those efficiencies are you accelerating the penetration of your existing backlog? What's happening there? This is Tom good question.
We do have significant work underway.
As we mentioned before we've put in some Lean Six Sigma teams to help lean out the Pyxis ES installation process and the team is making some early positive progress there.
With that said we do continue to experience very strong demand for the Pyxis ES system.
And so while we're installing off of the backlog the backlog does remain essentially at those record high levels still because the pipeline is being filled in with new orders at quite a good rate.
And so the process improvements are underway.
We have made progress.
More to do there I would say but we're heading in the right direction.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes we're early on but we think it's a real opportunity for us.
And as Tom is saying we're seeing the initial impacts but we've got a long way to go.
Rick and maybe just one other comment I could add is to the earlier question on infusion pumps that you're maybe looking for a little bit more color on one other comment I could add is that we are seeing customers respond very favorable to the medication management end-to-end vision and the connectivity of our solutions across that process valuing both the pumps and the Pyxis ES being interoperable with one another through the electronic medical record and our SmartWorks platform.
So that's resonating very positively with our customers.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes both Tom and I have been out visiting accounts and we've seen this first-hand.
It's a really powerful value proposition that we have now.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> I appreciate that thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Weinstein with William Blair.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Brian.
Hey.
So you talked about product mix a little bit.
One of the things I'm trying to get my arms around is in the New BD can you talk about within the different sub-segments? Which sub-segments have significantly stronger and significantly weaker growth in operating margins relative to the corporate average so that we can have some idea going forward about where strength is going to come from one and what that can potentially mean for margins? I'll take that Brian.
I actually don't see anything to point to across the business.
I think it's partly again what we point to as the diversity of the business.
And so there's nothing that I would call out as exceptionally weak or exceptionally strong.
I think each of these businesses have the ability to drive the mid-single-digits revenue growth and improving profitability from where they are now.
So I don't think there's anything really to call out there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> They're pretty much clustered around the corporate average.
Diagnostics may be a little bit below but we see the margins there improving.
So nothing in terms of modeling and going forward that I would really be pointing to I think pretty much a cluster.
Okay.
And then on BD MAX you guys talked about I think you said double-digit growth.
Were you looking at new products driving that? Was it an easier comp? What's going on with BD MAX and should we expect this level of growth going forward? Thanks.
It's Linda here.
Thanks for the question Brian.
So on BD MAX we continue to see expansion of the instruments in the U.S.
and in EU being driven by the expanded assays.
So we launched CT/GC and CT/GC/Trich in Europe and our enteric panels.
We expect that to follow in the U.S.
And then Vince provided very good commentary on our expected assay launches in 2016 and 2017.
So really now starting to see double-digit growth in the MAX platform and positive feedback from our customers.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Linda maybe you want to comment on what you're seeing in Europe with the expanded menu.
So in Europe what we're seeing there is again very high double-digit growth and in terms of instrument placement a double-digit growth percentage in terms of the uptake in overall instruments so very positive in Europe.
And as we get our expanded menu expect great things in the U.S.
market as well.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Linda.
Thanks Brian.
Our next question comes from the line of Derik de Bruin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Derik.
Just a quick question.
The adjusted revenues for this quarter is that a one-quarter phenomenon or do we need to think about that $13 million or something similar to that going forward? How do we think about that? There's a little bit going forward that will continue to bleed in.
It's not significant.
Great and then just one quick follow-up.
On the intervals and on the Viper headwinds when do those begin to subside? When do you start to annualize those? Hi it's Linda here.
Of course the guidelines came into effect in late 2012.
We put that number today at about 70% to 75% penetration in terms of doctors who have adopted that new interval testing.
So probably over the next year or so we say – where does that finish out 85% to 90% of doctors adopting.
So we probably have another year or so of the interval testing to get through.
Great thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Great thanks and good morning everybody.
Good morning Bill.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
I guess first question Linda just to follow up on that last response we saw CMS recently talk about a five-year interval from three years.
And this actually follows up on if I remember correctly the additional guideline or recommendations made last year.
So I guess on a long-range basis should we think at all about intervals potentially going to five years on pap testing? So I think those guidelines are probably way too early for us to comment on.
I can tell you that what's out there publicly from the medical community would say that five years depending on age bracket is way too long for screening.
So it's something that we continue to monitor but today there's no healthcare system on a global basis that has moved to a five-year interval timing.
So we'll monitor it.
Too early to comment but nothing that concerns us in the short term on that.
Okay got it.
And then I guess staying on a similar diagnostic topic microbiology in the U.S.
can you flesh out for us a little bit how that's performing? I would certainly expect that we should see some pretty good things here given the pretty updated suite of products that you have into that space.
Yes thank you.
Our core microbiology business is doing very very well in the U.S.
and ex-U.S.
And it's driven by the strength of our BACTEC platform driven by the strength of ID/AST and our new partnership with Bruker on the MALDI platform.
And really tying all of this together is our new Kiestra lab automation system.
So we've now just begun our footprint on that in the U.S.
We have less than 2% market penetration.
So we see a lot of opportunity as we move forward to really reinvent that microbiology lab from the specimen through the ID/AST really starting with automating the workflow.
We'll have papers now globally published that say efficiency with the Kiestra lab automation system installed are 60% to 70% improvements in their workflow efficiency.
And the next thing we'll look to do is really introduce smart imaging into that platform.
So I'm very excited about our U.S.
microbiology business and what we're doing across the entire platform.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And it really had good growth this quarter.
It did very nice.
Very good thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with UBS.
Hey good morning so just two quick questions.
One Vince can you update us where you are on the strategic review process? Obviously there were a number of press reports that there could be some businesses that might be divested.
And then secondly I think you maintained your emerging market growth outlook.
But China which is a big part of that was brought down.
I'm just curious where you saw some offsets there to maintain it.
And what do you think is a reasonable emerging market growth rate say for the next three to five years just given a lot of the macro noise that you have seen this year? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We haven't changed our perspective on emerging markets.
We kept it at 10% for the year.
I think that's a good way for us to be thinking about it.
And you're right there are moving pieces there.
We saw Brazil bounce back for example.
India actually we don't talk about has been doing better and better for us.
So we expect Asia to continue to be strong.
So it's not just China.
And as we said China is going to – continue to be strong for us.
It's not going to be at 20% going forward.
So that's the way we think about that.
In terms of the strategic review process we're making good progress on that program and we're to the point of doing some market checks on appropriate assets.
And we'll keep you updated as that moves forward.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen &amp; Company.
Hi good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Doug.
If cost synergies were to continue to track ahead of plan how do you balance the opportunity to let that flow through versus accelerating the pace of investment in growth and sales synergy initiatives? Clearly we have some commitments and targets to meet.
I would say right now we're not seeing the acceleration increase in the total amount of synergies so we're not saying that.
And so we're going to meet our commitments of high teens and that's very important to us.
Clearly there's always a balance but we feel like we are making the right investments.
We're not holding back in investments.
You saw us last quarter announce that we were going to do some registrations in China right out of the box because even though it was a little bit of a drag we knew that it was the right thing to do.
So I don't see anything we're holding back on because of that.
So that's the way I would leave it.
Okay and I do have a second question but just to be clear on that you did pull forward some of the cost synergies into this quarter.
I guess really the question is as we think about the next few quarters that there are opportunities to do more of that.
Does that allow you to accelerate investment or would you actually allow some of the upside to flow through for investment? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's a hypothetical question.
We're going to do the right thing.
If we think there's a benefit to accelerating something we would accelerate it keeping in mind if we were in that position keeping in mind our commitments that we're making.
We talked to you I think it was last quarter about the fact that we accelerated the work on registration for China.
So those one-off decisions we'd be making; we'll just be rational about it.
Okay.
And then I think for Tom Earlier this year we had talked about the ability to move some of the CareFusion products in Europe out of distributors and into the BD direct channel.
I think that was something that maybe was at least one area of focus within the context of the annual strategic review any update on that? Thank you.
Yes we haven't been driving that yet.
We've been focused in some markets where the products were not necessarily launched yet.
It's been our focus such as ChloraPrep has been a primary area.
The other thing I would say perhaps is that we have integrated in our distributor for dispensing in Europe and so we do now take that.
We are taking those products direct.
So the entire dispensing business we are now taking direct through Europe.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Vijay Kumar with Evercore ISI.
Hey guys thanks for squeezing me in here and maybe one quick housekeeping question.
On the guidance for the year it looks like CareFusion came up a little bit and you hinted that legacy BDX was around the mid-single-digit range.
So I'm wondering.
Did the organic for the combined BD did it just come up versus the prior guidance? As we laid out on that chart Vijay we're still at about 4.5%.
And so a little bit up on CareFusion but it's more rounding than anything else.
So we've continued to show the 4.5% and we laid that out on the chart as to where that's coming from so pretty much in line with what we would have expected.
Great and then one on pricing.
It's heartening to see I guess pricing actually coming in flat.
I think that's the first time we've had a flattish pricing year in quite a number of years.
And I'm just wondering.
Is this a market phenomenon? Are you seeing anything on the competitive front? Is that what's going on? I'm just curious.
How should we be thinking about pricing on a go-forward basis? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We'll have to look at that again next year as we get into it.
Last year we saw a little bit of negative pricing in the fourth quarter and I know we're guiding pretty much flat pricing for this year.
But it's still a very competitive marketplace.
I'm very happy with the way we have managed pricing this year.
It's something we're really intensely focused on.
But I think we have to stay tuned and do our plan before I say it's going to be – that the market has changed I wouldn't be making that statement.
I think we've done a good job this year and so we'll revisit it next year.
I would just add that it feels to me pretty much the same as it did last year.
We did have a little bit of a blip in the fourth quarter last year but it was pretty flat up to that point.
It feels the same here.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's what I think.
And the last one leverage levels you reaffirmed that 3X within 24 months of deal closure.
I'm just curious.
Are there any adjacencies that you've reinvested? You're obviously getting into medication management a lot of EHR informatics opportunities.
And would that be appealing for you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Vijay I wouldn't comment on a particular adjacency but we do continue to think about plug-in acquisitions as we go forward and we look forward to having more flexibility as we take those debt levels down.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That was a good question.
Our final question comes from the line of Rich Newitter with Leerink Partners.
Hi thanks for squeezing me in.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Just on the CareFusion side of things Pyxis or Pyxis ES can you just update us on where you are with respect to the installed base the opportunity and the upgrade cycle whether it's in innings or actual quantification? Can you give us a sense of where you are and where you see you can go? Sure this is Tom.
So we're less than 20% converted our base business and so we're in the early innings.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> A long way to go.
Okay that's very encouraging.
And then just maybe higher level as you engage further with customers with the combined portfolio and the broad complementary nature of the BD and CareFusion full suite of offering across the hospital are the conversations – or can you characterize where the conversations are going there anything to suggest that maybe some revenue synergy potential could begin to formulate even faster than expected as we look to 2016 and beyond anything to increase or decrease your confidence on that front? Thanks a lot.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I think we're pretty much where we said we were going to be.
Tom mentioned that the concept in terms of Medication Management is resonating very well.
We have some work to do with integrating Cato and CRISI into the system and getting the software aligned.
So there's some technical work to be done that gates us a little bit in the short run.
But in terms of how we are thinking about it and the timing I think we're right on track.
Tom also mentioned we are making progress getting products into the market outside of the U.S.
as he mentioned in China so right where we expect it to be.
Thank you.
That was our final question and now I'd like to turn the floor back over to Vince Forlenza for any additional or closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay thank you very much for your participation today and your thoughtful questions.
It's a very exciting time at BD and we look forward to updating you on the progress of this strategy as we wrap up the year.
Thanks very much thanks a lot.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Hello and welcome to BD's fourth fiscal quarter and full fiscal year 2015 earnings call.
At the request of BD today's call is being recorded.
It will be available for replay through November 11 2015 on the Investors page of the BD.com website or by phone at 800-585-8367 for domestic calls and 404-537-3406 for international calls using confirmation number 51724857.
I would like to inform all parties that your lines have been placed in a listen-only mode until the question and answer segment.
Beginning today's call is Ms.
Monique Dolecki Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Dolecki you may begin.
Thank you Christy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to review our fourth fiscal quarter results.
As we referenced in our press release we are presenting a set of slides to accompany our remarks on this call.
The presentation is posted on the Investor Relations page of our website at BD.com.
During today's call we will make forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ from our expectations.
Factors that could cause such differences appear in our fourth fiscal quarter press release and in the MD&amp;A sections of our recent SEC filings.
We will also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures with respect to our performance.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in our press release and its related financial schedules and in the slides.
A copy of the release including the financial schedules is posted on the BD.com website.
As a reminder our fourth fiscal quarter results reflect the new BD which includes the results of CareFusion for the full quarter.
To provide additional visibility into the new BD we will speak to our revenue results this morning on a comparable currency neutral base which includes BD and CareFusion in the current and prior-year periods.
The comparable basis presents current-period revenues on an adjusted basis that excludes a small impact related to a purchase accounting adjustment to record CareFusion's deferred revenues at fair value as of the acquisition date.
Details of the purchase accounting and other smaller adjustments and the comparable basis revenue results can be found in the reconciliations to GAAP measures in the financial schedules in our press release or the appendix of the Investor Relations slides.
In addition we would like to note a change in a distribution agreement effective in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015.
Fisher &amp; Paykel terminated its agreement with CareFusion for the sale of F&amp;P's hospital respiratory care products which has an unfavorable impact to revenues of approximately $12 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015 and approximately $90 million in fiscal year 2016.
The fiscal year 2016 revenue guidance provided today will exclude the year-over-year impact of this contract.
The impact to the bottom line is not material and is included in our EPS guidance.
Leading the call this morning is Vince Forlenza Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President.
Also joining us are Chris Reidy Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Administration; Bill Kozy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Tom Polen Executive Vice President and President of the Medical Segment; and Linda Tharby Executive Vice President and President of the Life Sciences Segment.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Vince.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Monique and good morning everyone.
As we stated in our press release we are very pleased with our results this quarter and our great finish to the year.
Many of you already know that this was a unique year for BD in which we successfully completed the largest acquisition in the company's 118-year history.
The powerful combination of BD and CareFusion has already delivered measurable results which we will speak to throughout this presentation.
As we continue to make progress with the integration of these two great companies I've become increasingly confident in our ability to deliver end-to-end solutions that increase efficiencies reduce medication errors and improve patient safety in all healthcare settings.
Turning to slide 4 I'd like to highlight some key achievements in fiscal year 2015.
First our results reflect our consistent performance and the benefit of our diverse geographic and product portfolio with revenues growing at 5.3% this year.
Our core remains strong and our product pipeline continues to drive growth across the portfolio.
Second we moved into two highly strategic areas.
Through the acquisition of CareFusion we significantly expanded our presence and are now the global leader in a $20 billion medication management industry.
We also entered into the high-growth area of genomics through our strategic acquisitions of Cellular Research and GenCell.
We believe that BD is well-positioned to add long-term value in these spaces by providing researchers and clinicians with leading technologies that are scalable high-quality efficient and cost-effective.
Third we have continued to invest in higher-growth emerging markets.
Emerging markets grew over 9% this year and continued to be a key driver of growth for the company.
We're also working to create new growth opportunities for CareFusion products in these markets and expanding their global reach by leveraging BD's international infrastructure.
We currently have numerous products in the registration process across multiple geographies.
Fourth we have continued to refine our operating effectiveness and efficiency initiatives which have generated accelerated margin expansion.
Together with CareFusion we drove approximately 100 basis points of underlying margin expansion year over year which includes approximately $50 million in cost synergies demonstrating our ability to deliver on our synergy capture commitments.
Our synergy cost savings have largely been driven by G&amp;A and we have already made good progress with our optimization of our manufacturing footprint with six plant closures this fiscal year.
Over the deal horizon we have detailed plans to continue our plant network optimization and drive increased automation across the network.
Lastly we completed our 43rd consecutive year of dividend increases in addition to paying off the $1 billion term loan used to partially fund the acquisition which highlights our effective deployment of capital.
As we look back we closed our first combined year with broad business strength.
We exceeded our financial and operating goals and we are successfully executing on our acquisition of CareFusion.
As we look forward we will continue to build on our strong foundation and our acquisition of CareFusion helps us significantly accelerate our ability to deliver effective healthcare solutions for customers around the world.
Moving to slide 5 you'll see the guidance for fiscal year 2016 on a currency-neutral basis.
For fiscal year 2016 we expect currency-neutral revenue growth of 4.5% to 5% based on our current view of the environment and various macroeconomic factors.
Of course we have contemplated a number of items that could bring us above or below that range including pricing a stronger or weaker flu season than expected the performance of new product launches and emerging market growth.
On the bottom line we will continue to drive accretive high-quality earnings growth.
For fiscal year 2016 we expect adjusted EPS of $8.73 to $8.80 currency-neutral.
On a reported basis we expect adjusted EPS of $8.37 to $8.44 while overcoming significant FX headwinds.
This reflects operational accretion from the CareFusion acquisition of about 22% an increase from our previously stated deal accretion target of high teens.
In addition we are pleased to announce that we've increased our cost synergy target from $250 million to $325 million to $350 million as we exit fiscal year 2018.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Chris who will walk you through our financial performance in the fourth quarter and full year along with additional details about our fiscal year 2016 guidance.
Thanks Vince and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin by discussing our fourth quarter revenue and EPS results as well as the key financial highlights for the quarter and total year.
Total fourth quarter revenues of approximately $3.1 billion grew 49.1% or 5.1% on a comparable basis.
Fully diluted adjusted earnings per share came in ahead of our expectations at $1.94 growing at 21.8% over the prior year.
Top and bottom line growth was driven by broad-based overperformance versus our prior expectations from both the BD and CareFusion legacy businesses.
As Vince mentioned earlier we are very pleased with our strong finish to the year as a combined entity.
For the total year revenues grew 5.3%.
We significantly expanded our margins and captured approximately $50 million in synergy cost savings.
EPS of $7.16 exceeded our expectations driven by stronger revenues and margin expansion.
We were also pleased to announce that we have continued to deleverage as we reduce the debt associated with the acquisition of CareFusion.
We have successfully paid off the $1 billion term loan facility and remain on track to achieve our commitment of 3 times gross debt leverage within 24 months of close.
On slide 8 I'll review our revenue growth by segment on a currency-neutral basis.
Fourth quarter revenue growth was 5.1% for the total company.
In the quarter pricing was about flat on a legacy BD basis.
BD Medical fourth quarter revenues increased 5.2%.
Medication and Procedural Solutions growth was 5% which reflects strength in Flush ChloraPrep and safety-engineered products.
Revenues in Medication Management Solutions or MMS grew 11.1%.
This was driven by strong infusion capital installations which can vary quarter to quarter and disposables.
On the dispensing side we continue to gain traction with the Pyxis ES platform as we place focus on the continuous improvement of the installation process.
Respiratory Solutions revenues declined 12.4% as expected.
This reflects timing of orders that occurred in the third quarter which negatively impacted the fourth quarter the loss of the F&amp;P distribution agreement and the AVEA ship hold.
After adjusting for these items revenues would have been about flat.
The AVEA ship hold has been released and we began shipping again last month.
Growth in Diabetes Care was 5.8% driven by solid growth in pen needles.
Pharmaceutical Systems growth of 9% reflects favorable timing of ordering patterns as expected in conjunction with strong safety sales.
For the total year BD Medical grew 5.5%.
BD Life Sciences fourth quarter revenues increased 4.8% primarily driven by growth in Diagnostic Systems and Preanalytical Systems.
Diagnostic Systems growth of 5.9% reflects solid core microbiology growth driven by increased installations of our Kiestra Lab Automation system and continued core blood culture strength.
We saw continued strength on the BD MAX platform which grew double digits in the quarter.
Preanalytical Systems growth of 5.8% was driven by safety-engineered products and growth in emerging markets and Western Europe.
BD Biosciences growth of 2.2% reflects strong research instrument placements and reagent sales in the U.S.
partially offset by delays in government funding in Japan and some operational management changes in Japan.
For the total year Life Sciences grew 5%.
Moving to slide 9 I'll walk you through our geographic revenues for the fourth quarter on a currency-neutral basis.
U.S.
growth was strong at 4.6%.
This was comprised of BD Medical growing at 5.1% and BD Life Sciences growing at 3.3%.
BD Medical's performance reflects broad portfolio strength including Flush ChloraPrep and Infusion Systems.
BD Life Sciences growth reflects strong performance in the U.S.
Biosciences business driven by research instrument and reagent sales.
In our U.S.
Diagnostics business we saw continued growth in our BD MAX molecular platform as well as seasonal distributor stocking related to the flu offset by continued declines in our ProbeTec/Viper platforms.
Moving on to International revenues grew 5.5%.
This is below our normal growth rate which primarily reflects the aforementioned challenges in our Respiratory business and a moderation of growth in China in the fourth quarter.
I'll provide more color on China in just a moment.
The Medical segment grew 5.4% driven by strong performance in Pharmaceutical Systems and safety-engineered products.
The Life Sciences segment grew 5.8% which reflects strong growth in Diagnostic Systems driven by solid performance in microbiology including Kiestra installations.
Preanalytical Systems was driven by double-digit growth in emerging markets and strength in safety-engineered devices in Europe.
On slide 10 emerging market revenues grew 5.9% currency-neutral bringing our year-to-date growth to 9.2%.
The fourth quarter growth rate in emerging markets reflects a tough comparison to the prior year coupled with some moderation in China and Brazil.
China growth for the fourth quarter was 8.5% bringing the total year growth to 15.4%.
This was primarily due to longer purchasing cycles and softness in instrumentation sales consistent with what we shared on our last earnings call.
In addition we took proactive steps to align inventories in our distribution channel.
On an underlying basis China grew about 12% in the quarter.
In Brazil the challenges are largely macroeconomic which we expect to continue into fiscal year 2016.
Despite softness in Brazil the rest of Latin America was strong growing double-digits.
Looking into fiscal year 2016 we expect emerging markets to grow at about 10% driven by a diversified base with China growing in the low to mid-teens continued strength in Latin America outside of Brazil fewer headwinds in EMA and strength in India.
With CareFusion revenues predominantly in developed markets emerging markets will be a lower percentage of total company revenues on a combined basis at about 16% with China accounting for about 5% of total revenues.
Moving to global safety on slide 11 currency-neutral sales increased 8.2% and grew to $744 million in the quarter.
Safety revenues in the U.S.
grew 4.4% while international sales grew 13.4% currency neutral with continued strength in Europe which grew double-digits as compliance with safety legislation continues.
Safety revenues grew 10% in emerging markets.
Medical safety sales grew 9% driven by a range of safety-engineered products including infusion disposables catheters and a range of products in Pharmaceutical Systems.
Life Sciences safety sales which are driven by our Preanalytical Systems unit grew 6.8% in the quarter.
Turning to slide 12 and our gross profit margin for the fourth quarter.
On a performance basis margin expansion was driven by continuous improvement initiatives and favorable raw material prices.
These contributions were slightly offset by higher pension expenses and other items.
Currency had a positive impact on gross profit in the quarter.
This was driven by a translation adjustments recognized in the quarter due to the timing of inventory movements otherwise known as profit and inventory.
In addition our gross profit margin reflects the impact of a reclass from SSG&amp;A to cost of goods sold associated with the alignment of accounting policies in connection with the acquisition integration.
Slide 13 recaps the fourth quarter income statement and highlights our currency-neutral results.
Since we have already discussed revenue and gross profit I'll move down the income statement to SSG&amp;A.
SSG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was 24.4%.
We're very pleased with the leverage we're getting which includes the benefit of cost synergy capture as previously discussed.
R&amp;D as a percentage of revenue was 6.4% which is slightly higher than normal due to the timing of spend as anticipated while full-year R&amp;D as a percentage of revenue was 6.1%.
Operating income grew 52.3% in the quarter on revenue growth of 49.1% reflecting strong P&amp;L leverage as the new BD.
Our tax rate increased by 160 basis points as expected due to the inclusion of CareFusion's U.S.-based results.
In the quarter adjusted earnings per share were $1.94 which is a 21.8% increase versus the prior year.
This reflects operating profit growth driven primarily by strong revenues and continued margin expansion.
Now turning to slide 15 I'd like to walk through our expected revenue guidance for the full fiscal year 2016.
In summary we expect revenue growth of 4.5% to 5% on a currency-neutral basis.
This is comprised of legacy CareFusion growing at about 4% and legacy BD growing at about 5% on the top line.
This is very consistent with our long-term growth profile of BD growing midsingle digits and our objective of accelerating CareFusion's top line growth profile to reach BD's average over time.
From a phasing perspective we expect currency-neutral revenue growth in the first quarter to be well below this range.
This is primarily due to a tough comparison to the prior year period in which legacy CareFusion grew 9.9% and legacy BD grew 5.3%.
This will result in currency-neutral revenue growth of about 1% to 2% in the first fiscal quarter.
After adjusting for the tough comparison as well as the loss of F&amp;P growth would be roughly in line with revenue guidance for the total year.
On a reported basis revenue growth for the total year is expected to be between 23% and 23.5% reflecting a currency headwind of about 150 basis points.
This assumes a euro-to-dollar exchange rate of $1.13.
The depreciation of Brazilian real year over year as well as other currencies such as the euro and the Canadian dollar results in a significant impact to our performance.
We expect this unfavorable impact to be the most acute in the first quarter with a headwind of approximately 450 basis points.
We expect the currency impact to moderate through the rest of the year.
We expect growth in both BD Medical and BD Life Sciences of 4.5% to 5% driven by continued growth in the core in conjunction with new products in both segments.
BD Medical growth will be driven by dispensing pen needles and infusion infection prevention relatable disposables.
Life Sciences anticipates continued growth in biosciences instruments and reagents microbiology including expansion of the KIESTRA platform as well as growth in molecular driven by BD MAX.
Both segments expect continued growth of safety-engineered devices and solid growth in both developed and emerging markets.
Based on our current view of the environment we expect pricing to be flat to slightly negative for the year.
Moving on to slide 16 there are a number of moving parts that impact earnings per share in fiscal year 2016.
For modeling purposes and to ensure consistency I'd like to provide more color on EPS guidance.
First we are very pleased with the strong performance from legacy BD growing 9% to 10% on an underlying basis.
In addition we now expect to deliver a significantly lower tax rate which results in 3 percentage points of improvement to the bottom line.
We're particularly pleased with our execution on operational synergies and expect to outperform our high teens target by driving accretion of 22%.
As Vince mentioned earlier we have also increased our cost synergy target to a range of $325 million to $350 million over the deal horizon.
As a result we expect to achieve very strong earnings of $8.73 to $8.80.
This enables to us overcome an unfavorable impact from pension expense and a significant headwind from foreign exchange.
We expect to deliver adjusted earnings per share of $8.37 to $8.44 for fiscal year 2016.
Turning to slide 17 I'd like to walk through additional elements of our guidance for the full fiscal year 2016.
But first I'd like to make some comments on the phasing of earnings.
Similar to revenue the impact of unfavorable currency will be most acute in the first quarter and we expect EPS to be between $1.80 and $1.85.
This reflects a currency headwind of approximately 1 500 basis points and a euro-to-dollar exchange rate of $1.13 versus $1.26 when compared with the prior-year period.
In addition the Brazilian real has declined 55% and the Canadian dollar has declined 15%.
Moving on to the total year guidance we have provided comparable fiscal year 2015 results which include BD and CareFusion for the full year.
We expect gross profit margin to be between 52% and 52.5%.
Performance improvements are partially offset by negative currency translation and pension.
SSG&amp;A as a percentage of sales is expected to be between 24.5% and 25%.
Our guidance also reflects continued investments in emerging markets as well as costs related to new product launches and registration cost.
We expect our R&amp;D investment to be in line with fiscal year 2015 at about 6% of revenues as we continue to invest in new products and platforms.
As a result of the items I just detailed operating margin is expected to be between 21% and 22% of revenues.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency we expect our underlying operating margin to improve by 130 to 150 basis points.
This also excludes slight pension headwinds.
We expect our tax rate to be between 21.5% and 22.5%.
For fiscal year 2016 we anticipate our average fully diluted share count to be approximately 217 million.
Cash flow is expected to remain strong with operating cash flow of about $2.6 billion in fiscal year 2016.
Capital expenditures are expected to be about $650 million to $700 million.
In summary we have strong momentum exiting fiscal year 2015.
And looking forward into 2016 we are building off of a very solid foundation.
Our core remains strong and we've moved into new adjacencies.
We're outperforming on our synergy and accretion targets as well as delivering earlier tax efficiencies.
As we continue to execute and deliver on the factors that are under our control I'm confident that fiscal year 2016 will be another year of strong performance positioning us well for continued success.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Vince who will provide you with an update on our product portfolio.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Chris.
Moving on to slide 19 we have been discussing our pipeline for some time now and in fiscal year 2015 there were a number of product launches.
I'll not review them in detail but they are highlighted on slide 19.
We're committed to the successful ramp up of these products while we also look to the future and continue to expand our portfolio.
Moving on to slide 20 we have some new product launches that we would like to share with you.
In BD Medical we continue to make progress with our insulin infusion sets with an expected product launch in the middle of the fiscal year 2016.
This product will improve the consistency of insulin delivery by significantly reducing silent occlusions simplify the user's experience and increase a patient's overall satisfaction with insulin pumping.
Also launching in 2016 is the new Pyxis Mini tabletop medication management platform.
This is a unique system that supports customer needs in non-acute care settings such as ambulatory care centers long-term care and surgery centers.
Leveraging the Pyxis ES platform the Pyxis Mini extends the value of the ES server and the hospital's IT infrastructure by providing safe and secure medication management.
We look forward to sharing further details on the newly combined Medical Segment with new product portfolio launches later in fiscal year 2016.
While there has been a strong focus on the Medical Segment due to the CareFusion acquisition I'd like to note that our Life Sciences Segment remains an important growth driver for BD.
It was an exciting year for BD Biosciences which includes our new genomics business.
In fourth quarter we acquired Cellular Research and launched the BD FACSseq a high-throughput cell sorter which targets solving significant unmet needs in single cell analysis.
The combination of Cellular Research's molecular indexing technology paired with cell sorting allows researchers to choose which cells to study and enables the correlation of cell surface markers with genetic data.
The combination is intended to enable a more simplified workflow time reduction to isolate cells and all of this with higher accuracy.
Also in the fourth quarter we launched the new X-50 research flow cytometer.
The X-50 represents a significant advancement in technology enabling simultaneous measurement of up to 50 unique characteristics at the single cell level.
The X-50 single cell analyzer enables superior resolution of rare cell populations providing richer scientific insights to advance the understanding of human disease and intervention strategies.
In fiscal year 2016 we expect to launch our GenCell library preparation system.
This platform will consolidate and automate NGS library preparation workflow at a reduced total cost position.
In our Diagnostic Systems business we anticipate launching four new assays in the next year including CT/GC and vaginitis as we continue to drive menu expansion on the BD MAX platform.
We're also on track with our launch of the next-generation Veritor point-of-care instrument which incorporates smart features to enable connectivity.
In our Preanalytical Systems business we anticipate launching two new products during 2016.
The UltraTouch push-button blood collection sets will deliver significant improvements in patient outcomes for patients with challenging venous access.
The BD Barricor tubes are an innovative technology which will enhance sample quality as well as lab turnaround time.
As you can see we continue to have strong opportunities in our pipeline and we look forward to sharing our progress with you as we make progress throughout the year.
On slide 21 before we conclude and open the call to questions I would like to take a moment to discuss a leadership change within the organization.
BD announced this morning that after 41 years of outstanding service to BD Bill Kozy EVP and Chief Operating Officer has decided to retire effective April 1 2016.
Bill has had an exemplary career at BD and his accomplishments are too numerous to mention them all.
As we all know he has spent the past year leading the successful integration of CareFusion and BD.
While we believe this process is well under way and Bill will stay on until March to ensure a successful transition of these duties to Chris Reidy who will lead the current integration team.
I would like to make a special mention of Bill's relentless commitment to operational excellence to our customers and to our associates.
They are highly valued and have made a tremendous difference for all of us and for the company.
We would like to express our sincere gratitude and also congratulate him on reaching this milestone.
Now I'd like to reiterate the key messages from our presentation today.
First this was a pivotal year for BD in history and we are pleased with our strong results.
We've exceeded our financial and operational goals for this year and our increased synergy and accretion targets are evidence that we are successfully executing on our acquisition of CareFusion.
Second our core remains strong.
Our investments drive robust revenue growth of 5.3% and we continue to deliver high-quality double digit earnings growth.
We expect to deliver a similar growth profile in fiscal year 2016 with top line growth of 4.5% to 5% and earnings accretion of about 22%.
We are pleased with our financial performance and we continue to deliver and believe we have built a strong foundation for future growth.
Third we expanded into new areas of medication management and entered the genomic market.
We're excited about the value that CareFusion brings to BD and our customers as we execute our medication management strategy.
We're also very pleased with the progress we've made in Life Sciences with our acquisition of GenCell and Cellular Research which underscore BD's commitment to drive value through our genomic strategy.
Finally I would like to say thank you to all of our associates around the world.
It's a testament to the hard work of the BD and CareFusion employees that we are here today with what I believe is a tremendous opportunity to create a true industry leader.
As we embark on this next phase of growth I look to the future with enthusiasm and confidence.
Thank you.
We will now open the call to questions.
Thank you.
The floor is now open for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question is coming from David Roman of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
And good morning everybody.
Hopefully I can just sneak two in here along the same lines.
Vince maybe you could just start with the pipeline.
The list of products that you're laying out for FY 2016 is probably one of the deeper pipeline benches that you've presented in some time.
Can you maybe help you think about the contribution from that pipeline and how that squares with the growth rates that you're presenting here in your guidance? Because it would seem like given that breadth of product launches we would see an acceleration in the base business.
So can you maybe help us think about some of the gives and takes with respect to product launches versus the performance of the base business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah David we feel really good about the guidance that we have given on revenue the 4.5% to 5%.
And you are right.
There is a strong breadth of products across the entire portfolio.
I think the one business you might have noticed in the guidance that we hadn't talked about before was PAS with the new launches of the Barricor tube in there and the new push-button product.
But I think what you haven't taken into account is it's just going to take a while to ramp up those new products as we get the automated manufacturing in place.
So not as much of an impact that would take us above the range.
Now if they go faster as I said in my remarks okay there's some potential upside.
And I'm not just talking about the PAS products but the Pyxis Mini and others the infusion sets which is in a similar situation.
So I think across the board we're feeling good.
We're feeling good about the base business as well.
There's little puts and takes as I mentioned from a geographic standpoint but we're still going to get about 10% in terms of emerging markets.
So when we put all of that together we're saying look developed world up a little bit emerging markets still a strong growth driver.
And when you put it all back together it gets you to the 4.5% to 5%.
So anyway that was your first question? Yeah then the second was just on emerging markets.
In your prepared remarks you talked about product registrations on the CareFusion side.
Can you maybe just walk us through the steps and timeline associated with product registration to commercialization and then financial impact just to maybe frame up how we should think about the progression of that opportunity on a go-forward basis? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah sure.
Tom Polen will do that for you.
BD Preanalytical Systems</span></strong> Hey David.
This is Tom.
So as we've discussed in the past we are pursuing a number of opportunities for revenue synergies in the combined portfolio.
We have begun investment work on those registrations and actually submitted several dozen registrations in FY 2015.
Of course that process does take some time.
And as I've said in the past we expect it to take about two years to start seeing the benefits of those pull through in sales.
So more of an FY 2017 effect than a 2016 and that's right in line with what we've said since the deal announcement.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah and we really haven't changed our view on the revenue synergies from the start of all of this.
The geographies may have moved around a little bit but in total it's looking like the same opportunity.
Thank you.
Your next question is coming from David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning David.
Chris just one quick question on first quarter guidance and then I had another question for you on tax rate and synergy if I could.
So just on first quarter guidance just reviewing the 1% to 2% constant currency.
I'm assuming that just reflects CareFusion numbers year on year which were I don't know 11% in dispensing and 8% in Procedural Solutions so an unexpected CareFusion quarter.
Is there anything else going on in the first quarter we should be aware of besides that harder comp? Yep you got that piece right in terms of infusion.
So as we pointed to the overall CareFusion was 9.9%.
If you remember that was a quarter that was their closing quarter so that comes into play.
You also got the F&amp;P contract loss that we talked about.
And then on the legacy BD side we have the normal pharmaceutical sales timing of orders and so that tends to be weaker in the first quarter.
And then last year you had Diagnostic Systems with a strong flu season.
We're just calling a normal flu season this year.
So that could vary but you put all of those things together and it makes for a tough comp in the first quarter.
Okay.
And then maybe two questions about the long-term outlook.
One on tax.
You signaled the tax rate continuing to move down maybe to the upper teens over time but the 2016 guidance is coming in stronger than we expected.
So do you have greater tax opportunities before 2018 than you thought and can we get down to upper teens maybe quicker than we thought? And then on synergies just help me understand with the 30% raise what are the principal drivers and what's the pacing of synergies across these three years and any update on revenue synergies? Thank you.
Okay.
That's about four questions David but they're all good ones.
So on the tax I think we've said from the beginning that we do expect to get tax synergies but we thought that when you put two big companies like ours together it'll take a while to get those structures in place and see through that.
We've done a lot of that work and we do see those synergies coming sooner than expected and so you're seeing that in 2016.
We do say that ultimately we want to be at the high teens which is where we've been driving for a number of years.
But I wouldn't say past 2016 2016's in that 21.5% to 22.5% range.
After that I wouldn't ramp it much more than 50 basis points a year after that.
We'll provide more insight into that going forward obviously.
But that wouldn't get you down to the high teens by 2018.
So I wouldn't say it's an acceleration of the ramp to the high teens but we are getting it earlier than we had originally anticipated and it's showing up in 2016.
In terms of the synergies what's driving the increase from $250 million to $325 million and $350 million is as we've been saying all along we needed to see some traction.
Initially you get out-of-the-box synergies early on so a reduction of public company costs.
And we had good visibility to that.
What we needed to see is visibility to the next wave which is things like IT synergies putting the combination of the two companies together and getting system synergies and system synergies throughout all of the functions.
And so we've now seen some of that traction.
We've also even seen some traction in the manufacturing area.
As we mentioned in the remarks we've had six plant closures.
So we've started to see some visibility and traction along those lines and that's what gives us the confidence to raise it to the $325 million to $350 million.
Now in terms of the timing that you talked about we mentioned that we had about $50 million in the first six months.
We see that turning into about $100 million for next year on a full-year basis.
Then you get about an extra $40 million incremental and that turns into a full-year impact the following year of $80 million.
We see the about $40 million incremental kind of ratably over the next couple years and if you roll it out that way you get to the $325 million to $350 million.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks a lot David.
Your next question comes from Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan.
Hi this is actually Robbie Marcus in for Mike.
I was wondering if you could talk a little more about your 10% growth target for emerging markets and how you see that rebounding off fourth quarter particularly in China and Latin America.
And then also if you don't mind touching on hospital budgets for 2016 given how poorly some of the facility reports have been lately and what you're considering in your guidance for budgets next year.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think you're talking about the U.S.
from a hospital budgeting standpoint and we're assuming pretty much status quo in terms of the U.S.
marketplace.
Not a lot of improvement but continued consistent demand.
And we feel good about where we are from a capital standpoint and the backlog that we have.
So I think we're in good shape there.
In terms of emerging markets as we mentioned in the quarter in China we did some proactive work with the distributor community.
Remember we don't give credit to the distributors.
So we want to make sure we had the right amount of inventory and so we've completed that work.
So underlying growth I think was closer to 11% in the quarter for China.
Actually 12%.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> 12% Excuse me 12%.
And so we see China continuing to grow in the low teens.
And of course it's become quite large at this point in time.
It's about 5% of BD's sales.
We expect India to do well and we saw good performance this year in India.
If you look at Latin America Latin America did well with the exception of Brazil and we continue to expect weakness in Brazil this year but the rest of Latin America has grown quite nicely and so we're getting good growth out of that.
We think EMA is going to be okay as we move forward.
And we're projecting Russia to be soft.
And when you add all of that up you get to our guidance.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi thanks for taking the question.
I was just wondering if you could I guess talk to the longer-term outlook.
I know when you originally did the CareFusion deal you had talked about CareFusion being about a 3% maybe 4% growth company.
Sounds like it's coming in a little bit better with the cost synergies talking about like bottom line growth being more around that 10%.
It sounds like things are going better on the cost synergies.
Certainly the legacy BD business is doing much better.
How should we just think about sustaining the growth? Would you let the higher cost synergies kind of flow through? Would you think about reinvesting those? Or just looking to do more acquisitions to kind of further fuel the top line growth? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let me start on the top line.
And if I go back to the beginning what we said was that CareFusion was about a 3.5% grower.
BD was growing at about 5% and our long-term goal was to get CareFusion up to about the 5%.
And that would come through both the geographic expansion and new product opportunity as we synergized with CareFusion across the medication management process.
And that is still the strategy.
And you're right the base business in both CareFusion and BD is performing well.
And we had a strong quarter.
It was about 4% underlying I think Tom was trying to tell me.
BD Preanalytical Systems</span></strong> Correct.
And we expect CareFusion like you said historically about 3.5%.
We expect them to be about 4% in 2016.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right this year.
Yes.
4% this year.
Long term we'd like to get them to 5% is what we said.
BD Preanalytical Systems</span></strong> Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That is still our goal and we still have work to do to get there.
But we are pleased at where we are at.
Now in terms of letting this all – how we think about this Chris has laid out what the financial characteristics are going to be for the next couple years.
What Chris has said in the long term was 5% and 10%.
And we haven't come off that.
Chris may want to add some color to that but that implies that we will be investing for the future and also returning value to the shareholders.
So Chris I don't know if you want to add anything to that.
Right so the only other thing I would add is as you think about 2017 and 2018 you have that base model of 5% on the top and 10% on the bottom but then you do get some incremental pickup from the synergies.
And as I answered earlier we see that incremental amount per year to be about $40 million then annualizing it for the following year.
And so if you run that math you pick up a couple of percentage points on the bottom on top of that 10%.
So that's the way to think about it.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So you'd be inclined to let that fall through to the bottom line for shareholders and then kind of think about it growing more traditionally 5% to 10% 5% and 10% thereafter? Yeah I think once you get out and you're past the synergies you kind of go back to that base model.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Past 2018.
Yeah past 2018.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay perfect.
And then just on BD Simplist are we getting to the point where that's sort of breakeven or is that still dilutive overall to the P&amp;L? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> BD Simplist is still dilutive at this point in time.
It did grow.
It's still not all that big.
We still haven't gotten the approvals on the two drugs that we have been talking about for some time.
Tom is there any update on those two drugs in the pipeline? BD Preanalytical Systems</span></strong> Hi Kristen this is Tom.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey Tom.
BD Preanalytical Systems</span></strong> I think as we've shared in the past we've been realigning our portfolio.
We are on track for the next two launches in the high-alert drugs; hydromorphone and heparin we do expect to launch in FY 2016.
And so as we add those to morphine which is our current high-risk drug that's doing very well in the marketplace we expect those sales to continue to accelerate so.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay Kristen thanks for the questions.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Brian Weinstein with William Blair.
Hi guys thanks for taking the question.
Maybe a question for you on genomics in general.
Can you kind of just talk about what the longer-term plan is here? Are you looking to add additional assets? Or are you looking to add things in things like bioinformatics or kind go deeper in next-gen sequencing? Just talk about what the overall strategy looks like in genomics at this point.
Thanks.
Hi Brian this is Linda.
So over the long term we're focused on building a leading genomics position in next-generation sequencing from sample preparation to sample collection to sequencer ready.
So it'll be platforms that are ubiquitous and can be used with any next-generation sequencer.
So today those platforms involve our PAXgene sample collection and stabilization products.
They involve our library preparation platforms from GenCell and of course now the combination of our BD flow cytometry with Cellular Research's molecular indexing technology.
So all of these in combination again we think we will have technologies that allow researchers and clinicians as we move to the clinic more scalable high-quality efficient and cost-effective.
So you'll see us continue to build franchises in that whole upfront sample collection process.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Brian certainly we will continue to look for assets in the space.
We're very excited about the Cellular Research deal that we just concluded because we think it is such a great fit with the flow cytometry business and really does give researchers a new process and a better way of understanding cells.
I mentioned in my remarks you can look at the cell surface markers and you can look at the DNA.
And this is where we're really enabling that for the first time.
So it's pretty exciting.
So Linda will continue to build that business.
Thanks for your question Brian.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Great thanks.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
A couple questions.
First off Chris the reclass from SSG&amp;A to cost of goods.
Should we think about that as a recurring charge or is this more one-time in nature? And then secondly I guess kind of question on the pricing assumption the flat to slightly negative for the coming year.
I guess could you give us a little more color into some of the underlying assumptions there given that it generally kind of outperformed on an incremental basis this year? Thanks.
Sure.
So the accounting adjustment.
There's nothing unusual; when you put two companies together you do see sometimes a difference in the way certain expenses are accounted for.
So the adjustment kind of brought costs from SSG&amp;A mostly related to things like quality and up into cost of goods sold.
So it doesn't affect the bottom line it's just within the P&amp;L itself.
When you look at our chart 17 and we talk about the guidance we've kind of done the comparable basis for you.
So there's two things going on when we adjust for comparable basis.
One is these accounting adjustments.
The other is the fact that CareFusion had a half a year before us.
So their percentages were different.
So we wanted to put it on an apples-to-apples basis and chart 17 does that.
So if you look at for example SSG&amp;A or gross profit on chart 17 what we're showing in 2015 actual on a comparable basis is equivalent on an apples-to-apples basis with our 2016 guidance.
I forgot what your second question was.
Second question was - Oh pricing.
Pricing I'm sorry.
That's all right.
So pricing the way to think about that is over the last couple of years essentially pricing has been relatively flat.
Last year it was down slightly in 2014.
This year it's relatively flat.
And so that's really indicative of the guidance that we're going forward with.
Flat to slightly down.
So it's very consistent with what we've seen over the last two years.
Thank you.
Your next question is coming from Doug Schenkel of Cowen &amp; Company.
Hi good morning.
Just a couple of quick questions.
First on R&amp;D R&amp;D spend increased notably sequentially and on an absolute and percentage of sales basis.
Would you be willing to share if there are areas where you are proportionally directing more money that we should be thinking about as we look forward and how we think about this in the context of you driving synergies over the next few years? And then my second question is really a – I guess really just clarification on guidance.
Why did you assume $1.13 versus the current spot rate of $1.09 for the euro and would you be willing to quantify what the assumption is for new product contributions that are factored into revenue growth? Thank you President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Doug first this is Vince.
Listen in terms of R&amp;D there's nothing unusual going on in R&amp;D at all.
We're not shifting funding or anything and we haven't changed our outlook in terms of 6% of sales.
So there's just some timing going on in projects.
So nothing to really report there.
And Chris on the $1.13? Yeah the $1.13 is the last-30-day average; it's actually the last-90-day average too.
The euro was at $1.13 about 10 days ago.
So there's been a lot of volatility.
We've set our budget up at the $1.13.
What I would point to the fact that as we look forward the euro really had a big impact in the current year going from the $1.26 for example in the first quarter down to $1.13.
And that was the biggest impact on FX in the current year.
As we look forward to next year that $1.16 down to the low $1.10 to $1.13 is much less of an impact going forward than some of the other currencies that we pointed to.
So if you looked at our prepared remarks we point to things like the Brazilian real as well as the Canadian dollar.
Those are huge drivers going forward into the 2016 guidance.
We did decide we didn't want to mark-to-market for example on a euro basis and we're comfortable with the guidance we gave given the full basket of FX currencies.
Thanks guys.
Thanks.
Your next question is coming from Rick Weiss of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning Vince.
A couple questions.
First just a general question.
Vince you said early on in your comments that you're increasingly confident about delivering end-to-end solutions.
Just curious what's that mean exactly? What's giving you more confidence? Are you seeing larger contract system wins? Is that what's driving that statement or just how do we think about that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay so if I start on the Medication Management side of things as we have proceeded with the integration including the product lines the work that Tom and his team have done with Cato and CRISI is actually expanding the solution set there and that seems to be well-received by the customer base.
I mentioned also in my prepared remarks that the Pyxis Mini we're in the process of launching that.
And we see that as very important as integrated delivery networks start to think about how they coordinate care across the entire network.
So we see ourselves doing quite well from a product standpoint to support that solution going forward.
And the more conversations Tom and I have with the customer base that seems to be the right strategy.
So that was the reason behind my remark on the Medication side.
On the Diagnostics and Life Science side of the business Linda can speak to this a little bit more I'll ask her to in a second.
But the ramp-up that we are seeing in Kiestra is quite strong.
And so a full automation solution on the microbiology side is really coming along and we've also added to that with Bruker.
So Linda you might want to mention how we did with Kiestra especially in the U.S.
this year and how that's ramping.
Sure.
Thanks.
So as Vince mentioned a total solution.
And if you look at the microbiology lab today many of the labs look like they looked 50 years ago.
So the opportunity with Kiestra and the opportunity to automate that lab from sample in to full now with our connectivity to MALDI's ID system and our AST solution you really see a full solution.
So we saw great traction.
One of our key growth drivers in the fourth quarter was BD Kiestra.
Great traction in Western Europe but also and very exciting for us is traction we're seeing in now China Saudi Arabia Japan South Africa.
And we ended the year with a significant number of new orders for the U.S.
market.
So this really is a tremendous opportunity for us.
And then just maybe one other solution I'll speak about on the Life Sciences side a great growth driver for us with some research and the research market is the high-parameter research solution that we're offering now in combination with our high-parameter flow cytometers with our X-30 and X-50 but also our Sirigen platform so really enabling activity at the cell level an understanding that that has never existed before.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Rick just to add to that and take it up to a different level here at the 50 000-foot level the informatics capability as we understand it now and the way we can leverage that capability across the company not just on the Medication Management side but we believe also into the Life Science side we think is going to be a real enabler of solutions going forward.
Now we're not going to get into detail about that today but as we evolve that strategy that's something we'll be talking to you about as we go forward.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Matt Taylor of Barclays bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
I wanted just to delve into a couple things a little bit deeper that you hadn't talked about earlier on the call.
One I think people definitely focus on emerging markets.
And I know you talked a little bit about macro in Brazil.
I guess I want to understand what are the macro factors that you're talking about? Is it currency? Are you seeing flagging demand? Could you characterize that a little bit more in more detail? And then I guess in terms of your EM sales can you talk a little bit about just visibility in terms of working with distributor partners and how you're able to really see the end market demand versus what you're selling into? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
So in terms of Brazil what we were referring to really is the timing of tenders in Brazil.
So that's related to government funding and how aggressively they ramp that up.
And so we generally have a good sense of what the timing of those tenders would be as we put together our budget.
And so my remarks reflected that knowledge base from the team down in Brazil and also what they're seeing in the other countries in Latin America where they see government funding continuing to ramp up and a continued build of those systems.
And so that's the macroeconomic factors that I'm talking about.
It's mostly government funding.
Now if you go over to China it's a situation where the government is continuing to build out the healthcare system.
It is growing somewhat slower a couple percentage points slower than it was in the past.
And we've reflected that our guidance.
It also reflects what we mentioned last quarter and this quarter which was a slowdown of action on diagnostic instrumentation tenders.
And that is driven by a desire of the hospitals not to get audited as part of the anticorruption process that's going on there.
Doesn't mean the hospital did anything wrong.
It's an added burden on the hospital and if they can avoid that in the short run they would like to do that.
We've taken all that into account as we guide.
Now in terms of working with our distributors we work with them very closely on what their inventory levels are.
We have our own sales force calling on the accounts.
So we have a view to the pipeline.
We do not leave that to the distribution community.
So those are the factors that we look at as we take this all into account.
I would just add that we feel real good about the China growth.
If you look at this year over 15% and next year low to mid-teens that's really strong growth continues to be strong growth and outpaces our peers from a growth standpoint.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah we continue to out-index our peers in emerging markets by a substantial amount too.
And of course it's become so big even though if you take something like China where the growth rate has come down the actual absolute number is still about where it was.
So it's still a big impact and a big growth driver.
And if I look out over the long term we still see a very long ramp there.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Derik De Bruin of Bank of America.
Hi.
Hello.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
This is (1:02:18) filling in for Derik.
I had a couple of questions quick.
I was wondering if you could provide a little bit more color on the Diagnostic volumes outside of the United States and competition in Dx in general and also if you could quantify your revenue exposure to Brazil.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we haven't broken out Brazil any time in the past so I don't think we will do that.
All I would say is as I was mentioning that we've taken that softness into account and that the rest of Latin America has become a much bigger piece of Latin America.
Chris anything you can add to that? Just to put it in perspective though if you look at China one thing we have said is a 2% decline in China for example in their growth rate is only worth a 0.1 point of growth on the BD level.
And Brazil is much smaller than China.
So just to put things in perspective.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's good.
Linda why don't you talk about Diagnostics? Yeah just in terms of overall Diagnostic volumes in emerging markets we continue to see strong growth in those areas driven primarily by our BACTEC business SurePath.
We also see strong double digit growth in TB.
So continuing to see increases in rollout of our platforms in all of our emerging markets.
Thank you.
Your next question is coming from Vijay Kumar with Evercore ISI.
Hey guys.
Congrats on a nice quarter.
So maybe a first question on the guidance.
So if I look at the operating margin improvements at the midpoint it looks like about 50 bps.
So that's about a $65 million uplift to your EBITDA.
You had legacy as a standalone BDX you had margin improvements.
And I think CFN they had their annual margin improvement targets.
So I'm just trying to think – and plus you add in about the synergies it feels like at the midpoint it should be slightly better the absolute dollar increase in EBITDA.
So I'm wondering if you could sort of help us walk through? Especially given that pricing is kind of flattish.
Yeah so just – there's a lot of ins and outs because of the fact that CareFusion had lower operating margins for the first half of last year.
And so if you look at that we're giving guidance of 21% to 22% versus the 20.7% last year.
That's about 130 to 150 basis points of underlying growth and we mentioned that in the script.
And you have about 40 basis points of FX headwinds in there.
So we feel good about the fact that we're driving that operating margin improvement both next year and gross profit.
So you can see that we're up year over year on the GP line.
Again overcoming about 40 basis points of FX.
So about 50 basis points of improvement operationally and we're continuing the SSG&amp;A performance with another 30 to 40 basis points of operating margin improvement.
Now if you look at SSG&amp;A if you went back to a combined basis in 2014 you're looking at like 25.7% of revenue.
And we're now looking at that down over 100 basis points.
So we obviously got a lot of synergies in year on the SSG&amp;A line and we're doing better on top of that going into next year.
So the combination of all of those things point to the increase that we had.
And if you look back at the chart that we had chart 16 you can see that the accretion we talked about being 22% versus the high teens.
But the thing that I would point to is that excluding FX we're driving $8.73 to $8.80 in terms of EPS on an FXN neutral basis.
So really doing extremely well on the operation accretion.
We've got the tax rate efficiencies kicking in and overcoming that FX headwinds which are significant with about 5% headwinds from FX.
Thanks Chris.
So just one quick follow-up on the synergies.
Raised their total targets to $3.25 to $3.50.
Does that include I guess – legacy CF then had about 100 bips of annual expansion.
Does that include or exclude – which was about $75 million by my math over a three-year period.
And I guess Bill Kozy congratulations to you.
A long successful career.
And he was leading the charge on the integrations and now with him sort of in there transitioning I'm curious who's going to lead the integration now.
So as Vince said that would be me.
And I've been working hand in hand with Bill over the last year.
And now we're down to the execution phases as we said.
We've seen those synergies the traction on those our ability to use shared service centers some of the end-to-end process improvements that we have some of the plans that we have in place on manufacturing.
So those are well under way and hopefully in good hands as Bill retires.
So we feel real good about our look forward President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> In terms of your math Chris he was asking about the 100 basis points that CareFusion had in their plan.
Oh sure.
So as we've said from the beginning Vijay that our synergies are truly incremental.
So you can see what we did on slide 16 that those synergies are on top of the 9% to 10% that we would've normally driven on the BD side.
And as we said from the beginning CareFusion had indicated operating margin improvements that we haircutted from 100 to down to about 70 basis points.
And what we're driving in these $3.25 to $3.50 are on top of those underlying improvements that they would have done on their own anyway.
And so it really truly is incremental.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Vijay just one other point on the integration.
So think about as Bill transitions Bill is transitioning the manufacturing operations side.
He's been working with Steve Sichak of course who runs all the reloco and all that.
Success is getting it into that process getting it into the business and executing on it.
And what we were indicating is we're already doing that with the six plants that we started.
So we put it into our normal process.
The other big bucket is the G&amp;A side and of course who's been driving that but Chris.
So we're well aligned on this.
Bill has done just an absolutely fantastic job.
And I can tell you he won't go out the door until he gets this thing buttoned up because that's just his nature.
But anyway thanks for the question.
Thank you.
Today's final question is coming from the line of Jon Groberg of UBS.
Hi good morning.
This is actually Harris on behalf of Jon.
Appreciate the question.
So first one can you talk about the impact of recent initiatives to accelerate the Pyxis installation process? I think – I know you mentioned recently putting into place the Lean Six Sigma team so maybe any update on the impact of these moves and how backlog is now trending? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah sure Tom Polen can take that as soon as he turns on his mic.
BD Preanalytical Systems</span></strong> Hi Harris this is Tom.
So as we have discussed as you said we've been working on the process improvements.
We're quite pleased at the progress that we've been making there.
We are seeing that process improve over the last six months in particular.
And so we still have more work to do but we have been applying some of our operational systems and Lean approaches to make that better.
And we will be continuing that over the balance of FY 2016.
What I would say as well is that while we're improving the installation process we are continuing to see very strong demand for customers for ES.
So we do not expect any change in that going forward.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn to floor back over to Vince Forlenza for any closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Yeah.
So I would like to thank all of you for your participation today on the call.
I look forward to reporting on FY 2016.
And once again I would like to thank all of the BD associates around the globe for their tremendous work in 2015.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.