Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference call webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Andy Clark.
Mr.
Clark you may begin.
Thanks Wendy and welcome everyone.
With us today are Bob Kelly our Chairman and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO; as well as several members of our executive management team.
Before we begin let me remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement on Page 12 of the press release and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today April 19 2011 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
This morning's press release provides the highlights of our results.
We also have the Quarterly Earnings Review document available on our website which provides a quarterly review of the total company and individual businesses.
We will be using the Quarterly Earnings Review document to discuss our results.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob.
Bob? Thanks Andy.
Good morning everyone.
EPS was $0.50 or $625 million in the first quarter.
Given the seasonality of our business model it's probably most useful to focus on year-over-year comparisons.
That's because we're coming off the fourth quarter when performance fees from investment management and corporate action fees and DRs are seasonally at their absolute peak so sequential comparisons are less valuable frankly.
Total revenue grew 9% year-over-year primarily due to acquisitions but not entirely.
We'll come back to that.
We continued to grow faster outside of the U.S.
Non-U.S.
revenue was 37% in the first quarter.
That's up 200 basis points from a year ago.
We're continuing to see good growth in investment management fees.
They're up 12% year-over-year.
And AUM was up 11% in Q1 to a new high of $1.2 trillion.
Fee growth in our investment management -- or Investment Services businesses was 27%.
And even excluding the impact of acquisitions last year it was still up a good 9%.
Clearing had perhaps our strongest quarter up 27% year-over-year and up 5% sequentially.
Asset Servicing continued to benefit from new business and acquisitions.
Assets under custody was $25.5 trillion a new record up 14% year-over-year.
Net interest revenue does indeed remain constrained due to short -- very low short-term interest rates and our hope is we may have seen the low point of the year in Q1.
And despite 25% higher volumes in FX and other trading this category was negatively impacted by very very low volatility this quarter.
It was down 22% from the previous quarter and down about -- and it's currently I think at the lowest rate since 2007.
And that is the primary driver of our FX revenue.
On the new business front we had 6 -- this will be our sixth consecutive quarter of positive long-term asset inflows for investment management.
We actually had $31 billion for the quarter almost double what we saw in the first quarter of 2010.
Wealth Management had a record level of client assets and has a strong pipeline and the Depositary Receipts business continues at a very strong win rate.
You may have noticed that our provision was 0 so this will be the third quarter in a row it was 0 or negative.
Expenses were up sharply but roughly half of that was due to acquisitions and litigation expenses increased as well.
Expenses actually declined 2% sequentially which includes the impact of litigation expenses as well.
We're kind of viewing litigation as core at the moment and a reflection of the environment we're operating in.
I see this as the last phase of the financial crisis with plaintiffs seeking to recover losses.
It's a sad reality of the U.S.
legal system and it's a fact that the entire industry is facing including us and will continue to be somewhat of a risk.
In the end we'll navigate through it.
The fundamental strength of our business model is our ability to rapidly grow capital and generate a high return on it.
This quarter we generated almost $800 million of Tier 1 common up 7% from last quarter or 28% annualized.
Tier 1 common equity is really our key regulatory capital and are constrained until Basel III is implemented.
So we really focus on our return on Tier 1 common.
In Q1 we earned a 21% return on it and we did so with a top quartile capital ratio versus the top 10 banks.
And after the most recent regulatory review and approval process we've begun executing on our plans to return capital to shareholders.
We increased our quarterly dividend by 44% to $0.13 per quarter.
And you may have noted that during the quarter we repurchased 1.1 million shares of common stock and we expect to continue that program in the second quarter.
So to sum up I would view revenue growth at this point in the mid-single digit range when you strip away everything in terms of acquisitions and unusual items.
New business trends and pipelines are in good shape.
We continued to deliver revenue growth in this environment although of course we have to remember it is constrained by the low interest rates and low FX volatility.
If volatility picks up so will revenues in those categories.
We're focused on keeping expense growth down and we're going to do more to mute it.
But we do have somewhat higher costs in the first quarter for reasons that Todd will spend a little bit more detail on.
We are generating lots of capital and we make a very strong return on it.
And we are returning capital to shareholders.
So with that why don't I turn it over to Todd to go through the numbers in more detail and then we'll open it up for questions.
Todd? Thanks Bob.
Before getting into the numbers I'd like to highlight the changes that we've made to our business line reporting.
I think you'll find that this adds focus to our principal businesses.
Investment Management now includes the former Asset Management and Wealth Management businesses.
Investment Services includes the former Asset Servicing Issuer and Clearing Services as well as the Cash Management business previously included in Treasury Services.
The credit-related activities previously included in Treasury Services are now included in Other.
And we've reclassified all of our prior periods accordingly.
These changes are consistent with our internal reporting structure.
They're consistent with how we evaluate performance and decide on resource allocations and they should make it easier to understand our company and how it's performing.
With that said let's go through the numbers.
And we'll begin with Page 3 of the Quarterly Earnings Review where we present some of the highlights of the quarter.
I will focus primarily on year-over-year comparisons given the seasonality in our business model that Bob just mentioned.
On a year-over-year basis earnings for the quarter of $0.50 were up 2% versus the year-ago quarter.
Total revenue of $3.6 billion was up 9%.
Fee revenue was up 12% principally reflecting the acquisitions in Investment Services as well as higher market values and net new business in our Investment Management and Investment Services businesses.
FX and other trading results were down primarily due to lower fixed income and derivatives trading revenue.
Net interest revenue was down 9% due to the continued impact of the low rate environment.
Noninterest expenses increased 11% primarily driven by the acquisitions and was down 2% sequentially and that includes the $47 million in litigation expenses during the quarter.
Turning to Page 5 you'll see a new page we've added to the earnings review to call out some of the business metrics that will help you understand our underlying performance.
Assets under management and assets under custody reached record levels in the quarter reflecting higher market values and net new business.
Assets under management were up 11% year-over-year 5% sequentially to a record level of $1.2 trillion.
First quarter long-term inflows were $31 billion.
This is the highest level of inflows since our merger and it more than offsets the short-term outflows of $5 billion.
For perspective here consider that for all of 2010 we had a $48 billion in long term flows which itself was a record.
Long-term inflows benefited from strength in fixed income and equity indexed products.
Assets under custody was up 14% year-over-year to a record level of $25.5 trillion benefiting from the acquisitions higher market values and new business.
The other investment service metrics continue to show positive trends with the exception of corporate trust where the environment continues to be challenging.
DR programs increased all clearing metrics improved and the broker-dealer tri-party book continues to grow.
Turning to Page 7 of the earnings review which shows fee growth.
On a year-over-year basis our fee revenue was up 12% which would be about 2% if you excluded the acquisitions.
That increase also reflects very high other trading income in the first quarter of last year as well as gains on the disposition of leases and a large translation gain in the first quarter of last year.
If you adjust for these our core underlying fee revenue growth grew at about 8%.
Investment service fees were up 20% year-over-year and down 2% quarter-over-quarter primarily reflecting the impact of the acquisitions as well as new business improved market values and seasonality.
We continue to benefit from the acquisitions made last year.
During the first quarter Asset Servicing picked up a large piece of transfer agency business from an existing client because of the new GIS capabilities.
Pershing also had some nice revenue synergy wins from GIS.
The BHF acquisition helped us win new asset management asset servicing Pershing and broker-dealer services businesses in Germany as we now have a meaningful presence there.
These are all pieces of business we would have never won without the acquisitions.
Asset Servicing fees year-over-year benefited from the acquisitions as well as higher market values and net new business.
During the quarter we won an incremental $500 billion in new Asset Servicing Custody business our strongest new business quarter and year and we have approximately $740 billion in new assets to be converted.
Issuer Service fees were up 5% year-over-year due to higher DR revenue reflecting higher corporate action in issuance and cancellation fees.
Fees were down 14% sequentially primarily reflecting seasonally lower DR revenue.
Corporate trust fees were relatively flat to both periods as new business was offset by a continuing decline in revenue from structured products.
Clearing fees were up 20% and 27% year-over-year and up 5% sequentially due to strong growth in mutual fund assets and positions increased daily average revenue trades higher market values and new business.
As we've mentioned in January we've been converting some significant Clearing business and expect to see a positive impact from those wins in the second quarter.
The year-over-year increase also reflects the impact of the GIS acquisition.
Investment Management had a strong quarter reflecting the benefit of new business higher equity values improved investor performance but was also impacted by performance fees seasonality.
Adjusting for performance fees investment management fees were up 11% year-over-year and up 3% sequentially reflecting higher period-end market values and the impact of net new business driven by strong investment performance.
Also reflecting our strong investment performance was the 31% year-over-year increase in performance fees.
FX and other trading was down 24% year-over-year and 23% sequentially.
FX revenue totaled $173 million.
That's a decrease of 1% year-over-year and 16% sequentially with both decreases primarily due to a decline in volatility.
I should add that volumes were up each period so our clients are doing more trading with us.
We measure volatility quarterly based on the profile of currencies that we trade and volatility in the first quarter of 2011 was at the lowest level since 2007.
Other trading revenue for the quarter was $25 million and that compares to $52 million in the fourth quarter reflecting lower fixed income and derivatives trading.
Turning to Page 8 of the earnings review.
NIR and the related margin continue to be impacted by low short-term interest rates globally and our risk reduction strategy the latter negatively affecting NII but also lowering credit charges.
NIR was down 9% year-over-year and 3% sequentially.
On a sequential basis NII was down approximately $15 million due primarily to timing difference on hedges and day count in the first quarter.
It is also being impacted by our defensive position on duration and credit.
However at the end of the first quarter we started putting some of our excess liquidity to work in a secured loan program and the purchase of high-quality asset-backed securities.
These actions along with the recent rate increase announced by the ECB will allow us to maintain NII closer to the fourth quarter levels going forward until we see a movement in U.S.
interest rates.
The net interest margin was 1.49% compared with 1.54% in the prior quarter reflecting the same factors that I just mentioned and a much larger-than-expected balance sheet.
The balance sheet was larger for most of the quarter and actually spiked at quarter end in a flight to quality given the events in North Africa and Japan.
Turning to Page 9 on expenses.
Non-interest expense increased 11% year-over-year and decreased 4% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase reflects higher expenses associated with the acquisitions our revenue mix and higher employee benefits expense.
Adjusting for the acquisitions and litigation core expenses are up about 8%.
And if you recall that's in line with our core fee revenue growth rate of about 8%.
The sequential decrease reflects seasonality which was offset somewhat by higher litigation pension and health care expenses.
On Page 10 which shows the distribution of our investment securities portfolio you can see that the pretax net unrealized gain in our securities portfolio increased by $216 million to $569 million reflecting a continued trend of tighter spreads on residential mortgage-backed securities.
I would also point out that our economic decision to hold the securities in the grantor trust has paid off as these securities have now got an unrealized gain of $823 million up almost $250 million over the quarter.
Also on Page 10 you can see that we continued to generate significant capital during the quarter.
Tier 1 common was up approximately $800 million or 7% over the fourth quarter and we generated a 21% return on Tier 1 common.
As a result of capital growth and lower risk-weighted assets our key regulatory capital ratios increased significantly.
Tier 1 was up 60 basis points to 14% and Tier 1 common also increased 60 basis points to 12.4%.
As Bob noted we're now able to return capital to our shareholders and we've increased the dividend 44% to $0.13 per share and we've also started to buy back our shares.
We continue to expect to exceed the Tier 1 common Basel III 2013 requirement by the end of this year and we won't be constrained in terms of pursuing any opportunities for growth though we expect significantly less M&amp;A activity as we focus on our integrations and cost reductions.
Looking at our loan portfolio there was no provision for credit losses in the quarter compared to a credit of $22 million in the fourth quarter and a charge of $35 million in the first quarter of 2010.
NPAs which were already low at $399 million at the end of 2010 declined to $386 million.
The allowance for credit losses decreased $17 million as a result of net charge-offs of $17 million.
The effective tax rate in the first quarter was 29.3%.
That's up 200 basis points compared to 27.3% last quarter and was relatively flat to the year-ago quarter.
We continue to expect our tax rate for the full year to be approximately 30%.
Before I comment on the outlook I'd like to bring your attention to Page 14.
Here we have provided a new metric as you can see in the middle of the page.
As you can see investment services fees as a percentage of noninterest expense grew from 91% a year ago to 94% this quarter.
And it would have been 97% except for the litigation expenses.
Our goal is to increase this ratio as we get more efficient and we rely less on capital markets income to drive our performance in this business and more on trust fees.
Looking ahead we are cautiously optimistic that the revenue momentum will continue in the coming quarters based on our investment performance and the strength in our Asset Servicing and Clearing businesses.
We also continue to benefit from the acquisitions both in terms of increased revenue as well as cross-selling our other capabilities to new clients and selling our new capabilities to the rest of our clients.
DR should benefit from seasonality in the second quarter.
FX will fluctuate based on volumes volatility and competition.
The outlook on volumes is a reflection of the continuing growth of our Investment Services business.
Volatility is obviously market-based and we expect that the business will be increasingly competitive.
Both NIR and fees continue to be impacted by the persistently low interest rate environment but should benefit from our investment program and improve to the fourth quarter levels.
On the expense front we're continuing to work on bringing down the cost of delivering our services while keeping quality high including through process reengineering and automation rationalizing systems and our technology infrastructure reducing occupancy costs maximizing our purchasing power to supplier consolidation and continuing to shift positions to lower cost growth centers.
As you're looking ahead to the second quarter note that we awarded our annual company-wide merit increase of approximately 2% on April 1 so that will come into our numbers.
Litigation will continue to be a risk.
And finally we expect to continue to benefit from our risk management strategies as the quarterly provision should be in the range of $0 to $20 million.
With that let me turn it back to Bob.
Thanks Todd.
Why don't we open it up to questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Thank you.
So you keep putting up good business wins and let's just focus on assets under custody right now -- or Asset Servicing.
Can you tell us what's won but not yet funded? I appreciate the line that shows us what's won on the quarter but sometimes it's hard to know what's in the funded base.
It's Tim Keaney.
We've won in the last 4 quarters about $1.5 trillion and about $740 million has yet to convert.
And that's probably over the next 2-plus quarters or so.
And I know this is going to be a massive generalization but what type of -- it's been pretty consistent in the $300 billion to $500 billion a quarter.
What type of business is that? I think you see a pretty good mix Glenn.
It's mostly bundled business.
Although I would say If you looked over the last 4 quarters we've seen a notable uptick in kind of outsourcing generally mostly in the Asset Management segment and the insurance segment which we think plays to a real strength for us.
And one of the questions I guess was asked the last time we were together was how much of this is new flow.
About 63% of the $500 billion we won during the quarter we took from competition and 37% is what I would characterize as new flow for our industry like outsourcing.
And then you or Todd you were kind enough to give us a comment on half the expense rise was related to acquisitions.
Would you be able to tell us how much it contribute on the revenue line and/or the assets under custody line? The GIS and BAS? Sure.
Let me start with the revenue side of it.
If you adjust for about $270 million on a year-over-year basis that would bring us down after acquisitions total revenues to about 2.3% year-over-year.
And Glenn before -- what I'd like to add to that is in the first quarter of last year we had very high investment income.
So we had a translation adjustment that went in our favor and we also had the benefit of disposal of a number of leases.
And we also had unusually high trading income in our derivatives book.
So if you adjust for those two things the core underlying fee revenue was about 8%.
And you had a follow-up question Glenn.
I got it yes.
No thank you.
Yes last one sorry.
So FX has gotten a lot of attention lately.
I know it's just one quarter.
You're down 16% sequentially.
And I think that the press release attribute it to just decline in volatility.
Can you just give us a blanket statement on what's going on in terms of the existing suits the other inquiries from customers and what you see the outlook for how that business is both priced and executed? Why don't -- Glenn why don't I talk to that for a minute and then maybe Jim Palermo can talk to it because it reports up to him.
But frankly the reporting on this issue just isn't accurate and in many ways it's actually misleading.
We continue to enjoy very strong use of our standing instruction program which really everyone does in our industry.
And why do they do it? Why do we still have very strong usage? It's because it's very valuable to clients.
The facts are volumes were way up in the quarter.
It's actually 25% up year-over-year.
Volatility which is the biggest driver of FX revenue -- traders can't make money unless there's volatility.
It was down 22% linked quarter and the lowest level since 2007.
When volatility's low it's really hard to make money.
Pricing has always been really competitive and I would say due to this recent attention it's even more so today.
We're being really responsive to the needs of our clients and we're going to continue to be.
What I would also say though is we're only capturing a small percentage of our clients' FX flow because it is so competitive.
And we actually view this as a fantastic opportunity over time to gain a lot more business.
So that's kind of the big picture.
This is actually a good business and we think we can grow it over time.
Jim what would you add to that? Yes Bob.
All good points and clearly it is a competitive environment but we're doing a number of things in discussions with clients that we've had.
In fact just last week we met with our client advisory board which is top clients from all around the globe and they're very supportive of the program that we have in place.
As a matter of fact we began to introduce some of our enhanced technology that we're applying to the FX execution world and that will enable us to offer a broader array of options for clients and their investment managers to execute their activities.
And our anticipation is that will capture some of that flow that Bob just described.
Okay.
Thanks very much all.
Our next question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Thanks.
Just want to follow up on expenses one more time.
So it seems like new business for Mellon continues to be fairly strong both Asset Management and Asset Servicing.
Can you give us a little more color on how you can leverage that a little bit better and specifically as you go on through your expense management what -- how much can you actually take out from the run rate here for us to start to see some margin impression aside from rates going up? You want to take that Tim? Yes sure.
If you look at our expenses on a -- if we look at it on a year-over-year basis Alex I would say we're pretty much in line adjusting for inflation and -- excuse me not inflation the acquisitions and the litigation it increased at about the same level of -- that we saw the increase in our core fee revenues probably around 8%.
Our benefits expenses were quite a bit higher in the first quarter as we had indicated previously that they would be.
And that's largely medical and pension.
And now that that's embedded into our run rate if you back that off there's probably about 100 basis points of positive operating leverage that we're seeing in our core business.
And if you look at the number that we described on Page 14 you can see that we continue to get more and more efficient because our expenses are decreasing as a function of our core revenues.
In a very soft what we call our "capital markets" environment that is the low volatility that we saw in the first quarter relatively low interest rates and softer sec lending our growth rate when we're not growing in those areas but we are growing our core fees we would estimate our core growth rate probably to be in the mid-single digits.
And we're not going to generate a whole lot of positive operating leverage.
We think we can generate a modest amount of positive operating leverage at that kind of expense run.
However we do have a number of longer-term programs that we think will continue to help.
We have a number of systems that we need to sunset and take that expense run rate out.
We do have a number of programs to reduce our technology infrastructure costs.
We're starting to see some of the early benefits of the consolidation of our consulting expenses and you can see that in our run rate as we've negotiated better terms and we're doing more of our activity with fewer providers as we continue to improve our procurement activities.
In the little longer run we're not -- we don't have any anticipation of taking any significant charges.
We're doing this all through our P&amp;L today.
But we also see opportunities to reduce occupancy expense as we consolidate into fewer locations around the globe.
So I think we will generate in this kind of weak type of revenue environment for the capital market stuff we'll generate moderate operating leverage where we'll really see it come once we see a little more on the capital markets side and some of the benefits from our long-term expense reductions.
Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just one more follow-up on FX.
Is there a way for us to -- for you guys to size for us how much of your FX business comes from really standby -- standing instructions versus negotiated trades just to get -- to help us kind of size that bucket that -- obviously it's been a lot in the press? Yes why don't I give you kind of a bigger picture on it.
This is Todd.
In our total transactions that we do with our clients 75% of that business is done away from us and 25% is done with us.
Of that 25% we have not disclosed the split between standing instruction versus negotiated activity that we perform.
But standing instruction is just a part of the total and it is a pretty small percentage of the total transactions that are done with us.
And if you -- to look even more broadly you're talking about 6% of our total revenues.
So standing instructions are just a part of that 6% of the total revenues for the company.
Got it thanks.
Our next question is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
So Todd when you were talking about modest positive operating leverage could you just comment on what do you mean by modest? For us we'd say 50 to 100 basis points is pretty modest rate Betsy.
Okay.
And that's on an annual basis.
Yes.
We have a little more seasonality than a number of our competitors as you know.
So from a quarter-to-quarter basis you're going to see some noise one way or the other.
Sure.
And then within that you're expecting that some of the reinvestments and cost saves that you're going to be getting will drop to the bottom line.
Well what we've been doing and what we've been running through the P&amp;L is we've been reinvesting those cost savings into other things.
For example our global growth strategies have prevented -- have presented quite a bit to us this year which we've been reinvesting in the reengineering efforts that we're doing around the globe.
So the positive operating leverage is coming from more increased top line efficiencies are affecting this as opposed to dropping any of that to the bottom line.
Yes ideally we would like to be able to reinvest the savings probably for a year or two that these efforts are creating without taking any single charge related to them.
Betsy this is Bob.
One of the things -- one of the realities of consolidating premises in different geographies and sunsetting systems is some of those plans take 3 to 4 years to execute.
So we have short-term plans and we have medium-term plans and this isn't a short-term program.
This is a long-term program.
And to date as Todd said we've been reinvesting all our savings.
And it's going to make -- over the medium term it's going to make for a much stronger franchise and with better client service and a lower cost base.
But it's going to take time.
Right.
But to the degree you're not getting the operating leverage that you wanted would you consider dropping it to the bottom line? Or not for another couple years? No we certainly would but I think we're going to give you a metric now Betsy.
On Page 14 when you're looking at the investment services you're going to be able to follow how we're doing there.
Okay.
And then lastly on capital and buybacks you indicated what the plan was and you were approved for a dividend hike obviously plus the buybacks.
Can you give us any sense as to when you would start that buyback program? And is it all related to pre or post the SIFI buffer designation? Sure.
I'd love to take this one Betsy.
We actually started the buybacks last month before we got too close to the earnings release.
So in terms of the share buybacks we will continue as soon as we can.
Okay.
And that's what after the next couple of days? Yes.
And Betsy we just don't know what the SIFI buffer is going to be at this point.
Whereas 6 months ago we were hearing it could be 25 to 100 basis points we're also hearing other stories from Basel where it could be 3 buckets of 100 basis points to 200 basis points.
We just don't know the rules yet and I understand we're not going to hear the rules for some months to come yet.
Right but your capital plan wasn't approved with any expectation for a SIFI buffer.
No I mean the capital plan really was not a Basel III capital plan.
They did want to see our road map if you will to complying with Basel III.
But it was really a Tier 1 common Basel I capital ratio.
And we do -- obviously we do well just because of the nature of our business and the low risk balance sheet that we have.
I think the other good news is we generate an awful lot as you can see in this first quarter an awful lot of both Basel I and even more Basel III capital in the first quarter.
So ahead of what our estimates had been.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jeff Hopson with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Just a question on pricing.
If there's more I guess scrutiny of FX rates et cetera it's maybe limited your ability to get full pricing.
So in terms of the pricing environment with rates low how do we know I guess that you're getting the appropriate -- how are you getting the appropriate pricing for the new business that's coming in the door? Jeff it's Tim Keaney here.
I think it's really very straightforward much more of the goal for pricing new business and frankly when current clients renew pricing we're seeing more of our total revenues and fees.
And we're being very very very conservative kind of the new reality in terms of what we expect over the term of a contract for NII FX and securities lending.
And I think over a cycle whether that's 3 or 4 years we're going to see a larger percentage of our revenues coming in the form of fees.
And so the good news is Todd mentioned the win rates; we're not seeing that impact our new business win rates because we're talking been very openly about these issues with our clients.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And other competitors obviously face the same issues.
Is there a sense that they are moving in the same direction? Absolutely.
And certainly for about a year now I haven't seen anyone doing what I would have characterized as silly pricing so I think all of our competitors are doing the same thing.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Howard Chen with Credit Suisse.
On the recent clearing wins and the healthy pipeline you spoke to is that new business? Or are you winning it from others? And who are you winning it from? Howard it's Brian Shea.
The most -- as you know we've been talking in the last couple quarters about the investment we've been making in a large global wealth management firm that was self-clearing and we converted that client and other new business in the first quarter.
So we will see the full -- the first full quarter impact of that new revenue in the second quarter and it's been a successful transition.
And maybe Brian on my side in Asset Servicing we have the best new business pipeline we've had in 6 quarters.
Pipeline's gone up almost 60% year-on-year largely driven by outsourcing.
And one of the things we are looking at is kind of the giveaway-takeaway ratio for the $500 billion new business wins in Asset Servicing for the quarter.
We won 5.5x more than we lost in assets and we won 7x more than we lost in revenue terms.
So at least for this quarter we've been a clear net winner.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Thanks that's really helpful color.
And then switching gears Bob I was hoping to get your thoughts on litigation costs going forward.
In your annual letter you touched on dealing with post-crisis litigation as a priority for the year.
I mean does what happened today largely take care of that? Or should we anticipate some more? Well the way I kind of think about it is -- I've been very open about just talking about the U.S.
environment and how unique it is in the Western world.
Sadly it's not a good thing for American business.
And it's not a good thing for -- it's the #1 problem in the health care industry and it's certainly a big problem for the financial services industry.
And we're going to see I would expect for our industry going forward that it's going to continue to be at risk.
Certainly we record it as soon as we feel that it's probable and estimate-able and that's how we do it.
And we try to be conservative in how we account for things.
Todd is there anything you'd add? No I mean I just -- it continues to be a risk for us and for the industry.
And as soon as we can figure out that there is a probability of something going to happen we're going to -- we'll do something about it.
And we think that we've put ourselves -- we're adequately reserved for what we know at this time.
Okay thanks.
And then final one for me just follow-up on Basel III realizing we don't know the final rule set yet.
But any updated thoughts from either of you on leverage and liquidity proposals that are out there as it impacts the business model.
Sure.
I think the long-term liquidity ratio that we really haven't spent that much time with yet so I think that's still more in a developmental phase.
But it looks like the liquidity coverage ratio the LCR is starting to hone in on what we would expect to see with a couple of elements of uncertainty.
Given our business model and the huge amount of excess liquidity we maintain I don't see that as a particular constraining issue for us Howard.
In terms of the leverage ratio I really haven't been overly focused on it at this point.
I don't think it will be the constraining ratio for us.
There is some question on how you would treat a number of different asset types.
But we think the more -- the ratio that we're going to be more focused on that the world will be more focused on is the Tier 1 common.
I don't it's going to change business behavior at this point as I look at it.
And I would just add to that Howard that I had the impression in speaking to regulators that they're being very careful on liquidity ratios.
They want to study it and understand it better and they're feeling much more comfortable with the whole capital side.
But of course liquidity was just as important in fact more important than capital during the actual crisis the financial crisis back in the fourth quarter of '08.
So we have to get that one right.
I am a little surprised just on the capital side when we only set the global Basel III capital ratio in November to be talking about very different buffers over and above 7%.
And not surprisingly that would be a pretty high number in Europe because their financial system in many of those countries is so much bigger than the size of their economies.
It'll be interesting to see how this plays out in the coming 6 months.
But my worry would be not so much for us but just generally if everyone all the regulators in the world put together their list of all the things that they want to solve and ensure never happens again there have to be impacts in terms of customer product pricing availability of credit returns on the products.
And my worry would be that it would actually decrease availability of credit and perhaps even worse increase the pricing of it.
There would have to be impacts from this if it ends up being excessive.
And so the key to it is to say what is an appropriate buffer and let's go with it.
That makes a lot of sense.
Thanks for all the thoughts.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
Bob I just wanted to ask you to expand a little bit.
You mentioned that obviously with the focus this year on getting the capital ratios back above the Basel levels and then also making room for the dividend increase and some buybacks that M&amp;A would be a much lower priority.
How much of that is just an internal decision to kind of just work on some of the expense stuff and just kind of get the house in order versus what you see as being available in the marketplace? I guess -- it's a good question Ken.
I guess I would say pretty simplistically I think '09 was an incredibly unusual year in that a number of our peers decided to -- who are in our business lines decided to exit businesses in '10 that we were interested in.
So I view '10 as being a very unusual year in that over the course of 18 months i.e.
the second half of '09 and through '10 we had 4 transactions.
That was largely driven by people wanting to exit the businesses because it was either non-core or they wanted to raise capital.
I'm not seeing that now in the U.S.
And frankly last year we didn't have the opportunity to buy back stock or to raise the dividend either.
So I just think it's a natural transition of both things that there's less availability plus we did things that we have to integrate and we have a very effective way of returning capital to shareholders and ensuring a good return for our shareholders over time.
So that's what we're focused on.
So for both reasons I see acquisitions being a pretty low priority.
The only thing I would probably put a caveat to that is that we continue to invest in our Wealth Management business and Larry's getting very good returns on the business and seeing nice growth in revenues and AUM.
And there's still a number of things that we want to build out.
And we're encouraging Larry to do that.
But anything like that would be pretty small prices quite frankly $10 million here and there or maybe a small multiple of that.
So nothing really material.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
And my second question is understanding well you had great business momentum both in the quarter and yet good business still to come on board in Asset Servicing just wondering that revenue line was only up about $9 million on the income statement sequentially.
So with the good comps with the new business wins what's holding that line back from growing faster? And I guess should we eventually see an acceleration in revenue growth on that Asset Servicing line specifically? Ken it's Tim here.
I think what you don't see is we converted actually a very low amount for the quarter.
We only converted about $273 billion.
So I think it's really a story about what's left to convert.
That's probably about a third lower than we've converted the last few quarters.
So I think that's really what you're seeing is the pace with which to do business is going from being won to actually showing up in the run rate.
Inc.</strong> So we should naturally see a better revenue growth rate in the next 2 quarters if we presume better conversion activity and decent markets.
Yes and I think the fact that about half of what we've won over the last 12 months is still left to convert and we just did a couple of very big conversions in April I think that's a fair statement to make.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then the last question just maybe this is for Todd.
Todd just in speaking about the FX business you mentioned that volatility was down meaningfully on average over the course of the quarter.
I was just wondering how much if at all did the Japan spike actually help revenues this quarter? Because it seem -- typically in the past when you've had a couple of really good days of volatility spikes you can make a lot of money.
I'm just wondering how concentrated the revenue was within that week or so time where volatility really spiked to your point that volatility is the key driver.
Yes we did see a little modest impact there for a couple of days Ken but it was relatively short lived.
I mean risk premiums in the first -- and I think that volatility is another form of a risk premium and it affects our sec lending as well.
Risk premiums in the first quarter have gone all the way back to predate the crisis itself.
The more impactful thing from the crisis events both in the Middle East and in Asia was we just saw a lot more securities converted to cash and stick on our balance sheet.
Inc.</strong> Yes and hence the larger balance sheet.
Yes we saw about $10 billion right at the end.
Yes.
Inc.</strong> Yes.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Our next question is from Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Just a -- maybe we could start off with a question for Tim on the Asset Servicing business.
You converted the $273 billion in the quarter and the assets under servicing went up by about just $500 million -- or $500 billion rather.
To what extent is the outflow of business -- maybe you can talk about sort of the business that you're passing on in terms of the fee realization rate and whether we should expect an increase in the basic fee realization rate for assets under custody going forward in terms of winning business that you view as more lucrative.
Yes Brian at the risk of maybe repeating myself a little bit here I do think it's a very much a good news story looking forward about the business left to convert.
The win rate's high.
We're winning very good business.
When we lose business it's not for quality or for price.
We had one of our largest losses over the quarter.
A competitor insourcing what they had outsourced to us for their own asset management business would be an example of that.
So I think it is very much a story about getting these wins converted.
Do you think you'll see a better fee realization rate on the new business or on the overall business going forward versus [indiscernible]? I do and I go back to the point about the new pricing paradigm and making sure that when we price business now it reflects an extremely conservative view on capital markets related revenue.
And of the deals we won in the quarter I think it would be absolutely fair to suggest you'd see a large proportion of total revenue showing up in hard dollar fees.
And even with that new pricing discipline we continue to have a very very very high win rate.
The clients [ph] forget the fact that the world's changed.
Right.
That's great.
Quick comment on the long-term flows and what portion of that was equity versus fixed income.
In Asset Management? Yes in the Asset Management.
Yes I'm sorry.
Yes in the Asset Management long-term flow is it $31 billion? Most of it was in equity indexing.
We had about $13 billion.
But we had significant fixed income flows as well.
We had about $6 billion in active and we had another $12 billion in LDI type of activity.
So what you see is indexing LDI active fixed and a little bit in active equity is the way that the long term flows came in.
Okay.
Great.
And then just on the comments before on the expenses in terms of sunsetting the systems and changing some of the infrastructure.
I think Bob you mentioned this is a long-term plan.
Do you expect or should we expect as we model this out over the next couple years that you'll reinvest the most of those savings? Or do you think there is a possibility of dropping some of that to the bottom line? Why don't you go ahead Todd? Yes right now I would say for the next year or two as we plan our forecast and budgeting we would expect to be reinvesting the savings because we do see some pretty good low-lying fruit out there that we'd like to grasp.
I think beyond that 2 to 3 years then you'll really start seeing some of it fall to the bottom line.
But as Betsy had asked and mentioned earlier we always have the option to do a little less and let a little more fall to the bottom line.
You guys are definitely going to like what we're doing.
It's just that it's not visible yet because we keep investing.
And we have to think short term and we have to think long term.
Right.
And Bob you mentioned Wealth Management is one area where you're reinvesting.
Can you talk about a couple other areas of major focus? That is -- wealth is definitely one.
We're always looking at Asset Management as well not in terms of new acquisitions per se but making sure we have the right mix of products.
Our performance is very good.
Clearing we're definitely -- and Pershing we're definitely investing in that because we're seeing more and more clients that want to outsource middle and back office activity and make it so that they can focus on their clients rather than focusing on things where they don't really add value.
And we are by far the biggest player in that.
And we continue to invest in overseas markets in non-U.S.
markets.
And you think back if our firms had been together 10 years ago we would have had only 19% of our earnings coming from outside of the U.S.
At the time of the merger it was 32%.
Now we're at 37%.
It's not at all impossible to imagine us having over half of our revenue coming outside of the U.S.
by the end of this decade.
And a key on that is being very very focused on which countries and which products we want to grow in.
And we spend a lot of time thinking about that because geography is just as important as the products.
Great.
That's very helpful.
Thanks so much.
Our next question is from Rob Burchell [ph] with CLSA.
I guess I wanted to ask first on custody.
U.S.
assets under custody appear to be down about 1% sequentially.
So is that a mix issue? And is the takeaway there that most of the new business is coming from outside the U.S.? Yes Rob [ph] it's Tim here.
Yes I would say for this -- maybe the last couple of quarters more of the new business is coming from outside.
I think it would also be reflective of the fact that the fixed income markets have been a bit soft and as we've talked about before we tend to have a little bit more fixed income assets under custody.
And also the third component would be the mix.
I think Todd mentioned very well the contribution of the acquisitions that we've done in about 25% to 27% of the new business wins for the quarter are related to the acquisitions we've done.
Transfer agency would be an example of a couple of very good wins that just take a little bit of time to convert and aren't measured in assets under custody.
The same thing with middle office outsourcing.
So you've just got to be careful if there's a mix there.
And of course we also saw for the Asset Servicing business cash balances up significantly up about 11% because of the wins that we had in the quarter.
So I think it's a combination of those things Rob [ph].
Rob [ph] the other reality is that we should bear in mind if you think about our various regions around the world U.S.
is probably one of our lowest growth markets now.
And the other major geographies we continue to invest in just because we see longer term much better opportunities in other geographies and we have -- let's face it our main competitors are U.S.-based and that is U.S.-based.
And those markets are already largely dominated here.
Okay.
If I could follow up with a question on FX.
Historically that's been one of your highest margin businesses.
With what's going on should we expect the pretax margin on that business to come down towards sort of the level of the rest of the firm? Rob [ph] I would say it's probably early to tell.
Right now our behaviors and the revenues are consistent with the drivers that we've seen historically.
Given the increased attention we would expect the competitiveness of FX to -- it's been competitive.
It will continue to be competitive.
And there is some potential there for margin compression.
It's unfortunate.
I can't deny that but I think we are in the process of taking a number of actions to increase for example the volumes that is done with us to mitigate that.
Right now 75% of the transactions FX transactions that our clients execute are done away from us.
So there's a real opportunity for us to capture more of that business that's done away.
In terms of the operating margin on FX the actual standing instructions have higher costs associated with them.
So I don't think the margin implication is going to be that high.
Jim do you have anything to add to that? Yes I completely agree with you Todd that likely going forward the heightened awareness will add to the competitive nature that we're seeing.
But there's a lot of opportunity there and in our discussions as I said that we had just last week with our clients they're very supportive of the approach that we've taken.
And they're even more supportive of some of the technology enhancements that we're about to embark upon.
And so our expectation is that we will catch more of that flow.
So I guess a lot more activity is going electronic as opposed to voice-brokered.
Can you give us an idea of what your overall dollar volumes are and how much of that's electronic? Yes I don't think that we have nor do I have it at my fingertips Rob [ph] that we've disclosed that.
But the volumes continue to increase just about every quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our final question today is from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
On your comments about secured lending Todd can you share with us what types of loans you guys are making and what the yields are that you're seeing and how large could this portfolio grow to? And then Bob is this a shift in strategy moving more into lending? Or is it more just a temporary kind of to carry you through this low interest rate environment and we shouldn't really see it as a change in strategy? Thank you.
Well why don't I start with the second one and then Todd can finish on the first one.
We've been pretty focused for about 3 years in taking out risks where we thought they were excessive in terms of credit risk.
We had a program internally called "tall trees" where we had single-name exposures that we just felt were too large or they really didn't support our Investment Management and our Investment Services businesses.
They were kind of outliers from the past from previous activity where we were no longer in those types -- they were no longer supporting businesses that we were in.
And so we worked pretty hard on that.
And frankly we finished it in about the fall -- the summer or the fall of last year.
At the margin we want to help our clients be more profitable and more successful over time.
So these servicing businesses and these services businesses are really important as is Asset Management.
And for certain clients we will help them from a credit perspective as long as the risk is pretty low for us.
And we're starting to see more opportunities to create liquidity lines and to term out some of their liabilities.
And we'll support them on it.
And we -- it is one of the new realities of -- under Basel III that certain of our clients are looking for more term liquidity.
And I think we can provide that at very low risk to our shareholders.
Todd? Yes what I'd add to that this is part of the fallout if you will Gerard from the Basel III and the liquidity management.
I mean we're a winner there because we have a lot of excess liquidity which we've traditionally kept a fair amount of that in the interbank placement market.
There are a number of counter-parties that need to extend the duration.
They're on the other side of this equation.
So we can do for example term repo where you get daily margining very low risk.
You get good margin.
You control the margin on a daily basis.
And since it's a term so they're guaranteed to have the cash for an extended period.
And what I mean by that is maybe a year or as far out as 2 years.
That really hits our sweet spot for the excess liquidity that we've got and it fulfills a need for our clients.
So we're pretty excited about that program.
We could probably see as much as $10-or-more billion of that.
We're only about 20% of the way to funding that fully.
And the other thing here is we actually think it's a favorable risk strategy to interbank placements.
So we would like to decrease our exposure to interbank placements and find alternatives for this.
So this is I would say a natural progression and one of the benefits if you will of the fallout from the liquidity management required under Basel III.
And I would just add to that Gerard is that it's also a sweet spot for us because no one understands this business better than us in the world because we dominate it here in the U.S.
So at this point I'd like to thank everyone and wish you all the best and have a good day.
Thank you.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Mr.
Andy Clark at (212) 635-1803.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference call webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I'll now turn the call over to Mr.
Andy Clark.
Mr.
Clark you may begin.
Thanks Wendy and welcome everyone.
With us today are Bob Kelly our Chairman and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO; as well as several members of our executive management team.
Before we begin let me remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement on Page 13 of the press release and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today July 19 2011 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
This morning's press release provides the highlights of our results.
We also have the Quarterly Earnings Review document available on our website which provides a quarterly review of the total company and individual businesses.
We will be using the Quarterly Earnings Review document to discuss our results.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob.
Bob? Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
In Q2 earnings per share were $0.59 or $735 million.
That was up 18% versus the first quarter and 9% versus the prior year.
First on the revenue front.
Both fees and net interest income increased year-over-year as well as sequentially.
And the revenue was up 15% year-over-year including acquisitions.
So excluding acquisitions which is the way I look at it revenue growth was about 7% year-over-year.
This trend is frankly encouraging because if you look back we had 5% growth Q1 versus Q1 and 3% growth in 2010 versus 2009.
Fees were up about 18% or about 8% excluding acquisitions as we benefited nicely from new business trends and improved market values.
And net interest income was actually up from Q1 and last year driven by much higher client deposits reflecting the strong balance sheet.
And speaking of the strong balance sheet we still had a gain had a 0 provision for credit losses during the quarter.
In terms of expenses they're too high.
We're up 21% year-over-year or 12% without the acquisitions.
If you kind of peel that back a little bit about 2% or 3% of that growth came from increased regulatory compliance and litigation costs.
These frankly are the unpleasant realities of a post-crisis environment.
So net of these factors expense growth was in line with our fee revenue growth.
However the bottom line is we're not getting positive operating leverage year-over-year.
We need to and we will.
We plan to hold an investor conference this fall likely October or November and we'll provide you with lots of details about our expense reduction initiatives as well as some thoughts on revenue growth opportunities as well.
Investor Relations will get back to you soon with a date.
A few thoughts on our 2 major businesses investment management and investment services.
In investment management the results are strong and there are no acquisitions affecting the numbers.
We had 11% revenue growth year-over-year 8% expense growth.
And this generated 300 basis points of positive operating leverage and a 20% growth in pretax earnings.
In terms of metrics underneath it we had AUM growth at 22% year-over-year which took us to a new high of $1.3 trillion.
We are seventh consecutive quarter of positive long-term asset inflows or $32 billion also a new record.
I'd also like to note that in wealth management we opened an office in Chicago and are currently planning to expand in D.C.
and Dallas.
In investment services we had 16% growth in revenue year-over-year as asset servicing benefited from acquisitions new business and improved market values.
Assets under custody were up 21% year-over-year to $226.3 trillion which is a new record for us.
Issuer services had a very nice performance through the Depositary Receipts business.
Pershing was up 21% year-over-year helped by some very large new business wins.
And it was also good to see sec lending revenue was up 73% year-over-year.
So within securities lending we had 9 new clients and another 26 existing clients either expanded their mandates with us or they expanded their collateral guidelines which of course leads to increased activity.
In terms of our capital account we generated more than $800 million worth of new Tier 1 common equity before dividends and share repurchases.
As you know our dividend was raised from $0.09 to $0.13 in the quarter.
We also bought back 10 million shares almost and we generated an additional 45 basis points of Basel III capital.
Now we don't know what our final city buffer will be for us but we hope to know in the coming months.
But given our high-quality balance sheet and rapid capital generation we feel very comfortable that we can continue to repurchase shares and comply with any regulatory capital requirements.
So beyond that there are 2 main issues that currently concern us.
First is Washington's inability to resolve the nation's debt and deficit issues.
The debt ceiling must be raised and it's really just a slide show to the real issue.
We must have a real plan to eliminate the deficit not reduce it eliminate it.
And we need to couple it with a pro-growth agenda to get people back to work over time.
We're also keeping a close eye on the situation in Europe and being very cautious.
Our exposures in 3 areas: balance sheet money market funds and securities lending collateral funds.
Good news is our primary exposure on balance sheet is deposits with banks.
They're only to the largest and healthiest banks and short term in general.
In terms of money market funds and securities lending funds we have greatly increased liquidity and our exposure's also limited to the largest and healthiest banks.
It's hard to speculate about what are the ultimate ripple effects should the situation deteriorate further.
But we feel good about how we're positioned in this environment.
So to summarize we continue to consistently grow revenue expenses are running higher than we'd like and we'll manage them lower.
Our balance sheet is of the highest quality we generate a lot of capital every quarter and we expect to continue to return some of that to our shareholders via share repurchases.
With that let me turn it over to Todd to go through the numbers and then we'll open it up for questions.
Todd? Thanks Bob.
It was a solid quarter overall with good fee growth and a nice pick up in net interest revenue.
Earnings for the quarter were $0.59 or up 9% from a year ago.
This includes a total of $0.04 per share similar to last quarter of litigation and MI expenses.
It also reflects the benefit of approximately $0.06 from loan and securities gains.
So the way we look at our core earnings it nets to about $0.57 for the quarter.
As I take you through the numbers my comments will follow the Quarterly Earnings Review beginning on Page 2.
Some highlights on a year-over-year basis.
Total revenue was $3.9 billion up 15%.
Our core fees are growing nicely.
Investment services fees were up 27%.
And as Bob mentioned that's 9% excluding acquisitions reflecting net new business higher Depositary Receipts and higher securities lending revenue.
That's partially offset by higher money market fee waivers this quarter as well.
Investment management fees were up 14% driven by higher market values and net new business.
Net interest revenue was up 1% largely reflecting growth in client deposits.
Noninterest expense increased to 21%.
That's 12% excluding acquisitions.
That's reflecting the higher litigation and legal expenses.
This is the quarter for our annual merit as well as higher volume-related and business development expenses.
Turning to Page 4 where we'll call out some business metrics that will help you understand our underlying performance.
You can see that AUM and AUC reached record levels reflecting new business and higher market values.
AUM was up 22% year-over-year to a record level of $1.3 trillion.
Second quarter long-term inflows of $32 billion were also a new record.
Long-term inflows benefited from strength in fixed income especially our liability driven investment products as well as equity index products.
Short-term outflows were $1 billion.
Assets under custody was up 21% year-over-year to a record level of $26.3 trillion benefiting from the acquisitions new business and higher market values.
The other investment services metrics continue to show positive trends and with one exception and that is Corporate Trust where the trend's relatively flat given the continued softness in the structuring debt markets.
DR programs and net issuances increased most of the major drivers of our clearing business improved and the broker dealer collateral management book continues to grow as we gain market share develop new products and benefit from the need for secure the exposures globally.
Turning to Page 6 of the earnings review which shows fee growth.
Asset servicing fees were up 47% year-over-year as we continue to benefit from the acquisitions made last year.
X acquisitions asset servicing fees were up 14%.
We also benefited from higher market values net new business and higher securities lending revenue due to higher loan balances and spreads as Bob had mentioned.
Asset servicing fees were up 6% quarter-over-quarter reflecting seasonally higher securities lending revenue and net new business.
Our 2010 acquisitions of GIS and BHF are both performing as planned with solid revenue growth.
During the quarter we won an incremental $196 billion in new Asset Servicing business for a total of $1.5 trillion over the past 12 months of which $560 billion is yet to be converted.
Issuer services fees were up 3% year-over-year and 4% sequentially.
That's driven by higher DR revenue from higher corporate actions and service fees.
It's partially offset by lower shareowner services and Corporate Trust revenue.
Clearing fees were up 19% year-over-year due to growth in client assets.
We set a record during the quarter of exceeding $1 trillion in client assets for the first time and we also benefited from other new business.
Now that reflects the positive impacts of the significant new Clearing businesses we were converting over the last couple of quarters and the impact of the GIS acquisition.
Sequentially the growth in assets was offset by lower transaction volumes and the higher money market fee waivers.
Investment management had another strong quarter.
Higher market values net new business was partially offset once again by higher money market fee waivers.
FX and other trading was up slightly both year-over-year and sequentially.
FX revenue totaled $184 million a decrease of 25% year-over-year reflecting lower volatility partially offset by higher volumes.
FX revenue was up 6% sequentially reflecting higher volatility.
Other trading revenue was $38 million versus $25 million in the first quarter and that was driven by fixed income trading.
Now let me give you some perspective on our FX activity.
It is currently 5% of our total revenue.
Of that 5% approximately 40% is done through standing instruction while the majority 60% is negotiated.
Of that 40% done under standing instruction only 15% is related to U.S.
public pension funds and that's where the recent publicity has centered.
In other words the recent publicity is related to the FX activity that comprises less than 1/2 of 1% of our total revenues.
Investment and other income totaled $145 million flat from a year ago and up from $81 million in the first quarter.
The sequential increase largely reflects gains related to loans held for sale retained from a previously divested banking subsidiary.
During the quarter we took securities gains of $48 million as we saw an opportunity with the very low dip in interest rates to reduce the risk of our portfolio by selling longer dated U.S.
Treasury and agency securities shortening the duration in these very uncertain times.
Turning to Page 8 of the earnings review.
NIR was up $9 million versus the year-ago quarter and up $33 million sequentially.
Both increases were primarily driven by growth in client deposits.
Interest earning assets were up for the quarter and particularly spiked at quarter end driven by negative repo rates market uncertainty and the substantial level of liquidity that's still in the system.
Revenue was also enhanced by the purchase of high-quality asset-backed securities in the first 2 quarters.
Net interest margin was 141 compared with 149 in the prior quarter.
The decrease was primarily driven by an increase in deposits.
Had we not seen that growth in deposits we estimate that the net interest margin would have increased slightly so it would have been probably a little bit above 149 but earnings would have been down probably in the vicinity of about $8 million.
Given the volatility we're seeing in our balances we're really not currently trying to manage to the net interest margin.
Frankly earning 20 to 25 basis points on cash and a 0 risk asset is not bad even if it temporarily hurts the margin.
Turning to Page 9 on expenses.
Noninterest expense increased 21% year-over-year.
That was driven by the impact of the acquisitions as well as litigation and legal expenses.
Excluding the expenses associated with acquisitions we're up about 12%.
On a quarter-over-quarter basis expenses grew 4%.
Both increases reflect the fact that we had the second quarter 2011 merit increase and that becomes effective the first day of the quarter on April 1 as well as higher volume-related business development expense.
Other expenses were up $15 million primarily due to a gain on credit support agreement in the first quarter.
On Page 10 you can see that we continue to generate significant capital during the quarter.
We generated more than $800 million in new Basel Tier 1 common most of that through earnings a little bit through intangible amortization.
Net Basel Tier 1 common less dividends and buybacks was up $510 million.
Looking at our capital ratio table you will note that we are now disclosing our pro forma Basel III Tier 1 common ratio which we estimated was 6.6% at the end of the quarter.
I would like to emphasize that we continue to like our capital position.
Our Tier 1 common Basel III ratio increased 45 basis points in the second quarter reflecting the capital generation and slightly lower Basel III risk-weighted assets for the quarter.
Looking forward our earnings net of dividends and buybacks are generating about 20 to 25 basis points of Tier 1 common per quarter and the expected quarterly pay down of our sub-investment grade securities should add an additional 10 basis points.
So you can expect us to generate somewhere in the 30 to 35 basis points a quarter.
On top of that the anticipated closing of our shareowner services transaction is expected to add approximately 20 more basis points to our Basel III ratio when it's closed.
We also like the performance of our sub-investment grade portfolio.
However it is important to note that we could sell this portfolio and add approximately 250 additional basis points to the ratio.
It's certainly nice to have this flexibility but our capital position is already so strong that we have no intention of doing something uneconomic.
Bottom line we remain confident in our ability to exceed the Basel III 7% target by year end if not earlier.
Given our current capital position and the strength of our balance sheet we don't anticipate accelerating our time line to meet the proposed Basel III capital guidelines.
As Bob said we don't know our city buffer will be but we are confident we can comply while continuing to return capital to our shareholders.
On Page 11 you can see that our investments securities portfolio continues to improve and it's actually performing quite well.
The value of the portfolio has increased over the first quarter and the pretax net unrealized gain in our securities portfolio increased by $201 million to $770 million.
I might add that pay downs in the sub-investment grade securities were approximately $330 million in the second quarter.
Looking at our loan portfolio you'll see that just as with last quarter we had no provision for credit losses in the second quarter compared with a charge of $20 million in the second quarter 2010.
NPAs declined from $386 million to $351 million and the total allowance for credit losses decreased $19 million driven by charge-offs.
The effective tax rate of 26.9% compares to 29.3% last quarter and 30.2% in the year-ago quarter.
The lower tax rate is a little misleading in the second quarter because it was driven primarily by the impact of the consolidated investment funds.
On a going forward basis excluding the impact of investment fund consolidation we continue to expect the effective operating tax rate to be in a range of 30% to 31%.
Looking ahead while there's a great deal of uncertainty in the markets given the events playing out in Europe and our own unresolved debt issues here in the U.S.
we're encouraged by the revenue momentum we've achieved these last few quarters.
We had nice fee growth and it felt like we've turned the corner on NII.
We continue to work on addressing our expense growth and look forward to sharing more specific plans on our Investor Day in late fall.
A few points to factor into your thinking about the coming quarter.
Both NIR and fees continue to be impacted by this persistently low interest rate environment but should benefit from our ongoing investment program.
We would expect to continue to generate NII at the level we did in the second quarter.
Litigation remains a risk.
Third quarter earnings have traditionally been impacted by seasonality that's associated with lower levels of capital markets related revenues particularly securities lending and foreign exchange so we'd expect to see that.
One thing that's a little bit different than the third quarter is we expect the seasonal spike in dividend payments that normally occurs during the fourth quarter we might actually see some of that in the third quarter so that's going to be a positive.
And we expect the quarterly provision to be in a range of 0 to 15 as we've seen for the last few quarters.
And finally we expect to continue our buyback program.
In summary we had a solid quarter.
With that I'll turn it back to Bob.
Thanks very much Todd.
Why don't we open up for questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
I just want to hone in a little bit on the capital ratio discussion that you breezed through earlier on Page 10 and link it with the securities disclosure that you gave on Page 11.
Just wanted to make sure I understand how you're thinking about the run off in the non-investment grade securities.
From here is it going to be at the same pace that you had this quarter? And how do you think about how your common Tier 1 under Basel III changes over the course of the next couple of quarters as the non-investment grade pace down? Sure.
Betsy the securities are running off at about $100 million a month and there is some accretion so some of the runoff is reduced by the net impact of the accretion.
But our best estimate for the next few quarters is we should see about a 10 basis point benefit to our Basel III ratio from that securities runoff.
So it's reducing our risk-weighted assets and it's almost a dollar-per-dollar impact on risk-weighted assets so every $100 million down it's like having another $100 million of capital.
And that rate of change or that pace of change is expected to be consistent or accelerating decelerating? It will slightly decelerate over time.
Okay.
And have you given what the yield is on the securities? We have not Betsy.
Okay.
And so you're saying your Basel III ratio you think it's going to accrete a little bit faster than your Basel I? Yes because you don't have the same treatment of those securities so that's an additional 10 that you just get right there.
Sure.
And when would you reapply to the regulators for the next round of capital management activity? We think the way this is developing it's going to be an annual process.
So we'll pretty much just go through our typical budgeting season have things approved by the Board and submit some kind of a plan with the regulators.
We're pretty sure that's how it's going to work.
Our next question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Just hoping to maybe talk a little bit more about expense management.
I know it's maybe a little bit premature.
But can you give us a sense of what areas you're particularly might be targeting I guess in your expense management plans over the next few quarters? Yes.
So Alex it's Bob.
We've been working on this for some time and of course we have a lot of expense management stuff flowing through our income statement right now as we continue to reposition ourselves.
And there's investment costs involved in getting costs out over time.
But the basic categories are moving people to lower-cost locations that are in major cities real estate and working down the number of locations the number of buildings that we have procurements where we're doing a good job.
And I wouldn't call us first quartile in our capabilities and frankly we had too many applications in our company in terms of systems.
And we want to cull those fairly materially over the next few years.
Got it.
So this is over and above from what I guess you guys have been doing already because you have been moving I guess some people to lower-cost locations for quite some time right? Yes.
And that's been pretty successful but we're now looking at things that are materially above that run rate.
Got it.
And then just a couple of nuances in the quarter.
Can you give us a sense of what the discount accretion was just in dollar terms for the second quarter and then maybe a sense of what money market fee waivers were? Sure.
The discount accretion was actually down a little bit in the quarter almost $10 million so I think it was about $95 million $96 million.
And the money market fee waivers actually picked up during the quarter probably worth about a $0.01 to our earnings on a sequential basis.
So they haven't gone back to the highs that we saw last year but with the very very low treasury rates we're getting pretty close to that.
Got it.
So that was like a $60 million $65 million number or so? That's correct.
Our next question is from Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
We'll move on to the next question Howard Chen with Credit Suisse.
Bob for the commentary on peripheral Europe.
I realized it's a fluid situation.
But just maybe was hoping to get more details on how you're thinking about some of the potential pluses like customer inflows and acquisition environment and how you're weighing that versus some of the minuses things like increased counterparty risk and a tail event within the money market fund business.
Yes from a business standpoint I really like our positioning from both an asset management standpoint as well as in various investment services product standpoint.
I think we have really good opportunities to gain market share in Europe over time just because of quality of our products and services that we have.
I'm not getting a sense that there's a lot of acquisition opportunities in the near term but I would think over 2 or 3 years some of the major banks in Europe have to really think about how they're creating value for shareholders in coming years and over the longer term.
And that may or may not it's just too early to tell result in other opportunities for us like joint ventures or more outsourcings longer term partnerships from a middle office and back office standpoint and from the standpoint of providing more asset management products to these firms where perhaps they don't have to manufacture their own products.
There's a pretty long list of opportunities here.
And so the real question is how quickly and aggressively will European counterparties and banks generally financial institutions want to act to refocus their business models and to free up capital.
So we'll see.
And I worry much less and perhaps the market is from the standpoint of the impact on our balance sheet as well as our off-balance sheet activities.
We've been watching this extraordinarily closely of course and we're actually cognizant of what happened several years ago in the markets with market instability.
So we've learned from that and we're being pretty proactive.
Just following up on that Bob just honing in on 2 specific things.
On the positive side during the crisis you saw significant amount of balance sheet growth.
What's the pace of that specific to Europe and the events in Europe now? And then on the potential negative side within asset management could you just think about is there anything changing with respect to how you're managing the money market fund business and again a potential tail event there? Yes I would say on the latter we are much much more liquid than we ever have been in the past.
In fact enormously liquid so that it provides us with maximum flexibility for our clients as well as from a risk management standpoint and we've been extraordinarily careful in terms of where our investments are in terms of the countries and in terms of the entities.
We only want the biggest healthiest companies within our fund.
So that has been a real-time activity for us as we continue to stay on top of the developments in the market and...
I'll take that Bob.
In terms of the balance sheet growth it's really hard to attribute it to anything particular Howard because you've got a confluence of event.
You've had repo rates in the U.S.
go negative.
So rather than having funds holding negative repo they're leaving money in their DDA account; 0 was better than negative 8.
And so we're seeing a little bit of noise from that.
Certainly some of the disruption in Europe is going to be contributing somewhat to it.
And our balance sheet is probably running our deposit base is probably at $30 billion higher than we would've expected because of the noise around the world right now would be our best guess.
There's also an awful lot of excess liquidity in the system and so we're the beneficiary of that as well.
That is the big difference from a few years ago in that we've all been pretty well trained and hardened to market volatility over the past 3 years plus we have an enormously liquid financial system around the world.
Very helpful.
And then separate topic Todd on the NIM and net interest revenue outlook I appreciate what you're saying on the challenging environment over the near term.
But just thinking longer term how are you thinking about the longer term leverage to rising rates in the business model now that things have changed on the NIM and the balance sheet.
You have previously framed that as maybe a $500 million revenue opportunity with very high incremental margins could you just refresh that for us today? Yes I would stick with that Howard.
I don't think it's changed much.
We might have dipped a couple of quarters ago with the move in the fee waivers started to decline a bit but with these very very low treasury rates right now fee waivers have increased.
So the opportunity is probably in the $450 million to $500 million range.
Pretax too Howard.
Right.
And then final one for me again thanks for the data on the Basel III capital.
Just curious any updated thoughts on Basel III liquidity and leverage proposals update similar to what you've done on capital for things like net stable funding ratio? Yes it's still a little bit early.
I mean the net stable funding ratio really isn't -- there's nothing out there to really work with the liquidity coverage ratio is one that seems to be gaining some traction in its current form.
And just look at the nature of our balance sheet Howard you could just see how well we would expect to do on that ratio.
We're sitting on massive amounts of cash.
Howard it's Bob.
I'd also mention that we are getting strong impression from the regulators that they're not going to be quick to act on the various liquidity components of Basel III.
They want to really study this and understand the system-wide implications of this over time.
Our next question is from Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Look a quick one is I think you mentioned or I just didn't write down quick enough.
The one but yet not yet converted pipeline in investment servicing.
It was I think about $560 billion Tom? $560 billion so that's right.
And you've had a steady flow of new business through thick and thin in these tough markets.
Are you seeing any signs of clients looking to outsource more given the market pressures and what that can do for them on the expense side? Yes Tim Keaney here.
Yes pipeline is almost double what it was a year ago and this has been a continuing trend.
I think we talked about this last quarter.
About 40% of our new business wins year-to-date and as it turns about about 40% of our pipeline is outsourcing.
And certainly what we continue to see is as banks insurance companies and fund managers remain profit challenged they're turning to outsourcing kind of non-core activities and we certainly feel that that plays to one of our strengths.
Maybe Brian Shea can add to that from a Pershing perspective.
Yes I would say we're seeing similar trends on the Clearing side as well and an increase in the level of interest by some clearing firms to variablize their cost structure and free up regulatory and investment capital.
So our pipeline is also solidly up year-over-year.
On the Pershing clearing side and we're also seeing a doubling in the pipeline of revenue associated with the crossover between Pershing-related activity in the PNC GIS legacy.
This is specifically Albridge Solutions and the management investment side.
So a good pickup in pipeline activity there as well.
While we're on new business trends Curtis why don't you give us your views on the quarter and where you see opportunities? Yes we had a good quarter again on the net new business front and our wins not yet funded have also remained pretty strong.
In the quarter the bulk of our net new business did come in fixed income both active and LBI strategies.
On the equity side net new business did as Todd mentioned was more on the index side.
I would say our wins not yet funded would follow that trend active opportunities where we are competing and we have a reasonably strong belief that we're going to be in the hunt.
The business mix is a little broader with more clients looking to put money to work in active equity strategies but I would tell you that our real strength has been on the fixed income side in the second quarter and looking into the third quarter at the moment.
As an aggregate comment would you agree it looks like all the related fees are growing enough in line with the assets so pricing is reasonably stable across all the businesses? Is that fair? Yes.
I think the short answer is yes Glenn.
There hasn't been any big change I would say.
And again as we talked about as we price current clients as contracts come up and as we price new business we take very very conservative views that clearly incorporate the current economic environment.
And we're certainly driving clients to higher fees as a percentage of total revenues.
Great.
And then my last question is on BofA had a proposed settlement with its investor base where you guys act as trustee.
And I'm just curious to get your thoughts on what that read-through is for you as well as trustee.
In other words at first when private pullback issue came up there were some people asking lots of questions about the role of the trustee and where they fit in.
It looks to me like the settlement backs up your previous comments but wanted to see how you feel is your role of trustee and what you thought happens if it doesn't get approved? Yes we think that's exactly right Glenn I think it is consistent with what we've said in the past.
We did participate in negotiations in our role as trustee and we believe the proposed settlement is reasonable and ultimately in the best interest of the trust.
It imposes no financial obligations on us nor are we going to receive any part of the $8.5 billion settlement in our capacity as trustee.
We continue to be fully indemnified as trustee for any losses liability or expenses associated with this so we think it makes a lot of sense.
And we think it's reasonable and we think the courts should approve it.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> A couple of little clarification things if I might real quick.
Todd you gave it to us kind of in the per share terms at the very beginning but can you just quantify for us the magnitude of the loan sale gains and also the incremental litigation reserves that you set up? Between the loan sales and the revaluation and the security sales it's about $100 million.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And in terms of litigation and M&amp;I you can see our M&amp;I expenses directly but we don't really care to show litigations on a regular basis in that kind of detail and give too much advantage to some of our plaintiffs here.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
But on the litigation point though just generally speaking then I believe this is the first reserve that you've explicitly set up aside from the commentary in the conference call.
Can you just walk us through your process and your thinking and how this could evolve over time? Ken can you repeat that? I didn't hear exactly what that...
Inc.</strong> Just a broader comment on the litigation reserves not the ongoing legal expense but just on the specifics of the legal reserve.
Just how do you get to the point where you start to set aside the specific reserves and I guess just a general thought on how this litigation is progressing and evolving? Yes we follow very much the FASB guidelines.
It's based on estimable and probable.
So if we feel something that we can estimate what a loss is going to be and it's probable we will reserve for it.
Inc.</strong> Okay my second question relates to just Bob just coming back to your points on expenses.
The laundry list of things that you gave seemed to be very kind of logical progression of cost saves but things that wouldn't necessarily be out of line with normal operations of the business.
So just wondering like when you're thinking about going forward and starting to really attack the cost base is it because there's some really some low hanging fruit or is it anything that you see in terms of the long-term profitability in revenue trends of the business that have just put the company on kind of higher alert that there needs to be a realignment there? No I think the fundamental is pretty straightforward Ken and that is its operating leverage.
And I'm going to get some revenue growth higher than expense growth.
So I'm encouraged on the revenue side and expense run rate remains pretty high and as we indicated back in January in the fourth quarter numbers we are expecting quite a few headwinds this year in terms of higher pension costs higher health care costs people are still of course getting raises and they should be.
We have higher depreciation costs.
We have this litigation environment.
We have higher compliance and regulatory cost.
There's a lot of headwind in our industry right now but we've got to manage through it.
So what I would say is that we're going through all of our programs but more aggressively than we have in the past to create more favorable trends and to moderate these growths in expenses.
And that even goes to the level of looking at individual client profitability and making sure that we're doing the right thing not just from a client standpoint but also from a shareholder standpoint.
And Ken if I can add a couple of points here.
There is some low-lying fruit.
I mean if you think about it we've gone through a number of acquisitions over the past 3 or 4 years.
So when we go back and reflect on our technology infrastructure there's quite a bit we can attack there.
We've got too many desktop configurations just the nature of our business model and we're going to go after that.
We also have some applications dating back to the Mellon Bank of New York merger which we think we can sunset so and we've also for the first time are really looking at combining some of our common operations not just within asset servicing but even across some of our different businesses.
And I think that's an advantage that we have that we can leverage.
So these are the types of things in addition to the normal course.
We do see some proof here that we can go after.
The other thing is we have very good process around this.
We've been working on this for some time.
We're going to treat it just like a merger integration and we'll have we'll be very metrics driven very specific initiative driven with definitive numbers and people signing on the bottom line for what they can get and when.
Our next question is from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Can you just summarize this $30 billion increase in deposits? Is this similar to what we saw during the crisis in the U.S.
a couple of years ago? And you're getting a lot of deposits in Europe or what's the geography of this deposit increase? Yes.
I would say it's quite a bit different in its nature.
I would say there's a fair amount of it is just this negative interest rate especially the spike towards the quarter end Mike.
This negative interest rate just created an arbitrage with better and better to leave it in cash with your custodian than to put it out on repo at a negative rate.
So that's a significant component of it.
I'm sure there's some of it is related to dislocation.
But it's got a very different feel to it than it did after the Lehman crisis where it was just an immediate spike in hedge funds and everybody just dumped their money on us.
It's not quite like this.
This has been a slower build and a build related to not just the risk off trade but some market disruptions in the treasury market.
And so how much of that is from outside the U.S.
of the $30 billion? I don't have that off the top of my head it feels like it's -- I'd really be speculating.
We'll get back to you on that.
Okay.
And then separately.
I know you've touched on this what is the dollar amount of your money market assets under management that are invested in European bank debt? Our prime assets we have roughly $34 billion in our 2a-7 prime funds that are in the eurozone core.
We had a view that about less than 20% of all of the eligible European banks actually make it through our credit screen.
And so that represents roughly 28% of our total prime 2a-7 assets in our main money market business.
And we've done a pretty good job of selecting the right names and quite frankly the stress test that came out last week confirmed exactly that.
Okay.
I guess you have over $300 billion of money market assets? We have again we have money market assets that would include treasury funds and other offshore funds.
I'm giving you the U.S.
Prime 2a-7 assets.
I certainly can work with you if you want to talk offline we can certainly walk through our statistics more broadly.
There were big articles just a few weeks ago.
Wall Street Journal said money market mayhem and that this is a big risk and I just want you to kind of give us some reassurance that it's not as big a risk as highlighted in this lead editorial in The Wall Street Journal June 27.
And so if you look at the overall complex of money market assets that you have what would be the total amount that would be invested in European bank debt? And so I guess the reassurance part maybe have a lot invested in that but you don't have support agreements where you'd have to make up any shortfall.
Well the thing to remember Mike is that these are extremely senior instruments.
The tender is extremely short and these assets are in the biggest healthiest names in Europe.
These are 2 countries or 2 markets that you view or names that you've used being unstable and we have been very proactive in being extremely liquid in all of these funds as well to provide us with maximum flexibility.
Yes just so you know in the eurozone there are 124 Tier 1 2a-7 eligible banks.
Again less than 20% of those make it through our credit screen.
So where we do have exposures in that segment they are again as Bob said to the largest most significant institutions in those countries.
Yes and we have no exposure and haven't had exposure to Greece and Portugal directly and have de minimis exposure to the rest of the more troubled [indiscernible].
So we feel like we're well positioned here.
Bob just a follow-up on the last point.
So to the countries that are defined as PIIGS how much investment do you have in banks in those countries through your money market funds through the overall complex? If you don't have that now it'd be nice to have.
Yes we have none in our prime funds and de minimis in our sec lending activities de minimis meaning less than 1%.
And where we have exposure in those countries actually to we have some Irish mortgage-backed securities.
But again less than 1% of sec lending exposures.
Our next question is from John Stilmar with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Most of my questions have already been answered but just a real technical one.
Investment and other income Todd moved up a little bit.
I was wondering if you could kind of drill down and maybe reveal a little bit more of the drivers of what's kind of going on underneath that segment or line item.
I think I missed that in your commentary.
Yes there are a couple of items that are in there a couple of our joint ventures our minority ownership interest for example are in there.
And they're growing pretty well.
We have an interest in [indiscernible] Bank for example.
We have an interest in ConvergEx which continues to do pretty well.
So that's been a positive.
It did run high in the -- are you specifically referring to investment management other income? Inc.</strong> No just to other fee and revenue that is consolidated...
That was what I was referring to.
I just wanted to make sure I was clear.
We have a number of items.
We would expect that John to typically run in the kind of $80 million range.
So it was a little high because of the gains that we had taken on those loans that we talked about during the quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay and you had mentioned the ConvergEx and there's some commentary obviously and headlines of ConvergEx being taken out.
Is there any residual positive impact that that can have at least in the near term.
How should we think about that as we start thinking about our earnings estimates going forward? Yes we have no comment on any.
We've heard rumors of the transaction.
I really can't comment on that.
But what ConvergEx has done is file for an S1 for an initial public offering where we would monetize some of our interest in the company and that would be certainly be a positive for our capital position.
Our next question is from Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Just to go back on the expenses Todd.
You talked about obviously the sunsetting system and the consolidation across businesses.
Has anything changed from what you said last quarter in terms of sort of a 3- to 4-year overall timeline of integrating those systems or is that advanced? Yes we're honing in on this right now.
And it's going to actually be a subject of our investor conference in the fall.
And we are going to walk you through exactly what the timelines and what our expectations are.
And as Bob pointed out we're going to have commitments around the table here about how we're going to achieve the kind of positive operating leverage that we're looking for.
So we'll give you a lot more color but it's around the same general themes.
This concept of reengineering and combining common operations improving our technology infrastructure; that is some of the lower lying fruit.
And looking at our application portfolio and seeing if we can reduce it.
Right.
So stay tuned for that.
And then on the regulatory cost not the litigation or legal reserves but the actual cost that you would attribute to the regulatory environment.
Could you frame out sort of what that is right now and then any kind of expectation how this might abate over the next several quarters? Is it too early to...
Yes.
We've kind of poured through our numbers.
It's pretty difficult to tell what's ongoing and what's not.
But obviously complying with Basel II Basel 2.5 and Basel III there's quite a bit of systems infrastructure associated with that.
Over the past couple of years as you would expect our FDIC charges have gone up quite dramatically.
And then we've invested one of our fastest-growing shared services; is our risk area as we continue to invest in that and legal costs continue to rise.
I don't see the growth rate continuing at the level that we've seen over the past couple of years.
FDIC is still high but it's at least flattened out for example.
I would say that is consistent with some of the other things.
So I think the kind of the step up has occurred and some of it eventually will get a dividend here but that's probably a year or so away.
Clearly we've added hundreds of millions of dollars to our cost base over the last 2 or 3 years.
That would be nice to be able to adjust that down.
But it sounds like you can talk about [indiscernible] maybe a little bit more on Analyst Day.
We will Brian.
Maybe just conceptually on the full prospect of the U.S.
debt potentially being downgraded.
Obviously you guys have a major stake in the infrastructure the country's infrastructure.
Maybe you can talk a little bit about sort of what you're thinking for your collateral management businesses and the Corporate Trust business and maybe even the money markets business if U.S.
debt is downgraded and maybe contrast the long-term debt being downgraded versus any risk of a short-term debt being downgraded which doesn't appear to be an issue right now.
But if you could just talk about through some...
That's a lot of questions Brian.
Maybe focusing on the collateral management.
Okay.
I just want to reinforce that we've got to raise the debt ceiling and we've got to balance the books not over 10 years.
Over like 3 or 4 years.
We've got to get some growth back in this country again.
So this is important to the whole nation in the global economy.
We should just stop fooling around with it.
So we have worked to make sure that our in fact our team has been working on this all the way back as early as April of this year.
We have been working to make sure that our systems are flexible and we'll be able to manage whatever happens here.
We're obviously coordinating with the treasury and the regulators and also within the industry.
I mean there's still some uncertainty.
We don't know how treasuries might trade.
We don't know whether the pricing services how they're going to put value on them.
We don't know whether counterparties are going to want treasuries as collateral.
I would expect that they would.
But we're going through our contingency planning.
We're not doing this unilaterally.
We're working with industry groups and obviously we're talking with the treasury and we'll do as directed.
But we do have the flexibility in our systems to accommodate what we think could happen.
It doesn't require any system changes and we are very ready for any eventuality but I don't expect those are necessary.
Let's hope for that.
And then just a couple of other housekeeping ones.
The shareholder services business when do you expect that to close? Right now we would expect in the fourth quarter.
4Q and then the seasonal spike in dividend payment in the third quarter instead of fourth quarter that's in the DR business? Yes there's a little bit of uncertainty.
I wanted to point out.
I think we might get a little bit of that in the third quarter so the third quarter might look a little better than we would have otherwise expected it to be.
Our next question is from Jeff Hopson with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> You talked a little bit about pricing being stable.
You also talked about looking at client individual client profitability.
So I guess the question is are you having renegotiations significant renegotiation conversations with the clients? Any kind of net result of that? And then on expense in terms of some of the systems work are we talking about evolutionary or potentially revolutionary changes here? Because you're talking about expense cuts in one respect but also given that you're having to continue to invest significantly to keep up with -- keep your systems up-to-date and moving forward how can you reconcile those 2 thoughts? Well you want to talk to that for a second Tim on profitability.
Yes Jeff it's Tim Keaney here.
We talked a little bit in the past where kind of if you look at the duration of contracts for public funds it's 3 or 4 years; for corporate-type pension fund clients it's probably 5 years or so.
So our clients come up for review regularly.
They did last quarter.
They did this quarter.
We're having very very open discussions with clients around kind of the new economic reality as it relates to capital markets revenues.
And we also have very open discussions with clients about how our costs are escalating around things like helping clients comply with a myriad of increased regulations around the world.
And we've been very very successful retaining clients and very successful at repackaging our relationships with clients so that our fee revenue which we can count on is the lion's share of our total revenue base.
And it's just a new attitude we've taken in dealing with clients in terms of renegotiations and bidding on new business.
One of the things and just on the systems side what I would say is that we've been historically we've been pretty decentralized in how we run our operations.
As a result we have a lot of overlapping applications that do very similar things that are almost identical but aren't quite.
So we've been bucketing those into various categories everything from trade entry to reconciliations to you name it.
And we're going to get to common platforms by having more centralized utilities and be able to reap the benefits that ultimately what it will mean is that we can reduce our maintenance and turning on the lights run rate cost and we can invest a bit of that into new systems activity and product enhancements over time as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And on the former issue would you say there's been any change in the client retention rate? Jeff it's Tim.
No our new business win rates and our retention rates are very very solid.
They have been since we've been tracking it.
One of the things we do look at is giveaway and take away ratios.
We continue to win about 3x more than we lose when we do lose a client so we continue to be a big net winner.
Our final question is from Gerard Cassidy with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Can you give us some thoughts on Basel II? I think if I recall you folks were part of the group that's testing Basel II.
Is that going to become a reality or are they going to leap right to Basel III from your understanding? I'll take that one Gerard.
We don't know.
But it certainly feels like we'll never see Basel-- I mean Basel II is kind of the backbone for Basel III.
So everything that you do in Basel II you kind of need for Basel III.
But my expectation is we'll go straight to Basel III but that's just speculation of my part.
What we need is a level playing field with the rest of the world here.
We never implemented Basel II.
We're all focused on Basel III now.
Let's just get it done and I hope we meet up with the [indiscernible] Oversight Group in Washington.
And given the fact that we have way too many regulators hopefully we can get consensus through the SR group.
LLC</strong> And then a couple of balance sheet questions.
You guys mentioned about the great growth in the noninterest bearing deposits value that you had in the quarter because of some disruptions.
If the markets become more normal would you expect to see that line item come down in the third or fourth quarter? We certainly hope so.
And if you noticed a lot of that was just left at the central banks.
So we would like to see some normalization.
There'll be a little giveaway of NII if we do this.
We don't really mind having it Gerard.
It's not a terrible ROA.
It's not a bad ROE since there is no risk associated with it but we like everybody else would like to go back to a little more normalized environment.
LLC</strong> Sure.
And then just last question on the liability side of the balance sheet.
Can you share with us the borrowings from the FRB related to the asset back conduit.
It looks like it was $1.3 billion it looks like versus nothing the prior quarter? I don't know Gerard what you are actually referring to.
I don't think we've borrowed anything from the FRB and asset-backed.
But we'll follow-up with you on that one.
Okay.
Well thank you everyone.
Have a great day.
Okay.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Mr.
Andy Clark at (212) 635-1803.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference call webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Andy Clark.
Mr.
Clark you may begin.
Thanks Wendy and welcome everyone.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman President and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO; as well as several members of our executive management team.
Before we begin let me remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement on Page 13 of the press release and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today October 19 2011 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
This morning's press release provides the highlights of our results.
We also have the Quarterly Earnings Review document available on our website which provides a quarterly review of the total company and individual businesses.
We'll be using the Quarterly Earnings Review document to discuss our results.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Gerald.
Gerald? Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
And thanks so much for joining us today in what I know is a very busy day for all of you.
I'd like to make a few comments about the quarter comment on the FX legal issues that we're facing and then turn it over to Todd for a deeper dive into the numbers.
The headline for our quarter is solid fee and net interest revenue growth and 200 basis points of positive operating leverage.
Sequentially we certainly faced difficult market conditions which have resulted in lower revenues.
But we were able to manage expenses down despite higher litigation legal and severance costs.
The result was earnings per share for the quarter of $0.53 or $651 million.
That's an improvement of 4% year-over-year.
Revenue was up 8% year-over-year the fact that we achieved the growth notwithstanding the macro environment low interest rates the continued aversion to riskier assets and the lack of structured debt issuance reflects the strength of our business model.
Fees were up 9% as we benefited from new business net long-term asset flows and increased foreign exchange revenues.
In addition DR has had a particularly strong quarter as certain corporate actions for some clients moved up to the third quarter versus the fourth quarter.
Net interest income was up year-over-year and sequentially driven primarily by higher client deposits.
Our loan loss provision was actually a credit of $22 million and we remain very focused on containing expense growth and bringing down our run rate.
It's one of the things we can control in this very challenging environment.
Now we're taking -- we're undertaking a number of actions to achieve what I call operational excellence a term that brings together the concepts of improving efficiency reducing risk and delivering the highest quality of service to our clients.
And we'll talk more about this at our Investor Day next month.
Now looking at our 2 major businesses on a year-over-year basis.
Investment services fees were up 11% with issuer services benefiting from the seasonal strength in DRs I mentioned earlier.
We had strong new business activity in our clearing businesses and asset servicing was also up as we grew assets under custody to almost $26 trillion.
Investment management fees were up 5% as we had yet another quarter of positive long-term asset flows.
In terms of capital we generated $718 million in Basel Tier 1 common equity.
We deployed approximately $620 million of that to a combination of share buybacks and dividends.
Our Tier 1 common ratio came in at 12.5% and we delivered a return on tangible common equity of 22%.
So to summarize the highlights of the quarter year-over-year revenue growth was solid we generated positive operating leverage and managed expenses down sequentially in the face of legal headwinds.
Our balance sheet remains strong and extremely liquid and we continue to generate significant levels of capital and are committed to controlling our expenses in a challenging environment.
Now before handing it over to Todd I want to comment on FX litigation.
As you probably saw in our open letter and various publications we feel very strongly that the lawsuits against us are unwarranted and flat out wrong on the facts and the law.
While we will be pragmatic in our approach to resolving these matters we feel compelled to defend our reputation.
We truly believe we have provided a valuable service at a fair price and therefore we'll not be coerced into paying huge sums for no wrongdoing.
We are very engaged with our clients to help them understand the issues.
Some of our clients are of course frustrated that they need to explain what is going on to their superiors and boards.
But we are answering their questions allowing them to explain to their constituents how the service provides real value at competitive prices.
The overwhelming majority of our clients and the investment managers who act as their fiduciaries understand the standing instruction service very well.
They like the service and they know it provides them with vastly better pricing than they could get anywhere else for what are essentially retail size trades.
Now I just returned from our Asset Servicing Conference where I met with our client advisory board and a large group of clients.
They are very appreciative of our outreach to them and the value of our standing instruction program provides.
We continue to work with them to innovate our products and services to meet their needs including developing additional options for foreign exchange execution service.
We are committed to continuing to be a great service provider to them.
Importantly even in this noisy period our standing instruction volumes have increased over the past 2 years which we think is very telling.
Now although the lawsuits may take some time to resolve and it is very frustrating for all of us we are confident that we have the legal high ground and that we will prevail.
So with that let me turn it over to Todd to get into the numbers.
Thanks Gerald.
As I take you into the numbers my comments will follow the Quarterly Earnings Review beginning on Page 2.
The highlights on a year-over-year basis: earnings for the quarter of $0.53 up 4%; we benefited from net new business the seasonally higher Depositary Receipts revenue and also positive operating leverage.
Now we had to manage through a pretty difficult market conditions.
The S&amp;P for example is down 14% during the quarter and we also saw a period where rates continue to decline.
In face of that we also absorbed higher litigation expenses and legal costs and the charge related to the change in executive management.
Looking into the specifics.
Total revenue was $3.7 billion.
That's up 8%.
Non-U.S.
revenue hit a new record for us at 39% of the total revenue.
Our core fees continue to grow nicely.
Investment services fees were up 11%.
Again a lot of that was driven by the Depositary Receipts revenue as well as net new business which was partially offset by higher money market fund of waivers -- fee waivers.
Investment management fees were up 5% benefiting from net new business and higher average equity markets partially offset by higher money market fee waivers as well.
Net interest revenue was up 8% largely reflecting the growth in client deposits as well as growth in the securities portfolio.
Noninterest expense increased 6% that was due to higher litigation expenses increased variable expenses in support of revenue growth a $22 million charge as a result of change in executive management.
Overall our increasing revenue combined with a lower expense growth rate resulted in 200 basis points of operating leverage.
Turning to Page 4.
We'll call out some metrics that will help explain the underlying performance.
For example you can see that assets under management and assets under custody both grew year-over-year primarily reflecting new business.
Assets under management were up 5% year-over-year to $1.2 trillion with long-term inflows of $4 billion in the third quarter and $76 billion over the last 12 months.
Long-term inflows have benefited from strength in fixed income and equity indexed products.
Short-term outflows for the quarter were $15 billion and that's consistent with what we've seen in the industry trends.
Assets under custody was up 6% year-over-year to $25.9 trillion that's driven primarily from net new business.
Assets under custody decreased only 2% sequentially despite the much steeper decline in equity market values and that's because we benefit from net new business as well as an increase in some of the fixed income values.
Most of our other investment securities metrics continue to show positive trends.
The broker-dealer collateral management book continues to grow as collateralized lending is growing globally.
The major drivers of our clearing business improved substantially year-over-year as we brought on significant new business.
And total debt service and deals administered within Corporate Trust showed a bit of sequential growth for the first time in a while.
Turning to Page 6 of the Earnings Review which shows fee growth.
Asset servicing fees were up 7% year-over-year reflecting the positive impact of net new business.
Asset servicing fees were down 5% quarter-over-quarter reflecting seasonally lower securities lending revenue as well as the impact of lower equity values.
Over the past 12 months we've won an incremental $1.1 trillion in new Asset Servicing AUC.
Issuer services fees were up 21% year-over-year and sequentially due to the seasonal spike in corporate actions in our DR business that normally occurs during the fourth quarter.
Both increases also reflect net new business which was partially offset by lower revenue in our Shareowner Services and Corporate Trust businesses.
Clearing fees were up 18% year-over-year due to net new business growth in mutual fund assets and a 29% increase in daily average revenue trades.
That was partially offset by higher money market fee waivers.
Clearing fees were up 2% sequentially reflecting higher cash management balances and an increase in DARTS which were partially offset by higher money market fee waivers also.
Investment management fees as I mentioned earlier were up 5% year-over-year.
Sequentially investment management fees were down 6% primarily reflecting lower period end and average equity market values and higher money market fee waivers partially offset by net new business.
For the quarter FX revenue totaled $221 million; that's roughly 6% of our total revenue.
FX revenue increased 38% year-over-year; that's reflecting increased volatility and higher year-over-year volumes.
FX revenue was up 20% sequentially driven by higher volatility and there were steady volumes on a quarter -- on a sequential quarter basis.
Other trading revenue was a loss of $27 million and this compares to a loss of $14 million in the year ago quarter and revenue of $38 million in the second quarter of the year.
The sequential decrease was primarily driven by a $40 million net impact of wider credit spreads on the credit valuation adjustment that we recorded in the third quarter of 2011.
Regarding our FX activity I would note that standing instruction revenue continues to make up roughly 40% of the total FX revenue.
I think it is also worth noting that standing instruction volumes have increased over the past 2 years demonstrating the comments that Gerald was making that the value our clients see in this FX trading option.
Investment and other income totaled $89 million which was down by $8 million from a year ago and down by $56 million from the prior quarter.
The sequential decrease largely reflects lower gains related to loans held for sale retained from a previously divested bank subsidiary.
Both decreases also reflect mark-to-market losses on our seed capital.
Many of our businesses continue to be impacted by increased fee waivers due to lower rates and shortened maturities in the money market funds.
For the quarter money market fee waivers and this is the impact I'm about to discuss is the impact of revenues increased about $50 million year-over-year and $24 million sequentially.
Market conditions have driven waivers to the levels that we experienced since the highest levels we experienced back at the end of 2009 and that's about $0.05 a quarter for us.
Turning to Page 8 of the Earnings Review.
NIR was up $57 million versus the year ago quarter and it was up $44 million sequentially.
Both increases were primarily driven by the significant growth in client deposits which we invested in short-term low-yielding assets as well as an increase in the investment securities portfolio.
Average noninterest-bearing client deposits increased $30 billion or 71% versus the prior quarter and are more than double what they were in the year ago quarter.
The net interest margin was 1.3%; that's compared with 1.41% in the prior quarter.
The decrease was driven primarily by the increase in client deposits I just mentioned but it was partially offset by the increase in the investment securities portfolio.
If the balance sheet had been stable we estimate the margin probably would have been up slightly.
Turning to Page 9.
Total noninterest expense increased 6% year-over-year and declined 2% sequentially.
The third quarter included $80 million of litigation expense and a $22 million charge as a result of the change in executive management as well as lower M&amp;I costs.
The year-over-year increase also reflects higher incentives in variable expenses in support of revenue growth as well as higher legal costs and they were offset somewhat by a state investment tax credit.
The sequential decline in expenses was driven by compensation business development and the state investment tax credit.
So we are pleased our expense numbers in the quarter declined 2% despite some of the higher litigations severance costs we've been talking about.
Page 10 details our Tier 1 common capital generation and capital ratios.
We generated $718 million in new Basel Tier 1 common most of that was through earnings.
We deployed the majority of that through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
I'd like to add that in the third quarter our share repurchases totaled 462 million.
I characterize that total as much higher than our average driven by the market conditions in the third quarter.
Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was 6.6% at quarter end; that's unchanged from where we were in June.
The combination of the higher buybacks for example we bought back over 460 or buyback rate had been in about 320 as well as the higher risk-weighted assets that was driven by the much larger balance sheet costs us about 25 basis points.
So as we've said in the past we continue to expect in a more typical quarter to grow the ratio by about 20 to 30 basis points.
On Page 11 you can see that our investment securities portfolio continues to perform well.
The value of the portfolio has improved over the second quarter and the pretax net unrealized gain in our securities portfolio increased by $93 million to $863 million.
Paydowns of the sub-investment grade securities were approximately $300 million during the quarter $300 million.
Looking at our loan portfolio you'll see that the provision for credit losses was a credit of $22 million.
This compares with a similar credit in the third quarter of 2010 and we had a 0 provision in the second quarter.
The credit and the provision this quarter resulted from an improvement in the performance in the loan portfolio and a decline in criticized assets.
Nonperforming assets declined from $351 million to $344 million and the total allowance for credit losses decreased $37 million as a combination of the credit and a $15 million of net charge-offs.
The effective tax rate was 29.7% and that's in line with the previous guidance that we'd given you.
Looking forward to the fourth quarter given the accelerated corporate actions seasons in DRs investment services will likely not realize the seasonal benefits that we typically experience during the fourth quarter and probably see a decline in revenues.
This should be partially offset by performance fees in our Asset Management business.
We also expect to continue to generate NII at the level we did in the third quarter and fee waivers should run at about the level of the third quarter.
The quarterly provision should be in the range of 0 to $15 million.
We continue to expect to do buybacks and that will be based on market conditions.
And the tax rate should be approximately 30%.
Finally as a reminder I'd like to let you know that we will be hosting our Investor Day on November 14.
Three things that we'll actually be focused on: the first is the strength of our business model; the second is opportunities to generate above market revenue growth in these challenging environments; and finally some of the key initiatives that we are going to be implementing to drive operational efficiencies.
With that let me turn it back to Gerald.
Thanks Todd and I think we can open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from the Howard Chen with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just helpful commentary on the foreign exchange and litigation drill.
I know this remains a process with customers et cetera but was just wondering your thoughts about -- I mean hear that the standing instruction in FX revenues are improved but how are you thinking about just potential turnover amongst fuller kind of asset servicing relationships? I mean what's the level of concern that you might have some broader attrition over time? We haven't seen any attrition in the client certainly over the FX matter.
If anything as I said in my opening comments we've seen standing instruction volumes hold up and increase.
There has been a more rapid increase in the negotiated trades and I think that's just reflective of the market in general where everyone's negotiating tighter pricing on everything they can do.
But it's not impacting our ability to continue to service our clients and win new business.
We've had a very extensive outreach program to our clients.
You would expect that of us.
It's part of good client service.
We're explaining the service over and over again to them and giving them good talking points for the constituents they have to interface with their boards their managers their trustees whatever the case may be.
So we think we've given them not only good ammunition in terms of explaining the service but once again providing a very valuable service at a very fair price for retail trades.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful color.
And then switching gears maybe one for you or Todd just on capital management given the current environment then the capital that you're generating that you know.
Todd was just hoping to get your thoughts on capital process from here.
We're hearing different things from some of the big bank management teams this quarter on the capital planning process.
I was just hoping to get your evolved thoughts.
Yes our capital planning process really hasn't changed Howard.
We put through an annual budget we make a plan we share that with the directors we stress test it and we then share that with the regulators.
We continue to generate capital with about the rates that we had estimated that we would.
We feel particularly comfortable 66 might sound a bit light but if you 2 to 250 basis points for sub-investment grade securities that we've marked down to fair market value and they're now actually worth more than where we marked it.
And if we actually were to write it down to 0 our capital would actually increase.
So we feel very comfortable with where we are with the generation and our ability to continue to redeploy capital although we especially like it with our stock price where it is today.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And would there be any appetite to potentially I think like sell those securities and accelerate share repurchase or do something else with that capital? Yes we're certainly not wed to those securities as circumstances change if the risk return relationship on those securities or if there's any reason that we would want to do something with that capital that's basically part there we would.
But at this point we don't feel a need to accelerate to meet a Basel III ratio.
That really hasn't even determined what it is yet when we've got such strong ratios under Basel I.
But it's something that we would -- we could always consider.
Howard just a quick comment it is yielding a good economic return to us right now and it gives us enormous flexibility on the capital ratios going forward.
So it is something we continue to look at.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then final one for me Todd just helpful commentary on the money market fee waivers.
Just overall on the business one could you just give a sense of what the investment team has done with all the peripheral Europe issues that have been out there? And second can we just get updated thoughts on just broader money market fund reform and just how you see that playing out whether it be the scenarios like some capital underpinning the business or variable NAV? That would be helpful.
Okay.
Why don't I start and the I'll turn it over to Curtis I think to get into some of the details.
But obviously the positions are being managed very carefully.
There is no exposure in any of the books to the peripheral eurozone the exposure's going to -- where there is exposure to Europe it's in the what I'll call the non-peripheral eurozone or the other non-eurozone Europe.
It's become very short term in nature.
Very significant amount of it is in overnight or overnight equivalents.
So I think -- and that's having an impact obviously on the yield and further depressing the yield.
But also -- and therefore further impacting the fee waivers.
I think Curtis you want to add anything on the regulatory reform and the impact to money market funds going forward? Other than obviously watching very closely how it's evolving different perspectives on how this should play out I think the low-yield environment obviously impacts some of those discussions but we're obviously watching very closely.
And I would just -- to Todd's point about how we're managing the portfolio certainly have boosted liquidity and our overnight positions and away from overnight have reduced exposures to both the non-eurozone and eurozone just in sync with I think overall market dynamics.
Our next question is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two questions one on expenses and one on M&amp;A.
On expense side could you just explain a little bit how much more room you have to bring down expenses here given what looks like you had relatively tight management in this quarter and the part of this is the headcount reduction that you announced in the past quarter fully embedded within the third quarter results? Yes why don't I take and I'll turn it over to Gerald.
Yes the announcements that we made in the third quarter with a freeze and the intent to through attrition primarily reduce the headcount really went into effect late in the quarter Betsy so it had limited if any impact on the third quarter itself.
We do continue to benefit from some of the -- our growth centers and that's where the growth and our headcount has taken place.
We are going to go through this in some detail on November 14 on our Investor Day where we will talk to some very specific initiatives give you a sense of the timing of those initiatives and how they'll be driven through the P&amp;L and the impact they should have on our operating margins going forward which is I think the only way you can really measure those.
So we will give -- from a longer-term perspective I think we'll give a lot more color there.
Looking to the fourth quarter our goal is to try to keep the expenses pretty stable.
So if we can manage to go through a couple of quarters I think we can demonstrate that there could be some noise there but we could demonstrate and I think we can keep them reasonably stable even showing some of the modest revenue growth that we've been seeing over the past year or so.
And Betsy let me just add.
I view the headcount reduction and the hiring freeze as sort of the foundation for broad-based program.
And there are a number of initiatives which we'll outline as Todd said November 14.
But the headcount and the salaries are just a foundation.
So things like platform consolidations working on the networks working on procurement a whole variety of different things and we're going to try to lay it out for you by general category and by business not just for 2012 but over a 3-year period of time.
And it will be very focused for you to be able to go through.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That will be helpful because you've been ramping investment spend to get the platform consolidation already haven't you? So is there an object from that or is that a steady run rate at this stage? Well the way I look at it is we've got to afford it within the expense reductions.
So we're going to take some level of the expense reductions and reinvest in the businesses and then reinvest in growth.
But we still have to as Todd said improve the margins.
You have to see it in the income statement.
Research Division</strong> And then on strategic opportunities is there anything that you're looking at or thinking about or does your capital ratio preclude you from being able to be more creative there? Yes obviously the first priority is given our share prices share buybacks and dividends we want to get the capital ratios up even though we have a flexibility to get them up to above the 7% relatively quickly if we chose to.
And so acquisitions are a lesser priority.
If the turmoil in Europe springs out an asset that's incredibly cheap and incredibly accretive we might look at it.
But the first priority is to really return the excess capital to shareholders with $19 $20 share price.
There's no better investment.
Our next question is from John Stilmar with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A quick question for you guys and it touches on Betsy's last point with regards to expenses.
And not to front run the Analyst Day but if we're trying to look back to an achievable operating margin which seems like you're not necessarily going to get to by slashing the bottom line but continuing to reinvest for the top line.
What is kind of a reasonable frame that we should be thinking about for your business over the 3-year time horizon for us kind of bouncing around the bottom here in today's current environment? John you're pushing pretty hard there.
We don't give a quarter's guidance and now you're looking for 3 years of it.
But there is operating leverage in the business model.
I mean we do get scale benefits.
What we will try to give you on Investor Day is you plug in what you think market conditions are going to look like and revenue growth rates will be and we'll give you a sense of -- I think you'll be able to come away with a better sense of where the operating margins can be and just how much operating leverage there will be.
Obviously it's a function of revenue growth.
If revenue was flat it's pretty hard to generate much in the way of operating margin of operating leverage.
But if we've got a little bit of revenue growth I think we can create it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And in terms of your custody business can you talk to me a little bit more about the pipeline? It seems like new business wins may have taken a step back this quarter and just curious about what your vantage point is from here given the market volatility.
Are you seeing more people come to you for back-office and middle-office support and just trying to compare and contrast how you see your pipeline.
Yes.
John I'll make a quick comment then turn it over to Tim Keaney who's on the line actually from our Asset Servicing Conference so he can give you the real scoop firsthand.
But generally the pipeline is quite strong.
There's a lot of outsourcing activity within it.
And a lot of the new business wins that you saw in the quarter didn't necessarily bring assets under custody with it.
It brought fees and outsourcing services and ancillary services.
So not as heavy in the assets under custody area.
But maybe with that as a general comment Tim can you pick up on it? Yes the pipeline's up about 50% year-on-year John.
Most of it's driven by financial institutions and outsourcing as you point out.
That's been about a 3-quarter trend now.
About 50% of the new business pipeline is outsourcing and that's really defined broadly things that clients do for themselves today that they'd look to us for to provide.
And as you know and I think we've talked about before we feel particularly well positioned in that space.
Our next question is from Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So I appreciate the comments on the 250 basis points worth of sub-investment grade securities.
Can you just talk a little bit about the maturity profile because I'm assuming that you feel that they're good assets yielding high and so it's not worth getting rid of them now.
But just curious on when that starts leaking into the capital base.
Yes.
We're seeing paydowns at close to kind of the way the numbers work Glenn.
We're seeing paydowns of about $100 million a month maybe slightly less and the portfolio will probably burn off.
It's probably got an average life of 40 years.
But we are freeing some of that back into the P&amp;L so at about $100 million a quarter level.
So net-net about $200 and some-odd million decrease.
Since it's a 1 250% risk-weighted asset you multiply that by 12.5x.
That's 250 -- no it's $2.5 billion or about 1% of our risk-weighted assets that's coming off a little bit more than that each quarter.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
That's great.
And then just further on that you had about an 87%-ish payout ratio this quarter.
Hear your comments loud and clear on how you feel about the stock and you generate a lot of capital.
Everybody okay meaning regulators with an 87% payout ratio? I didn't know how they balance capital now capital in the future and capital -- current period capital generation.
I mean the plan that we had passed was over the course of 12 months we bought back 1.3 billion so you can expect that we won't buy back at the rate that we did in the second quarter and in future quarters.
But there's -- we are following our plan and in fact our ratios are in line or better than what we had planned.
So for the whole year Glenn it's certainly in line with what the regulators would expect in terms of combination of dividends and buybacks on a payout ratio.
So the third quarter was just particularly heavy.
Research Division</strong> I'm with you.
Final one on NIM.
You'd mentioned the NIM was slightly up let's just call it stable x the big balance sheet growth this quarter.
Steady-state balance sheet what are the puts and takes that are helping you see that stable NIM because obviously the natural weight of gravity right now with rate is going to pull it down.
Are you doing a little more investing further out or in corporates on the security side and I did see loans pick up as well.
Yes there are a couple of items there.
I mean one of the things that we have seen a spike we think that's pretty hot money and we're not going to do a lot with that.
But there has been underlying growth in the deposit base that we think will be core.
So we've invested that in a number of different securities relatively short duration.
Some of it is in floating rate.
The duration that we're getting from that is we bought some annuities.
We bought some mostly short duration treasuries kind of inside the window when the Fed would probably expect it to do something.
Any of the duration that we had comes to agency RMBS.
Some of that is floaters.
Most of it's seasoned 15-year type of stuff as well as munis and some corporates.
So there's a mix of assets that we've added to the portfolio probably about $7 billion or $8 billion over the past 2 quarters or so.
And Glenn regarding the secured loan program that you saw it's mostly to broker-dealers and other very large clients highly secured highly visible assets margin value daily.
And we feel pretty good about being able to provide that sort of liquidity to major clients in a very secured way and can get a little better yield off of that versus certainly leaving it in central banks.
Our next question is from Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just to add on to that question on the deposit side.
What would you characterize as sort of the level of hot money deposits in a quarter on an average basis and how is that trending into fourth quarter and whether you think that'll stick around into year end? Yes we saw most of the pot in the deposit base Brian take place at the end of the second quarter and into the third quarter.
It's been reasonably stable since then and it's starting to trend down slightly.
But in this rate environment and the kind of the risk off and defensive environment that so many are taking we could be here for a while.
And certainly the noise in Europe more than noise is continuing to cause clients to want to leave deposits with us.
So it's been fairly extended period of time that the "hot" money has been here and that's one of our challenges is how to determine how long it's going to be here versus putting it to work and through the investments.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And as regards to the charges that you're putting on at what you I think regard as not just excess deposits but excess over some normal levels from some of the large clients do you see those levels increasing or decreasing? Yes we had proposed a deposit charge to our clients if they kept a significant amount of excess deposits from what was already a spike trade.
These are really targeted to the clients I think that had taken advantage and perhaps even arbitraged some of the market conditions at the time.
After we spoke to them we basically explained how they could go about avoiding those charges through managing those deposits which they have done.
So we really don't expect that to be a generator for the vast vast majority of our clients.
It really had no impact.
Not to say if conditions didn't change we wouldn't reconsider but that's where we are right now.
Yes it's interesting and amazing Brian.
It shouldn't be too amazing that when you consider charging someone for something and they can change their behavior they actually do.
Research Division</strong> Funny how that works.
And then just a quick on the Basel III ratio.
So as far as getting to 7% by year end are you basically thinking about it on a more flexible way like you don't really need to get to the 7.0% because you got the flexibility on the investment grade book or are you still really trying to get there? Well we would like to achieve and it's going to be a little bit more difficult if the balance sheet and the risk-based assets are going to stay higher than we had anticipated.
So we're not wed to being there.
If we generate at the typical level you can estimate where we might be.
But we think we have adequate flexibility.
Things do change.
But given the risk that we have on our balance sheet and the mix of assess that we have we're very comfortable with our capital ratios.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And how much is left to buy back as of 1.3 billion? We've done about 800 million in the first 2 quarters of the buyback.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just very last on new business trends.
So the $96 billion won on asset servicing what was installed in the quarter and then what is -- what do you still have in your pipeline left to convert that's not in the custody numbers yet? Tim why don't you pick up on that one? First of all I think as we talked about the new business -- of the $96 billion is a little bit misleading because if you look on revenue terms it's very steady over the last 5 quarters because of the mix of new business that doesn't really relate to assets under custody so transfer agency and middle office outsourcing.
We converted $245 billion for the quarter and we still have about $320 billion left to convert.
And I would say that will probably come in pretty evenly over the next 2 quarters.
That's helpful? Research Division</strong> Yes that is helpful.
Great.
Our next question is from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> So it seems like competition is still pretty high in the servicing business and everyone points fingers at everybody else who's causing it.
But when we look at your linked-quarter numbers assets under custody are only down 2% but your fees are down 5%.
And so my question is are you causing that competition? Maybe it makes sense to cut prices and gain market share or why would there be that disconnect? Yes the majority of that Mike that decline is we combine in our asset servicing number you see both sec lending and asset servicing.
So about -- I think it was close to half of the decline was related to the sec lending numbers.
And I don't know if Tim or Gerald if you have anything else.
Research Division</strong> But even excluding sec lending the fees are still down more than the assets under custody.
Slightly just slightly.
Mike we've had this conversation for years.
It's always going to be a competitive environment.
We are maintaining price discipline in terms of new services and gaining new business.
I know Tim's working on a program to look at how we potentially change some level of pricing paradigm for different types of clients.
And maybe once we get into it we're certainly going to share more of that in Investor Day.
But yes we're very mindful of getting the fees to cover the operating expenses in the business.
So we're less reliant on the "capital markets activity" and that's one of our goals.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Gerald this is the first conference call we've had with you as CEO.
So I know you'll talk about this at your Investor Day but how do you see running the company? What changes might we expect? And also why did Bob Kelly leave? Well I can't comment on the last part.
But in terms of the first part of your question Mike clearly I think the power of our company is the breadth of our services in our business model.
We need to do a better job collaborating across our company making it easier for our clients to do business with us and providing solution sets to them that I don't think anyone else on the planet can do.
Instead of selling individual product lines or individual business lines to clients we really need to think more holistically on their behalf and present a combined set of services in a better way than we have done.
And so our client coverage model our go-to-market model working more collaboratively as a team across our businesses I think it's going to be the best way we improve and increase our revenue growth and market position with our clients.
And that's my focus.
Research Division</strong> And I guess we'll hear more about this at Investor Day but if we were to look at 1 or 2 metrics to see your progress to measure that focus what would that be? Well I think in terms of operating efficiencies Mike one of the metrics that we started giving you is our investor services fees over expenses.
And they're inching forward.
We like to get them.
They're about 97% I believe this quarter.
We'd like to get them up above 100%.
And that's going to demonstrate that we've either improved pricing or we've improved efficiencies.
Research Division</strong> And then last question the fee waivers are hurting $0.05 per quarter.
At what point do you get a little bit more aggressive in charging clients? In charging clients for fees? I think that in the instances where we are looking at -- bringing in clients we're looking at all of the fees that we'd anticipate generating from that and we're holding the discipline and taking into consideration impacts whether it's around fee waivers or NIR or even sec lending in this environment.
So I think the team is trying to hold the discipline to do that now.
In terms of if there's no yield it's pretty hard to charge much of a rate.
So it's going to be more of a market consideration specifically on fee waivers.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Just one with the balance sheet side.
I know all of it that's coming in is not risk-weighted but there eventually becomes a leverage constrained.
I'm just wondering if in fact does the bloated balance sheet come into your thinking at all about capital management and balance sheet planning? Sure because there is a leverage ratio that we need to meet.
It could decline given the $30 billion move in the course of the quarter.
But now that it's stabilized and we continue to see the Tier 1 capital ratio grow we don't think there's going to be much pressure there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that doesn't weigh on it.
Okay my second question is just about you mentioned that Corporate Trust was actually up a little bit sequentially and I saw that the debt administered was up -- it was obviously clearly a meaningful down quarter in terms of origination activities.
So I'm just wondering if you can give a little more color on what the underlying trends are in Corporate Trust and what's happening as far as either market share or pricing? Sure Ken.
Why don't we have Karen address that? Sure.
Ken our Corporate Trust business performed pretty well.
It was also impacted by fee waivers money market funds.
But some of that money actually went into NIR okay? And you're right that market activity was down other than ABS and high yield and U.S.
municipal debt is looking better.
And so Ken the way to think about it is while the structured market has obviously not come back which is the highest fee realization of our trusteeships we are seeing some activity in the corporate and muni market and that's why the number of trustees under administration have gone up.
So we're hopeful that we'll start to see it come back in that marketplace.
Obviously at some point given the bank's balance sheets globally cannot carry debt to support economic growth they're going to have to access the capital markets.
And so we think we're going to be in a great position when that turns around.
The only other thing I'd add is that we are reducing expenses and looking to make the business more efficient.
So that's a big focus in that business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And my last follow-up is just on the Issuer Services strength I'm just wondering can you tease that out a little bit more for us in terms of -- I'm talking about the fee side not the income side because we don't see that segment data anymore.
But on the fee income side $365 million going to $442 million can you just kind of breakdown what was the pull forward of seasonality and what was activity in DRs versus how Corporate Trust acted? Yes it was -- why don't I take that okay? It was primarily the pull forward of DRs and that's why I think as you look out to the fourth quarter you should adjust to reflect that what I've made in my kind of forward looking comments is we would expect the revenues in issuer services to go down sequentially as a result of that and offset somewhat by performance fees for example and asset management.
But there will be a headwind for us in the fourth quarter Ken.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well no doubt.
I'm just trying to understand if just core DR activity was also better or worse right just based on volume trends as opposed to the corporate actions that got pulled forward.
Know what I mean? Just core market activity versus the pull forward of the seasonality.
Ken year-to-date some of the issuance facts or DRs we had $5.1 billion DRs compared to $2.2 billion this time last year.
So that was obviously increased volume.
Of course we continue to have great market share 55% of the new business we won and we acted as a Depositary for 53% of new offering.
So that's all very strong.
We had a great quarter for DRs and a strong pipeline.
But there is some slowing in corporate action and some delays in IPO activity.
So net-net we have more DRs outstanding than we've ever had $35 billion.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sorry for this last one and I'm finished.
Can you tell us what the gains were from the sale of loans was in the investment and other line this quarter? Yes we don't disclose that but it was down pretty meaningfully from where it was in the second quarter Ken.
And if you look at what our asset and other income was running this quarter at about $90 million that's consistent where it was a year ago and that's kind of where we would ballpark what we would expect there.
Our next question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Sorry to circle back on this again but can you actually just give us the dollar amount of seasonality in the DR business this quarter.
And then as a follow-up to that I think it might be just helpful to maybe quantify year-to-date revenues in Issuer Services.
And if you could kind of break it down by what's DR what's corporate kind of corporate action.
And I guess the last piece would be Shareowner Services which I think goes away in the fourth quarter.
So what would be the impact of that? Sure.
I'll take some of that.
And we don't break out all of that detail Alex.
But to give you a little color Shareowner Services we anticipate closing on that either late this quarter or early in the first quarter.
That will have a nominal impact to our net earnings.
You'll see a little -- modest loss of revenues for the company as a result of that.
But it'll be -- you'll also see a reduction in expenses that go with it.
We don't think it'll have a meaningful impact to the P&amp;L and it will be some capital generation probably in the order of about 20 basis points in our Basel III Tier 1 common ratio.
And that'll leave the Issuer Services the primary businesses there obviously being the Corporate Trust and the DRs.
And they're both substantial businesses.
DRs has got the momentum that Karen just explained as we continue to see growth and it really is the developing markets play for us.
And although we're seeing a little softness around IPOs and that type of activity just given the current market events we continue to see pretty good strength there.
In terms of Corporate Trust there's some headwinds.
There really is no structure debt market as you know and that was probably the highest margin business.
So we're seeing that runoff faster than anything is replacing it.
The business itself is actually doing reasonably well because balances continue to grow.
But it'll be difficult to keep in the near term to keep fees flat there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the dollar amount of seasonality this quarter? What I'd indicated is I think the way to look at it is if you kind of average the last 2 quarters of last year you probably get a ballpark with this year.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then shifting gears a little bit can you elaborate a little bit on the CVA adjustment this quarter where I guess the loss came from and anything you could disclose on the counterparty that would be helpful.
Sure.
The CVA adjustment is as spreads widen we discount a receivable back at a higher rate and therefore it's less valuable.
So we generally see spread widens.
Now our counterparties tend to be very high quality but there are a substantial number where we are actually a receiver of the fixed rate and interest rate derivatives.
And as interest rates came down the exposure went up.
So we had a little larger exposure and that larger exposure was discounted at a little higher rate.
I expect we'll recover that over the next few quarters.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And then the last one for me maybe on just going back to the FX issue.
And if you could tie that in maybe what litigation expenses this quarter.
So do you have anything reserved for FX issue so far? And this I guess the $80 million this quarter can you elaborate a little bit on what in particular that had to do with? Yes we don't -- for obvious reasons Alex we don't disclose specific litigation reserves.
And our final question today is from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> When do you guys think that you might find out what your SIFI buffer will be and do you expect to be included in the global SIFIs when those names come out? Yes.
Gerard right now we're not certain.
I would expect by year end we should know.
And although we don't know for sure I would expect we would probably be included in the global SIFI.
LLC Research Division</strong> And any idea on what you think is an appropriate SIFI buffer for you folks? I think appropriate would be 0 and above.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
But what do I expect it will actually be I really don't know.
It could be in the 50 to 150 basis point range probably.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last quarter I think yourselves as well as your 2 main competitors talked a lot about raising prices for certain services with your customers on existing relationships.
Are you still trying to do that? Is there any progress that you're making there? Are customers accepting price increases and maybe share some color on that.
Yes Gerard.
We're just beginning the process.
We're going through a bifurcation process with smaller clients and a more standardized operating service and some level of pricing paradigm change there.
We have a beta group that we're working with as we speak.
And then in terms of as contracts come up for renewal we are having the normal conversations with clients trying to have them appreciate the value of the services we bring versus the fees they pay and less reliance again on the capital markets activity.
So we're in the early innings of this and we'll give you more of an update at Investor Day.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then the final question on the fee waivers that you gave us some detail on what type of -- how much higher can they grow I guess? Do interest rates meaning maybe long end of the curve has to fall another 25 or 40 basis points or are they going to be constant at these levels where just stays at this level? I would expect that this is the bottom but it's possible that that could change.
So if we saw short-term rates decline even further I think it would put additional pressure on money market funds being able to generate any kind of a spread and therefore they could potentially pick up.
But when we look back and we look at the current environment this feels like the bottom.
And if we see a little normalcy coming around the globe you might be able to generate a little more yield and therefore not waive quite as much of the fees.
Well thank you very much everyone for joining our call.
If you have further questions please give Andy Clark a call and we look forward to seeing you on Investor Day.
Thank you very much everyone.
Thank you sir.
Any additional questions or comments you may contact Mr.
Andy Clark at (212) 635-1803.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call hosted by BNY Mellon.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference call webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Andy Clark.
Mr.
Clark you may begin.
Thanks Wendy and welcome everyone.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman President and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO; as well as several members of our executive management team.
Before we begin let me remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement on Page 13 of the press release and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today January 18 2012 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
This morning's press release provides the highlights of our results.
We also have the Quarterly Earnings Review document available on our website which provides a quarterly review of the total company and the individual businesses.
We'll be using the Quarterly Earnings Review document to discuss our results.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Gerald.
Gerald? Thanks Andy.
And good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on what I know  is a very busy day for you all.
For the quarter we generated net income of $505 million and earnings per share of $0.42 which compares to $0.54 in the fourth quarter of last year.
I should note that the fourth quarter of 2011 included a restructuring charge related to our efficiency initiatives and some other items that Todd will cover in just a minute.
Obviously it was a tough revenue quarter as our results reflected the ongoing macro environment challenges.
The general uncertainty in the financial markets resulted in lower-than-normal levels of client activity.
Now a good indicator of that is the combined share volume on the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ which was down 6% year-over-year and 18% sequentially.
It clearly has an impact on areas like our investment services fee revenues.
Investors have been very risk averse.
We saw a lack of organic growth as our clients reallocated their assets in a more defensive posture significantly to cash in response to uncertainty in the markets.
Money market fund managers including our own have been particularly conservative.
They shortened durations and reduced European exposure which resulted in lower yields and even higher money market fee fund waivers.
Now despite those challenges we were pleased with what we were able to accomplish in terms of winning new business strengthening our balance sheet controlling expenses and positioning our company for 2012.
We are continuing to win new business.
In Asset Management we had positive long-term flows in every quarter in 2011.
And in the fourth quarter we had another strong quarter in terms of new assets under custody wins.
Our balance sheet continues to strengthen in terms of liquidity asset quality and capital.
On the liquidity front deposit levels grew significantly.
For example non- interest-bearing deposits were up 93% year-over-year.
Asset quality improved as our sub-investment grade securities declined 11% due to paydowns and some opportunistic selling.
And on the capital front we generated almost $570 million of Tier 1 common and are ahead of where we expected to be in terms of Basel III Tier 1 common ratio.
And excluding the restructuring charge we delivered a very strong 20% return on that increased level of equity capitals.
Now we did slow down our buyback program a bit in the fourth quarter to make sure we met our capital targets but we are looking to resume our program this quarter.
Now most of our core Investment Services metrics continue to look good especially in clearing but they were severely impacted by volume.
And in Investment Management we're encouraged by our continued strong long-term investment performance and positive flow.
On the expense front we made meaningful progress in containing expense growth and bringing down our run rate as we have begun to realize the benefits of the efficiency initiatives we discussed at our Investor Day.
Excluding the restructuring charge total expenses were down 3% sequentially and down 2% year-over-year.
That's ahead of where we expected to be at this particular point.
Now those efficiency initiatives are still on their early days so we have substantial benefits to come.
But we're off to a strong start in terms of adjusting our cost base to manage through the current environment.
Now I should also note that we closed the deal to sell our Shareowner Services business.
We were able to get a good price for the business and it takes goodwill and intangibles off our balance sheet and positions us to improve our profit margin going forward.
So lots of meaningful progress during the quarter.
And while the revenue environment was tough we believe the lower level of client activity is a short-term issue.
Our fee revenue should recover quickly as we return to normal levels and activity.
In the meantime we're controlling our expense base to offset market weakness.
We are investing in areas that will generate organic revenue growth.
We're putting our deposits to work and we remain very focused on returning capital to shareholders.
With that let me turn it over to Todd to go through the numbers.
Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
As I take you through the numbers my comments will follow the Quarterly Earnings Review beginning on Page 2.
Earnings for the quarter were $0.42.
And as Gerald noted that included a restructuring charge of $107 million or approximately $0.06 and that was related to our efficiency efforts.
And there was about $0.02 of charges related to a higher provision and higher M&amp;I expenses.
Our results included the impact of lower volumes as Gerald mentioned generally reflecting the uncertainty in the financial markets and we saw that especially late in the quarter.
Combined share volume on the exchanges was down meaningfully.
Year-over-year key international markets were down substantially and the U.S.
indices were flat.
And more specifically to our results we were impacted by the new seasonality that we experienced in our Depositary Receipts business.
So in this environment our success is really based on our ability to reduce the growth rate of operating expenses and we made some pretty good progress as Gerald had noted.
Now let's look at the highlights on a year-over-year basis.
Total revenue was $3.5 billion.
That's down 6%.
Investment Services fees were down 8% and that's primarily due to lower DR revenue but it also was impacted by lower volumes and higher money market fee waivers.
As you'll recall the seasonal spike in corporate actions in our DR business that normally occur in the fourth quarter now occur in the third quarter.
If you adjust for that seasonal impact Investment Services fees decreased 3%.
Investment Management and performance fees were down 9%.
That too was driven by higher money market fee waivers lower performance fees and weaker international equity markets that were partially offset by net new business.
Net interest revenue here was a bright spot.
It was up 8%.
And that largely reflects the additional client deposits and the growth in secured lending as well as our securities portfolio.
The provision was $23 million and it primarily resulted from the default of a broker-dealer customer.
Our noninterest expense increased just 1% and was down 2% if we exclude the restructuring charges and M&amp;I expenses and 3% on that same basis for the link quarter.
Turning to Page 4 where we call out some business metrics that'll help you explain -- help explain our underlying performance.
You can see that assets under management was up 8% year-over-year to $1.26 trillion.
We had long-term inflows of $16 billion in the fourth quarter and so we've had positive long-term flows in every quarter of 2011.
Long-term inflows have benefited from the strength in the fixed income and equity indexed products.
Short-term inflows for the quarters were -- the quarter was about $7 billion.
Assets under custody was flat sequentially but it's up 3% year-over-year to a total of $25.8 trillion.
Most of that was driven by net new business.
Now most of the metrics that you see here showed solid growth on a year-over-year basis.
Loans and deposits continue to grow.
DR programs are up modestly and clearing and broker-dealer services metrics are up substantially.
However each of our Investment Services businesses was impacted by the short decline in volumes in the quarter.
So the underlying fundamentals of our business remain pretty strong and that positions us well for any rebound in the capital markets.
Asset servicing fees were down 3% year-over-year and 4% sequentially.
Both decreases reflect lower volumes a shift in client asset allocations and the termination of client relationships from recent acquisitions that we made.
And these terminations result from the fact that clients don't meet our risk profile.
That was partially offset by the impact of net new business.
We had a very strong new business quarter with $431 billion in new AUC wins all of which we would expect to be converted by the end of the second quarter of this year.
Issuer services fees were down 30% year-over-year and 35% sequentially and again that's due to the seasonally lower DR revenues.
If you adjust for that seasonality fees were basically flat sequentially.
Clearing fees were flat year-over-year as new business was offset by lower volumes and then higher fee waivers.
They were down 6% sequentially reflecting the lower trading volumes and again the higher link quarter money market fee waivers.
Investment Management and performance fees were down 9% year-over-year and flat sequentially.
Sequentially Investment Management fees were flat as net new business and higher performance fees were offset by lower revenue on equity investments and the higher money market fee waivers.
Now you've heard me mention the money market fee waivers several times now.
Let me now aggregate the impact across our company.
For the quarter money market fee waivers were a $0.06 drag on our EPS and that compares to 3% last year and $0.05 in the third quarter.
The revenue impact was nearly $65 million for the year-over-year quarter.
In FX and other trading revenue was down year-over-year but it was up sequentially.
Looking at the components FX revenue totaled $183 million.
That's a decrease of 11% year-over-year and 17% sequentially.
Both decreases reflected lower volumes.
The year-over-year decrease was partially offset by higher volatility while sequentially volatility actually decreased.
Other trading revenue was $45 million.
That compares to $52 million last year and a loss of $21 million in the third quarter.
The sequential improvement was primarily driven by a lower credit valuation adjustment.
Now some of you may have seen that yesterday we reached a partial settlement in the FX lawsuit that was brought by the U.S.
Attorney's Office.
The settlement results disclosures that -- disclosure claims that were related to FX marketing.
We're pleased with the settlement but you should be aware that no financial agreement is related to it and it does not affect any claims for monetary damages.
And importantly it also does not admit to any wrongdoing in our part.
As we've said in the past we will continue to be alert to opportunities for pragmatic resolutions.
However we remain convinced that our legal defenses continue to be rock solid.
Now turning to investment and other income.
It totaled $146 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
That compares with $80 million in the prior year and $83 million in the third quarter.
The increases over both periods primarily resulted from a pretax gain of $98 million on the sale of Shareowner Services and that was partially offset by a $30 million write-down of an equity investment.
Now I'd like to point out that the $98 million pretax gain on the sale of Shareowner Services translated into only a $4 million after-tax gain due to the nontax-deductible goodwill that was associated with the business.
Turning to Page 8 of the earnings review.
NIR was up $60 million versus the year ago quarter and was up 5% sequentially.
Both increases reflect growth in client deposits which drove the increase in cash at central banks.
Average noninterest-bearing client deposits increased $3 billion or 4% versus the third quarter.
The year-over-year increase also reflects increased investment in high-grade securities and growth in our secured lending program.
The net interest margin was 1.27%.
That compares to 1.54% a year ago and the decrease was driven by just the increased deposit base.
Turning to Page 9 you can see that year-over-year total noninterest expense excluding the restructuring charges and M&amp;I expenses declined 2%.
And that's reflecting lower staff expense which was partially offset by higher litigation expense.
If you exclude the impact of litigation expenses actually declined 3%.
The sequential decrease primarily resulted from lower staff expense reflecting lower incentives as well as a decline in headcount and lower litigation expense and lower volume-driven expense.
All of that was partially offset by higher professional legal and other purchase services which was primarily consulting software and equipment and business development expenses.
The increase in software and equipment was due to increased license fees and some new software that we brought online.
As you can see the $107 million in restructuring charges was comprised of $78 million for severance costs and there was $29 million of lease write-offs and consulting expenses.
Page 10 details our capital ratios.
As Gerald noted our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was up 60 basis points to 7.1% at quarter end.
That's a little ahead of what our previous guidance was.
A little less than half of the improvement was driven by the -- a reduction in goodwill and intangible assets as well as the risk-weighted assets related to our sale of Shareowner Services business.
Paydowns of -- and paydowns in sales of investment securities accounted for most of the remaining benefit from the reduction in risk-weighted assets and the other contribution was obviously the retention of earnings.
We continue to expect to generate about 20 to 25 basis points a quarter in Basel III Tier 1 common.
And that includes the impact of buybacks and dividends.
We're fortunate that our business model enables us to rapidly generate capital and it does not require a significant growth in risk-weighted assets.
Both of these attributes position us very well to comply with all the Basel III requirements well ahead of the phase-in periods.
Our Basel Tier 1 common equity ratio was 13.4% at year end.
That's up 90 basis points from the end of September driven primarily by earnings retention and the sale of Shareowner Services and we generated approximately $570 million of Basel I equity in the fourth quarter.
Part of the growth resulted from the decision to slow our buybacks in the quarter to strengthen our leverage ratio.
Now that we have done that we're well positioned to continue buying back shares in the fourth quarter -- excuse me in the first quarter under our existing program.
On Page 11 you can see that our Investments Securities portfolio continues to perform well.
The Watch List actually declined 15%.
And the sub-investment grade RMBS securities were down about 11% and those were down driven by sales -- excuse me by paydowns but we did do some opportunistic sales as well.
The pretax net unrealized gain in our securities portfolio decreased modestly to $793 million.
Looking at our loan portfolio you'll see that the provision for credit losses was $23 million.
That compares with a credit of $22 million in the prior and year ago quarters and the increased provision was primarily the result of the bankruptcy of a broker-dealer that I earlier mentioned.
NPAs actually declined from -- in the quarter from $344 million to $341 million.
The effective tax rate of 30.6% that was negatively impacted by the nondeductible goodwill associated with the sale of our Shareowner Services but most of that was offset by a more favorable mix of foreign and domestic income.
Now looking ahead NII should be steady.
Fee waivers may not get better but they should have troughed.
Of course I think I've mentioned that on multiple earlier calls that I thought they've troughed but at this point there's not much left to waive.
The quarterly provisions should be in the range of $0 to $15 million.
We're focused on driving expenses through our -- or driving down expenses through our operational excellence initiatives.
As we've outlined on our Investor Day our initiatives are projected to drive net savings of $240 million to $260 million this year and we've made some pretty good early progress.
Assuming regulatory approval we plan on combined dividend and share buyback ratio of 60% to 65% for 2012.
As always the timing of our share buybacks will be based on prevailing market condition.
The significant growth on our capital positions us well for the stress test that we -- by the way we just recently submitted to our regulators.
And finally the tax rate in the first quarter should continue to be approximately 30%.
With that let me turn it back to Gerald Thanks Todd and I think we can open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So timing sometimes gets in the way here but I just think it's a little interesting.
Assets under management up 5% quarter-on-quarter fees are flat.
Assets under custody fees flat quarter-on-quarter fees are down whether you want to include the seasonality in DR or not.
Is there a little function of timing there? Is -- there's a little money market in there but is the mix of business changing such that the relationship between the assets and the fees don't match as much as they did in the past? Yes.
Why don't I start on that and then ask Todd and maybe Curtis or Tim to jump in.
I think we saw one client activity on the volumes decline to the shift into risk-off mode.
So assets went into cash or frankly they went into deposits.
And so you don't get an asset under custody fee if it's in a bank deposit.
The same would hold true in the Asset Management side.
So I think we just saw as the year end approached last year complete risk-off mode so a decline in volumes movement into cash more risk averse which doesn't allow for fee activity here in Investment Services or Investment Management area.
We do think that that's short lived.
Investors do have to invest.
They do have to get a return and I just think we saw a very soft fourth quarter that we don't expect to continue for the long term.
But I know Curtis maybe you want to comment on the Investment Management side.
Yes absolutely.
From an Investment Management perspective I mean the growth in AUM has absolute come in fixed income and as Todd mentioned equity indexed products so lower fee products in general.
We've actually held our own pretty well in equity flows where the industry a pretty tough year generally.
So we're happy about that.
I think that what you're seeing in fees is really the impact of 2 things.
And Glenn to your point it is a bit of a timing dynamic around performance fees.
We have very strong quarter in the fourth quarter of 2010.
We had a pretty good quarter this quarter just not as strong and then fee waivers have definitely had a very significant impact as Todd mentioned.
So money market fee waivers and lower performance fees are causing an offset to nice business -- new business growth.
Let me add a little bit to that Glenn and then maybe Tim wants to add something as well.
One of the things that you don't see is -- in the fee side is as money moves out of money market funds we are seeing it come onto our balance sheet and that's why we've seen some of the growth in net interest revenue.
It's not as meaningful as it would have been in the fee side in this very low interest rate environment but that's masking some of the move.
So there is some modest offset not as much as we would like just in the growth of the balance sheet due to that risk-off trade.
Now Tim if you have anything to add.
No Todd.
The only last point maybe I'd make is Glenn that we only converted about $165 billion for the quarter in new business.
So that -- on a relative basis as you look backwards that was one of our lower quarters.
The good news is of the $1.2 trillion that we won we still have yet to convert about $530 billion.
Research Division</strong> Does that $530 billion include what you just announced as new business wins in the fourth quarter? Is that your won but not yet converted pipeline? Exactly.
And I think as Gerald mentioned in his opening comments we see a lot of that converting by the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's perfect.
One last one.
Just curious on your thought -- your comments on the partial settlement.
Maybe we could -- you mentioned the no money component.
What's next? In other words what does the settlement represent with the AG? Is the principal and how you conduct business going forward and then the -- it's up to individual clients to go about suits if that's how they want to proceed? Well just to clarify a bit Glenn the settlement was with the U.S.
Attorney not the AG.
And so it was primarily around our marketing materials and so we are -- we were happy to get that behind us.
As far as the AG suits that continues to progress.
There's not much to add on that other than we think our legal defenses are very strong.
Research Division</strong> Okay so that's something that might just have on us [ph] longer tail.
Our next question is from Howard Chen with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You're protecting and growing spread income really well.
We're just hoping you could provide a bit more color with the deposit flows during the quarter given all that's going on at macro environment.
We can see a bunch of the puts and takes within noninterest-bearing and the interest-bearing deposits but we're just hoping you could elaborate a bit there.
Sure.
It -- a lot of that tends to be in our client base there's a core amount and then there's some kind of what I would call episodic amounts.
And we did see -- especially at quarter end we saw a spike.
When we saw it once again we actually saw negative repo rates at quarter end.
So the core custody and trust deposits are seeing pretty continuous growth.
And then from hedge funds and even in some instances broker-dealers we're seeing some spikes.
Those spikes have mostly worn off now in the first quarter and we're continuing at what I would call the -- what has become the new kind of core deposit base which continues to show some modest growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And at the Investor Day you outlined some actions focused on stabilizing the NIM.
Could you just update us on where we stand on those initiatives? And is it still feasible to kind of think about stabilization given the rate environment's deteriorated a bit? Yes I think it is because we are putting -- as Gerald mentioned we're putting more and more of the cash to work.
So if we -- say we move $20 billion out of the central banks where we're earning 25 basis points and we can put them into securities and secured loans at 100 to 150 basis points that can offset even the lower rate environment pretty rapidly.
So we feel okay that we can stabilize.
It's going to be hard to grow in this kind of an environment.
Actually what would grow the NIM the most is if deposits were to come off a little bit and just normalize.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And then finally for me you touched on money market fee waivers but we're hoping you could update us on your thoughts on when and what you expect to hear from the SEC on broader money market reform and how you're scenario planning for all of that.
Sure.
Maybe Curtis might would like to...
Curtis why don't you take that one? So we're expecting over the next 2 or 3 months for the SEC to come out with some proposals.
Again they've gone in the direction of either moving to a floating NAV or to having some capital buffers put in place.
There are other things that were suggested redemption fees and some other things that have been proposed.
We then think it will take 60 to 90 days of comment period and then it will go back to the SEC for a final -- any final rule changes sort of toward the second half of the year.
Obviously we're spending a lot of time thinking about where it might go impact on clients where the money might go if there are significant changes to the industry.
We do think that we may capture some of the shift inflows in other places and we also think that the impact is going to be felt by clients who have [indiscernible] about how to manage their flows as you could imagine.
The point that has been made Todd made a minute ago that was I would tell you that the fee waiver dynamic is quite large already.
And so the -- if there were a really negative impact it has already been felt in lower yields.
And so we -- today I think that our 2a-7 business is only about 4% of total investment management pretax.
So it is already -- the yield environment has already had a pretty significant impact on us.
Our next question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to touch base on the comment Todd you made earlier about termination of certain client agreements and client arrangements I guess that are falling below your risk profile.
Could you I guess elaborate on that a little bit further? And maybe give us a sense as you go through this sort of client review how many more do you think you could have and what kind of impact that could have on your revenues.
Yes sure.
I think that we've worked our way through that is the good news so I don't think we'll see any additional impact and we have some very high standards around documentation and anti money laundering and so forth.
And so if our clients aren't going to meet those standards we won't accept them as clients.
That's what that was related to.
And we did bump out a handful of clients and we felt it in the -- mostly in the fourth quarter.
And now that's built into our run rate and we're building back off of that.
And that...
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So this had really nothing to do with the pricing not -- and the margin in those clients not being in line with what sort of you're targeting for the business.
No that's not...
No.
This was not pricing related.
It was risk related.
Yes.
And Alex they were mostly small alternative managers or small broker-dealers who came to us by way of the GIS acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
Then maybe a minute on capital priorities.
So you pointed out that you guys are thinking you'll be a little bit below 7% but then you felt like you probably needed to get to 7% by the end of the year and the buyback sort of slowed down here a little bit.
Do you think that -- there's a few people out there that -- I guess that didn't want to get to higher capital level sooner.
How do you think about the pace of your capital build over the course of 2012 versus buybacks? Yes.
We actually -- we feel pretty good about it.
The -- we're a little -- we actually did a little better in the fourth quarter than we anticipated.
A couple of things went on there.
We got some meaningful paydowns and we're a little more opportunistic against some sales of our sub-investment grade securities.
So that added to the benefit of Shareowner Services and then we had -- we thought there was going to be a bit of an OCI adjustment that didn't take place.
Let me make one thing a little bit clear here though.
We were pretty tight on our leverage ratio with the substantial increase when we had a 93% increase and that was just in the free deposits but we also had a substantial increase in the rest of our deposits.
We wanted to go ahead and build that ratio off a bit during the quarter as well.
So we got the benefit of having a little pop in our Basel III Tier 1 but that's not what we were actually looking for.
So now that we've sewn that up we can go back.
We're comfortably in the 60% to 65% what I'll call capital deployment range between payouts between buybacks and dividend increases and we're also positioned to restart or complete the program that we announced last year for 2011.
The regulators do give you the -- or they don't object if you -- as long as we ask for it and we did.
They don't object that we continue to proceed against that program in the first quarter and that's what we intend to do.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just the last one for me.
Just looking at the balance sheet and the shift in earning assets this quarter it feels like there's a decent amount that came out of the interest-bearing deposits with banks primarily I guess foreign banks.
Is that just reflective of the risk appetite that you guys try to manage to given what's going on in Europe or there's something else going on? Because obviously there's a big bump in the Fed and some of that came out of the I guess foreign banks? Yes.
I think we've been defensive on risk position as well.
We don't need to leave as much short-term cash in the European banks.
We're just leaving it in a handful of the -- of what we think are the strongest and the right regions.
And that ended up building up a little bit in the central banks which we intend to put back to work as we had -- as we described earlier.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could give us a little bit more color on the issuer services results and then the outlook given the closing of the Shareholder Services just to get us an understanding of what we should expect going forward.
I mean it seemed like a month ago you were talking about a decline certainly from the pull-forward.
So I'm just wondering if you can kind of -- sorry for the long question.
Can you give us kind of the total? What was the real pull-forward in issuer in DRs? How did corporate trust act? And then remind us of what goes away with Shareholder so we can understand how the first quarter starting point it looks like.
Yes Ken.
Let's have Todd take the first -- the last part of your question then we'll ask Karen to comment about the core business.
Kind of the way we'd look at it Ken the pull-forward from the corporate actions from the third and fourth quarter what we did is we just averaged the revenues in the 2 quarters and we kind of compared that to averaging the revenues in the 2 quarters in 2010.
But if you average those in the third and fourth quarter our issuer services fees were flat sequentially.
That kind of gives you I think a good basis.
And they are down about 6% on a year-over-year basis and I think Karen can give some more color on that.
For issuer services in the aggregate.
And we're talking specifically about issuer services.
Right.
And Ken I'm sure that global debt issuance was down about 7% year-on-year.
And so the difference in corporate trust actually was issuance related and deal related but also money market fees in that category as well.
And then the Shareholder Services business was pretty soft right before we sold it as would be understandable.
So the DR business continues to be pretty strong and with that seasonality against the corporate actions happening now going forward in the third quarter versus the fourth quarter that's a change that you'll see stick for the future.
But the business itself pipeline is pretty good very large win in Brazil that'll be public soon and a pretty strong pipeline otherwise.
And we expect both DRs and corporate trust to be kind of in the 3% to 5% range revenue growth next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On a year-over-year basis? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- so can you just remind us again? So the first quarter versus this fourth quarter number just trying to understand the trajectory.
So that -- so the -- you said the run rate when it was announced Computershare put out that it was about $282 million $290 million revenue run rate.
But to -- Karen to your point that that was weaker should we presume that the run rate that comes out was lower than that? Yes.
Yes the run rate was lower kind of toward the end.
Obviously we announced the deal in April.
And as soon as you announce a deal like that as you can imagine new business pretty much dries up existing clients.
We did lose a couple of clients before the sale and I think that's all just understandable based on that news coming out in the marketplace.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the run rate is somewhere lower than the $70 million.
It could -- was it meaningfully different? I'm just trying to again understand the moving parts between the change in the DR seasonality and then the moving parts of that line going forward.
Yes.
It wasn't meaningfully different.
And from a pretax perspective that's a very low-margin business.
So it really didn't have any impact on the pretax.
Yes.
Ken I don't think you'll see any impact on pretax earnings.
You will see a bit of a reduction in the issuer services fee line obviously probably in I'd call it -- the run rate in the past couple of years has been somewhere around $200 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question just regarding expenses which were -- which looked really good and obviously started to show the benefits.
Can you talk us through just the decline in compensation that happened this quarter? How much of that is related to the beginning of the saves the prior expense save employee reductions that had already been announced versus what may have been a -- either a compensation true-up or an adjustment to the actual revenues? Yes.
Ken a couple of things.
One we did see as we expected a decline in our headcount of about 900 people in the fourth quarter.
So that obviously has some impact on our running rate on the compensation side.
Obviously our earnings were off and so that lowers compensation.
And so the combination of the 2 plus our initiatives starts to put in place a lower run rate in -- of those categories.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last final thing just on the capital front again.
You mentioned that you'd slowed the buyback this quarter.
In advance of getting the CCAR results can you use the remainder of the authorized buyback in the -- in 1Q? And do you imagine that you will? Or will you just be trying to continue to kind of build so to speak and build capital faster until you get those results? Yes.
Ken we are allowed to continue the program that was approved for the -- and the Fed did not object to last year and we plan to resume our buyback in the first quarter of this year.
Ken let me add one thing there.
We -- in a payout of 60% to 65% that puts us in a retention every quarter on average of about 25 basis points increase in our Basel III Tier 1 commons.
We think that's a pretty rapid retention rate and there's no need for us -- it's -- we are now at 7.1%.
So if we do that for the year we're at 8.1% at the end of the year we think that puts us in -- well ahead of where we need to be to meet the -- to meet our ultimate targets.
Our next question is from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> It's Rob Rutschow.
One question on the commercial loan growth.
This quarter was pretty decent.
Are you guys seeing any shift out of capital markets to non-Tier balance sheet? Yes.
The loan growth for us is principally in secured loans to our financial institution clients and it was really putting some of our excess deposits and cash to work for those clients rather than traditional loan growth that you would experience at other commercial banks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up on the deposits.
You mentioned that some of the excess deposits have come off so far this year.
Can you give us any sort of numbers or give us a sense for how much they're down so far? Sure Rob.
Probably on average about $10 billion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A couple of housekeeping items.
The 900 in headcount reduction how much of that was related to the Shareholder Services sale? None.
None.
Because it was December 31.
That was December 31 so it's -- that's not in those numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a second question.
I  think you guys had around $80 million in litigation cost last quarter.
Can you give us a similar number for this quarter? Yes.
For obvious reasons Rob we don't disclose actual litigation reserves and we -- there's no reason to give anybody an advantage there.
But they were down somewhat from what we had experienced in the third quarter and they were up pretty meaningfully from what we experienced in the fourth quarter of last year.
Our next question is from Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was curious about the deterioration in the waivers on the money market accounts.
What was the deterioration between third and fourth quarter and what it did end up turning another $0.01? Is the question why? Or -- it did hurt by another $0.01.
And the reason was that the yields in the money market funds continue to decline.
I mean Curtis you can probably give some more...
Yes.
The third quarter -- the drop to the third quarter actually was the steepest drop.
The first and second were not terrible.
The third was bad and the fourth was just a little bit worse than that just kind of a full quarterly impact of this client.
And the way to think about is all the money market funds including our own went to more cash reserves less European exposure.
That brings the yield down.
Whatever securities we're already on the yield has come down.
So with less yield available to the investor that's where the higher money market fee waivers come in.
And as we said a number of times we think we've been at the trough but there sure isn't much left.
And we shouldn't hit ourselves.
The money market fee waivers across our firm are quite significant and we are looking at other alternatives on how to offset that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then on the capital front you talked about the leverage ratio being the constraint.
In other words it wasn't the Tier 1 common ratios you were really concerned about or trying to improve.
Have you looked at -- is that the ratio we should be looking at more for the trust banks relative to the other ratios? No.
I don't think so Marty.
I think this was -- probably was -- it was kind of unusual circumstances.
We saw the very sharp spike not in risk-weighted assets but just in the balance sheet with the deposit growth in the third and also in the fourth quarter.
Now that we have built that ratio up during the quarter and the fact that it will grow on a quarterly basis as we retain 35% we don't see it any longer as a constraint.
LLC Research Division</strong> And do you see the impact in Basel I to Basel III in the sense of how you're assets can change even in the leverage ratio due to some off-balance-sheet consolidation being trading accounts or positions and derivatives and things like that? Is that something as well that we should be kind of thinking about? Is that  head or haircut you would take on that ratio as well? Right.
Actually the constraint will be Basel -- the Basel III Tier 1 common.
So that's going to be the ratio I think that you're going to really want to focus on.
We don't see leverage as a problem.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last question is the 60% to 65%.
Have you given any thought at the sense of distribution between what do you think dividends versus share repurchase? And how do you look at that going forward? Well sure.
I mean we -- with our share price below book value we certainly like buying our shares.
So we probably will lean to the -- consistent with what we've said in the past.
Right now we look for a 20% to 25% dividend payout and we'll make up the difference in share buybacks.
Our next question is from Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> A question for Tim Keaney.
Tim can you talk a little bit about your initiative to reprice the core asset servicing business basically how that's going in terms of conversations with clients whether you're seeing any attrition yet and to what extent? I guess if you can talk about it between different types of businesses the middle office versus the core custody business.
Yes Brian.
I'd say it's still very early days.
And I think as we talked about in the Investor Day we're starting with the smaller clients and we've got about 1 000 clients we're working our way through on the smaller end.
Though it's probably still too early to give a full report out to you but I'm somewhat encouraged by what we've seen.
Certainly as we reprice current clients we're doing that with the new economic realities.
So we're rebidding our business with minimum target profit margins and not being overly dependent on capital markets-related revenue.
So I think that's probably the best way to answer your question.
And when we win new business and we have been successful with that $431 billion that we did in the last quarter we're doing that with our new pricing disciplines in mind.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Right.
So the new business is coming on with a more appropriate price activity.
Is part of that new business to be converted include Bridgewater? It does.
Yes we'll be converting Bridgewater over the next 3 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you had to sort of say when you think you'll start to see sort of a material recalibration of revenues and expenses in this business do you think it's more later this year or more over a couple of years? Yes.
Brian it's a cycle.
Some of our clients are on 3-year contracts.
A small number of our clients are on 4 and 5 year.
And I just think it's going to take patience and discipline and work through that cycle and that's exactly what we're doing.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Great.
Okay.
And a question for Curtis in the Investment Management business.
On the performance side can you talk a little bit about where you think performance fees are levered to in terms of the equity markets and fixed income markets and sort of how your performance sort of dovetails with that? And I guess what I'm looking for is are new mandates coming on that are structured with large performance fee components within the mix so we can sort of get a sense going forward of how we might model that.
Yes.
We have an array of investment products that have performance fees that are linked to benchmarks either benchmarks or to absolute return goals.
And so it's hard to say if equity markets are up then performance fees are going to be up.
And they are correlated.
As you would guess we have some fixed income products as well that have performance fees but again they're really geared more to the benchmarks than they are at the absolute level of markets.
Really it's a wide array of products that drives performance fees so it's hard to correlate anything specific.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just flipping to foreign exchange trading.
Can you talk a little bit about -- obviously volatility and volumes were a weak factor for everybody this quarter.
But can you talk about the mix of standing instruction within the total core foreign exchange trading? Yes.
Brian let me pass that to Art Certosimo who runs all of our global market activities now.
Yes.
We're starting to see more volume through our negotiated channels as the FX market becomes more competitive and we continue to develop products for clients that should offset that with our ability to capture more volume.
Research Division</strong> And what is the standing instruction mix overall? Is it still close to 40%? Or is it down significantly? It's about 42%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly what was net interest revenue discount accretion for the quarter in terms of dollar amount? I think it was $94 million Brian.
It was down slightly but not much.
Our next question is from John Stilmar with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly the move from 39% international revenue composition to 34% clearly de-risking and currency can have a pretty profound impact.
But is there anything more that we should be thinking about aside from just specific concentrations in Europe much more rapidly de-risking than other parts of the world? Or is there another sort of business trend that might be underneath that move? Or is that just kind of the result of the couple of themes that we've talked about earlier? Yes.
The simple answer is the vast majority the quarter-to-quarter decline in the percentage was Depositary Receipts.
Depositary Receipts or non-U.S.-sourced revenues with the change in the seasonality and the significant swing in it you saw the decline in non-U.S.-sourced revenues.
So we think when you normalize all that it's -- there might have been a percent or so decline but not much.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And then really quickly just wondering if we can dig in a little bit more in terms of fee waivers.
And one of the discussions that was brought up earlier was potential offsets to fee waivers as you're thinking about product structure in the future.
Can you go into a little bit more detail about what some of those product structures are and how enthusiastic you are for being able to recapture that -- those fee waivers absent any macro movement in rate? Yes.
Let me start on the servicing side and then Curtis maybe you can think about a little bit on the Investment Management.
The servicing side we provide a lot of administrative services for clients to sweep their cash through us either onto our balance sheet into various liquidity options or various money market funds.
And so we may have to find a different way to structure those administrative services that we provide that have traditionally come through distribution fees.
So that's one of the things we're working on.
Pershing's a great example where they're trying to take some initiatives on their platform.
But it's -- it is a bit of a conundrum because the yields on the investments are so low how much can you keep hitting the client for no return? So it is something we're looking at.
We're trying to find structural ways and other ways to deal with it.
And on Investment Management Curtis? Yes.
No I haven't said -- listen.
Clients -- there are array of clients that use money market funds for various reasons.
Generally they want to have tremendous liquidity and get the best deals that they can.
If the rules actually change on making a floating rate NAV or with capital buffers making a difficult product I -- we think that clients are going to look for alternatives.
And we've had conversations with them about everything from ultra short duration fixed income products that would be the highest quality assets and try and maintain as much liquidity as possible.
Floating rate funds obviously are potential interesting to them because of it -- it's more stable net asset values that could be had but not necessarily completely fixed as they are today.
And clients again depending on how they use them how they use money market funds have different levels of interest in each of them.
But we think that if the changes actually do occur and everyone has to step back and think about what they're really going to do in a new environment that the people will have to shift to these products.
And of course Todd talked about our deposits.
Banks are clearly going to see some of the flows go to deposits and we think we've seen some of that.
So it's good to have the ability to offer both.
John if I could maybe Brian Shea could comment a little bit about what Pershing is trying to do.
I would just build on Curtis's  comments that the retail investors are starting to shift some of their cash management sweep vehicles from traditional money market funds to FDIC-insured bank deposit sweeps and we have a rolling array of cash management sweep options including FDIC options.
So while we had cash management growth on our platform of about 9% to 10% year-over-year we had 34% growth in FDIC-insured sweep which is where our customers -- investors are seeking slightly higher yields in the projection of FDIC  as well.
So I think what we're working on is trying to create more capacity not only internally but with other banks and working with Promontory Financial and others to get that accomplished.
Hopefully we'll see more growth in the future.
Our next question is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask how client flows and activity have been more recently.
I know you gave information for the full quarter but in the middle of December with El Toro [ph] in Europe and first couple of weeks of this year -- I know it's only 2.5 weeks in but just wanted to get a sense as to how client activity inflows have been kind of bad latter half of 4Q and then to the beginning of this quarter? Well certainly the last part of the fourth quarter was very slow and it started off the year a bit slow as well.
We're hopeful that once we get through earnings season and investors start realizing they have to put money to work for yield we'll see normal client activity but we did start off the year a bit slow.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's consistent across geographies? Yes.
And our final question today is from Gerard Cassidy from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> The question Todd on the sale of the sub-investment grade securities what is the total amount of the old Grantor Trust in sub-investment grade about? A little over -- it's probably about $3 billion -- is the book value that we have on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is there any expectation for sales this year of any of those securities? We don't feel that -- we don't feel the urgent need to sell any of them.
If we see that there is a decent bid but we don't like the particular risk profile of any security we've offered it.
And if it gets taken that's fine.
If it doesn't we'll live with it pretty much the position that we've taken.
We've actually seen an improved bid in the -- so far in the month of January but at this point we really haven't done anything.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
You mentioned that one of the real positives to the net interest margin expanding would be if the deposits started to shrink.
Is there any evidence that your customers are taking deposits off the balance sheet or just the opposite? Are they continuing to put them on? Yes.
There's -- I would say that the -- what I've mentioned Gerard there are some spikes that we see some firms some individual clients that might leave a significant amount of cash because of some kind of a transaction or something that they were doing.
So that tends to -- that has fallen off.
The underlying what I call the core component of it has been pretty stable just showing modest growth over the last 3 quarters.
We saw the big spike back in June and then it's been growing modestly thereafter.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then when we look at your loans outstanding you had a nice increase in the margin loans I believe in the quarter.
Was that existing customers taking on more loans or new customers? Where did the growth come in that area? This is Brian Shea.
It's primarily driven by growth in the foreign brokers business Pershing's Prime Services group and also a slight -- somewhat by our traditional -- the growth of our broker dealer business.
But I would say I'd give a little more credit to the Prime group as we're growing momentum in that business.
Thank you.
And thank you very much everyone for dialing in on a busy day.
And if you have other questions please follow up with Andy Clark or the rest of our Investor Relations team.
Thank you.
Thank you.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Mr.
Andy Clark at (212) 635-1803.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
[Operator Instructions]  Please note that this conference call webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Andy Clark.
Mr.
Clark you may begin.
Thanks Wendy and welcome everyone.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman President and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO as well as several members of our executive management team.
Before we begin let me remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement on Page 12 of the press release and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today April 18 2012 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
This morning's press release provides the highlights of our results.
We also have the Quarterly Earnings Review document available on our website which provides a quarterly review of the total company and individual businesses.
We will be using the Quarterly Earnings Review document to discuss our results.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Gerald.
Gerald? Thanks Andy and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
For the quarter we generated net income of $619 million and earnings per share of $0.52 which compares to $0.50 in the first quarter of last year and $0.42 in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Total revenues were up 6% sequentially.
If you exclude the Shareowner Services business that we sold right at year end 2011 on a reported basis revenue was up 3%.
Now that improvement reflected the solid sequential growth in investment management and investment services fees.
We clearly benefited from new business coming on board and improved market values.
Now we achieved that growth in spite of the fact that levels of client activity remained lower than normal.
Now as an indicator of that volumes -- indicator of the volumes the combined share volume on the New York Stock Exchange the net effect was down 17% year-over-year and 10% sequentially.
Lower volatility in the currency markets also negatively impacted our foreign exchange and investment services fee revenues.
Most of our other core investment services metrics showed positive trends.
And in investment management the key metrics we focus on are flows and investment performance.
We had our 10th consecutive quarter of positive long-term flows of $7 billion and we're pleased to see nice improvements in the performance of our U.S.
equity products.
So overall the trends remain encouraging.
While we can't control market conditions we made good progress in controlling what we can which is winning new business managing our expenses carefully and strengthening our balance sheet.
On the new business front in addition to the positive long-term flows and investment management Asset Servicing had its strongest quarter in terms of new business wins in 12 months.
I should also mention that during the quarter in Asset Servicing we were ranked #1 in our peer group in terms of service quality in both the R&amp;M and global custody surveys.
That speaks to our success of maintaining our focus on our clients as we transform the Asset Servicing business to simultaneously improve the client experience and business profitability.
In fact our quality scores rose year-over-year which is encouraging.
On the expense front we're seeing the early benefits of our operational excellence initiatives.
On an operating basis total expenses were up 4% sequentially which mostly reflected higher litigation and legal expenses and some seasonal staff expense.
On an operating basis again adjusting for the sale of Shareowner Services revenues were up 6% sequentially while expenses were up 4% producing 200 basis points of positive operating leverage.
In terms of capital we generated nearly $700 million of Basel I Tier 1 common and we delivered a strong 21% return on that increased level of equity.
We also repurchased more than 17 million shares during the quarter.
The strength of our balance sheet was borne out by the results of the latest Fed stress test which reflects the strength of our business model and the excellent quality of our balance sheet.
The results also show our continuing ability to return capital to our shareholders while maintaining our strong capital position.
As a result there was no objection to our annual capital plan which includes the continuation of our current dividend and the repurchase of up to $1.16 billion of outstanding common stock in the next 12 months.
This is consistent with a combined dividend and share buyback ratio of 60% to 65% that we have discussed at our Investor's Day.
So again nice progress in those areas that we can control.
Looking ahead we continue to believe the lower level of client activity is a cyclical issue and that our fee revenue should recover quickly as we return to normal levels of activity.
In the meantime we're focused on delivering a high-quality service and high standard of investment performance to support our revenue growth reducing our cost through operational excellence initiatives and maintaining our financial strength which is enabling us to rapidly return capital to shareholders.
So in summary it was a solid quarter and we're delivering on all of the items we laid out for you back in November at our investor conference.
So with that let me turn it over to Todd to go through the numbers.
Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
As in the past my comments will follow the Quarterly Earnings Review and let's start on Page 2.
As I take you through the results keep in mind that the first quarter of 2012 is the first quarter without our Shareowner Services business which we divested at the end of last year in fact at the end of December.
As a result many of my comments around fee revenue and noninterest expense will actually exclude the impact of Shareowner Services.
I would also note that we have adjusted some of our disclosures on those schedules to reflect this divestiture.
We had a solid quarter.
Earnings were $0.52 which is a good reflection of our core performance as we had higher litigation and legal expenses and also had the impact seasonal impact of our equity compensation programs and they were offset by an increase in securities and leasing gains.
This compares to $0.50 in the first quarter of 2011 and $0.42 in the fourth quarter.
Recall that the fourth quarter included a restructuring charge.
Highlights on a sequential basis.
Total revenue was $3.6 billion up 3%.
If you exclude Shareowner Services it was up 6%.
Investment Services fees were also up 3% and also 6% excluding Shareowner Services.
That increase was primarily due to improved market values higher volumes and net new business.
Investment management fees excluding the impact of the seasonal performance fees in the fourth quarter were up 7% driven by higher market values and net new business.
FX and other trading was down 16% due to the significantly decreased volatility in the first quarter.
Net interest revenue was off 2%.
That largely reflects a bit of a smaller balance sheet and lower accretion both of which were partially offset by increased investments in the high-quality investment securities portfolio.
The provision for credit losses was $5 million.
Noninterest expense for the quarter was down 3% on a GAAP basis but up 4% excluding amortization of intangible assets restructuring charges M&amp;I expenses and most importantly the direct expenses related to Shareowner Services.
We did a pretty good job of controlling expenses during the quarter.
The increase was primarily driven by higher litigation and legal expenses and the seasonal impact of stock awards as I'll get into in just a minute.
But first turning to Page 4 we will call out some of the business metrics that help explain how our underlying performance is going.
Here you can see that AUM increased 4% sequentially and 6% year-over-year to a new record level of $1.3 trillion with long-term inflows of $7 billion in the quarter.
It benefited from strength in fixed income and actively managed equity assets.
It was our 10th consecutive quarter of positive long-term inflows.
While the level of long-term flows is lower than in some recent quarters we saw a shift toward more active asset classes which have higher fee realization.
Assets under custody was up 3% sequentially and 4% year-over-year also to a record level of $26.6 trillion driven by net new business and higher market values.
Most of the key metrics showed solid growth on a year-over-year basis.
Loans and deposits are up.
DR programs are up modestly and most clearing and broker-dealer services metrics are up substantially.
So the fundamentals that we control remain strong.
However there continues to be softness in volumes in volatility and it has impacted our investment services business.
Looking at page -- the fees on Page 6 Asset Servicing fees were up 7% sequentially and 3% year-over-year.
That's reflecting net new business and sequentially higher domestic equity markets as well as higher lending revenue which was driven by better spreads.
We had our best new business quarter in 4 quarters with $453 billion in new AUC wins.
Over the last 12 months new assets under custody wins have now totaled $1.2 trillion with approximately $450 billion yet to be converted.
Most of those conversions we expect to occur over the next 3 months.
Issuer service fees excluding the Shareowner Services business were down -- excuse me up 2% sequentially and down 14% year-over-year.
Sequentially higher DR revenue was partially offset by lower corporate trust fees.
The year-over-year decrease resulted from lower money market fees and lower corporate trust fees.
Those lower fees are driven by weakness in structured products and we also saw a little lower DR revenue year-over-year.
Our clearing fees were up 9% sequentially and up 4% year-over-year.
The sequential increase primarily reflects higher trading volumes and growth in mutual fund assets.
The year-over-year increase was driven by net new business and growth in mutual fund assets and retirement accounts which was partially offset by lower trading volumes.
So there were lower trading volumes year-over-year but higher sequentially and there were also higher money market fee waivers on a year-over-year basis.
Turning to investment management fees.
It is important to understand the impact of the overall AUM on our level of fees.
We do have a balanced AUM mix with roughly 1/3 in equities 35% in fixed income 24% in money markets and the remainder in alternatives and overlay.
In addition we have a significant portion of assets under management that are impacted by global markets more in international markets.
Given these dynamics roughly 50% of annualized investment management fees are actually correlated to equity markets.
Of that total over 2/3 are priced on a daily or monthly basis.
The average level of market indices is important.
As noted earlier our boutique-managed assets across international emerging markets the value of the FTSE and MSCI indices are just as important as the S&amp;P 500.
Looking at the first quarter 2012 results investment management fees excluding performance fees were up 7% sequentially and down 2% year-over-year.
The sequential increase reflects the impact of net new business.
The year-over-year decrease reflects higher money market fee waivers partially offset by net new business.
Equity values benefit investment management fees sequentially.
That had little impact year-over-year and you can see this from the metrics.
The S&amp;P FTSE and MSCI indices were up sequentially both on a spot and average basis.
But year-over-year the S&amp;P increased but the FTSE 100 and MSCI indices were down both on a spot and average basis.
As we've reported in the past fee waivers continue to impact a number of our businesses and our estimated aggregate impact to EPS this quarter was about $0.06.
In FX and other trading revenue was down year-over-year and sequentially.
And when we look at the underlying components FX revenue totaled $136 million.
That's a decrease of 26% sequentially and 21% year-over-year.
Sequentially volumes were flat but volatility decreased substantially while the year-over-year decrease primarily reflects both lower volumes and volatility.
The standing instruction alternative continues to be very important to our clients.
Although we saw a decline year-over-year on the use of standing instructions as a percentage of all transactions it increased sequentially.
Other trading revenue was $55 million compared to $45 million in the fourth quarter and $25 million in the year-ago quarter.
Both increases were primarily driven by a high fixed-income trading.
Investment and other income totaled $139 million in the quarter.
That compares with $146 million in the prior quarter and $81 million in the year-ago quarter.
Sequentially it was down slightly and that's because of the $98 million pre-tax gain on the sale of Shareowner Services in the fourth quarter and that was somewhat offset by leasing and seed capital gains in the first quarter of 2012.
The leasing and seed capital gains also accounted for the year-over-year increase.
Turning to page 8 of the earnings review.
NIR was down $15 million sequentially and up $67 million versus the year ago quarter.
The sequential decrease was primarily driven by lower average client deposits a little lower accretion and that was partially offset by increased investments in our high-quality investment securities.
This is consistent with what we told you what our NII strategy was going to be during investment -- Investor Day presentation in November.
I should add that we had expected as occurred deposits to contract from the sharp rise that we saw late in -- at the end of the fourth quarter so those deposits did leave us.
The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by higher average client deposits increased investments in securities and higher loan levels partially offset by lower accretion and narrower spreads.
We would expect deposit volumes to continue to be volatile due to the uncertainty of the global financial markets and the potential for regulatory changes as we look forward.
The net interest margin was 1.32% compared with 1.27% in the fourth quarter and 1.49% in the year-ago quarter.
The sequential increase reflects increased investments in the securities portfolio and a decrease in lower-yielding interest-bearing deposits with banks.
The year-over-year decrease was primarily driven by the increasing client deposits nearly half of which were invested in liquid but very low-yielding assets.
Turning to Page 9 you can see the total noninterest expense.
And here if you exclude intangible assets restructuring M&amp;I and most importantly the direct expenses related to Shareowner Services it was up 4% sequentially and 5% year-over-year.
The biggest driver for the increase was litigation and legal expense which was up $60 million sequentially and $70 million year-over-year.
The sequential and year-over-year increase also reflect higher incentive expense due to the vesting of long-term stock awards for retirement-eligible employees as well as higher pension expense.
As Gerald noted we are beginning to realize the benefits of our operational excellence initiatives as reflected in lower business development professional and other purchase services compensation net occupancy and software and equipment expense.
Page 10 details our capital ratios.
Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was up 50 basis points to 7.6% at quarter end.
The improvement was driven by an increase in the value of our investment securities portfolio earnings retention and lower risk-weighted assets partially offset by share buybacks and dividends.
Our Basel 1 Tier 1 common equity ratio was 13.9% at year end also up 50 basis points from the end of December driven primarily by earnings retention from the approximately $680 million of Basel 1 equity generated during the quarter.
On Page 11 you can see that our investment securities portfolio continued to perform quite well.
The pre-tax net unrealized gain in our securities portfolio increased by $389 billion to $1.2 billion.
Looking now at our loan portfolio you'll see that the provision for credit losses was $5 million.
That compares with $23 million in the fourth quarter and a 0 provision in the year-ago quarter and NPAs have declined from $341 million to $331 million.
The effective tax rate of 28.7% compared with 29.3% in the year ago quarter.
So looking ahead in the second quarter we should see a seasonal increase in DRs and securities lending revenues.
NII should be relatively stable depending on the size of our client deposits.
Fee waiver should be consistent with the last couple of quarters.
The quarterly provision should be in the range of $0 million to $15 million.
We continue to be focused on driving the expense savings through our operational excellence initiatives that we've laid out with you.
We also expect to continue repurchasing shares in the second quarter.
And as always the time will depend on market conditions.
The tax rate in the second quarter of 2012 should also be approximately 29%.
So with that let me turn it back to Gerald.
Thanks Todd.
And I think we can now open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Gerald I was hoping you could update us on the pricing dynamics and how those dialogues with clients are going and I guess when we could see a little bit more of a tangible result on the servicing pricing? Sure Alex thanks.
I'll start and then if Tim Keaney wants to jump in.
We're still in the very early stages of it.
I think as we laid out for you in last November we're beginning with the smaller clients.
We're working through that process.
On a net basis we're positive but it's a long drawn-out process.
We want to make sure we're handling it the right way and we're getting good information from the clients on how they react to it and -- but on a general basis it's been net positive and we're off to a good start.
Tim do you want to add anything? Sure Joe.
Yes as you mentioned we're starting at the smaller client range.
We've identified a universe of about 700 clients to go after first.
We're about 50% through that process.
We hope to be done to the entire universe in June.
We've had about a 70% success rate keeping clients at an increased rate.
And I'm also encouraged that we've had about 9 larger clients so clients that pay us over $0.5 million a year or more that have come up for review we've retained 9 out of 9 with an increase in fees.
So it's still early days.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's very helpful detail.
And then just a follow-up on FX.
I mean it feels like the sequential decline was a little bit larger relative to some of your peers JPMorgan down 11 State Street flattish Northern down 15 or so.
So it feels like everybody was operating in a similar environment.
Volumes were flattish.
Volatility came down a lot.
So something -- is there something else going on why your results are down more than 20 sequentially? Or is it just a -- or is it just a mix of business the volatility incurrences that you are more active in was sequentially weaker? Yes Alex it's Todd.
I would say it's consistent with what we have seen in the past.
So the volatility impact was very direct so the same percentage that we saw.
The decline in volatility that would have impacted our earnings reflected right through to our numbers.
The level of standing instruction actually rose a bit in the first quarter.
But we saw on a sequential basis volumes total volumes were absolutely flat.
I don't know Tim if you have anything to add to that.
No I would just say Todd looking forward we see a huge opportunity to increase the percentage of volumes that should naturally be coming to us as custodian and asset servicer and we're razor-focused on launching some new products to collect that volume.
We're pleased with the launch of our Defined Spread program which we launched in February.
We've gotten around to about just about all the clients.
Kind of it's very good news.
About a little over half of the clients have decided to stay in our current range-a-day [ph] program.
And about 40% or so have signed up for the new Defined Spread program.
So we're watching very carefully.
The key mission for us is to increase the volumes.
And we're focused on launching the new products and we'll be watching that quite carefully.
Our next question is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One on expenses.
Could you quantify how much the cost save program impacted this quarter? And then as you're talking about the next quarter outlook could you give us a sense as to how it's likely to trend given that you usually have a step-up in salary in 2Q? Sure Betsy.
The -- it's hard to decipher exactly how much the cost save program has benefited to tease it out in its entirety.
We are seeing some significant benefits on the technology front.
And the best ratio that we provide I think that will help you look at this is if you look at our investor -- Investment Services revenues relative to the related expenses they did move from -- revenues are now 94% of expenses versus 90% in the fourth quarter.
So it looks to me like there's a 100 basis points or so would be my best guess for what we're getting out of that.
And then there was the follow-up the follow-up question was on the merit increase? Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes I think seasonally you're not going to see quite as much impact because...
In the second quarter.
It will show up in the third.
Yes it's going to show up in the third quarter.
We're going to delay the increase until July 1.
And there's also -- I want to bring to your attention that the accelerated of our -- acceleration of our equity programs there's a seasonal impact to that.
So as employees near retirement age we recognize 100% of that expense in the period that it's granted.
So that had a quite a big impact probably at least a $30 million delta to what we would see in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then separately gross margins in your business and the Asset Servicing business obviously improved which is different from what we've seen from other folks.
Could you kind of speak to what you're doing there to drive that kind of result? And obviously you've had the repricing but you mentioned it's early days.
So there must be something else going on there.
I think Betsy it's really a function of good expense management.
And Tim can talk to it a little bit more but last fall we started -- not started but we really focused in on reducing the expense base and the employee base to better match the revenue growth that we were experiencing.
And so I think those programs have kicked in and it's really been principally on the expense side controlling that as new revenues are coming on board and so that's allowed for the margin to expand.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But even your gross margins have extended as well if I'm just looking at fees over AUC.
I'm sorry can you repeat it? Research Division</strong> Even gross margins have expanded recently if I'm looking at fees over AUC.
Yes higher margins.
Yes if you notice that our assets under custody are up about 3% sequentially.
And I think you'll see out that our revenues are up about 6% sequentially in Asset Servicing.
So Tim you might want to comment on that.
Yes Betsy it's really a mix point.
We've been talking about this now a few quarters in a row.
We've been winning a lot of new business in middle-office outsourcing and transfer agency which really aren't geared to AUC.
I think you see the opposite kind of playing through in the year-on-year results but it's definitely a business mix point that you're -- you have raised.
Our next question is from Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just to follow up on that briefly I think you said that something like $30 million in the comp was from the upfront expensing of the equity awards.
If all told how much of the comp expense was seasonal? Yes I would say that's about what the seasonality was.
I think that's -- it kind of nets out to about that number Cynthia.
Research Division</strong> Nothing beyond that okay.
And you mentioned also that you expect stable NII.
Depending on -- or NIM depending on deposits.
So what kind of trend are you seeing so far this quarter? And what do you regard as sort of a normalized rate or normalized level? Yes okay I think normalized in this abnormal environment is about where we are.
So in a 0-rate environment it feels like about 130 to 135 type of range is what we could squeeze out of the NIM.
But there are a lot of factors that will impact that because if we see a shot one way or the other we could see balances grow.
But if we don't see any meaningful change in behavior or any meaningful change in interest rates our balance sheet seems to be behaving pretty stable at about this level which is about where we closed to the third quarter -- it's about where we closed to the first quarter I'm sorry.
About $300 billion is the -- probably the average balance sheet size.
The fourth quarter we saw the spike in deposits when everyone was bleeding cash with us and that's more normalized.
So the $300 billion range in the net interest margin and this 130 to 140 is probably about right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly maybe on the issuer services post the sale of Shareowner Service -- the Shareowner business.
Is that kind of a good run rate at this point? Yes that line is now issuer services.
It's just 2 of our underlying business.
It's Corporate Trust and DRs.
And Karen Peetz the head of that business is with us.
Karen any comments there? Yes I mean about half of the decline on the first quarter was corporate trust.
About half was DRs.
Corporate trust has to do with the markets and the global debt markets were flat for the quarter and the U.S.
market though showed some improvement.
It was up about 2%.
And we also had 12 CLOs for the first quarter.
So that was very encouraging.
So in that business we are very much looking to decrease expenses and manage risk.
And in the DR business of course that's emerging-market-related and it's also impacted by our corporate actions.
So there's just a little less corporate action there.
So the...
Yes and global M&amp;A is down.
Cynthia I'd say the DR business is pretty volatile because it's episodic with corporate actions and so that's a little harder for us to forecast.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And sounds like overall maybe cyclically depressed still a little bit.
So could bounce back but as you say volatile.
It is.
I mean it's -- and it's a reflection of activity that's going on primarily in the emerging markets.
Corporate trust is a reflection of what's going on in the debt issuance.
And with the lack of a structured debt market it's a little more challenging.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Casey filling in for Ken.
Just a question I guess following up on the NII outlook.
How much -- with the understanding that the balance sheet is probably at a right size how much of the NIM improvement was due to just the excess liquidity drag coming off versus a slightly more aggressive investment strategy? I'd say it's about half and half Casey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then within expenses -- and there's a couple of specials within -- on the fee side the investment income obviously was pretty high.
And then on the expense side of things the other line was pretty high -- due to the litigation expense.
What do you see as kind of a good run rate going forward for these lines? I think lower for both hopefully.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on capital.
The $1.16 billion for CCARs are you looking to do that pretty ratably throughout the year? And then if you could share any thoughts as to why no dividend hike.
I'll take the -- when we submitted the CCAR you do submit it on a quarterly basis and our plan is to do it ratably throughout the course of the year and actually over the following 4 quarters because now it does really stem into the first quarter of next year so it's a continuous 4 quarters.
In terms of the dividend hike I mean we had indicated at November that we'd be in the 20% to 25% range as a payout.
And I think we're -- given where consensus is we're falling into that range.
I don't know Gerald if you have anything to add.
Yes just a couple of quick comments on that.
I think we were as we are -- we tend to be relatively conservative in our approach to capital plan.
When we submitted the plan we did not want to break any ratios even under a stressed environment.
We also wanted to maintain that 20% to 25% payout for dividend and 60% to 65% payout in total including buybacks.
We were well within that -- within those numbers even in a stress scenario.
And I think it just shows the resiliency of our business model and the flexibility we have going forward.
So time will tell on what we'll do beyond what the plan is today.
Our next question is from Howard Chen with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on that fairly large buyback approval you have.
Assuming just no more frictional deposit roll-off when does leverage become a potential constraint again as we saw a little bit when the market was choppier at the end of the year? Yes we're up to a 560 leverage ratio.
So we're pretty comfortable with where we are right now.
We can actually take on quite a significant increase in deposits.
And so we build I mean as you can see we're building even with this type of activity.
So we bought back a lot in the first quarter and paid our dividend.
We continue to build both tier -- Basel I and Basel III capital.
So we think that's much -- going to be much much less of a constraint for us on a go-forward.
Research Division</strong> And given the world's just fragile Todd I mean what is that kind of like leverage constraint or target that we should be thinking about in the back of our minds...
I'd like to see us keep it above 5.25 or so.
We have gotten as low as 5 5.2 5.10 something like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then another one on the numbers.
Apologies if I missed this in your remarks.
But leasing and seed capital gains were elevated again.
I know that's probably the core business.
But could you just provide some more detail on all of that and maybe your outlook for the sustainability of that going forward? Yes.
In the other income line you can see we've had some volatility that's probably been in the $60 million to $150 million type of range depending on some of the one-off items like seed capital the sale of Shareowners Services the -- and we do from time to time as we're winding down our lease portfolio sell off some of those leases at a gain.
I think the normalized what's the normal in that line item?  It's probably in the $80 million to $100 million range.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just final one for me.
As the statute of limitations is ending here it appears we're seeing some more mortgage-related lawsuits for the industry targeted at more the trustee rather than the originator.
Gerald I know you've made some fairly strong statements on all of this at the Investor Day.
But I'm just curious if you had any evolved thoughts on that and how you all are preparing for some of this that's coming down the industry pipeline.
Yes no we continue to feel very good about our position as trustee as these cases have been going through the process.
As you may have seen we got a favorable ruling here in the state of New York around the BofA settlement.
I think it endorsed again our role as trustee and the limitations of our liabilities.
So we still feel quite good about our position as trustee in these situations.
Our next question is from John Stilmar with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question for you.
Obviously deposit outflows have been persistent across the space.
I was wondering given your vantage point have you any sense as to where those flows are moving back into? I mean obviously we've seen some volumes trying to move into equities and there's a general re-risking theme.
But are most flows moving back into 2a-7 funds? Or where does this capital that's been sloshing around the system that's sitting on your balance sheet where does it kind of ending up today?   I'd say generally it is a re-risking theme John.
Let me turn this one over to Curtis Arledge our Head of Asset Management.
Curtis? Yes we've definitely seen flows out of those deposits and money funds generally moving back into re-risking.
Flows have been into international equity markets and bond markets.
So there's definitely been a theme of investors who are re-risking being more diversified in their approach.
It's hard to know exactly where deposit flows and money flows go.
But from AUM flows there is some re-risking going on.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then given the fact that you have your strong position with your clients and the balance sheet there's always a debate about whether the custodians have the ability to potentially cross-sell their asset management business to some of those deposit bases.
How would you say your ability to retain those deposit outflows from the balance sheet back into sort of some of your Bank of New York asset management businesses? Can you talk about where those funds might have been recaptured and that as a potential opportunity to grow the asset management AUM or prepay AUM? Yes I mean we obviously have clients that have relationships across many of our asset management boutiques.
And when they have a relationship with us and they also use our money funds or our deposits to hold cash we're always talking to them about their holistic needs whether they are positioned well against their liabilities do they have the appropriate amount of diversification again around their global portfolios.
And I'd say we're actually making real progress.
It's one of -- I'd say it's one of the biggest opportunities for us as a company is to continue to mine the holistic relationship.
Clients can hold cash with us.
They can also invest across a wide array of equity and fixed-income products.
We're going to be announcing later this week a new head of our client distribution function really to continue to work very closely with the investment services team around broad relationships and so I think it's a really big opportunity for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Would you say that the progress now is better than it was maybe a year ago in terms of being able to capture that [indiscernible]? Yes absolutely yes.
Yes John I'd just add on to that.
I'm quite encouraged with how the teams are collaborating across the businesses and really focusing on the client and the client needs and whether it's investment management providing products for those who are looking to invest their monies or a variety of different other services that we offer to our clients.
I just think we're really working much better together across our businesses and at the seams of our business is to provide solutions to our clients.
Our next question is with Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Todd you were talking about the excess deposit trends and potential impact of regulatory changes on that.
Could you just elaborate a little bit more? And also the non-interest-bearing deposits obviously declined a lot on a period-end basis.
Do you think that's sort of just noise? Or is that indicative of a substantial downward direction into the second quarter? Sure Brian.
Why don't I start with the last question.
I think the period-end point was really a spike and it was a spike in the fourth quarter and that was mostly noise.
I think there was a little bit of a move into risky assets as we just discussed.
In terms of the -- looking out I mean there are a couple of things to look at that could have different impacts I would say on the deposit base.
One would be if there is a significant -- if the rating agencies significantly downgrade other financial institutions we may see more deposits directed here.
Another item is what I mentioned regulatory reform both money market reform and for that matter FDIC insurance.
So depending on what happens whether there's an extension of the significant FDIC insurance that exists today that could be -- could go either way for us since we're so -- since we have such a strong balance sheet we could end up seeing more deposits or you could see the deposits moving elsewhere into some other lower-risk type of assets such as treasuries.
In terms of money market reform you could -- depending on how significant it was obviously that will take some time.
You could see a move out of money markets into the deposit base.
So there's a lot of uncertainty and variables that -- which is what I was alluding to there.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the money fund reform you wouldn't see any impact in that to at least 2013 I would think.
Is that what you're understanding also? Yes.
Curtis you might be in a better position to answer that.
Yes no I think that we -- 6 months ago I would have thought that there might have been something in place by the end of the year.
As all of you have read the SEC proposals or suggested proposals they're still I think discussing with themselves exactly what they're going to put out.
So I do think it's going to be more of a 2013 implementation here.
Obviously there are other regulators besides the SEC that are focused on this.
So we do think that something is forthcoming.
But I think the industry has definitely helped the regulators understand the dynamics of floating NAV the challenges that that would create both operationally and really limit the convenience of the product.
And so there's a lot of active dialogue going on as you well know but I think it will take the rest of this year really to figure it out.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then a question for Tim on the -- on Asset Servicing.
Obviously the growth's pretty good at 6.5% linked-quarter.
Can you describe what contribution came from broker-dealer services in terms of the growth? Or was that mostly really driven by the mix shift that you alluded to as converted over the middle office? And then the new business that you are still bringing on this the $400-plus billion still yet to be converted how should we think of that from a revenue capture rate relative to your overall capture? Yes Brian I would say overall broker-dealer services was a small portion of the story.
I think it's absolutely a net new business and flow story.
I think Todd might have mentioned the $450 billion still to convert.
We converted just over $300 billion in the last quarter.
We expect to convert what hasn't been converted in the next 3 months and it's an excellent mix of business.
It's good solid core fee business in middle office outsourcing custody and transfer agency.
And I think as we've talked about before that's really sticky business.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And the 70% success rate that you mentioned.
Can you just define exactly what that is? Is that 70% retention or success relative to your objective? Yes the 70% of the clients have agreed to the repricing Brian.
And of the clients that haven't yet that doesn't mean they won't.
A very small majority a very small number of the clients pardon me that have said they're leaving us actually haven't told us whether or not they found a custodian to take the business.
So it's 70% have accepted our new pricing.
And as I mentioned we're only halfway through that 700-client base.
So it's still early days.
And I'm just reminded to say it's a very different story at the high end of the business.
So the largest clients that are multiproduct that are in the securities lending and foreign exchange program it's still very very price-competitive.
Research Division</strong> Great okay.
That's very helpful.
And just a couple of housekeeping ones.
The level of discount accretion on interest revenue in the quarter and also the money fund fee waivers on pre-tax income? Yes the accretion was down a bit to about $80 million on the quarter and that's probably about where it should run for the next few quarters.
And the fee waivers were just about flat with the fourth quarter maybe slightly improved.
And that's costing us somewhere between $0.05 and $0.06.
It's kind of in the middle of that Brian.
Research Division</strong> Is that $70 million about approximately? It's actually a little bit higher than that.
Research Division</strong> Closer to $90 million? Yes.
Closer to $90 Brian.
$90 is [indiscernible].
Our next question is from Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Can we go back to asset management just for a sec and talk about what products are just bringing in the money? You noted the last -- what 10 quarters in a row of positive long-term flows.
It seems pretty consistent.
Can you just talk about what the greatest asset gatherers are? Yes.
And actually I think it's really important to understand the composition of the flows because -- too often I think we use AUM as a blunt instrument to describe what's going on.
If you go back to a year ago first quarter of 2011 a lot of the flows were very much index-oriented and fixed-income- sort of low-fee-oriented.
So we actually had a $31 billion positive flow a year ago and it generated about $26 million in net annual revenues.
The flows have definitely shifted more toward active mandates again with an international flavor.
Both international stock and international bond flows have been favorable.
And then within bond flows we've seen more of a move to emerging market debt.
That's true for us.
I think those trends are generally true for the industry.
We are well-positioned.
We have good performance good investment teams in those categories.
So the flow numbers are not necessarily as big.
The $7 billion of long-term flows this quarter actually generated more net annual revenues.
So I really do think it's important to understand both the AUM and the net revenue composition of the flows.
And again I think it's too early to say that people are re-risking aggressively but there absolutely is a shift away from more passively conservative-oriented products to investors thinking that at least some of the chaos and volatility is behind them and they are putting money back to work maybe to eventually earn a return and in a low-rate low-return environment they are deploying more capital.
And I'd say Glenn just add to it.
Again the beauty of our business model is we have a whole series of boutiques with a variety of different investment strategies.
And so as people shift their thought process to different types of asset classes we're able to capture those flows and internalize it.
One of the -- maybe one other point I would make is that there definitely is also a trend away from investors buying products and they are definitely looking more for solutions.
The types of investment offerings that we have that appeal to them really are in the absolute-return asset-allocation real-return categories.
So I mean the balance fund of old is in many ways making a comeback as investors really are spending more time looking at their liabilities and trying to find a solution that is well-matched to it.
And again we have a number of investment offerings there.
I'd actually say it also fits BNY Mellon well as a firm.
The clients are trying to figure out what is my overall solution? They're actually asking who understands my overall needs? And when you have a large institution where you are both their asset servicer and manage a lot of their assets you tend to be one of those people who really does have a holistic perspective on the entire client issue.
Research Division</strong> All right I appreciate that.
The $60 million increase in litigation cost.
Is there any allocation you can give us towards what that's for? I know Howard pointed out some of the ongoing mortgage issues but you also have that STARS case picking up steam.
Yes there's -- no Glenn we really -- I don't think it would be in our interest to disclose which items any of the provisions are related to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on that front my gut it's the same answer but have you given us a number on what your total litigation reserve is right now? No we have not.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just making sure on the STARS tax case there's no reserve against that correct? No we have not indicated what our provisions are.
But we do give a very clear indication with what the potential risk to us is on STARS.
By the way that trial just began this week and we continue to believe we've got a very strong tax position there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one the jump-up -- this is not a this-quarter issue but just more making sure.
The jump-up from Basel I risk-weighted assets to Basel III it's bigger for you guys than a lot of other companies.
Is that just the low-rated securities in the investment portfolio that eventually run off? Yes it's really -- there's 2 contributors there.
We have a little higher operational risk I would think than average.
But by far the largest contributor is the treatment of the sub-investment-grade securities portfolio and that portfolio was almost $4 billion.
It's attracting about the equivalent of $50 billion of risk-weighted assets.
So that's burning off a few billion dollars of risk-weighted assets a quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And obviously that's incorporated into the capital plan CCAR process? Yes.
That's correct.
Our next question is from Andrew Marquardt with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Back to the margin.
Can you just remind me apologies if I missed it the amount of excess deposits that you guys are thinking about that are still sitting on your balance sheet? How do we think about that potentially in a more normalized environment? Well again I think we are in a more normalized balance sheet environment.
We have to remind you all that right at year end last year we had a significant spike in deposits as everyone was in a risk-off mode.
We probably had $20 billion to $30 billion of "excess deposits" right at year end.
That has more normalized and burned off so to speak and we're running at an average balance sheet in the $300 billion range and that feels about normal for us given our client activities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you had mentioned that the discount accretion this quarter was about $80 million and that should hold for the next couple of quarters.
After that will that trend lower? Or how do we think about that? Yes the -- that's probably got about a -- it will slowly trend lower as you see prepayments in that portfolio.
So you can pretty much just look at it as a yield adjustment on a portfolio at a little -- that's now a little over $3 billion and that's probably amortizing at about 20% per annum.
So you can just look at it that way Andrew.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then you had mentioned the normalized margin in an abnormal environment is now 130 135.
Remind us the normalized -- in a normalized environment should that still be in the 160 180 that you had mentioned at your Analyst Day? I think it would be Andrew.
That's our best guess.
There's probably still some deposits here some free deposits that are here because of this "extremely low interest rate" environment.
That if we do go into a normal environment of a "couple of hundred basis point" Fed funds rate we'd see a little smaller balance sheet but we'd see a heck of a lot higher yield on it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And does that include or exclude the discount accretion benefit? You can -- it would -- basically before I think we're going to see that environment that discount accretion is going to have burned off.
So I think we can pretty much the -- what we tried to point out in November is we're adding -- we're putting some assets to work at enough yield to offset the discount accretion burn-off.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then just lastly in terms of the expense initiative that's gaining traction how do we think about the ability to achieve positive operating leverage this year in still what is still a tough revenue environment? Is it possible to get positive operating leverage with that new initiative in this environment? It certainly is our goal.
And just as we laid out for you in our Investor Day in November even in a slow-growth environment with the kicking-in of our initiatives we expect to produce positive operating leverage over the course of the year.
Our next question is from Greg Ketron with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One on -- in general you've touched on this a couple of times this morning but pricing overall.
As you have built a very nice pipeline we've heard a couple of people talk about looking at pricing and trying to improve the pricing that exists out in the marketplace.
Are you seeing any better pricing as you move forward on bidding on contracts? I'll take this real quick and then we can turn it over.
The -- of our businesses the one that's getting the most attention in regard to pricing is Asset Servicing.
We're not seeing a lot of pricing pressure or noise elsewhere.
So for us our Asset Servicing business is 25% to 30% of our business.
And I think that's gotten the most volume on this topic.
So Tim you want to address it further? Sure Todd I think I just -- maybe at the risk of repeating myself a little bit.
I think on the very largest end of the market the very large clients by asset terms that are looking to leverage a number of our products and services including securities lending and foreign exchange it's just still really competitive.
But for us it's about trying to do more business with those firms given the range of products and services that we have.
I have seen a bit more pricing pressure when you get to smaller clients and unbundled clients.
So I think that's probably the best way to characterize it at this point.
And if there's an area where there might be still a little bit of pricing and rationality I would say it's just generally in the public fund sector.
And as we've said before we're just staying incredibly disciplined making sure that every client no matter what size it is is hitting our minimum profit thresholds.
And if that means we lose a couple of clients we lose a couple of clients.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then if we can get an update on the asset sensitivity.
You had mentioned the fee waivers have reached maybe close to $90 million a quarter.
Yes the -- it is a little higher than we had indicated in the past.
What we had indicated historically for the past number of quarters here is that 100-basis-point immediate shift in short-term interest rates would have something like a $500 million pre-tax income impact to us assuming there wasn't a significant change in our client behavior.
That number is probably a little higher now.
It's probably over $600 million.
Research Division</strong> Over $600 million up 100 basis points? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And would that just be the revenue impact? Or would that include also any related expenses like comp on the higher revenue? Greg that includes our best guess at related expenses.
That's pre-tax.
Our final question today is from Jeff Hearte with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> On the FX a theme we have been hearing from kind of bank FX trading operations has been a lot of margin compression in developed markets but things going a little better in the emerging markets.
Can you talk a bit about to what extent your franchise touches the emerging markets versus being very developed-market-centric in FX trading? Yes we provide FX services across all the markets the developed and emerging to a pretty broad-based client base.
And therefore we do trade and provide capabilities across all the markets.
And I think that's one of the reasons why when we describe a decline in volatility why it impacts us the way it does.
And as Tim mentioned earlier we're continuing to address the market demands and provide services that meet their needs.
And it's not surprising with a low-growth environment for everyone across the board and slow economies that this kind of activity is viewed very very competitively.
So our job is to try to capture as much volume that touches us as humanly possible and to be sensitive to client demands.
Yes Jeff we cover over 100 markets so our revenues are very client-focused.
So it depends on our -- what the business activity our clients is and that's what's driving our revenues.
But we do cover just about every conceivable market.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And to the extent you cover non- say developed markets is that a function of where client assets are? I mean the FX is theoretically largely tied to asset under -- your asset under custody clients.
That's exactly right.
Well thank you very much everyone for joining us this morning.
If you have any further questions please give Andy Clark or [indiscernible] a call.
And we appreciate you dialing in.
Have a good morning.
Thank you.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Mr.
Andy Clark at (212) 635-1803.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the second quarter 2012 earnings conference call hosted by BNY Mellon.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference call webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Andy Clark.
Mr.
Clark you may begin.
Thanks Wendy and welcome everyone.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO as well as several members of our executive management team.
Before we begin let me remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement on Page 14 of the press release and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today July 18 2012 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
Our press release and earnings review are available on our website and we will be using the earnings review to discuss our results.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Gerald.
Gerald? Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining us.
As you saw from our release the second quarter we generated net income of $466 million and earnings per share of $0.39.
Now of course this includes our previously announced litigation charge of $0.18 per share.
After netting out a few items we look at our core earnings at about $0.53 per share and Todd will walk you through how we get there.
Now that compares to $0.59 in the second quarter of last year and $0.52 per share in the first quarter of this year.
We achieved another quarter of positive growth in Investment Management and Investment Services fees a clear sign of the strength of our business model.
The impact of new business helped drive our fee growth.
In Investment Management we had $26 billion in long-term inflows.
Now that's the 11th consecutive quarter of positive long-term flows in our Investment Management segment.
And we also are pleased to report that during the quarter the pensions and investment publication published an annual survey that ranked us #1 for providing liability-driven solutions to our Insight boutique.
In Asset Servicing that new business helped drive assets under custody a record level of more than $27 trillion.
Also like asset management the quality of our Asset Servicing capabilities continues to be recognized by third parties and is clearly helping us win business.
During the quarter we received 17 #1 category rankings among our peer group of the world's largest global custodians in the Global Investor survey publication.
That follows top rankings last quarter among peers in the 2 other major surveys.
So we grew fees during the quarter in both major business segments when key equity indices were actually down and there was lower volatility in the currency markets.
Turning to the expense front.
On an operating basis total expenses were up 1% sequentially after adjusting for M&amp;I litigation and restructuring charges.
And we're actually down 1% year-over-year.
We're continuing to make good progress on our operational excellence initiatives.
In addition during the quarter we announced 2 leadership appointments that are intended to further develop those efforts.
We've promoted Suresh Kumar the role of Chief Information Officer.
Suresh is very skilled at driving efficiency creating innovative client-centric solutions and simplifying our IT structure.
Just as information he spent much of his career as the CIO of Pershing.
And of course Pershing has some of the leading technology in that space.
We also created the role of the Chief Operations Officer which we filled with a gentleman named Ed Watson who we brought in from the outside.
And Ed has vast experience in the financial services industry.
He'll help lead the effort to rationalize and optimize our core operations across the company.
And it's good that Ed's going to bring a fresh eye from the outside.
In terms of capital we ended the quarter with our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common up over 100 basis points at 8.7% reflecting the impact of the new notices of proposed rulemaking as well as our positive performance and our slightly larger balance sheet.
We generated $527 million of growth Basel I Tier 1 common.
And we delivered a 15.7% return on tangible common equity even after the litigation charge.
And we also purchased more than 12 million shares during the quarter.
Our strengthened capital position provides us greater flexibility for ongoing investment while continuing to return capital to our shareholders.
Now also during the quarter we made some significant progress in aligning our businesses to further leverage the breadth of our capabilities.
We formed a new unit called global Collateral Services which will help us better serve the rapidly growing market for collateral management.
Now this is an area we're quite excited about as the need to post segregate and optimize collaterals across all market participants continues to grow.
And we are extremely well positioned to serve all of them help them manage their risk and reduce their capital costs.
And we also made some meaningful progress in navigating the litigation environment by putting some major litigation behind us with no significant impact to our capital.
In summary we're growing fees in our core businesses continuing to strengthen our balance sheet and making progress in those areas that our investors are focused on including investing in new areas to generate organic growth and of course being very disciplined in managing our expense base.
With that let me turn it over to Todd to take you through the numbers.
Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the quarterly earnings review beginning on Page 2.
Reported earnings per share $0.39.
This includes the $0.18 for the litigation charge that we announced last week.
It also includes a total benefit of approximately $0.04 related to securities gains.
We had a slightly lower tax rate and we also had a negative loan loss provision for the quarter.
The way we look at our core earnings therefore it nets to about $0.53 for the quarter.
On a sequential basis total revenue is $3.6 billion.
That's down 1% while fee and other revenue was unchanged.
Investment Services fees Investment Management and performance fees and FX were all up.
They were offset by declines in NIR and investment and other income.
If you exclude the volatile category of investment and other income our core fees were up 3% for the quarter.
And we're continuing to hold the line on core expenses.
Now let's turn to Page 4 where we'll call out some of the business metrics that help explain our underlying performance.
On Page 4 you can see that our assets under management of $1.3 trillion was down slightly sequentially.
And that reflects the lower equity market values that we saw on the second quarter.
Those lower market values were offset partially by inflows and they're up 2% year-over-year as asset inflows were offset also by lower equity market values.
We had long-term inflows for the quarter of $26 billion and it benefited from the strength on our fixed income and equity index product.
It was our 11th consecutive quarter of positive long-term inflows.
Assets under custody and administration was up 2% sequentially to a new record of $27.1 trillion driven by net new business but also offset by slightly lower equity market values.
Assets under custody's up 3% on a year-over-year basis.
A number of our other key metrics showed growth on a year-over-year basis.
Loans and deposits are up significantly.
DR programs are up slightly and collateral management balances grew nicely a trend we are well positioned to further leverage with our recently formed Global Collateral Services group.
Now except for those that are volume related all of our clearing metrics also improved sequentially.
Moving onto fees on Page 6.
Asset Servicing fees were up 1% sequentially as the impact of net new business and seasonally higher securities lending revenues was partially offset by lower equity market values.
Asset Servicing fees were down 2% year-over-year primarily reflecting lower equity market values and securities lending revenue partially offset by new business.
We had $314 billion in new AUC wins.
Over the last 12 months new AUC wins have now totaled nearly $1.3 trillion and there's still about $400 billion scheduled to be converted between now and year end.
Issuer Services fees and we're excluding the Shareowner Services business that we sold last year were up 10% sequentially and down 12% year-over-year.
The sequential increase resulted from higher DR revenue.
The year-over-year decrease resulted from lower DR revenue as well as lower money market-related fees and lower trust fees related to the weakness in the structured products in Corporate Trust.
Clearing fees were up 2% sequentially and up 6% year-over-year.
The sequential increase was primarily due to higher mutual fund fees and that's partially offset by the impact of lower DARTS volumes.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects higher mutual fund fees partially offset by the impact of lower DARTS volume and higher money market fee waivers.
Turning to investment management fees where we performed very well especially considering the weakness in the equity markets.
As a reminder roughly 50% of our Investment Management fees are correlated to global equity markets.
Investment Management and performance fees were up 7% sequentially and up 2% year-over-year.
Both increases reflect higher performance fees.
If you exclude the performance fees the underlying investment management fees were up 2% sequentially and down 2% year-over-year.
Sequentially the increase is due to net new business and higher money market fees which were partially offset by lower equity market values.
The year-over-year decrease was due to lower equity market values offset somewhat by net new business.
In FX and other trading revenue was down sequentially.
It was down 6% sequentially and it was down 19% year-over-year.
If you look at the underlying components your FX revenue totaled $157 million.
That's up 15% sequentially but down 15% year-over-year.
The sequential increase resulted from higher volumes while the year-over-year decrease reflects significantly lower volatility.
Other trading revenue was $23 million compared to $55 million in the first quarter and $38 million in the year ago quarter.
Both decreases were driven by lower fixed-income trading reflective of market conditions in the second quarter.
You will note that we have provided a new table on our earnings review that details investment and other income.
As you can see the line item has a fair amount of variability.
Investment and other income totaled $48 million in the quarter compared with $139 million in the prior quarter and $145 million in the year ago quarter.
Sequentially the decline resulted from lower leasing gains seed capital gains and equity investment income.
The year-over-year decrease primarily resulted from lower asset-related gains and lower equity investment income.
As we've indicated in the past we expect investment and other income to be volatile but to average approximately $80 million to $100 million per quarter.
Turning to Page 8 of the earnings review.
NIR was down $29 million sequentially and up $10 million versus the first quarter and that's on a tax-equivalent basis.
NIR in the quarter was adversely impacted by narrower spreads and lower accretion.
Frankly it's a little lower than we've anticipated as it has taken us longer than expected to put our deposits to work in securities and secured loans.
The year-over-year increase in net interest revenue was primarily driven by higher average client deposits increased investment and high-quality investment securities and higher loan levels offset partially by narrower spreads and lower accretion.
The net interest margin was 125 compared to 132 in the first quarter and 141 in the year ago quarter.
The sequential decrease reflects narrower spreads and lower accretion.
The year-over-year decrease was driven primarily by the significant increase in client deposits which were invested in lower-yielding assets reflecting current market environment.
If you turn to Page 9 you can see that total noninterest expense excluding the intangible -- amortization of intangible assets M&amp;I litigation and restructuring charges were up slightly sequentially.
And that's primarily reflecting the cost of certain tax credits higher business development expenses as well as the deposit levy imposed on our Belgian bank subsidiary.
All of that was mostly offset by lower staff expenses.
Despite the headwinds I just mentioned expenses were down 1% year-over-year on an operating basis reflecting the impact of our operational excellence initiatives.
On Page 10 we've broken out the progress we've made on those initiatives since the program began in the fourth quarter of 2011.
On a gross basis our benefits have resulted in $95 million -- $94 million in quarterly run rate savings and we have had incremental program cost totaling $23 million for net savings in the quarter of $71 million.
The bulk of the savings $55 million was related to integrating and consolidating our business operations and also leveraging our global delivery centers.
On the technology front we've started the process of simplifying our infrastructure and eliminating a number of servers as well as rationalizing applications and actually insourcing software engineers.
Within corporate services we've achieved benefits from consolidating some real estate and we've begun to see the benefit of our enhanced procurement function.
Looking forward program costs will remain elevated in the third quarter but we remain on track to achieve our target savings by the end of 2012.
On Page 11 we have details on our capital ratios.
Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio is 8.7% at quarter end.
That reflects the impact of the final Basel 2.5 regulations as well as the recently released rules by the Fed on the U.S.
interpretation of Basel.
As we noted in an earlier press release our ratio benefited from a reduction of risk-weighted assets related to the treatment of sub-investment-grade securities and that was partially offset by the treatment of investment-grade securitizations and the methodology for accounting correlation amongst financial institutions' exposures.
As well we saw some meaningful balance sheet growth in the second quarter that did add to our risk-weighted assets.
The table on Page 12 provides a reconciliation of our Basel III ratios.
The ratio for the first quarter of 2012 and second quarter of 2011 were calculated using the prior BIS guidance.
Turning to Page 13 you can see that our investment securities portfolio continues to perform quite well.
The pretax net unrealized gain in our securities portfolio increased by $258 million to $1.4 billion and the percentage of sub-investment-grade declined from 5% to 4% of the portfolio.
Moving on to our loan book on Page 14.
You'll see that the provision for credit losses was a credit of $19 million.
That compares with a charge of $5 million in the first quarter and a 0 provision in the year ago quarter.
This credit primarily resulted from the decline in the expected loss from a broker-dealer client that had previously filed for bankruptcy as well as improvements in the mortgage portfolio.
NPAs declined from $331 million to $294 million.
The effective tax rate was 15.8%.
That was largely driven by the reduction in the tax rate due to the litigation charge of approximately 9%.
The operating tax rate was an estimated 26.1% which is somewhat lower than a range of 27% to 28% and that's due to an increased benefit from certain tax credits.
This also compares with 26.9% in the year ago quarter.
Now a few points to consider in your thinking about this third quarter.
Third quarter earnings have traditionally been impacted by a seasonal slowdown in transaction volumes as well as capital market-related revenues particularly securities lending and foreign exchange.
We should see a seasonal increase in DRs as that tends to be the dividend season now.
In terms of NII we think we can maintain the second quarter run rate even with the recently announced EC move -- ECB move to 0 rates.
The quarterly provision should be in the range of $0 million to $15 million and our merit increase was effective on July 1.
Now we continue to remain focused on driving expense savings in the operational excellence initiatives.
The tax rate in the third quarter of '12 --  of 2012 should be approximately 27% to 28%.
And finally we expect to continue to execute on our share repurchase program.
Beyond that as Gerald mentioned the establishment of our global collateral services unit has positioned the company to capture greater collateral management collateral transformation and collateral finance revenues going forward.
With that let me turn it back to Gerald.
Great.
Thanks Todd.
And I think we're ready to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious if you could expand a little bit on the big increase in deposits where it came from what kind of clients were they where you're putting the assets right now? Yes.
Most of the deposit in increase Glenn was a spike right in the end of the quarter.
So it's going to be relatively temporary.
If you look at for the quarter on average it was only up about $3 billion.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
But -- so you mentioned it spiked at the end of the quarter but temporary just client parking money not putting money to work.
So I'm assuming you're keeping -- parking that at the Fed? That's right.
That's going to be in and out over maybe a 4-week period.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
On the NIM side if you look at through the detail in the average balance sheet it's kind of simple that asset yields coming down at the deposits primarily foreign deposits.
And it seems like you have less room on the liability side.
Is that basically where we're at now? And you mentioned you think you can defend these levels even with the ECB cut but is there any chance to move the deposits over maybe with the Fed and pick up a little bit? It would be a wonderful thing if you could actually Glenn swap the deposits swap euros into dollars and leave them at the Fed but the swap would go against you negatively It actually would create a negative interest rate.
So at this time not much of a change there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so with no change is this the type of quarterly progression we're looking at or was that like a onetime step-down and now we can hold these levels even if rates don't move? I think we can hold these levels.
We do have some headwinds here because we do tend to leave some money at the European Central Banks.
And that was -- in the past we received a little bit of an interest rate.
We won't see that going forward for the foreseeable future but we are continuing to put more money to work primarily in dollars where we are continuing to find some pretty attractive low-risk assets.
And I think that will offset the 2 headwinds if you will.
Glenn I also want to emphasize as we're doing this Todd made some comment in his opening commentary that we've been a little bit slower in putting some of the money to work because frankly we've been quite conservative in putting the money to work because we to want to stay within our risk appetite.
We're not looking to go out of the bounds of our risk parameters and we just don't think it's prudent to do so in this kind of environment.
Research Division</strong> Last one is just maybe a little more color on the huge flows that you keep seeing.
What products are these? What's the average fee relative to the current book of business? Anything you could help there would be great.
Glenn you're referring to asset management? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Let me turn that one over to Curtis.
Glenn in the first quarter we actually -- even assuming that [ph] long-term flows of $7 billion.
And in this past quarter it was $26 billion.
I actually thought the composition was pretty different.
As you know the markets were a little bit better in the first quarter.
Equity markets were up and we saw higher average fee products in the first quarter.
In the second quarter it did revert back to more fixed-income more index products.
So we frequently talk about our business in terms of assets under management.
From a revenue perspective though they're actually pretty similar quarters.
The $26 billion would have been in lower average fee products.
And we do see in our pipeline I will tell you that our pipelines generally are more favorable.
The mix is toward higher fee products.
So actually our one not-funded mandates have a slightly higher average fee going forward at the end of the second quarter than they did at the end of the first quarter.
Our next question is from Howard Chen with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Todd just putting frictional deposits aside can you just provide an update on some of the taxable actions to stabilize and expand the NIM that you laid out the Investor Day? And do your thoughts change at all now that we're seeing some further compression across the yield curve and the long end? Sure.
Not a whole lot.
I mean what we indicated to you is that we would invest in some RMBS securities primarily agencies but there are some non-agencies to note as well.
Some asset-backed securities which we continue.
We're probably doing a little more treasuries than we would have thought just given the rate environment and the risk environment.
So I'd say it was a combination of the 3 of those.
Outside of the securities portfolio we have begun a program of secured lending globally.
That is slower than we had anticipated but it is slowly building and we're continuing to add to that.
We also see some opportunities for example in trade finance as you had a number of folks exit.
That has grown.
We got a big pop a while back.
It's growing a little more modestly but that's another area that we'd be looking to push.
Research Division</strong> Great thanks.
And then shifting gears to the revised Basel III guidance there seems to be a lot of questions in the market.
And I think it'd be helpful if you could just walk through some of the moving parts of the new guidance maybe walk through what your risk rating assumptions were before and what they are now in some of the various parts of the portfolio that are being impacted? Okay.
I mean we're kind of unusual as you know Howard because we had maintained a large portfolio of sub-investment-grade securitizations.
And that was the portfolio even though we had marked it to market and we felt it was actually a pretty attractive and not nearly as risky asset especially where we were carrying it.
It actually required more than 100% capital against it.
So under the revised guidance and what is known as the simplified supervisory formula approach which I can tell you is anything but simplified but under that guidance the capital associated with those sub-investment-grade securities declined pretty significantly.
Still very high but to a much more reasonable level.
So as we had indicated in the past that was probably costing us 250 maybe even 300 basis points against our Tier 1 common ratio.
That probably declined to about 200 basis points so -- excuse me by 200 basis points.
So we picked up a very large benefit there about 2/3 of the -- about a 2/3 reduction.
That was offset by a couple of other items.
Number 1 is the investment-grade securitizations moved from a floor of about 7% to a floor of 20% and depending on the attachment point the detachment point and the delinquencies in the underlying securities they can be higher or even higher than the 20%.
So that was a give-back of some of that 200 basis points that I just described.
And in addition there is a correlation multiplier for primarily financial institutions exposure.
Since we do have financial institutions exposure that had a negative impact to us as did the smaller one but as did the market risk assessment that came in the quarter as well.
So all of those amounted to about 145 basis points of benefit.
And then our balance sheet grew in the second quarter by about 35 basis points hence the requirement hence the 110 basis points that we reported.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for all the detail that is helpful.
And you've always stressed the point that the past few stress tests have been predominantly Basel I focused.
But I'm just curious given this improved guidance post the NPRs how does this change your capital return philosophy when you think about resubmitting the CCAR for more capital return this year? Yes.
As we're nicely positioned under Basel III.
As you can see here we're well ahead of where even we had anticipated we would be.
I think we think it's reasonable because frankly we didn't think that the sub-investment grade security should have attracted the amount of capital that they had.
So basically it's in line with what our thinking was.
So we're happy to see that there -- that we had greater flexibility and we're happy to see that others in the past have been able to take capital actions at significant levels.
Research Division</strong> And then just final quick numbers one for me Todd.
That merit increase that began in July 1 that you spoke to is there any way to kind of size the impact of that? It will probably be about a $0.01 of expense.
Our next question is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One on the performance fees very strong performance fees in the quarter.
Could you just give us some color on that given that the markets wouldn't have suggested that strong of an outcome? So our performance fees we have a wide variety of mandates that generate performance fees.
And the bulk of them are recorded and paid in the fourth quarter.
So our fourth quarter is generally our highest quarter for performance fees.
If you go back over the last 4 years we've had an average performance fee of about $100 million on average annually and roughly 60% of that would have occurred in the fourth quarter.
So that seasonality we would generally expect.
To your point we had a very strong second quarter.
We do have a number of mandates that pay annually but the beginning date might be February so February to February or June to June.
We also do have mandates that pay more frequently than annually so we might value performance fees semiannually.
So the second quarter has been the second-highest quarter typically.
And this particular quarter the performance fees that we earned are indexed to a variety of benchmarks.
So it might be the clients' portfolio benchmark it could be the S&amp;P 500 an index or it could be a nominal benchmark like both a yield -- a targeted return of 8%.
In this particular quarter we had actually nice breadth across our investment firms.
Three of our investment firms actually have pretty meaningful performance fees because they beat a benchmark.
Again I think a lot of people associate performance fees with just as the market goes up a lot you'll have a lot more performance fees.
And there is some correlation to that.
But a lot of our performance fees are actually geared more to whether we beat a benchmark so in a down market if we had been underweight risk or underweight the right factors or if we had been positioned in a way that we can outperform a benchmark then we have the opportunity to earn performance fees in the second quarter that turned out to be pretty positive.
I do think that it's important to note we still think the seasonality that has existed in the past is what you should expect going forward.
And so if on average we've earned $100 million annually on performance fees so far year to date we've earned about $64 million.
So we might have a better year.
But the seasonality we still expect the third quarter to be generally lower and the fourth quarter to be generally higher.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So 2 takeaways.
One is that the performance fees are reflecting the second quarter performance.
There's no kind of lagging from what happened in the first quarter? Yes there are a lot of things going on in -- so many mandates contribute to the overall performance fee.
I would tell you that what drove the strength of it is mandates that outperformed in the second quarter but they are mandates that have been around for a long period of time.
So there -- it could have been a June to June measurement period.
In the second quarter we had the payment of those performance fees.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And it's more equity or FIC or...
It's -- again it's mixed.
I would say that our fixed income mandates generated a large share of the performance fees this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just secondly for Todd on the operational excellence initiatives update that you gave us it feels like you're a little bit farther along than what your targeted plan is.
Are you -- does this suggest that you're going to be either extending the amount of dollars you anticipate you'll be getting back from the program? Does it suggest that you'll just be getting there sooner? We knew Betsy and we try to make this evident in the first quarter we knew that a lot of the benefit we were going to get for the initial actions that we took was going to be in the first quarter.
And we've got that run rate.
So you can see we invested in the second quarter about as much as we benefited.
And we would expect that to be the case for most of the rest of this year.
I think we can beat it.
I think we might be able to beat the target that we've established here.
But we are going to making some additional investments and we want to make sure that that's understood.
So not a huge amount of additional benefit in 2012.
I think you'll start to see it in 2013 the investments that we're making in the second half of this year.
Just to add Betsy though just as on a business-as-usual basis given the slower revenue environment that we're all facing.
We're being incredibly disciplined around the core expense base as well and we're really trying to manage those very very tightly in addition to the initiatives that we have in place.
So we're being very very mindful of all of our expenses across the board.
But the way we designed it the cost to decommission systems the cost to consolidate real estate is embedded in the benefit.
Our next question is from Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that clearing services fees were higher despite lower transaction volumes and I think you mentioned higher mutual fund fees.
So I'm wondering if you could give some color on why those are trending higher? Is that a mix shift or a change in the actual fees somehow charged on the funds? This is Brian Shea.
Just mutual fund assets are growing modestly driven by asset values but we continue to have more individual investments in mutual fund positions on the platform.
And one of the things we're doing is we're seeing growth in the mutual fund no-transaction-fee platform that we have.
And we're also in the process of converting our mutual fund processing to an internal sub-accounting system called Surpass [ph] which is a service delivered by the Asset Servicing group within BNY Mellon.
So essentially what we're doing is we're making the mutual fund processing more operationally efficient and that's part of the driver behind the mutual fund revenue growth.
Yes and I would also add Cynthia that's it's -- and Brian is being a bit modest in the sense that we are getting a lot more accounts on the platform to begin with.
Some of the clients that are there today are being more successful in gathering assets and we're being more successful in gathering clients.
And so I think it's just a reflection of the strength of the platform overall and that we're not being heavily reliant on some of the traditional fee categories for us to be able to show improvement in clearing services.
Exactly.
I guess we're still seeing underlying growth in the base of individual investments and individual security positions and custody.
And that's helping drive strong core fee revenue growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on the record AUC levels and the 314 in wins granted I'm sure there's a lot of variety there.
But can you give any color on sort of the composition of the wins recently? Any shift there? Are the fees any different from your existing book? Cynthia it's Tim Keaney.
I would say yes we continue to see continued growth in outsourcing and transfer agency part of what Brian just referenced.
We see a lot of activity from financial institutions that also drove a big uptick in our sales pipeline which is up 50% quarter-on-quarter.
So I'd say you'd see about 40% to 50% kind of outsourcing and transfer agency which really isn't geared towards AUC.
And the rest are good stock and trade core asset servicing business.
And I wouldn't say there's an overall change in pricing.
I would say we've seen a tap down on repricing as we've continued to maintain strong pricing disciplines.
But new business I wouldn't say I've seen a material change in pricing.
Our next question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to the balance sheet just one second.
Can you help us break down the balances that you guys have with central banks between the Fed ECB and maybe some other ones just to kind of better get a sensitivity if there are in fact more moves by other central banks.
Yes Alex those -- we don't disclose which central bank there -- any balances might be sitting where they might be sitting.
And they're so volatile I don't think it would be particularly helpful to get a snapshot.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then within I guess Todd you mentioned discount accretion was a little bit lower for this quarter.
I was hoping you could give us the number what that was this quarter versus last quarter? Yes it's probably down about $6 million or $7 million Alex on a quarter.
And I would expect that it will slowly amortize down.
You can probably look at it about $5 million-a-quarter reduction.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just maybe hoping to spend a couple of minutes on the update on litigation.
So obviously the Sigma settlement that you guys announced a few weeks ago I guess there's a few other lawsuits outstanding with the similar issues so I was just wondering how that might change your views around reserves or future litigation expense on that front.
And I guess the second one is around foreign tax credits and the impact of the recent settlement I guess from a similar lawsuit if you I guess about 1.5 months ago and how again how that impacts your view on litigation reserves for that loss.
So I didn't -- the first question was related to the...
The Sigma settlement.
Why don't I take that one and then you can talk about the tax matter one.
The charge that we took a couple of weeks ago was principally related to the class action suit that was raised so $280 million and it's subject to court approval but principally related to that single-class action suit.
There are similar clients who had similar issues who were not in that class action that we also incorporated into the charge.
So we feel like we have the vast majority of the financial crisis Sigma-related litigation charges embedded in that single number.
And as regards the tax matter that you raised Alex there was a recent court decision there was a possibility that could have influenced our thinking around the reserves.
But it was the -- the decision was not based on the -- on our case which was economic substance.
So it really did not inform our case at all at this point.
We have tried the case and we're looking forward to I think we -- our team did a very nice job.
And we're looking forward to a judgment probably sometime in the spring of next year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And Todd just the last one for me.
In the Issuer Services this quarter I think you guys had a bit of a seasonal benefit as well obviously smaller than you have in the third quarter.
Can you give us a sense what the benefit I guess was this quarter and how we should think about the seasonal benefit within Issuer Services for the third quarter? Yes that was referring specifically -- in the Issuer Services business we really had 3 business.
We had Shareowner Services we had Corporate Trust and we had DRs.
And we share -- we sold our Shareowner Services at year end so we try to show you with the -- with and without the performance of -- or the historical performance of Shareowner Services.
And as regards to the DR business I'll turn it over to Karen.
Sure yes.
The DR business has a lot of impact from the emerging markets activity so when that turns down so does the activity in the market.
There's lower issuance in cancellation less corporate action as well as fewer IPOs.
So although we expect in the third quarter to see some increased dividend the actual overall activity has decreased.
Your next question is from Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly on the Basel III securities.
So for the sub-investment-grade securities based on your comments Todd if you were to sell them now would they still generate some additional improvement in Tier 1 common? They would Brian but nowhere near to the degree using the new rules that they would have in the past.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So based on the numbers that you put out it looks like maybe a little -- like 100 basis points or less instead of the 250 to 300? Yes something like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay and does the change in the Basel III ratios impact your view on doing M&amp;A over the next couple of years? I'll turn that one over to Gerald.
Yes Brian as I said earlier we're really focused on organic growth and the initiatives that we've identified internally.
We interestingly have identified a number of things that we think that are better investment than M&amp;A activities.
Over a period of time Global Collateral Services is a great example pulling together a variety of activities across our company and investing in the technology and the front end to solve a problem in the marketplace.
We're also more focused on making sure we execute on a variety of the integration and operational excellence initiatives and those have some costs associated with them.
And we think there's a faster payback on those as well.
So we just think that those things are a better investment than looking externally for M&amp;A opportunities.
Plus our share buyback program given our share price we think that's a better investment overall as well.
That being said if something extraordinarily comes across the take [ph] at a price that's unbelievable sure we'll take a look at it.
But I think we have enough opportunities internally to really generate better returns for our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> And then in the Asset Servicing business quick question for Tim.
On the net new business that was installed in the second quarter and how much is left to install in the pipeline.
And then also Tim if you can comment on the FX trading.
It looks like you gained market share versus State Street and Northern Trust this quarter.
Is there anything that you've done to retool that platform and how do you see that going forward? Yes Brian I'll take the Asset Servicing and new business question.
I'll invite Art to talk about the FX.
We have about $400 billion to convert.
Just about all of it will convert before the end of the year.
So I would say that's looking pretty good.
I think I mentioned I'm also encouraged by the big uptick in the pipeline and it's really driven by really fund managers that are rationalizing the number of their providers.
And we've also seen a shift now 2 quarters in a row as fund managers launching new products which is something we've been delighted to see.
So strong new pipeline and about $400 billion left to convert.
Research Division</strong> And just quickly on the pricing initiatives on the  smaller clientele can you just give us an update on how that is going? Yes thanks Brian.
We finished pricing about 650 tail clients.
I'll just remind everyone those are the smallest clients that we have.
We've retained just over 75% of those clients.
So I'm delighted with that result.
We've had about 20 larger clients.
So clients that are paying us $0.5 million and above whose contracts have come up for review.
And I think I mentioned last quarter that as new clients come up and that may take a cycle of 3 or 4 years we're repricing those clients and we've kept every one of those clients as well because of the approach we've taken.
So I still call it early innings Brian but as we're working up the lead table and as clients come up for review those quality statistics that Gerald referenced in his opening comments are really making a difference.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then on the FX? Hi Brian Art Certosimo here.
Recently we implemented a new standing instructions program which has helped maintain standing instructions volumes.
So giving clients choice in the standing instructions space clearly has made a difference.
And clients are doing their part to either maintain or increase negotiated volume.
So we're seeing a pretty good positive trend on the volume side of foreign exchange.
That of course is being offset though by the difficult markets and the shrinking spreads that we see due to most of the market condition around the world.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just lastly money market fee waivers for the quarter.
Can you give us a sense of what they were? Yes they were slightly improved Brian but I think -- I'm hopeful to not even have to say this anymore they seem to have dropped and we seem to be dragging along at this level both on a year-over-year and sequential basis.
Research Division</strong> And the absolute level it's $65 million or something like that? It's even a little bit more than that.
It's about $0.04 to $0.05 impact.
Our next question is from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Can you describe the behavior of your custody clients? Are they gaining or losing assets in aggregate?  With a lot of the money leaving the market with a lot of institutions putting their money just simply into cash what's the characteristic of your clients? Mike it's Tim Keaney here.
I would say year-over-year we've seen more net new.
So we see transaction volumes kind of flat to trending up.
We see net new organic positive -- year-over-year we saw a pretty strong outflows.
That stopped in the sequential quarter.
And the other thing I didn't mention in terms of the new business and this is a question I think you ask from time to time about 50% of what we're seeing so far in the first half of this year is net new business.
So things as an example that clients have done for themselves where they outsource to us like transfer agency or fund accounting.
So I don't know if that answers your question but that's certainly what we're seeing.
Mike maybe I can add.
Given the size of our book and the number of clients we have if somebody changes their asset allocation and they switch from equities to fixed income or to cash it's still going to stay within the family.
We are seeing more cash balances just because people are taking a less risky attitude towards the marketplace.
Earlier in the year we saw more flows into equities.
And more lately we've seen more flows into cash.
Now with cash around the world earning close to 0 that's becoming problematic for them.
But I think the size of our book and the breadth of our clients it seems to move from one category to the other.
But Curtis you're one of the largest asset managers on the planet.
How do you think about it? How do you -- what are you seeing in terms of your activity? Yes so Mike Curtis Arledge.
I would say there are sort of 3 major trends that I would describe investors are focused on.
We absolutely have seen clients who might in the past have owned equities increase the asset allocation to fixed income.
Many times that is a defensive move.
It's also a move to the in some cases more in line with their liabilities which are more fixed-income in nature.
So that's been one significant trend.
I say another major trend has been people who may have de-risked gone to cash or to more defensive positions have really spent a lot of time looking for real-return absolute-return investments where they can get a generally higher level of total return but really manage the downside volatility.
So investors are looking at investment offerings where they may not have as much upside but the benefit of giving away some upside is that they take less downside risk.
And we've actually seen pretty meaningful discussions and inflows into those types of investment offerings.
So I think that's -- those are 2 kind of answers to the what are people doing from a defensive perspective.
I'd say another the last thing I would point to is that there have been pretty meaningful flows in conversations with clients about diversifying their portfolios globally.
So really I think clients are very aware of the debt situation in advanced economies and that happens to be where they have the preponderance of their portfolios.
So there's been more discussion about diversifying internationally especially movements towards countries where there is some real economic growth.
So those are sort of the major I'd describe it as the sort of the very large picture of major things.
Research Division</strong> Gerald you opened your comments saying that you're not going to go outside your risk parameters kind of implying still a risk-off mentality.
What are the early indicators that would tell you to start taking more risk? That's a very interesting question Mike.
Europe is still an absolute mess.
I can't describe it any other way.
And so given the kinds of deposits that we have in Europe then in euro dollars and euro currency that's where we're probably most challenged because simply putting money to work in euro land given the environment has been a real challenge for us.
That's why we're looking at other parts of the world for -- whether it's trade finance or other types of secured fundings.
Those are the categories that are still within our risk appetite that will allow us for some investment opportunities.
And so things like trade finance secured repos in other parts of the world increasing some of our lines there to offset what I think is a very negative environment in Europe.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly a follow-up on the capital question.
So you have a new ratio for the Basel III Tier 1 common ratio due to some changes.
Is this it? Are we done?  Or could there be some additional tweaks that would cause you to modify that ratio either up or down? Yes I wouldn't -- you got to remember this is a notice for proposed rule making.
It is not the final rule.
And so there are a couple of elements in that rule that are out for discussion and it's certainly possible that the regulators would revise this somewhat.
Whether it would be to the good or the bad is impossible for me to protect -- predict Mike.
And this is our best estimate of our current interpretation of the rule so it could be tweaked a little bit.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My first question just to follow up on the Asset Servicing comments there's good pipelines there's good builds but the line item just core Asset Servicing was down a few million sequentially.
I'm just wondering if you could tease out the market impact from the transactional impact and may be some color on what's going on in broker-dealer services within? Tim Keaney here.
Just on the Asset Servicing one thing that's -- I just brought your attention that Todd might have made reference to is we had a pretty significant amount of drop in reimbursements.
So clients where we would have been charging them for mailing or postage that have internalized that there was a big drop in reimbursements both year-on-year and sequentially.
That's not bad news at all actually because that's offset one for one in the expense line so you're not seeing that.
So what you would really be doing is seeing kind of net new business and organic growth making up for soft markets.
I think that's the general theme on market and currency both sequentially and year-on-year.
There is a slight Ken there is a slight currency negative currency impact in revenue that's not quite offset fully in expenses.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question is to follow up on the legal questions can you give us an idea of what that possible estimatable number would be the one that we usually get in the queue just with regards to how the charge came through and then any adds to it? Can you give us a sense of how that sets up? I still think there's a lot of questions about still the potential legal risk and incremental charges that could still happen from here.
Yes I think you're referring to what we call the reasonable reasonably possible disclosure.
And we would think that it's likely to decline.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> By the magnitude of the charge?  Or hard to say if there's other things still coming in? Well we'll give it to you shortly so I think we're in the process of developing that now.
So it's a little bit early for me to say that Ken.
But what I can say is I think we've got quite a few matters behind us in this corner and we're feeling a lot better.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Can you quickly just remind us what the accretion benefit was this quarter versus the 81 last? Yes it was about -- I think it was about $7 million to $8 million less Ken.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And the guidance I tried to give there is I would expect as we look forward the next couple of quarters that it would burn off at about $5 million-a-quarter rate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then just regarding the Other in clearing services DARTS were down but you had still pretty good performance here.
I'm just wondering for an update on that business.
Is there still good pipeline of conversions just underlying trends in that part of the business? Yes it's Brian Shea.
We benefited as I mentioned before from just some asset gathering and growth in the underlying mutual fund based on the underlying number of individual investments that we custody.
And so we're seeing essentially a record level of individual lessees in [ph] custody and we closed the second quarter with over $1 trillion in assets and custody overall with Pershing globally.
In terms of the pipeline the pipeline is solid and given the environment while DARTS are off and there's pressure on broker-dealer profitability all across the industry in one way that's a possible silver lining for us in the sense that more self-clearing firms evaluate moving to a variable-cost clearing platform and model.
So we do see a reasonable pipeline of firms that are engaged with us and consider Pershing as their clearing partner and so we feel reasonably good about that.
And we'll have some decent third quarter conversions coming up.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last quick one just on FX you did have the nice sequential bump.
Any comments on just the makeup of your FX results? Any switching between direct and indirect or in relative profitability within? No not really Ken.
We benefited from some volume increase in the quarter.
Obviously the volatility is still pretty low and quite low in the marketplace.
But we had some new service offerings which are helping capture some of that volume and we're continuing to offer increased capabilities to capture that.
Our final question today is from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> The question I had Todd you referenced that the net interest revenue was adversely impacted by narrower spreads and lower accretion.
But you also were a little disappointed that you weren't able to put the deposits to work fast enough in secured loans and securities.
On the secured loan side what are you guys seeing? Is it more challenging to put it to work in certain industries?  Or what are you seeing on the loan side? Yes.
I would say that it's probably taking us a little longer time to have the team in place the collateral monitoring in place that we look forward for that and also signing the clients up.
There's good interest there but that's probably primarily what's driving it.
So I'd say we're only about 50% of the target we wanted to be at this point.
One other point I want to make sure Gerard that's clear is with the ECB cuts we did have money since I've mentioned sitting at the ECB.
And that will have a little bit of a headwind.
I think we can still overcome that with the additional actions that we plan to take.
And if we did nothing that could be as much as $20 million to $25 million in the second half negative to us.
So we are considering options including the possibility if we see a further buildup in deposits of maybe even charging a negative rate or imposing some kind of a charge on deposits in euros.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the loans when you're at 50% of where you would have liked to have been or thereabouts is it more in sectors like telecommunications or real estate that type of lending versus financial services lending? It's mostly in the financial services space where we're getting good market money-market-related types of collateral that we can mark on a daily basis and margin on a daily basis.
And Gerard it's really relatively short-term secured financings with securities that we can understand and mark and with counterparties that we feel very confident with.
So it's not traditional commercial bank lending.
This does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to speakers for closing comments.
Well great.
Thanks everybody for joining us.
And I really appreciate it.
And if you have further questions Andy Clark [indiscernible] are prepared to answer all your questions and look forward to engaging with you in the near term.
Thanks a lot everybody.
Thank you.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Mr.
Andy Clark at (212) 635-1803.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference call webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call to Mr.
Andy Clark.
Mr.
Clark you may begin.
Thanks Charlene.
Welcome everyone.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman President and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO as well as several members of our executive management team.
Before we begin let me remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement on Page 13 of the press release and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today October 17 2012 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
Our press release and earnings review are available on our website and we will be using the earnings review to discuss our results.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Gerald.
Gerald? Thanks Andy and good morning everybody and thanks for joining us.
As you've seen from the release for the third quarter we generated net income of $720 million and an earnings per share of $0.61.
Now that did include the benefit of approximately $0.04 per share from a lower tax rate.
As a reminder we reported $0.53 per share in the third quarter of last year.
In a macro environment that continues to present challenges to all of us we are winning new business investing in organic growth opportunities delivering on our operational excellence initiatives improving on our already strong capital position continuing to return capital shareholders and at the end of the day our core revenues were up 2% and core expenses were flat.
We were particularly pleased with the strength of our investment management area which benefited from strong investment performance and a 12th consecutive quarter of long-term flows.
We had $58 billion in net long-term flows over the last 12 months which included $9 billion during the third [Audio Gap] helped drive assets under management to a record level of $1.4 trillion.
And during the quarter we received a number of industry awards which is very very gratifying.
Insight was named the Fixed Income firm of the year and LDI firm of the year by Financial News.
ARX our Brazilian investment manager was awarded Active Equity Manager of the Year and the BNY Mellon Emerging Market Debt Fund was named Emerging Market Debt Fund of the Year.
We also purchased the remaining 50% of our West LB Mellon Asset Management joint venture which further strengthens our franchise in Germany.
We combined some of our Standish fixed income activities with Alcentra to create a world-class and sizable manager of credit strategy.
We also announced plans to combine our Pareto currency risk management boutique with Insight to creating one manager of risk management solutions.
So there's lots of good things occurring in investment management.
Turning to Investment Services we also benefited from new business as well as typical seasonality in Depositary Receipts.
In Asset Servicing we had more than $520 billion in new assets under custody wins.
Now with market values increasing and conversions to prior business won assets under custody reached a record level of almost $28 trillion.
Also during the quarter we fully integrated the BHF Asset Servicing business onto our systems.
So we are in fact integrating and retiring legacy platforms.
And feedbacks on our newly formed global services organization has been overwhelmingly positive as clients struggle to meet the current and emerging requirements of Dodd-Frank.
Now offsetting some of these positives were seasonal reductions in volumes that affected our foreign exchange and clearing businesses.
Also Corporate Trust continues to be negatively impacted by low levels in new issuance versus a natural retirement of existing securities.
We continue to make good progress on our operational excellence initiatives which are focused on providing great client service while improving productivity and reducing risk.
And on the capital front we generated strong returns on tangible equity continue to return capital to shareholders and improve our already strong capital position.
Now going forward we remain very focused on capitalizing on our core -- organic growth opportunities identified within our company that can help clients grow and navigate the current environment.
Now there are some great examples of this.
Take global collateral services where we're seeing real exciting opportunities.
We're working to leverage the tremendous power of our Pershing distribution capability for our investment management products and we're doing this globally as we believe our technology and distribution platforms export well around the world.
And we're also building on our trading capabilities to better service our clients to provide more opportunities to capture trading flows for a variety of instruments.
We're a great counterparty and some natural extension of our business.
So while we're certainly pleased that our core businesses are growing and we're succeeding in capturing new business and controlling our expenses we're also creating our own long-term revenue growth capabilities.
Now it's also imperative for us to focus on the great ideas and opportunities that exist in-house and to relentlessly manage our cost base to improve EPS performance.
With that let me turn it over to Todd to go through the numbers.
Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
My comments as usual will follow the Quarterly Earnings Review that begins on Page 2.
Reported earnings per share was $0.61.
That compares with $0.39 last quarter but remember that last quarter included litigation charges of about $0.18.
The $0.61 includes the benefit of approximately $0.04 from a lower-than-expected effective tax rate is also $0.03 due to elevated other income and lower provision.
Looking at the numbers on a sequential basis total revenue was $3.7 billion.
That's up 2% while fee and other revenue was also up 2%.
Investment management fees investment services fees investment and NIR were each up and those were partially offset by declines in FX revenue.
Expenses were flat and if you exclude M&amp;I litigation and the restructuring charges as well as expenses related to the Shareowner Services which we sold at the end of last year.
Year-over-year on that same basis they were up 2%.
The increase was a result of the cost of certain tax credits that we had in this third quarter that provided a meaningful benefit to the bottom line and helped our effective tax rate.
Turning to Page 4 where we'll call out some business metrics that will help explain our underlying performance.
You can see that assets under management of $1.359 trillion was up 5% sequentially and 13% year-over-year.
That's resulting from higher market values but also good inflows.
During the quarter we had net long-term inflows at $9 billion and short-term inflows of $9 billion as well.
It was our 12th consecutive quarter of positive long-term inflows with flows of $58 billion over the last 12 months.
Assets under custody and administration was up 3% sequentially to a record level of $27.9 trillion.
That was driven by higher market values and net new business.
Assets under custody is up about 8% on a year-over-year basis.
Now looking at a number of our key metrics showed growth on a year-over-year basis.
Collateral management balances continued to grow.
They surpassed $2 trillion for the first time and global payment volumes were also up about 2%.
Wealth management loans and deposits were up for the year as well.
Clearing metrics were mixed with DARTS down significantly both sequentially and year-over-year while average long-term mutual fund assets were up.
Going on to look at fees on Page 6.
Assets Servicing fees were down 1% sequentially.
That's largely driven by the seasonal decrease in securities lending revenue and partially offset by net new business and higher market values.
Asset Servicing fees were up 2% year-over-year primarily reflecting net new business and higher market values and securities lending revenue.
We had $522 billion in new assets under custody wins our best new business quarter since 2008.
AUC wins totaled more than $1.7 trillion over the last 12 months of which approximately $740 billion remains to be converted with half of that expected to be converted between now and year end and the remainder during the first half of 2013.
Issuer service fees excluding the Shareowner Services business were up 13% sequentially and down 22% year-over-year.
The sequential increase resulted from seasonally higher DR revenue related to corporate actions partially offset by lower Corporate Trust fees.
The year-over-year decrease largely resulted from lower DR revenue driven by lower volumes and lower Corporate Trust fees reflecting the continuing net runoff of structured debt securitizations.
This runoff could reduce the company's total revenue over the next few quarters by about 50 to 70 basis points assuming the structured markets do not recover.
Clearing fees which are more activity sensitive were down 7% sequentially and 3% year-over-year.
Both decreases were principally driven by lower DARTS volumes reflecting the sharp decline in share volume on both the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ which was down 31% year-over-year and 10% sequentially on a combined basis.
Investment management fees excluding performance fees were up 3% sequentially and 7% year-over-year.
Both increases were driven by higher market values and new business.
The strong performance of the boutiques continues to attract long-term flows.
In FX and other trading revenue was up 1% sequentially and down 9% year-over-year.
Looking at the components of FX looking at the components underlying that FX revenue totaled $121 million.
That's a decrease of 23% sequentially and 45% year-over-year.
Both decreases were driven by lower volatility and lower volumes.
Other trading revenue was $61 million compared with revenue of $23 million in the second quarter and a loss of $21 million in the year-ago quarter.
Both increases reflect improved fixed income trading as we benefited from the development of our trading capabilities as well as our strong counterparty status.
Investment and other income totaled $124 million in the quarter.
That compares with $48 million in the prior quarter and $83 million a year ago.
Both increases primarily resulted from higher seed capital gains and higher equity's investment revenue.
Turning to Page 8 of the earnings review NIR was up $15 million sequentially and down $26 million versus the year-ago quarter.
The sequential improvement reflects higher interest earning assets driven by very large deposit levels and is partially offset by the elimination of interest on the ECB deposits.
The year-over-year decrease in net interest revenue was principally driven by lower yields the elimination of interest on ECB deposits and it was partially offset by the increased investment in high-quality investment securities.
The net interest margin was 1.20% compared with 1.25% in the second quarter and 1.30% in the year-ago quarter.
Both decreases mostly reflect lower reinvestment yields primarily driven by accretion as well as the significant increase in customer deposits.
Turning to Page 9 you can see that we exhibited good expense control.
Total noninterest expenses including amortization of intangible assets M&amp;I litigation and restructuring charges as well as the expenses related to Shareowner Services was flat sequentially and up 2% year-over-year.
Sequentially the decreases in professional legal and other purchase services and business development expenses were offset by the annual employee merit increase that took effect on January -- July 1.
On a year-over-year basis after adjusting for the benefit for -- excuse me the cost of generating tax credits in the third quarter of 2012 and the benefit of a state investment tax credits recorded in the year-ago quarter expenses were flat.
On Page 10 you can see the progress we've made on our operational excellence initiatives.
On a gross basis our efforts during the quarter resulted in $105 million in quarterly run rate savings and incremental program cost totaling $23 million or net savings of $82 million.
Year-to-date we generated net savings of $223 million.
That's a bit ahead of the plan we disclosed last year.
We had some key events this quarter that contributed to our progress in meeting the operational excellence goals for this quarter and will have a greater impact as we move forward.
For example we're more fully leveraging the Eastern European operation.
This came with some GIS acquisitions which for the first time gave us a low-cost operation where we can service European clients from their own time zone.
In addition we completed our final BHF client conversions as Gerald alluded to earlier.
And in corporate services we consolidated offices in London and Amsterdam and continue to benefit from the enhanced global procurement program.
By year end we do expect to be well within the range of our targeted net savings.
Page 11 details our capital ratios.
Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was 9.3% at quarter end.
That's up 60 basis points with the increase chiefly attributable to the stronger earnings and the increase in the value of the investment portfolio.
Our Basel I Tier 1 capital ratio is at 15.3% also up 60 basis points.
We benefited from a very attractive market and issued $550 million of fixed rate non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock that qualifies as a Basel III Tier 1 capital and we're very pleased that the coupon was at the lowest rate for a bank-issued non-cumulative perpetual preferred.
On Page 12 you can see that the market value of our investments securities portfolio increased from last quarter.
The pretax net unrealized gain on our securities portfolio was up by more than $1 billion to about $2.5 billion reflecting a decline in interest rates and improved credit spreads.
We did take advantage of the strong market to sell a few securities that we thought were priced a bit rich.
Looking at our loan book on Page 13 you'll see that the provision for credit losses was a credit of $5 million compared with a credit of $19 million in the second quarter and a credit of $22 million in the year-ago quarter.
The credit primarily resulted from a gain on loan sales as well as repayments.
The portfolio continues to perform very nicely and as you can see NPAs continue to decline.
The effective tax rate was 23.1% and that primarily reflects the benefit from completing various tax audits.
Now a few points to factor into your thinking about the fourth quarter.
In terms of NII we think we can maintain something between the second and third quarter levels.
We would expect seasonally lower DR fees and seasonally higher investment management performance fees.
The quarterly provision should be around 0 and give or take a few million.
And the operating tax rate in the third quarter of 2012 should be approximately 27% to 28%.
We continue to invest in organic growth as Gerald had mentioned.
We're maintaining our strong balance sheet and we're driving expense savings through our operational excellence initiatives.
With that let me turn it back to Gerald.
Thanks Todd and perhaps now we can open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess just to expand on your guidance on NII I think you said something between 2Q and 3Q.
Is that right? That's correct Cynthia.
Research Division</strong> And I guess as part of that what would be your outlook for NIM? I think last quarter you predicted it would fall a few basis points and I guess it's up 5.
What is your outlook there? Yes as we said in the past Cynthia we're not managing to NIM.
We are managing to NIR.
So we're willing to take on deposits and place them at the fed even though that generates a very low NIM because you can only get 25 basis points on that.
So our focus again has been to drive NIR up or keep it stable in this kind of an environment.
All that being said I think if you were to hold the balance sheet constant and the interest environment stayed depressed at this level you would see some continued contraction over the course of the next 12 months in the NIM.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
Now on the Asset Management side you guys had $9 billion in long-term inflows which is great.
Can you talk a little about where you're seeing those coming from? And are you seeing any particular strategies as you look ahead which are really driving the flows? Yes.
Cynthia it's Curtis Arledge.
The flows that we saw on the third quarter -- first of all the third quarter isn't typically an extremely strong quarter in terms of new mandates.
But having said that it was substantially better than a year ago.
The $9 billion had -- definitely had an index component to it.
About $5 billion of the $9 billion came from index strategies.
Active strategies in both fixed income and equities did get some inflows.
I would tell you that our dialogue with clients in terms of where they're going with money is I'd described it the following way: We've had good discussions and good investments by clients in strategies that are volatility and risk dampening.
So we see clients that have equity strategies looking to do things like long/short and absolute return strategies have absolutely been -- absolute return has absolutely been an area where clients have been moving.
There also has been a movement in -- among equities to move and diversify away from the U.S.
As U.S.
markets have done better we've seen clients that have moved some of their portfolio and diversified to be more global.
The emerging market that story has been a place where people have gone looking for yield.
That's been a pretty consistent story for the past several quarters.
I would tell you that I think that this -- we have a lot of clients.
This isn't -- and it's probably true across the board in a lot of businesses but a lot of our clients are definitely watching and waiting to see how both the election and the fiscal cliff get dealt with.
So our pipelines are pretty constant but I think the dialogue is going to be very much driven by sort of how the next several months play out.
I think a lot of clients actually want to do things but there's just so much uncertainty.
They're waiting to see how things go.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe last question is it looks like your headcount ticked up which seems maybe at odds with some the rationalizations you have you highlight and the expense controls.
I'm just wondering what accounts for that.
Sure Cynthia.
It's 2 main things.
One is as we migrate some of our jobs to some of our global centers around the world there's a little bit of bubble headcount associated with that.
But most of it's associated with insourcing contractors particularly on the software application side.
We've been using third-party contractors.
We decided it's much more efficient.
And frankly we retain the intellectual property and intellectual capacity of the talent by insourcing it rather than using third-party contractor.
So there's a benefit both on the cost side as well as retaining the talent.
And that's why you don't see -- even though you see that number go up you're not seeing an increase in salaries.
Our next question comes from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I'm asking about the bloodbath on servicing fees side and this is not a new question.
It just keeps getting worse and worse.
So if I look at your servicing fees including foreign exchange securities lending this is the lowest percentage of those fees to assets under custody in your history and you're also seeing that at the other processing banks too.
So we always ask this question.
What are you doing? What can you do to stem the margin pressure in the core servicing business? So I'll make a couple of comments Mike and then perhaps turn it over to Tim.
So a couple of things that we're doing: We are seeing better recovery on securities lending and we're being more active there.
And I think the numbers speak for that both in terms of securities on loan as well as the year-over-year improvement in that category.
So we are seeing securities lending being reactivated in the marketplace and we're being more active on that front.
Tim will talk in a moment what he's trying to do on the core Asset Servicing side where you're seeing certain kinds of fees move and the core fees have actually moved up.
But you're correct.
They haven't moved up totally in line with assets under custody and Tim will talk to that perhaps in a moment.
And on the trading and foreign exchange side we are investing on our trading activities and various electronic platforms in order to capture more flows that go through our fingertips.
And so we're not going to rely on foreign exchange coming back to the degree that it did but we are investing in the businesses to capture more of the other instruments that are traded naturally by our clients.
And we think an opportunity gain some of that traction and some of the revenues around that will improve the overall returns on the business.
So with that maybe I'll turn it over to Tim.
Yes.
Gerald thanks.
Mike Tim Keaney.
A couple of things first of all we're going back to repricing as I said on previous few calls.
We started off Broadway with smaller clients which is now done.
That's not a needle mover but it's a step in the right direction.
We're moving up the chain to larger clients as their contracts come up for review.
We've had 29 of our larger clients out of 29 successfully repriced with about a 20% uptick in core fees and we're just going to stay at that.
That's probably going to take us about 3 years to go through the whole cycle as contracts come up for review.
But more to your question of the disaggregation between growth and AUC I might just comment on that for a second.
Year-over-year we saw a huge amount of de-risking.
We see about a third gearing for us to market and as Todd mentioned a significant portion on the year-on-year uptick in AUC with market.
We also had a little bit of a mix issue where about 60% plus of our assets under custody are geared towards fixed income.
But I will make one other point.
We have maintained pricing discipline we do have some large clients year-on-year particularly in Europe that are coming through because we are maintaining absolute strict pricing discipline.
So I think you do see that pulling through and also the mix in new business that we're winning.
We do see a significant portion of new business coming from outsourcing and transfer agency that are key pillars for us and that really isn't geared to AUC and last point we still have half of what we've won yet to convert.
Yes.
I'd say one other final comment Mike in terms of what are we doing.
The effort that we're putting into and the resources around collateral services global collateral services is for real and we do see that as a real opportunity to capture revenues around assets that are within our custody base.
And so I think that's going to be an opportunity for us to gain fee revenues off of the current client base.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Just a -- one follow-up so more products I understand that whether it's trading or more securities lending.
You repriced off Broadway.
I understand that.
But I'm sorry what was 29 out of 29? Yes 29 out of 29 of our larger clients has their contracts come up for review Mike.
We renegotiate higher fees.
Research Division</strong> But I thought you said on a recent presentation that you don't have pricing power with strategic clients? Yes Mike.
Let me -- it's a good question.
Our largest 100 clients roughly 100 clients are super large multi-product users of our services.
That is much more about cross selling and share wallet and introducing some of the new things that Gerald mentioned.
Collateral would be a great example some of the things that Art's building into that client base.
We have no pricing power with those names.
But all the clients below those names we have plenty of opportunity to up price.
Research Division</strong> No I'm sorry.
I'm just reconciling the largest 100 clients where you don't have pricing power but you're looking to cross sell with 29 of 29 of your larger clients.
Which larger clients are those if they're not 1 of the 100 largest? Yes think of those clients as kind of 3 million and below.
Mid-sized.
Yes mid-sized clients and that's the best way I would describe it Mike.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's clear.
But to what percentage of your revenues come from your largest strategic clients? Wouldn't that be I'm just guessing 2/3? Yes I don't have that stat handy.
I would just say it's a very large percentage of our fees.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> So we're really talking about repricing for that last 1/4 to 1/3 and then cross selling for the other 2/3 to 3/4.
Is that a fair characterization? Yes more or less Mike.
That's right.
Next question comes from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it seems like the operational excellence program continues to do a little bit better than expected for the last couple of quarters.
You've had net benefit.
So just wondering if you can give us an update on are you accelerating some of the saves.
And at this point how good do you feel about meeting if not even perhaps beating the initiatives that you've laid out? Yes I think there are a couple of things going on.
We do feel pretty good about the timing.
A couple of things have worked out and some of the investments that we thought we would need to make are a little bit less than what we had first expected.
In the fourth quarter we are looking at continuing to invest in some actions that will generate ongoing benefits especially around the real estate side.
So we wouldn't expect the bottom line to be as great as what we've seen in the past couple of quarters Ken.
That's why we're kind of guiding you to stay within the range that we had projected.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I can just ask a couple of just small tiny questions can you tell us what accretion was this quarter and also just what the magnitude of fee waivers was or the delta in fee waivers? Sure.
Accretion was down about $7 million or so Ken and that's about the quarterly run rate we would expect.
In other words it should continue to come down at about that level.
So I think it was around $67 million or something -- $67 million thereabouts.
And your second question was around fee waivers.
The delta on fee waivers is very slightly improved.
Now I'd already projected the trough 3 times previously so I'm not going to project it again but maybe we have gone through it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is just regarding some of the fee income items were really strong this quarter and I don't want to call them non-core but maybe they might be -- but they look to be a little bit above trend.
I just wanted to ask specifically on investment and other income and even on the fixed income trading took some comments you made earlier.
How do we get an understanding of what kind of like good forward-looking run rates are in those areas? Or are they at a point where you're just starting to harvest more on both of those areas? Okay.
Sure.
So why don't we start with the fixed income and other trading.
We have been investing in that as Gerald had indicated and I think we had given some indication in the past that we thought that line would be around $50 million.
I think there's opportunity for that to be a bit higher than that on a go-forward basis.
And I think we've demonstrated a little bit of that in this quarter.
But there will be some volatility around that as you would expect Ken.
In terms of the investment and other income we had given I think guidance in the past that if you look through those -- and we give a lot of disclosure in the earnings review of those -- if you look through the portfolio of items there we would expect about $80 million to $85 million in core but it seems like we've been seeing -- we've been harvesting some things or getting some benefits.
There were seed capital that can be a bit volatile and we did crystalize some gains on our seed capital this quarter.
But I would -- I'd still target around that level and understand that there can be $20 million or $30 million of upside or downside to it.
Our next question comes from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Gerald I wanted to dig in a little bit on the collateral management opportunity set that you indicated a little bit earlier in the call.
You talked about it being a fee revenue generator.
If you could speak to how you think about sizing that and generating that.
And then the other question is whether or not there's any capital impact from the collateral transformation process that you're suggesting? Okay great.
The fee side of it is it is all fee-based so that's the good news.
We are seeing increasing opportunities.
I think we have one in the metrics on our tables our assets collateralized tri-party collateral continues to move up.
And we are seeing progress there.
The dialogue with our clients particularly I'd say the buy side has dramatically increased because they're realizing what they're facing in terms of having to post collateral to either today or in the future as the regulations get crystallized around all their various trading activities.
And so the dialogues are quite productive.
It's still early stages in terms of the fee revenues that we're seeing actually translate or show up in our own revenue stream.
So -- but we are optimistic and hopeful that this will be a significant item in the future.
The timing of it's a little bit unpredictable because the regulations are still being written but the level of activity and dialogue is quite real and we are spending the money now investing in the technology which is absorbed in our running rate on expenses to be able to capture that opportunity.
So we feel good about the future here.
And Betsy you'd ask about capital.
And this is Todd I'll take that.
If you look at the various activities they tend to be very well collateralized I mean that to us wherever we act as a principal.
So if it's securities finance or actual lending we get collateralized with good securities at a reasonable margin.
And on a risk-based -- a risk-weighted asset they tend to be very very low so they can be easily absorbed into our balance sheet.
It's a better allocation of our -- if it is coming onto our balance sheet it's a better use of our deposit base than keeping it at the Fed or in cash in other banks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there as part of this also people presenting to you potentially things like corporate bonds let's say and then your lending on securities to -- treasuries or GNEs [ph]? Yes.
That is one of the potentials of "asset transformation" taking ineligible assets and creating them into eligible assets and that's something that we are taking a look at.
We think we have the expertise internally to be able to be able to value and look at that kind of collateral.
And with proper margining with the proper counterparties we think it's a good way to use our balance sheet and to support our clients.
So yes that is something we are looking at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's in addition to the fee capture that you discussed earlier? That's correct.
That's on top of the fees associated with collateral services.
Tim you had a comment? Yes.
Betsy it's Tim.
Just one other point I'd add.
The flip side to not being geared on the asset side the custody side as much to the equity market as we'd like is the huge amount of treasuries that we have in assets under custody and the majority of our clients that are in our securities lending program.
So we think one of the areas that will benefit greatly from this kind of vertically integrated unit that we put in place will directly benefit our clients because of the amount of AUC we have in treasuries.
Our next question comes from Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Let's go back to the Asset Servicing question on the fee realization rates.
Tim maybe if you could just characterize the nature of the mandates that you've won in the $522 billion of wins this quarter.
And then just again remind me of how much you have left to install into the fourth quarter.
And are you bringing mandates in there that have somewhat of a lower fee capture that skews that rate? I know you did talk about the outsourcing wins that helped it but just trying to get a sense of sort of that administered balance function relative to the revenue going forward.
Sure.
Thanks Brian.
Yes we won $520 billion which was a great quarter a continuing trend now for several quarters.
As its financial institutions particularly fund managers most of it was growing current client relationships as part of our strategy where we move up out on the value chain.
And so we continue to see things like sub-accounting where we converted $6.1 million sub-accounting fees -- sub-accounting accounts which is not geared to AUC.
We continue to win transfer agency and middle-office outsourcing and we make sure that we get paid our minimum target margins.
The challenge and this is showing up in the $740 billion we haven't converted yet is it just takes a little longer to convert.
It's a much more mechanical process.
So we still have $740 billion to convert.
I think Todd mentioned the stats.
50% will convert in the fourth quarter and then the remainder equally over Q1 and Q2 next year.
So I don't want you to be overly concerned on the mix because as we've said we're not going to dig the hole any deeper for us by lowering our margins for these products.
We're maintaining strict disciplines on minimal margins.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like combined with the repricing that you mentioned earlier I think you said up 20% for those 29 clients.
Is that correct? That's up 22% Brian.
Research Division</strong> 22% yes.
So combined with that it sounds like on a go-forward basis as we move into 2013 given the mix of those wins we should be thinking somewhat of a higher core asset servicing realization rate on that asset mix.
Is that...
Yes I think that's right Brian.
And again Brian the metric that we keep focused on is that fee revenue to operating expenses.
Our goal -- we're being very disciplined about getting our above that 100% mark on fees versus operating expenses and that's the best metric to continue to focus on for us and that's in this space.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then Todd just on the balance sheet you talked about obviously in this low rate environment some potential NIM pressure going to 2013.
Can you just talk about the -- your strategy on the securities portfolio in terms of what types of things you're investing in I guess with particular attention to agency MBS.
Obviously deals there are pretty low right now.
I mean 15-year yields are below 1%.
Are you altering that strategy going forward? Or is that part of the NIM compression story? Sure.
In terms of the agency RMBS I think QE3 has made certainly the fixed agency RMBS a much less attractive asset.
So we actually did get ahead a bit on our allocation to agencies before QE3 came about and that's worked pretty well for us.
So I don't think you're going to see us buying a whole lot of fixed agency RMBS because of the yield declines post to the Fed's announcement.
We will continue to purchase and we haven't completed our full allocations to munis.
There are some corporates both in the U.S.
and abroad that we're looking at some floating rate asset-backed securities.
We kind of like CLOs covered bonds.
And we are looking at agency floaters in the quarter.
For example we did buy some agency floaters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Finally just remind us of the portfolio duration.
Portfolio duration is -- it's under 2 years.
It's probably about 1.75 right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on the money market fee waivers the cents per share that that's impacting you? It's still in the $0.05 or so per share maybe $0.05 or $0.06 or $0.04.
It moves a little bit but it hasn't moved much.
We've kind of gone to that level and haven't seen a whole lot of change.
There was one quarter we saw it got a little bit better but not a lot.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just lastly on the foreign exchange trading.
You had a very good quarter the second quarter up much more than peers.
This quarter you're down a little bit more than peers.
Were there just something that caused that elevation in the quarter? Or is there a different explanation for that? Well in the third quarter and we have started to give you a market disclosure which shows the level of volatility in the market and volatility is the driver of our profitability and there really is no volatility in the major currencies and we probably attribute that to the central banks keeping everybody pretty much in line with their currency.
So this is a direct impact of fewer volumes.
There's less trading activity that took place in the third quarter.
You can see that in the stock exchange metric.
Even though that's not a direct correlation it tends to be correlated.
Much lower volatility and that's a direct reflection in our numbers.
I don't know Gerald you have anything to add? No no.
I think it's -- for this quarter it was right in line or unfortunately negatively in line with the volatility index.
So I don't think based on what we've seen so far that our foreign exchange trading was any different than anyone else's particularly associated with the volatility or lack thereof.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the mix between custody and negotiated FX.
It's actually quarter-to-quarter sequentially essentially the same.
The "standing instruction" remains about 9%.
It was the same percentage as last quarter.
It hasn't dipped down so it's still a valuable product to our clients.
Our next question comes from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow up on the collateral management opportunity that you talked about.
It's clearly big numbers.
All of a sudden the buy-side estimate came out with budget collateral and we also talk about it.
But when you look at the ultimate revenue opportunity can you help us understand? I guess like when you're sitting and negotiating the fees or the way you envision it to happen clients are getting squeezed from a lot more things that they have to do the cost of money.
Do you think that's going to be a meaningful area for you to drive I guess incremental profitability given the fact that it probably might be difficult to negotiate on meaningfully there? Yes I think it is because there's multiple levels to collateral services.
There's the basic level of segregating the collateral i.e.
custody.
There's transforming the collateral that we've talked about that Betsy asked the question on.
There's optimizing the collateral within the day or over a period of time during which the collateral is being posted.
Many of these things particularly on the optimization side and the transformation side actually can reduce the capital cost to both sides both to dealer side and the buyer side.
And when you reduce capital costs there is ability to get some good revenues out of that.
So don't think of it just in terms of a transaction think of it in terms of how it improves the capital costs associated with the collateral being posted both on the buy side and the sell side.
Research Division</strong> Got it helpful.
And then Todd I was hoping you could run through issuer services just one more time.
It feels like underneath the surface seasonally strong quarter but I guess some things were a little bit slower than normal.
Can you give us a sense I guess heading into the fourth quarter what's a good run rate for that revenue bucket is? Sure.
Let me give a high level and then I can ask Karen who runs the business to give a little more detail.
It is seasonal.
The third quarter tends to be a dividend and corporate action season for our business now.
The delta from last year's second to third quarter to this year's second to third quarter was down quite a bit so we did see the bump but not nearly to the extent that we saw last year.
And we'd expect the delta from the third to the fourth quarter for our DR business to follow that.
It will be down but not to the same extent.
So it's going to be falling but from a bit of a lower level.
So the -- and Karen can give you some of the reasons.
That's a super cyclical business and it's becoming more and more of an emerging market equity business.
In terms of Corporate Trust we're just seeing a little faster runoff of old deals versus new deals that are coming on.
And unless we see something -- some come back in the structured finance market that's primarily what's driving that we are seeing some decent action CLOs again.
But unless we see some comeback in the rest of the structured finance market and non-agency mortgage market we could see this trend for a number of quarters.
So Karen do you have anything to add to that? Yes I'll just a couple of different statistics to what Todd said.
And as he emphasized DRs are an emerging markets play.
And so with equity prices being down outside the U.S.
investment sentiment being down globally mergers and acquisitions being down some of the statistics are that our DR trading value went down 30% year-to-year.
Capital raisings were down 63% and the fees generated from corporate actions which are obviously difficult to predict were down almost 30%.
IPOs coming to market were also down year-on-year.
So overall the net cancellations ended up exceeding issuance by a wide margin.
We only had $145 million cancellations and then compared to net issuance of a $1.5 billion the prior year.
The good news out of all of that sadness is that the pipeline is building but it takes longer for these deals to come to market.
And there are 45 new programs out in worldwide and 115 new unsponsored programs.
So there is some hope that as we look to the future there'll be additional issuance activity.
So Alex this is typical of what we've seen in this business.
It tends to be hyper-cyclical.
So we just went through a cycle looks like we're coming toward the end of a cycle.
And hopefully if we get through the fiscal cliff and some investor sentiment changes we could see this change pretty quickly.
I think it points to some comments that Curtis was making earlier.
Just investors around the world are sitting on the sidelines waiting for some greater clarity both in the U.S.
and abroad.
And when some of that clarity starts to improve I think this is the kind of business that you'll see snap back.
The only other thing that I would add is that the U.S.
CLO market as Todd said has been heating up which are projecting about $40 billion of new issuance this year.
And we've won 35% of the deals in the market with 25 new deals and mandates on 12 more.
So we are hoping that that activity will continue to forecast for 2013 is quite positive for CLOs.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Thank you guys so much for this color very helpful.
Curtis one for you.
On asset management things continue to perform quite well and we're heading into I guess a performance fee quarter.
So given the fact the markets have done well it sounds like you guys have done well can you give us a sense on either performance relative to benchmark or percentage of AUM that's kind of eligible for performance fees or something to help us understand how meaningful a performance fee quarter that could be for you guys? Yes absolutely.
We are -- We obviously have a very big second quarter performance fees and our fourth quarter obviously we'll have to wait and see how the end of the year plays out.
But I'd tell you that right this minute we think that the fourth quarter is going to be pretty much in line with the fourth quarter of last year plus or minus kind of based on how things stand today.
Our performing -- our best performance has been good throughout the year and improving.
And so that would be probably the best guidance I could give you.
Our next question comes from Luke Montgomery with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to come back to the NIM and the securities portfolio just for a sec.
It looks like it's been holding in a bit better than we expected anyway.
So would you mind commenting briefly on your outlook for reinvestment risk in 2013 and specifically how you position the securities portfolio? You mentioned a duration of under 2 years.
Would you have big slugs of that portfolio coming due starting in 2013? And what's your assessment of contraction prepayment risk with QE3 et cetera? Yes.
A lot in that question.
So I think the -- where we had guided a couple of quarters ago was that we can continue to actually increase the size of the portfolio with the amount of growth in deposits and excess cash that we've done.
So as we saw some of the higher yielding assets come off we could reinvest at a faster pace and that was going to offset the impact of that.
The -- we got another headwind when the ECB cut rates to 0 on excess reserves.
So that's why it backed off a little bit from where we were 2 or 3 quarters ago.
But the gist of it is is we can -- we will reinvest more than just what is maturing so the portfolio will continue to grow.
We also -- just as a reminder the investment portfolio is only about -- it's a little more than about 40% of our interest-earning assets.
So we are seeing some growth in our loan volumes both in wealth management both of it related to our global collateral services where we're increasing our secured lending and we're seeing a little bit in our core businesses as well.
So 2/3 of our NIM is generated by that.
So it's not solely what's coming out of our portfolio.
But we do think the maturities coming out of our portfolio will be a bit of a headwind on the NIM all else being equal and in the vicinity of 3 or 4 basis points.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Appreciate that color.
Can you also just remind us of any expected capital impact under new regulations related specifically to securities lending indemnifications that you extended to clients? And has there been any progress on those discussions with regulators? Is it a big deal for you? And is it already incorporated into your pro forma capital calculations? Yes at this point I think it's too early to say.
That's still under development.
There are conversations but we're not really in a position to make a definitive statement a statement one way or the other Luke.
Our next question comes from Howard Chen with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on the latest Basel III guidance of the 9.3% I mean you're effectively 2 years ahead of where you wanted to be at the fourth quarter of 2014.
So it would seems to me you can kind of ramp up capital return.
Do you agree with that? And are there any offsets we should be thinking about in that equation? Well we are just heading into CCAR season right now and we're taking a hard look as we'll go through our stress testing.
And I think that given the strength of our -- the left-hand side of the balance sheet and we're ahead of where we had anticipated to be in terms of Basel III compliance we will definitely take a hard look at this and see what the appropriate deployment is whether it's going to be the same or more.
Howard just a quick comment.
We think being ahead of schedule and given the capital that we're generating every single quarter gives us enormous flexibility as we go into as Todd said CCAR season.
And we'll go through this process and see where we can come out.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just in terms of deployment I mean how are you thinking about maybe keeping or changing the mix of share repurchase versus dividends keeping some dry powder for strategic acquisitions and obviously organic reinvestment? Well let's start with the last part of the question.
We are not interested.
It's not on the table in terms of acquisitions because we think the organic growth opportunities internally are so evident both on the revenue side as well as investing and retiring platforms investing in some of those operational initiatives so the capital that we're generating in that regard is really dedicated to the great organic growth ideas that we've identified internally and to support our clients as they face this marketplace.
The balance between dividends and share buybacks is always an interesting intellectual debate as well as a financial debate.
We think the answer is yes in terms of there should be a good balance between dividend growth and share buybacks.
And Todd you may want to add to it.
Well we do talk to our investors and they help to inform of what that mix might be.
And I think as we look out at the stress testing there is sensitivity to percentage of the dividends relative to buybacks that we need to be aware of as well.
But we will certainly look -- when we think of our capital deployment we'll look at all of that here in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Looking forward to the update.
And then shifting gears.
I was hoping you could update us industry tri-party repo reform.
What should we be anticipating on the horizon? And do you see this ultimately impacting any changes that would flow through either kind of your expense base or capital position due to kind of potential reforms? The quick answer is all of the investment and tri-party reform is in our run rate today.
We are improving the technologies to address the issues that came out of the tri-party reform task force and that's effectively to eliminate the intra-day credit that's being provided at the marketplace today.
That requires a variety of technology improvements as well as some change in behaviors on behalf of the investors and the dealers.
That's progressing well any of the expenses associated with that reform are in our run rate today.
There are investments as I said that we are making on the technology side.
I think we're making good progress and there's still a lot more work to do.
But we're making very good progress in meeting what the market is looking for.
Research Division</strong> Okay Gerald.
And then just finally for me on the expanded trading capabilities we can certainly see some early traction again this quarter.
But just could you from a high level talk about what you hope this to be what's the opportunity set? I mean how should we think about hiring expectations over the next year to sort of great view on success over kind of the next coming years on this? Yes the bulk of the investments are really on the technology platforms again.
We've described it in the past.
Foreign exchange is going the route of the equity markets where it's more electronic it's higher speed streaming prices to clients on a consistent basis giving them greater optionality in terms of how they execute with us.
We want to do the same thing with our fixed income securities area.
We think we're a great counterparty in terms of derivatives and we have a strong balance sheet and a great rating.
And so you've seen some pickup in our activity there.
We're not looking to do exotics.
We're looking to do pretty plain vanilla and straight-up customer-driven client-driven activity.
Our clients are the natural users of these things as investment managers.
We see the transactions going through us on the servicing side.
We want to just capture more of that flow and service our clients incredibly well.
So I think the -- there'll be perhaps a little more volatility in the number but I think the trend will be upwards.
Art do you want to add something to it? Okay Gerald.
Thank you.
Yes we have invested -- clearly the bulk of the investment is in the technology area.
We have also invested in some personnel that have enhanced our rates business.
But we're kind of a natural here as Gerald has said between high levels of service strong counterparty throw in there efficient settlement where we're uniquely positioned to do something like that as well.
It's just a nice service enhancement for us for not only our asset services clients but our Corporate Trust clients our DR clients our treasury services clients.
We have this wonderful broad client base that we can sell these services into.
It just makes a lot sense for us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just maybe to follow up on this.
I don't know how much you want to share how much work you've done but I mean if we look at just the top kind of 13 15 global dealers maybe the fixed income revenue pool as they define it is maybe let's say it's like $100 billion.
When you look at the opportunity set from all that you want to do healthy counterparty not take risk I mean what do you see as sort of the definable market opportunity here? Yes I think as far as the areas of growth we'll see growth in the capital markets services space across rates for sure.
Interest rate swaps is a great business for us particularly on execution.
And then we're not going to leave out foreign exchange.
I mean foreign exchange is still a very important business for us and we simply need to be a more competitive through technology resources.
In addition I'd left out the purchasing network which our purchasing client base is a marquee client base that we can also sell these services into.
So we're really looking at growth across I'd say the rates business particularly on fixed income and foreign exchange as well.
Yes.
Just in general Howard the size of the pie is very very large and we're only getting a small fraction of it.
So we can just take relatively incremental pickup in some of that activity that we're already the natural party that's servicing those transactions.
So we just want to just capture more of the flow internally.
Our final question then comes from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you guys share with us -- you're way ahead of schedule on Basel III Tier 1 common ratio where you are today versus where you thought you're going to be.
Can you tell us the factors that contributed to that success of getting there sooner? Sure Gerard.
There are a number of items.
We're first of all retaining income.
We are watching our intangible amortization burn-off which goes into the capital account effectively.
We have benefited under Basel III the other comprehensive income or the changes in the available for sale portfolio runs through the capital accounts so that has improved probably $1 billion pretax a little -- probably about $500 million or $600 million after tax in the quarter.
So it's the combination of income the combination of OCI.
And also the original BIS guidelines were strictly driven by ratings and as they've been adjusted we also got a benefit on some of the sub-investment grade securities that weren't quite as capital attractive as they otherwise would have been.
So it's the combination of those 3 items and that was a very significant one I might add.
So those 3 items have put us well in advance.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question is coming back to the commentary you made about the pricing with your top 100 clients and how it's -- you have limited pricing power there.
Are you guys seeing in that group -- and I know you're going to grow the revenues through more cross-selling for that group of clients but are you seeing actually more pressure on pricing because of the environment that you're customers are in? Or is it now just a steady pressure that really hasn't intensified in the last 12 months.
Yes Gerard.
Before we -- and I'll look to Tim to answer that question.
I mean I'd like just to remind you we're talking about the Asset Servicing business which is about 25% to 30% of our total revenues.
We're not talking about investment management.
We're not talking about issuer services or treasury services or all of our other businesses.
So we're really focused on a relatively important but only 25% to 30% of our business.
Tim do you want to add anything to that? Yes.
Gerard I would say just generally I've seen a little bit of a tapping down of repricing.
Clearly the fund management sector and insurance sector which are driving a lot of our business are under pricing pressure but that's why we stay really focused on quality service.
And I think that's why we've seen a bit of a damping down.
But the coverage model that we put on these names which I really didn't talk about yet we have a whole business dedicated to those top 125 names with a high-touch service model and it's already pulling through.
I mean half of the new business we won on the quarter directly relates to 2 big clients that we've been focusing on.
So we don't have the ability to raise prices.
We've seen a little bit of a dampening down over the last year or so on negative reprices.
But it is really much more long-term by cross-selling and delivering the new things that Art is building in collateral into those clients.
Thanks Gerard.
And thank you very much everyone for dialing in and listening in.
We appreciate it.
If you have further questions please give our IR team a call Andy Clark Izzy Dawood.
And look forward to catching up with you soon.
Thanks again everybody.
Thank you.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Mr.
Andy Clark at (212) 635-1803.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference call or webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Andy Clark.
Mr.
Clark you may begin.
Thanks Wendy and welcome everyone.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO as well as our executive management team.
Before we begin let me remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement on Page 13 of the press release and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today January 16 2013 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
Our press release and earnings review are available on our website and we will be using the earnings review to discuss our results today.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Gerald.
Gerald? Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
As you saw from our release for the fourth quarter we generated net income of $622 million and earnings per share of $0.53.
Just as a reminder we recorded $0.42 per share in the fourth quarter of last year which included restructuring charges related to our operational excellence initiatives of $0.06 per share.
Now I'm pleased to report strong growth in a number of our businesses.
Investment Management had another excellent quarter benefiting from the 13th consecutive quarter of long-term inflows and higher market values.
We've had $56 billion in net long term flows over the last 12 months which included $14 billion during the quarter.
Our success in attracting new assets helped drive assets under management to a record level of $1.4 trillion.
In Investment Services Asset Servicing Clearing and Treasury Services all saw nice growth in fee income as well.
Now that being said the market environment continues to be challenging to some of our revenue streams as volumes volatility interest rates and tepid capital markets all continue to trend below normalized levels.
These factors resulted in a decline in revenues in our lower variable cost businesses such as Depositary Receipts foreign exchange and net interest income.
And we were able to offset the decline in these revenues with growth in investment management and other investment services businesses but the growth occurred in those areas that have higher variable costs.
So the shift in the revenue mix was the principal cause of the growth in expenses year-over-year and sequentially above the level that you might have expected.
In addition we acquired the remaining 50% interest in the West LB Asset Management joint venture which we renamed Meriten that brought with it a higher expense base.
And finally we had some seasonally higher expenses in the fourth quarter and we are investing in our brand businesses and strategic initiatives to help our clients succeed in a very difficult market.
Now we have a relentless focus on creating organic growth continuing to drive some of the opportunities we've outlined for you in the past.
Some examples: accelerating our asset management growth strategies particularly in Asia and the retail space; capturing opportunities through our global collateral services business; leveraging our Pershing platform and distribution capability and building out global markets to capture more order flow.
And we recently received approval to launch our new Issuer Central Securities Depository based in Belgium which will enhance our offering for investment services and collateral management for clients in Europe.
All these initiatives will help drive our long term growth but do in fact require investments today that are showing up in our expense base.
So we are not standing still waiting for the markets to improve and we are in fact taking actions to strengthen our revenue streams.
In that regard we announced several executive appointments to accelerate our progress.
Karen Peetz was named President of the company and she will focus on one of the 3 key pillars of our firm: our clients and employees.
So client management the regions innovation collaboration employee training and development and some of our key growth initiatives will come under Karen.
The second pillar is investment services and Tim Keaney is now CEO of all our investment services businesses and this brings together all of our capabilities under one manager which will improve collaboration and enhance our ability to offer integrated solutions.
Brian Shea is now President of Investment Services and very importantly Head of Operations and Technology for the company.
These businesses are technology and operations intensive and we want those attributes closer to the client and part of the fabric of any business decision.
I also firmly believe that we have the opportunity to simplify our operating model and get better operational efficiencies across our businesses beyond the operational excellence initiatives we are currently tracking.
That is one of Brian's challenges and I know he's up for it.
And finally the third pillar of our firm is investment management which Curtis Arledge continues to run.
We have built some very nice revenue momentum here and the team is executing on our important growth opportunities.
So we have a broad deep leadership team.
We're sharpening our client focus better collaborating across our businesses and driving further productivity gains in our operating platform all while maintaining a strong capital position and returning capital to shareholders.
With that let me turn it over to Todd to go through the numbers.
Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the quarterly earnings review and we'll start on Page 2.
Reported earnings per share were $0.53 this quarter.
Our results included a $0.03 benefit related to a credit to the loan loss provision where we've seen some progress or continued progress in reducing the risk of the portfolio.
It's really paying dividends.
We did have a lower tax rate and some securities gains but in the end we don't think that they're really unusual and I'll talk about that in some detail in a minute.
And there were also some seasonally higher expenses not indicative of our core ongoing run rate.
If you take all those items into account we see this as about a $0.50 quarter.
This compares with $0.42 in the year ago quarter which as Gerald mentioned included a negative impact of about $0.06 per share related to restructuring charges.
Looking at the numbers on a year-over-year basis total revenue was $3.6 billion.
That's up 2% while fee and other revenue was up 3%.
Investment management fees were up strongly and we had nice fee growth in Asset Servicing Clearing and Treasury Services and those were partially offset by declines in FX revenue and NIR as well as softness in Issuer Services.
While the current low interest rate environment continues to negatively impact net interest revenue it has driven a significant improvement in the value of the investment securities portfolio and that's given us the opportunity to realize some gains there.
Expenses were up 7% but if you look at it on a core basis which was -- that is on a core basis which excludes amortization of intangible assets M&amp;I litigation restructuring charges and some direct expenses related to Shareowner Services.
As Gerald had mentioned earlier the biggest factor in the increase was the change in our revenue mix and I'll give you some more color on that in a moment.
Turning to Page 4 where we call out some business metrics that will help explain our underlying performance.
You can see that AUM of $1.4 trillion was up 10% year-over-year and up 2% sequentially resulting from higher market values and net inflows.
During the quarter we had net long-term inflows of $14 billion and short-term outflows of $6 billion.
It was our 13th consecutive quarter of positive long term inflows with long term flows of $56 billion over the last 12 months.
Assets under custody and administration were up 9% year-over-year to $26.7 trillion.
Those were driven by higher market values and net new business.
Linked quarter AUC was up slightly.
As you may see here AUC in our prior periods is down about 4% to 5% as we've restated to reflect the correction of a double count of legacy Mellon assets.
The restatement had no impact to our growth rate our revenues or our earnings.
A number of key metrics showed growth on a year-over-year basis.
All clearing metrics improved.
Margin loans were up nicely and collateral management GAAP balances continue to grow at a robust rate a trend that our global collateral services group is positioned to capitalize on.
Looking at fees on Page 6.
Asset Servicing fees were up 7% year-over-year and flat sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects net new business higher market values and higher collateral management revenue.
Sequentially those positives were partially offset by decline in securities lending revenues and that was driven by slightly lower balances as well as lower spreads.
We had $190 billion in new AUC wins for a total of $1.5 trillion in AUC wins over the last 12 months.
If you look at Issuer Services fees excluding the Shareowner Services business which we sold at the end of last year they were down 12% year-over-year and 31% sequentially.
The year-over-year decrease primarily resulted from lower DR revenue as volumes are down quite a bit this year also lower corporate trust fees resulting from that continued net runoff of structured debt securitizations that we've mentioned previously.
The sequential decrease primarily resulted from the $107 million decrease in DR revenues that we have indicated which was largely seasonal.
As you saw last quarter this is a relatively high fixed cost business so a gain or loss of revenue doesn't have much in the way of expenses associated with it.
Clearing fees were up 6% year-over-year and 2% sequentially.
Both increases primarily reflect higher mutual fund fees driven by increases in positions and balances higher cash management balances and also an increase in DARTS.
So all in all not a bad performance considering the weaker volumes we are seeing on the exchanges.
The year-over-year increase also reflects the higher impact of -- the impact of higher clearance revenue.
Investment management and performance fees were up 17% year-over-year and 9% sequentially.
Both increases were impacted by the Meriten acquisition.
If you exclude Meriten investment management performance fees were up 15% year-over-year and those were driven by higher market values net new business and slightly lower fee waivers.
In FX and other trading revenue was down 39% year-over-year and 24% sequentially.
If you look at the components FX revenue of $106 million was down 42% year-over-year and 12% sequentially.
Both decreases reflect a sharp decline in market volatility and that's consistent with the index that we show you on Page 5.
That's the JP Morgan G7 Volatility Index.
We also saw in the period a modest decline in volumes.
Other trading revenue was $33 million and that compares with $44 million -- $45 million in the year ago quarter and $61 million in the prior quarter.
Both comparisons reflect lower fixed income trading revenues driven by lower interest rate trading.
Investment and other income totaled $116 million into the quarter compared with $146 million in the year ago quarter and $124 million in the third quarter.
The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects the pretax gain on the sale of Shareowner Services business while the sequential decrease reflects lower seed capital gains and equity investment revenue.
Turning to Page 8 of the earnings review.
NIR was down $55 million versus the year ago quarter and $24 million sequentially.
The year-over-year decrease was principally driven by the elimination of interest on ECB deposits.
We had lower accretion and there were lower yields on the reinvestment of securities.
Partially that was offset by higher interest earning assets as we saw a significant increase in deposit levels.
The sequential decrease in NIR had all of the above.
In addition it was impacted by the decline on LIBOR after the Fed announced QE3.
We have quite a few floating-rate assets that are linked to LIBOR and 3-month LIBOR fell about 10 basis points on average for the quarter.
The net interest margin was 109 basis points compared with 127 in the year ago quarter and 1.2 in the prior quarter.
During the quarter the net [ph] margin was negatively impacted by the sharp rise in deposits that I mentioned as that cash was primarily left at the Fed where it earned only 25 basis points.
Overall the increase in deposits we estimate reduced the margin by approximately 6 basis points sequentially and about 8 basis points on a year-over-year basis.
Today we have a $2.4 billion unrealized gain in the investment securities portfolio and we have sold and we would expect to continue to sell in this environment securities to rebalance the portfolio and manage our operation risk.
As such the gains realized on these sales should be considered along with net interest revenue in evaluating our overall results.
In the fourth quarter combined NIR and securities gains totaled $775 million.
That compares with $770 million in the year-ago quarter -- excuse me $777 million in the year ago quarter and $771 million in the linked quarter.
Now turning to Page 9.
You can see that total noninterest expense x amortization of intangible assets M&amp;I litigation and restructuring charges and also the direct expenses with Shareowner Services were up 7% year-over-year and 4% sequentially.
Both increases were primarily driven by the revenue mix as the low rate environment and tepid capital markets activity drove a decline in our fixed cost businesses.
For example DR revenue was down $107 million.
FX and other trading revenue was -- declined $43 million.
NIR was down $24 million sequentially.
All of these have variable cost -- have very little variable cost associated with them unlike the revenue that replaced them in investment management asset servicing clearing and treasury services.
Expenses over both periods also reflect higher software and business development expenses as well as the operating expenses associated with the Meriten acquisition.
The M&amp;I litigation and restructuring line item of our P&amp;L included expenses related to our operational excellence initiatives just as it did in the year ago quarter.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 the restructuring component also included severance expense and lease restructuring charge and these were offset by the gain on the sale of a property.
The net restructuring charges totaled less than $1 million for the fourth quarter of '12.
For the full year total expense was up about $220 million and that -- in terms of that increase M&amp;I litigation and restructuring offset the reduction that was related to the sale of Shareowner Services last year.
The operational excellence initiatives ended up offsetting the headwinds in compensation and other operating expenses that we've spoken about in the past.
As a result the overall increase in expenses was largely driven by the impact of the revenue mix that I just described.
Turning to Page 10 you can see the progress of our operational excellence initiatives which are improving our efficiency helping to offset merit and benefit increases and positioning us for an improved operating environment.
You'll see that the full year we exceeded our target on a gross savings basis with about $397 million versus the target of $360 million to $390 million.
For 2012 the incremental program cost total is $88 million resulting in net savings of $309 million versus the $240 million to $260 million target.
As you can see our program costs were largely the driver for this as they came in lower than expected and the reason for that is a significant portion of the lease restructuring and severance expenses were allocated to the restructuring charge that I just mentioned.
As you can see on Page 11 our capital ratio has strengthened.
Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was 9.8% at quarter end.
That compares to 9.30% at the end of the third quarter.
This increase was chiefly attributable to lower risk-weighted assets as well as some earnings retention.
During the year we repurchased nearly 50 million common shares for $1.1 billion so we're executing on our 2012 CCAR plan and our strong capital position provides us with the flexibility to continue to return capital to our shareholders.
Moving on to our loan book on Page 13 you can see that the provision for credit losses was a credit this quarter of $61 million.
This compares to a provision of $23 million in the year ago quarter.
The credit was largely driven by a reduction in the allowance for credit losses related to the residential loan portfolio which has experienced better performance when you compare it to the industry's historical losses.
During the quarter we began using our actual loan loss experience rather than the industry data in order to get a better estimate for the allowance for credit losses and hence the release.
The effective tax rate was 24.3% which primarily reflects the benefit associated with the reorganization of certain foreign operations.
But the good news here is the lower tax rate should continue as we benefit from increased investment tax credits against a lower earnings stream and we also have a larger tax exempt to municipal bond portfolio.
Before I provide some updates for your models I wanted to give you another look at how the revenue mix is impacting our expenses.
So if you turn to Page 16 in the earnings review where we break out investment services fees as a percentage of noninterest expense I can walk you through this impact.
The reported ratio was 90% for both the fourth quarter of 2012 as well as for 2011.
But if you recall from our revenue commentary Depositary Receipt fees are down year-over-year due to lower volumes.
This decline in revenue only results in a minimal reduction in expenses.
So if you adjust for the year-over-year impact of DRs the fourth quarter of 2012 ratio would have been in the 92% range rather than 90% and that demonstrates that we are making some progress in our operational excellence initiatives particularly in Asset Servicing.
Now a few points to factor into your thinking about the current quarter.
We don't -- and looking forward we don't see -- foresee a significant improvement in interest rates and FX volatility in the near term.
In terms of NIR and securities gains we expect them to remain flat and that's if we're able to execute on our loan growth related to our global securities services businesses.
Operational excellence initiatives should be on plan.
The quarterly provisions should be around 0.
Our preferred dividends will be about $0.01 a quarter and the effective tax rate should come in a bit lower than we previously guided say about 25% or so.
During the quarter and all of 2013 we'll be focused on 4 main activities: creating organic growth executing on operational and excellence initiatives continuing to maintain our strong balance sheet and strengthening our capital position and returning some of that capital to our shareholders.
With that let me turn it back to Gerald.
Thanks Todd.
And Wendy I think we can open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Howard Chen with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just throughout the commentary you spoke a lot about the fourth quarter environment being one of which you had low client activity and low volatility.
Just curious given we had a couple idiosyncratic events like the U.S.
election and the fiscal cliff and we're into 2013 now have you seen any meaningful changes across the business or early signs of re-risking whether it's kind of a custodial and servicing side of the business or things like frictional deposits rolling off? Interesting question Howard.
What we did see towards the end of the year just as we saw in August 2011 was with the physical (sic) [fiscal] cliff looming we saw a fairly significant increase in our deposits on our balance sheet and so we saw a run-up of $20 billion $30 billion in our deposits.
Most of that has already moved back off the balance sheet some of which has moved into traditional money market funds some of which appears to be going into investments.
I think we're going to be facing some ways a bit of a number of cliffs.
I think the debt ceiling limit is going to put another potential concern in the eyes of investors.
Hopefully we'll get through that but we are seeing people trying to put some money to work but still there's an enormous amount of cash sitting on the sidelines waiting for better certainty and clarity.
I think some of the investment management flows which maybe I can ask Curtis to speak to he's seeing some activity pick up there showing up in some of our numbers.
So maybe Curtis you want to just touch upon that a little bit too.
Yes absolutely I mean there's been a lot discussed in the media about the flows that have been into equity funds in the first part of this year and we have seen that and then some.
I think at the end of 2012 clients broadly were waiting to see kind of how the fiscal cliff played out.
And obviously with debt ceiling and sequester and budget and other things still in front of us there still are some uncertainties.
But I think as each uncertainty gets removed we definitely see a reason to not act all the way.
And the flows that we've seen and the conversation that we're having would lead us to believe that investors and when I say investors I mean everything from retail mutual fund investors to some of the world's largest sovereign wealth funds are absolutely looking at this as an environment to begin to put money back to work.
Again I think uncertainty has dampened people's activity in terms of making a decision to invest.
And as we get past each of these events we've seen people absolutely take action and I know other parts of our company see flows as well.
Brian I don't know if you...
Yes Brian maybe you want to talk about what you see on the Pershing platform on the retail side particularly.
Yes we've only had a couple of weeks of data to monitor but so far this year there's a significant shift both an increase in the inflows into mutual funds on the platform and a big shift from what was in 2012 primarily fixed income-oriented funds to more of a balance.
And so you're seeing a big growth in equity mutual fund inflows at least for the first couple of weeks.
So hard to tell if that's a long term trend yet but definitely a positive sign.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's really helpful.
And then Todd you provided some near-term outlook for spread revenues.
Just putting aside that outsized deposited movement that we just spoke about for a minute can you just discuss the reinvestment environment for the securities book as you see it? I mean we've clearly seen some movement on the longer end of the curve but not a lot on the shorter end where I think in my opinion historically has mattered more for you guys.
Yes I think that's a good observation Howard.
The short end of the curve is more important at this point because the duration of our liabilities is more better matched there.
When you look through the course of the year even in a quarter the decline that we've seen in the net interest margin is a reflection of 2 things one is spreads and the other is balances and it's about 50-50 and so we don't see the spread environment in the short end improving.
In fact we've pretty much gone through the repricing that you would have expected with the resets in the lower LIBOR rates.
So it's a headwind and we expect more of the same.
As we had indicated we're not expecting a better environment in 2013.
We're expecting more of the same.
We've got a couple of pretty tough punches in 2012 when the ECB eliminated the credit on excess reserves as well as QE3 which dragged down mortgages as well as some of the short end of the curve.
So hopefully we won't see those kind of events again in 2013 but we don't expect a lot of improvement.
Research Division</strong> Fantastic.
And then final one for me just on capital return.
Todd you mentioned the capital ratios continuing to grow and just continuing to plug along in the buyback.
But on the near-term the fourth quarter did the buyback slow down due to timing of year or potentially the Meriten acquisition or something else? And then do you have any more overall [ph] thoughts on CCAR and 2013 as you enter the year with really strong Basel I and Basel III ratios? Yes.
At the end of 2012 as Gerald had mentioned we saw a pretty sharp spike in our balances and most of that spike has since whittled away.
But when we saw that we actually saw a little bit of -- what could have been a little bit of pressure on our leverage ratio and we thought it was on our interest to hold back on about $100 million or so of buybacks that we probably could have done to make sure that we had a strong leverage ratio and a strong CCAR that we could present for 2013.
So we didn't want it to interfere at all with our 2013 efforts.
Our next question is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two questions one on the expense ratio.
Todd you mentioned that the expenses reflect the revenue profile that you have right now.
Should I take that to mean that we're -- we should anticipate a higher expense ratio going forward until we see some rate hikes? Or that there's going to be another round of efforts on trying to lower the expense ratio? Or is this about as low as it can go? Yes -- no I think mix will be key to it Betsy and the fourth quarter was particularly soft for DRs.
So if you just imagine $100 million with very little variable expense from quarter-to-quarter.
So it's going to be the revenue mix and DRs was the noisiest component of that revenue mix.
So we had expected to improve a little bit as the revenue mix gets more normal and just some of the seasonal impact.
So I think in your model you will have to average that out a little bit better.
We probably should have given you a little clearer guidance on that...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you are running ahead of your expense programs in terms of targeted improvement in the expenses? We are -- yes we're slightly ahead of where we would have expected to be.
The cost are slightly less to get there and the reason for that largely is because we allocated a lot of those costs in a restructuring charge against a gain that we took on the sale of a property.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then from here how should we think about the benefit of the program on earnings? I think it's going to be consistent with what we have indicated in the past.
Effectively what the operational expense initiatives are doing for us is they're offsetting some of the growth related to pension related to other benefits expenses related to merit increases and some slight inflation in our other operating expenses.
So those are matching themselves off.
So in order to generate operating leverage it's pretty hard if we don't show a little bit of growth outside of that to generate a whole lot of operating leverage.
If we can generate 2% or 3% or 4% of revenue growth then we'll -- then we can see some operating leverage.
But again we want you to be mindful of the revenue mix in that.
So if NIR is flat and FX is flat and we're seeing in the lower margin business the revenue growth and you're going -- then the operating leverage is going to be more challenging.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then second question is on the capital ratio and you mentioned that part of the reason for the improvement this quarter was the lower RWA.
Could you describe what's backing that? And I guess I just -- the follow-up on that is are you as able to pay out against lower RWAs as you are against earnings accreted improvements in the capital ratio? Yes I mean a couple of questions there.
The reason for the little improvement in the Basel III Tier 1 common ratio the numerator accounted for about 10 basis points as we did see about $150 million or 10 basis point increase in the capital and that's pretty consistent with what we would expect to retain in a quarter -- in a normal quarter.
The denominator we'd expect to get some benefit as we see some runoff typically in some of the higher weighted -- risk-weighted assets.
This quarter for the same reason that we got some improvement on the reserve we got some improvement using the similar models.
We got some improvement on the risk weighted assets as our historical data against a lot of retail analysis and commercial loans has improved dramatically.
So as we've improved the quality of our portfolio which reflected in our risk weights and we've readdressed those risk weights in the quarter so we picked up some of the benefit of that so that was a little bit more of it.
The 40 basis points in the denominator is probably heavy by about 20 to 25.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just thinking on the payout ratio we hear that sustainable earnings obviously very critical for payout ratios and I'm just try to understand.
Do you think that the improvement in the capital ratio that you got this quarter feeds into that much higher of ability to do the payouts in 2013? Or should we really be looking at what the earnings generation is driving in terms of improvement in the capital ratio? Okay let me make a couple of comments and then Gerald probably want to make a comment or 2.
Where -- the CCAR looks at things under normal and also under stress.
And as we've indicated in the past we intend to do pretty well because we've got some -- really 2 things going for us.
One is we don't rely on a lot of risky assets in order to generate our revenues and the other thing is the mix of our businesses is a little less equity intensive so that a steep drop in the equity markets has a little less impact to us.
So as a result we can kind of continue to generate even through a pretty ugly environment like the ones that we've gone through for us.
So it's really based on -- the payouts will be based on where we see our performance and what we see as being prudent given where our capital ratios are.
But certainly it puts us in a position with stronger capital ratios than we would have expected at this point of the year to do a little better.
I don't know Gerald...
Yes so maybe I can add onto that a little bit.
I think we're quite pleased with that 9.8% Basel III Tier 1 common ratio.
I think it gives us an increased flexibility to consider capital actions.
I would generally say that the dividend payout ratio and the 25% to 30% is probably something for all of us to think about.
And the total payout ratio last year we guided you to about the 65% range.
I think we have the flexibility to see that north of that 65%.
Our next question is from Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Quickie as you -- I think this has been asked in the past but just always want a little more color.
If you look at assets under management they're up nicely 10% year-on-year and the fees associated up 15% x acquisitions.
That's great and normal.
Assets under custody up 9% year-on-year.
The servicing fees are flattish.
You gave some pieces to that.
But I guess the question is is there a reason why that over longer periods of time wouldn't have the same rational relationship? Is something changing in the mix that we shouldn't expect fees and assets to grow in line with each other? Yes.
I think some of that Glenn has to do with the fact that Corporate Trust and DRs are included in the Investment Service revenues.
And so I think our Asset Servicing fees have in fact been growing but the Corporate Trust and DRs have been declining particularly in this quarter.
DR is more seasonal than structural and at Corporate Trust we've just seen a runoff in the structured products which are impacting overall revenues.
Asset Servicing fees have been growing maybe not totally in line with the assets under custody.
But maybe I'll ask Tim to comment specifically on that.
Yes sure.
Glenn it's Tim.
Year-over-year just a reminder the Asset Servicing fees grew at 7% versus AUC of 9% and I think you see a couple things.
I think you see a little bit of a mixed shift.
I think some of it is timing.
I would certainly say that more of our new business converted towards the back end of the year.
And then frankly a little bit of it is loss business by maintaining our strong pricing discipline.
So hopefully that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> Definitely.
I appreciate all of that.
Maybe a quickie on -- not the biggest number just more curious.
If you x FX if you look at fixed income trading it's had big swing up last quarter and down 46% this quarter.
The explanation was lower interest rate trading revs.
I'm just curious we see -- if we look at the big broker-dealers we're looking at like 15% swings not a 46% swing.
So just maybe a little explanation on what you're trading for whom on a quarterly basis as you grow out the global markets business.
Okay.
There's -- there are really 2 activities there outside of -- or 2 key activities outside of FX and the other trading category.
One of them is general fixed income trading where we do make markets for our clients.
So we saw that a little softer.
And the thing that's more episodic is really around some interest rate trading.
So we saw interest rate derivative trading.
So we saw a fair number of interest rate derivative trading activity in the third quarter that we didn't see replicate itself in the fourth quarter.
And the nature of that business it is -- for us sits on such a small number Glenn that a little change is a pretty significant impact percentage-wise.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No I hear you I hear you.
Just more curious than anything else.
The last one on -- a lot of talk about the collateral management opportunity.
I know you're investing in it.
We've seen some of the market participants not ready for central clearing.
But -- so maybe a question on timing but also if you can even size the opportunity of -- and where you're at in the investment cycle for that opportunity.
Yes.
Glenn we continue to build out the capabilities.
We've seen very good interest from the buy side.
Traditionally our collateral management has been supporting the dealer community and we've seen some nice growth in our tri-party collateral balances.
I think we produced a number for you.
We are experiencing some fee growth in the area already where we're also seeing some net interest income growth in that area as we help optimize and transform some of the collateral for the dealer community in particular.
So we're starting to see some good further attraction in this space.
Part of the CSD announcement that we made is to support collateral services in Europe into the future.
So we're excited about that.
I know you all are anxious to see more transparency and information around this and later in the year I think we'll be able to put together some better numbers and direction for you.
But we feel good about our progress and we continue to see very good interest in it.
Our next question is from Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was intrigued by your announcement last week that you're going to start the Central Security Depository in Europe.
You just mentioned it.
I'm wondering if you might comment on the cost of that and really the longer-term strategic possibilities.
And then also do you think that's an opportunity that's unique to BNY Mellon because you have the corporate issuer client base or can it be replicated by your global custodian peers? Great question.
I love that question.
So Tim I'll -- yes it's in your area.
I'll ask you to address it.
Sure.
Look it's a bright spot for us.
You know the regulations are changing both Dodd-Frank and EMIR coming up on us very quickly.
So that's driving people to make decisions partly around the collateral question that was just asked to Gerald.
But more importantly there's a number of CSDs in Europe.
We're the only one that provides the full value chain of services particularly the notary functions so the things that happened before secondary trading and we think that's a unique differentiator for us.
We started to do this initially to defend our Issuer Services business in Europe.
But as the bond business and Issuer Services business grows we think this could become a needle mover for us.
So I would say watch this space.
But you correctly connect the CSD strategy to collateral.
Because in a post Target2-Securities environment T2S should go into effect in June 2015 you have to be a CSD to play in Central Bank money collateral.
So that's the other reason why we did this which has a much more strategic aspect to it and connects our collateral ambitions here in the U.S.
to our collateral ambitions in Europe.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just could you quickly come back to whether you think that's a unique opportunity to you and could State Street do it for example? I would say relative to our traditional trust bank competitors I don't think -- see anybody that can offer the level of services that we have that the landscape's changing in terms of the current players like Euroclear and Clearstream.
But again I would say they're missing one important part of the value chain.
But again just think of this in terms of impact in 2013 as being somewhat modest and building over the next I would say 2 years.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And then on the collateral management clearly people are talking a lot about the revenue opportunity but I think a lot less so about what this means to risk and the interconnectedness of the financial system.
And I think in one sense this is just repo but I'm wondering whether the types of collateral transformation I hear you say that you're going to engage in say like lending out treasuries for corporate bonds whether we should be concerned about the contingent liquidity risk you and others are going to be taking on to facilitate those types of activities for your clients.
Sure.
No it's a very good question and something we're very very mindful of.
We obviously need to continue to enhance our risk management capabilities in this space and ability to liquidate collateral if we had to but don't think of all of the transformation occurring on our balance sheet.
Some of our role is to be an intermediary between parties where we act as the agents.
So in some cases we'll use our clients' treasury through our treasuries in that transformation process.
In other cases we'll simply be the agent between the parties.
So we don't always have to be the lender.
Obviously there's a lot of value in that but they're -- you're correct in saying there's risk associated with it and we have to be mindful of that risk and manage it very very well.
And so we are enhancing and building out our capabilities in that space to be able to handle it.
And Luke if I can add something to that.
I mean we're sitting on $90 billion or up to $90 billion in central bank deposits.
If we can put a little bit of that to work to relatively short-term secured floating rate loans that effectively can convert a corporate bond to cash that can then be posted at a central clearer that's a great trade and it comes with very little -- we certainly have the liquidity to handle it and it comes with very very little incremental risk and some incremental income.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on that one and final question.
Do you envision the bulk of your activities to be as the agent administrator or as principal? Like which of the 2 of those is the bigger revenue opportunity for you? Well the immediate quick hit this is -- net interest income shows up with virtually no expense and therefore bottom line income.
So you're going to see the more quick revenue hit in that space.
But longer term we want to have it be more at an agent position where we get continuous repeatable fees and that's what we expect out of this.
And so it's creating that neural network as we refer to and have all the parties use us principally as agent rather than acting as principal and using our balance sheet.
Our next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on the NII and securities gains topic.
Todd I heard your comments about hoping to keep that combination of the 2 flat.
But can you talk a little bit more about how risk is changing within it? And you obviously have a lot of unrealized gains left.
But at some point you're going to sacrifice net interest income for gains and that could run out.
So I just want to understand how long you can see the visibility out on keeping those 2 kind of working together because at some point you may not be able to keep the gains going in lieu of protecting your NII.
Yes.
Actually I look forward to that date because it probably implies a little higher interest rates Ken.
But the -- I think the simple way to think about this is we try to maintain a portfolio about 2 years in duration relatively very low credit risk as you can see from looking at it.
So each quarter a quarter burns through and as we take -- as some of those securities come down and they get very rich because there's strong interest on the short -- on the relatively short end of the curve for those assets we'll sell some of the richer securities and then we'll reinvest back out on the curve.
That gives up -- it can give up a little bit of NII on a go-forward basis but it's not too much.
And that's why -- and it maintains the portfolio balance to where we want it.
And that's why as we started to look more and more of this it's exactly what's been going on and we wanted to make sure investors see that and that we would intend to do that as long as the interest rate environment stays where it is.
If the rate environment changes so if we see a rise in rates we'd probably do a little of extension duration.
There would be no need for that type of activity but we would be making up for it in our NIR.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just cleaning up one can you tell us what the accretion portion was this quarter? I don't recall.
Off the top of my head it was probably around $60 million.
It tends to come in about $5 million or so a quarter as we had indicated in the past.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then on a separate topic good trajectory on custody.
But what's getting harder to understand within that Asset Servicing line is how the custody fees are going.
Following on Glenn's question this quarter also looked like you had about the slowest win rate of new custody wins.
So I was wondering if you can just kind of talk us through what's happening just on core custody revenues because you have to x out collateral management x out broker dealer services x our security lending and we don't see any of that.
And then also if you could just touch on like is anything changing with regards to the speed of new wins on the core custody side? Tim why don't you take that one? Yes sure I'll take that.
But first let me take them in kind of reverse order.
Don't get overly concerned about that new business win rate because less of the business is geared to AUC and that's something we need to think about.
I've gone back and looked at over the last 6 quarters in terms of win and pipeline it's been pretty consistent.
And the mix and the ratio between AUC going up 9% year-on-year and fees going up 7% I talked a little bit about earlier I wouldn't be overly concerned about that although the mix is changing a bit.
And so we are doing more of middle office outsourcing and transfer agency and things.
But there's also some good news in there.
You're also seeing the repricing that we've been implementing now for some time has some traction and so I wouldn't say -- I'd also just say that the business continues to be very competitive especially in the large end of the market.
So no I can't tell you there's been any significant shift there Ken.
Yes.
The assets under custody wins from quarter-to-quarter are pretty lumpy.
If you get some big ones in 1 quarter you won't necessarily see them in the next quarter.
So that's not a steady state.
But we are seeing a steady state in terms of the increased interest in mid-office and derivatives servicing and a variety of other things.
So -- some of which require -- that are slow to ramp up on the revenue side even with the announcement that we make and over time that we expect those revenues to come in.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then my third question -- last question is just on Issuer Services.
And you guys had very much given us an understanding of the seasonal decline that we would expect to see in DRs and then also the ongoing challenges on the structured finance runoff which you've given that kind of that 50 or 75 basis point headwind.
So how close are we to -- it's tough now to talk about it sequentially because of the seasonality.
But as far as just the business is concerned as we think about the year ahead knowing what we know about the environment at what point are we getting to a kind of a bottoming of those 2 line items? And do you expect growth in Issuer Services as we look ahead on a year-over-year basis? Yes.
I'll make a couple of comments there.
First of all let's split Issuer Services into 2 businesses there's Corporate Trust and there's DRs.
So DRs is a cyclical business.
It's a -- it's really largely driven by the developing markets and the BRICs.
So we're seeing softness in new capital development there and M&amp;A and any type of corporate action.
So that -- and that tends to be somewhat cyclical.
So with the global downturn it's reflected even more dramatically there.
Back in September when we did an analysis unfortunately we don't -- we haven't computed those numbers yet when we looked at the total number of corporate actions in the DR space it was down about 30% year-over-year and that's what really drives the revenue base there.
So that's going to come with the cycle.
So we -- if you expect an uptick and a little combinations and corporate actions in the developing world we'll see that.
And -- but if not it'll -- it could get -- it'll stay here.
And that -- then that will have some impact as I mentioned on leverage because it doesn't come both ways.
There's not a lot of expenses associated with it.
With -- in terms of Corporate Trust that's more a reflection.
We're seeing okay business in most components of it.
But the non-agency book and the CLO-CEO book continues to run off.
There are some CLOs being created and we're getting our market share of those at least.
But it's not fast enough to stop that decline that we've seen which we would probably expect over the next couple of years.
Yes.
And Ken the only thing I would like to add it's Karen Peetz is that we did see some great spots.
It's not enough to kind of set a trend for Depositary Receipts.
But December of the quarter we had some optimism where the pipeline's up pretty significantly as we head into the new year.
And then the only thing I'd amplify on Todd's comment about CLOs is we are the market leader as those new CLOs are coming to market.
There are 127 all of last year of which we won 33%.
So hopefully it will begin to offset the decline that's happening on the existing book.
Our next question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to NII for just one sec.
Todd you talked about in the past is you kind of trying to keep net interest income flattish.
Balance sheet is up about 12% year-over-year and I get that interest rates are lower.
But you guys talked in the past about trying to reinvest little bit more.
So I guess should we think about the decline in NII just from a dollar perspective as a sign you guys not being able to reinvest quickly enough or I guess the rate compression is a little bit worse? And again what gives you confidence that you guys can again kind of keep the number flattish from here if rates stay where they are? Yes I'd say there are 2 things.
Number one the contraction rates was a little heavier than we had expected and QE3 drove some of that.
And the one thing that hasn't moved as quickly as we had hoped is some of that secured lending that we just described.
So our view is we're going to see some burn off of assets.
We can fight that headwind if we have the growth in our collateral services business and the principal lending side of that business.
That will basically moderate it along with the repayment of some of our trust preferreds.
And -- but spreads are tough.
I mean there's no question about it.
And the -- with the Fed in there buying mortgages they've become so rich.
It doesn't really make sense to put some of the shorter-duration mortgages on our -- in our book.
So that's -- the way we sustain the NII that we have is going to be -- and the securities gains is going to be a combination of managing the portfolio the way we had described and putting more of that money to work at a little faster pace.
We weren't as successful as we would've like to have been this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up on the collateral transformation opportunity for you guys.
I understand there's still lots of questions around the size of the market and how much collateral is actually going to be needed over time.
But I guess when you think about the incremental NIM pickup for you guys what is it today? You mentioned $90 billion sitting deposits with the Fed or just in treasuries earning 25-ish basis points.
What do you guys get currently on secured lending which I guess we could try to use as a proxy for what you would do on the -- what you would get on the collateral transformation opportunity? Yes it can be all over the place based on the counterparty and the collateral underneath it.
But it would certainly be 35 to 75 basis points higher than which you would see holding the money at the Fed Alex.
And the way to think about it is we would like to see the book grow by $20 billion and so that's some of the -- that would be our ability to offset some of that spread contraction headwind.
And Alex just a little bit of other color.
The fourth quarter between the physical (sic) [fiscal] cliff in Europe and a variety of other things that were going on I think people particularly towards the end of the quarter were really in a risk-off mode in terms of leaving a lot of cash all around the world.
We're already starting to see some of that cash go back to work.
Hopefully we'll see some more capital markets activities and therefore demand for borrowed securities in the sec lending side demand for further collateral transformation as people pick up their trading activities.
So we're a little bit more hopeful than -- concerning the fourth quarter activity that market activity will pick up in that space and therefore we'll be able to put some more money to work.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just the last one for me.
I was hoping you could dissect the Issuer Services a little bit.
I think we kind of -- the picture on the DR side of the business is clear some of that is cyclical and that's certainly shown up in the numbers.
But when you think about the Corporate Trust business 2012 was still a pretty good year for total DCM activity so to speak.
Corporate high yield was probably one of the better issue of the year as we've seen.
So is there a way to kind of tease out I guess the sensitivity to your business if we see a decline in kind of corporate issuance and I guess couple that with the fact that the structured credit stuff which I guess is about $100 million of annual revenues or so keeps running off? Right.
So it's Karen again.
The high yield and the corporate debt types tend to be our lower fees.
And there's also -- even though high yield as an example we always dominate it's still a small number of deals in the realm of kind of global issuance.
So that can't kind of carry the day.
The other thing is the structured book has historically been the highest fee and margin.
And so as that's runs off and also as new deals are coming in priced less than the old deals were you get this kind of real churn that's happening in the business.
So to a large extent how we're reacting is to just transform the business model.
We've gone to a more functional alignment so that we can manage the expenses.
And we're in this kind of wait-and-see mode.
We have a great footprint.
We have a great kind of strategic capability but we're very much going to have a lot more flexibility in how we can manage expenses as we go forward.
Our next question is from Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Could you just flesh out the expenses a little bit more in the fourth quarter? I mean just looking to try to understand the trajectory as we go into 2013 in a few lines such as professional services and software and equipment and business development.
They looked a little high.
Just wondering if you can frame out the seasonality of that versus what we might see in 2013 and also talk about the pace of the cost-saving initiatives.
I think you're targeting a little over $400 million for 2013.
Is that still the number we should be thinking of? And so I guess what I'm getting at is are we still looking at around a $2.8 billion quarterly run rate or do you think you can improve upon that? Sure Brian.
Answering the question around our initiatives I think you should look at what we had -- the guidance that we had previously given and we expect that we will be in line with that guidance for 2013.
That's what we certainly budgeted for.
In terms of some of the quarter-end driving expenses I mean we saw some seasonal things like our donations were up our marketing expenses were up.
We tend to have a conference.
In fact we had 1 conference that we only have every 4 years was -- it came in this fourth quarter.
As well it tends to be -- we take a hard look at some of our assets in terms of software and there were a couple of write-offs there.
And typically that will happen in the fourth quarter and it can also be related to our operational excellence initiatives as we start to sunset some of the systems.
We're also making some investment in our brands as well and we'll roll that out in the first quarter.
That being said Brian given the environment that we're operating in we just have to be very very disciplined around our expenses.
And it's one of the things I said in my opening comments we're going to continue to try to drive efficiencies across our operating platforms and our expense base.
So it's something we have a lot of focus on and a lot of attention on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like that $2.8 billion is a little elevated and as you go into 2013 the cost-saving initiatives should help offset some of the natural inflation from a base that's a little bit lower than $2.8 billion on a quarterly basis.
Is that fair to say? I think you're spot on on that.
I think that's fair.
And be careful to -- as you design your model think about the revenue mix.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Right of course okay.
And then on -- and asset servicing Tim maybe can you talk about how the pricing initiative is going? I know you repriced a lot of the lower base -- or do you expect some more attrition to come from some of those repriced agreements in 2013? And if you can talk about that in conjunction with the business that you're winning on the mid-office maybe just sort of a net outlook for growth in Assets Service and revenue in 2013 in that area.
Sure.
Why don't I start with something I haven't mentioned yet Brian which is we have an excellent pipeline of business that will convert over the next 3 quarters so -- of the wins that we have not converted yet which is significant it's a little over $800 billion so that's 1.5 kind of quarters of activity in value that hasn't quite converged yet into the run rate.
But on pricing just to remind you this is a long-term strategy for us structurally realigning the business.
We started with the low end of the client base as you'll recall.
The way I would think about is if you look at Asset Servicing fees not Investment Services fees but Asset Servicing fees we think we've got pricing power over let's say 10% to 12%.
We've been raising prices steadily where we're allowed contractually to do so.
We're retaining 75% of the clients with about a 20% uplift.
I don't think that's going to change at all.
We're staying very disciplined on that.
And the great news there is that'll drop straight to the bottom line.
So we've only got about 10% of that showing up in the run rate yet so I think there's upside there.
But because of the nature of when clients are repricing we're largely timing the repricing out to when client contracts come up for review.
That will largely be done by the first quarter of 2015.
And personally I think the more impactful thing over time will be the other end of the spectrum which is those very large clients where we see opportunity to do a lot more in places like collateral in our global markets capabilities and that's something we focused on as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And large part of that $800 million is mid-office that's coming in? It's really mixed Brian.
You would see a core bundle of Asset Servicing with securities lending and foreign exchange and accounting.
And then you'd see about half of it which are things like middle office outsourcing transfer agency fund administration and that is something.
That mix has shifted slightly over time.
So it's about 50-50.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just real quick on the net interest revenue outlook of staying flat.
Does that include the assumption of deploying some of the $90 billion of central bank deposits into higher-yielding secured loans Todd? It does Brian.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then money market fee waivers for the fourth quarter.
Could you mention the EPS hit from that and then whether you'd see fee waivers moving up in the first quarter given that little bit of a decline in short-term rates? Yes.
The money market fee waivers were consistent with what we had seen in the third quarter so there really hasn't been much of a change.
There's actually slightly improved from where we were on a year-over-year basis.
So right now I don't -- of course if you're seeing any -- I don't think we're seeing any real change into the first quarter as well.
No in Investment Management fee waivers were the lowest negative impact to us that they have been in 6 quarters and it's been pretty steady so far.
We're still sorting through sort of the year-end flows and impact on repo markets and whatnot.
So -- but I would say it's definitely improved from a year ago.
Our final question today is from Josh Levin with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> So someday interest rates will go up.
And when interest rates go up that's certainly very positive for your business overall.
But given that most of your assets are fixed income is there a partial drag on your revenues because higher rates means lower fixed income volumes just because of the way duration works and that means -- translates to lower servicing fees? I mean how should we think about that relationship? And maybe a few of my colleagues can jump in here on this question but if you had a very sharp sell-off in fixed income that would probably be a price change across the portfolio pretty modest.
If it was 5% that would be a lot.
And for most of our Asset Servicing businesses our fees are not necessarily a function.
They're not -- it's not like AUM where it's a basis points.
There's a little bit of that.
But most of the fees are related to transactions as well as to accounts.
So there's 3 different sources of fees.
So you might see a modest decline in the AUC assets under administration and a very modest decline in the amount of fee -- related fee revenue to it.
And Todd if I could just add one other thing.
Josh it's Tim.
Back to this whole collateral theme I would hasten to guess we're the largest custodian of U.S.
treasuries in the world.
And as these regulations take effect where we've talked a little bit about what the increase in volume will demand in terms of posting a collateral a lot of those U.S.
treasuries are going to be needed.
And that's why we link that back directly to an inherent medium-term strength whether it's transforming the collateral or through our traditional securities lending and financing capabilities.
I think that's going to be a big plus for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my final question is on the tri-party repo market.
There have been some changes there in terms of structurally and working with the fed.
Are you seeing -- are there any changes to pricing or margin in that market? Essentially no.
We're putting through the "tri-party reform " working with the industry both the buy side and the sell side.
Pricing for our services is held up as it has been in the past.
There's been more activity.
I think the main issue around tri-party reform is taking risk out of the system and I think we're making very good progress on doing that.
So it's not a pricing issue.
It's really a reform issue on taking risk intraday risk out of the system.
And the only thing I would add is that we have been pricing for daylight that hadn't been priced before and so there has been some revenue benefit from that but it's modest.
Thank you.
Well thank you very much everyone for your interest and dialing in today.
Sorry we couldn't get to everyone's questions.
If you have further questions please give Andy Clark and the team a direct call and we'll be happy to follow up with you.
Thanks again everyone.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Mr.
Andy Clark at (212) 635-1803.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference call webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Andy Clark.
Mr.
Clark you may begin.
Thanks Wendy and welcome everyone.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO; as well as several members of our executive management team.
Before we begin let me remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
The actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement on Page 14 of the press release and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today April 17 2013 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
Our press release and earnings review are available on our website and we will be using the earnings review to discuss our results.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Gerald.
Gerald? Thanks Andy and good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining us today.
I know you have a busy day ahead of you so let's get right to it.
As you saw from our earnings release for the first quarter we reported a loss of $0.23 per share.
This included of course our previously announced charge of $854 million or $0.73 per share related to a U.S.
Tax Court's disallowance of certain tax credits.
We were obviously very disappointed in that ruling and we will appeal it.
Now looking at how our business model performed we believe we earned about $0.52 or $0.53 per share on a core basis and Todd will take you through those numbers and how we got there in just a moment.
We are pleased to see the year-over-year growth in some of our key revenue items and Investment Management in particular had another excellent quarter benefiting from high market values and the 14th consecutive quarter of net long-term inflows.
In fact it was a record quarter in terms of those net long-term flows of $40 billion.
Our record asset flows in the first quarter were driven by increases across all of our asset classes both passive and active strategies.
With passive we're seeing strong flows in equity products.
And our active products are trending upwards principally with LDI global equity and global real returns strategies.
Our success in attracting new assets helped drive assets under management to a record level of nearly $1.43 trillion.
Our investment performance continues to improve versus the 1- 3- and 5-year periods and we recently won several awards notably Lipper Fund Awards 2 for Dreyfus and 2 for Newton.
So all of this bodes well in terms of continuing to capture long-term flows in Investment Management.
In Investment Services overall fees grew driven by increases in asset servicing transaction levels and treasury services volumes.
It was also nice to see foreign exchange revenues bounce back as volumes have improved and there was a sequential increase in volatility.
Now the market environment remains challenging for DRs Corporate Trusts and net interest income as capital markets activity continues to trend below normal levels and we all know interest rates remain historically low.
The low-rate environment creates the opportunity for us to realize gains as we rebalance and manage the duration risk of our investment securities portfolio.
As we've said in the past you should look at NII and net securities gains combined when assessing our performance.
Expenses were up 3% and Todd will go through them in just a minute.
And as you look at them you'll see that our discretionary expenses we believe are being well controlled.
Against that backdrop we remain very focused on our key priorities of investing in our businesses to drive organic growth and sustainable shareholder value delivering on our operational excellence initiatives maintaining a strong balance sheet and of course returning capital to shareholders.
So let me share some highlights on each of these fronts.
In terms of investing in our businesses I want to single out a few efforts.
First in Investment Management we continue to invest in building out our manufacturing and distribution capabilities with a particular focus on the Asia-Pacific region.
We've also been expanding in our wealth management franchise and the results are bearing good fruit.
In global collateral services our investment in creating an end-to-end solution for our clients' growing collateral needs is helping us capture more opportunities.
Our new business pipeline is growing very nicely particularly in the areas of collateral segregation and optimization as our clients prepare to meet the Dodd-Frank requirements later this summer.
And in global markets we've been building out our capabilities to capture more of our clients' trade order flow across a wider variety of asset classes.
And in foreign exchange we've invested in electronic trading platforms and we're providing more options to execute standing order instructions.
And we've also equipped our traders with enhanced technologies to better negotiate trades.
So in essence we're giving our clients many more reasons to trade with us.
In addition to investing in our businesses we're also investing in our brand to create a greater awareness of the broad set of investment services and investment management options available to our clients.
We are the investments company for the world serving the entire investment life cycle.
But we're also probably the largest investment manager in the world that nobody knows and we're working to change that.
Now another key priority is our operational excellence initiatives and we're on track to achieve the savings we've outlined for you.
But we're also looking at these initiatives much more strategically.
So we're not limiting ourselves to the traditional approach of incremental cost savings.
Importantly we have challenged ourselves and are investing in simplifying our core operating model retiring legacy systems and utilizing technology to dramatically improve our straight-through processing rates and better manage and reduce the risk in our business model.
I am very optimistic that our new leadership team overseeing operations and technology will continue to bring a fresh approach to driving and improving upon these initiatives.
Finally another key priority is managing our capital wisely and returning excess capital to shareholders.
The earnings power and the strength of our business model gives us the flexibility to move forward on our capital plan.
And we announced a 15% increase in the quarterly dividend and our plans to repurchase shares worth up to $1.35 billion which is a 16% increase from the prior year's board authorization.
So in sum core revenues are pretty strong.
We're controlling expenses well.
We're investing in our future and we're able to execute on increasing our dividend and buyback program.
So with that let me turn it over to Todd to go through some of the numbers.
Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the quarterly earnings review beginning on Page 2.
As Gerald noticed -- noted EPS was $0.50.
That's excluding the tax charge.
This quarter includes roughly $0.04 related to a provision that we took for administrative errors that I'll discuss in more detail in a minute as well as lower-than-normal investment in other income which as you know can vary quite a bit from quarter-to-quarter.
It also includes a benefit of approximately $0.01 to $0.02 related to a loan loss provision.
The way we look at core earnings as Gerald mentioned it nets to about $0.52 to $0.53 for the quarter which compares to $0.52 in the year-ago quarter.
Last year it's probably worth noting that other income from last year so this is versus last year that other income was down $67 million and other expense was up $87 million.
We'll go into each of those in a minute.
So the underlying quality of our earnings compares quite favorably.
Looking at the numbers on a year-over-year basis total revenue was $3.6 billion.
That's down 1% as fee and other revenue was flat and net interest revenue declined.
Investment management and performance fees were up strongly.
We had nice fee growth in asset servicing treasury services and FX revenue was also up nicely while declines in NIR issuer services other trading and investment and other income offset those gains.
Expenses were up 3% and they were 6% if you exclude amortization of intangible assets M&amp;I litigation and restructuring charges.
We'll talk more about that in a minute.
Turning to Page 4 where we can call out some business metrics that help explain our underlying performance.
You can see that AUM of $1.4 trillion was up 9% year-over-year and up 3% sequentially resulting from net new business and higher market values.
During the quarter we had record net long-term inflows of $40 billion and short-term outflows of $13 billion.
Assets under custody and administration were up 2% year-over-year that's to $26.3 trillion driven by net new business and improved market values partially offset by the impact of changes in foreign currency rates.
Linked-quarter AUC/A was flat as the increase in market values was offset by the change in currency rates and net new business was offset by redemptions.
Most of our key metrics showed growth on a year-over-year basis.
All clearing metrics were up.
DARTS volume and average long-term mutual funds are up quite significantly.
Average loans and deposits and wealth management and investment services continue to grow and average tri-party repo balances continue to grow at a good clip.
The main exception was the decline in the market values on securities on loan and the decline in short interest was -- has negatively impacted demand.
Moving on to fees on Page 6.
Asset servicing fees were up 3% year-over-year and sequentially.
Both increases reflect increased activity with existing clients partially offset by lower securities lending revenue.
We had an estimated $205 billion in new AUC/A way wins for an estimated total of $1.2 trillion in AUC wins over the last 12 months.
Of that nearly 50% remains to be converted primarily over the second and third quarters.
Issuer services fees were down 6% year-over-year and they were up 10% sequentially.
The year-over-year decrease primarily resulted from lower DR revenue driven by lower issuance volumes and also lower servicing fees.
The sequential increase primarily resulted from higher DR revenue driven by higher core issuance and cancellation fees and as we expected the seasonal improvement in dividends.
That was partially offset by slightly lower Corporate Trust revenue.
Clearing fees were flat year-over-year and up 3% sequentially.
The sequential increase was driven by higher mutual fund fees increases in positions and assets and an increase in DARTS that was partially offset by higher money market fee waivers.
Money market fee waivers for the quarter actually increased slightly from the fourth quarter as well as there were fewer trading days in the first quarter.
Investment Management and performance fees were up 10% year-over-year and down 4% sequentially.
If you exclude the Meriten acquisition that we closed in the fourth quarter Investment Management and performance fees were up 9% year-over-year driven by higher market values net new business and lower money market fee waivers.
The sequential decrease reflects seasonally lower performance fees and as I just mentioned higher money market fee waivers sequentially.
That was partially offset by higher market values.
Comparisons to both periods were negatively impacted by the stronger U.S.
dollar.
In FX and other trading revenue was down 16% year-over-year and up 16% sequentially.
So looking at the components FX revenue was up $149 million was up 10% year-over-year and 41% sequentially as we enjoyed the benefit of higher volumes over both periods.
Volatility was slightly off year-over-year but up significantly on a sequential basis.
Other trading revenue was $12 million compared with $55 million in the year-ago quarter and $33 million in the prior quarter.
The decline was principally driven by losses on interest rate hedges and lower fixed income and equity trading.
Investment and other income totaled $72 million in the quarter.
That compares with $139 million a year ago and $116 million in the fourth quarter.
Both decreases reflect lower leasing gains as well as lower foreign currency remeasurement.
The year-over-year decrease also includes lower seed capital gains but the sequential decrease includes lower net gains on loans held for sale that we've retained from a bank that we had previously divested.
Turning to Page 8 of the earnings review you'll see that the current low interest rate environment continues to have a negative impact on NIR.
It was down $46 million versus the year-ago quarter and $6 million sequentially.
The year-over-year decrease was driven by lower accretion basically lower yields on the reinvestment off of securities.
And that was partially offset by a change in the mix of earning assets as well as higher average interest earning assets driven by the much larger deposit level.
The sequential decrease was really just driven by lower day count in the first quarter.
The net interest margin was $111 million.
That compares to $132 million a year ago and $109 million in the sequential quarter.
The year-over-year increase reflects higher average earning interest assets and lower reinvestment yields.
As a reminder the current low interest rate environment has driven significant improvement in the value of the investment securities portfolio and it's creating the opportunity for us to realize gains as we rebalance and manage the duration risk in that portfolio.
We think that gains on these sales should be considered along with NIR when you look at our total results.
At the quarter end we had an unrealized gain on the investment securities portfolio of $2.2 billion.
We had $48 million in net securities gains during the quarter so if you look at both the combination of NIR and gains it was $760 million -- $767 million in -- combined which compares with $805 million in the year-ago quarter and $775 million in the fourth quarter.
Turning to Page 9 total noninterest expenses x amortization of intangible assets M&amp;I litigation and structuring charges were up 6% year-over-year and 1% sequentially.
Both increases were primarily driven by higher pension expense and we also had a $48 million provision for administrative errors and certain offshore tax-exempt funds.
The year-over-year increase was also driven by the cost of generating certain tax credits higher software [ph] and net occupancy expense as well as the impact of the Meriten acquisition.
The increase in software costs relates to application development costs and higher amortization related to the new technology projects.
We would expect for the balance of 2013 that software and equipment line to continue to grow at about 1% to 2% per quarter as we bring on new projects.
The increase in net occupancy primarily reflects timing of costs associated with our global footprint strategy and in particular New York City real estate initiatives.
We should start to see the benefit in the second half of this year.
The sequential increase also reflects higher incentive expense due to the accelerated vesting of long-term stock awards for retirement-eligible employees.
Before turning to an update of our operational excellence initiatives I want to provide some final comments on the administrative errors I just discussed.
The errors relate to questions about the resident status of certain offshore funds potentially exposing the company to a tax liability related to the funds earnings.
It is possible that we may need to increase the reserve further if losses become probable.
Having said that in the second quarter we anticipate generating gains of approximately $200 million on a number of transactions including our portion of a gain from a recent ConvergEx divestiture.
Although it's difficult to predict the timing these gains will basically offset the downside scenario if we do have to increase the provision.
We've also completed a review of similar funds in our complex and we have not identified any similar issues.
Turning to Page 10.
You can see the progress of our operational excellence initiatives.
Our efforts to date resulted in $137 million in quarterly run rate savings and incremental program cost totaled about $16 million.
During the quarter we continued our global footprint position migrations.
We've ramped up our Eastern European global delivery center.
We realized saving by restructuring some of the investment boutiques and consolidating Dreyfus back-office operations and we've achieved further operational synergies related to the BHF Asset Servicing acquisition.
We produced compensation savings from additional IT staff moves to global delivery centers and we consolidated and reduced real estate square footage primarily in the New York City metro and EMEA regions.
As you can see on Page 11 our risk-based capital ratios remain very strong despite the tax provision and the introduction of Basel 2.5.
Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was 9.4% at quarter end.
That compares to 9.8% at December 31 with the decrease was largely due to the impact of the tax charge that we just mentioned.
Looking at our loan book on Page 13 you can see that the provision for credit losses was a credit of $24 million.
That compares to a provision of $5 million in the year-ago quarter.
About half of the credit was driven by a broad improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio and half related to a reduction in our qualitative allowance.
Excluding the $854 million charge the effective tax rate during the quarter was approximately $0.24 -- excuse me 24% and that's about in line with our previous guidance.
A few factors I think you should take into your consideration about the current quarter that is for the second quarter.
We should see a seasonal increase in securities lending.
While we don't foresee a significant improvement in rates the combination of net interest revenue and securities gains should be flat to slightly better and net interest revenue should benefit from the increased day count and the larger securities portfolio.
The quarterly provision should be around 0.
We plan to repurchase shares during the quarter.
And the effective tax rate should come in at 25% to 26%.
With that let me hand it back to Gerald.
Great.
Thanks Todd.
And Wendy I think we can open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from Howard Chen with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Gerald you mentioned the signs of momentum across the franchise but despite the new business wins and the higher asset levels and improved market tones revenues are still down from last year and earnings are flattish.
So while I know you're always trying to be disciplined on expenses what do you need to see in the environment to potentially raise the ultimate goals of the operational excellence program? First of all the revenue decline year-over-year was mostly in the net interest income line and we've taken some steps to shore that up.
And on the expense side we do have the operational excellence initiatives underway as I said in my comments that we're always looking to improve upon those.
We haven't come out publicly and said we want to do something better than what we've already laid out for you but I can assure you that we're working very hard to continue to maintain or lower the running rate expenses associated with this low economic environment and to take out costs structurally on a long-term basis.
Research Division</strong> And then relating to the fixed income business I realize it's still a modest contribution but how would you say early progress is going? And are the nature of those hedges related to overall balance sheet management a particular trading strategy or something else? Yes the -- why don't I talk about hedges.
Most of the decline was related to the hedges and there are really 2 of them.
One is hedging traditional interest rate risk but the hedge didn't -- doesn't qualify in that case as a hedging instrument so its mark-to-market fluctuates with changes in rates.
We don't typically see such a big move but that was a reasonably significant component of it.
The other aspect of it is one of our boutiques is particularly sensitive to changes in interest rates their revenues are.
So they have a relatively modest hedge.
So that's more of a timing issue Howard.
So what ends up happening is the mark on the hedge we take now and the revenue will be reflected in future quarters and it could go the other way.
The rest of the other trading was also soft so our fixed income and our equity trading was a little bit soft for us in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then finally for me Todd your CCAR results were quite strong and the approved capital plan is pretty meaningful.
But with that buyback plan that you have in hand and the new business that you see installing over the next few quarters and the higher asset levels at what point if at all does leverage become a constraint again for you to work down the share count and buy back stock? Yes we don't see it.
I mean we -- right now the balance sheet is staying fairly stable.
It's still pretty large but it's not growing and we don't see an environment where that would change.
So we're not constrained right now by that leverage ratio.
We think we can balance the 2 execute our buybacks manage the size of the balance sheet and continue to execute on the capital deployment that we've authorized.
Our next question is with Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can I start by asking you a little bit about the impact of FX translation? You mentioned it being in the investment management line.
I was just wondering if you saw that across the income statement and whether or not it had a net effect to the bottom line? Yes it -- Ken it was basically neutral to the bottom line.
It -- there was a little bit of geography on it.
The most impactful was on the revenue line for asset management.
But net-net it was about neutral to the company and it wasn't that meaningful that it moved revenues positively or negatively.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second question the servicing business showed really well this quarter and I was just wondering if you can kind of give us some color underneath and it looks -- you talked about the wins and the still to be implemented.
Can you just talk a little bit about just what the drivers are? Underneath it looks like SEC lending was down so how much of it was custody versus broker dealer versus collateral and some more color on the underlying? Why don't we have Tim take that question Ken? Yes.
Ken yes I would say we're seeing volumes helping us in our asset servicing business and net new.
We still have about $540 billion left to convert.
Our payments business grew nicely as well.
That was volume-driven.
We're also seeing a general tailwind both around outsourcing where in our broker-dealer clearing and purging business a number of small or midsized brokers are looking at getting out of self-clearing and outsourcing infrastructure.
And then in asset servicing we still see a continuing trend in the investment management sector and the insurance sector where they're outsourcing their middle and back office.
So I would say those are the general drivers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My last one just a quick one.
Just on issuer I know it's talked about sequentially DR is better but Corporate Trust is still lower.
Can you just -- can we talk a little bit just through that Corporate Trust piece? And is it close to bottoming yet for either sequentially and year-over-year? When do we finally run out of that on the bottom side? Yes Ken what we've indicated is that we think the contraction in Corporate Trust would probably have an impact of maybe 50 to 75 basis points negative in our -- as the runoffs exceed the new business maybe 50 to 75 basis points in our revenue.
It's actually done a little better than we had anticipated and the reason for that is we've seen quite a few more CLOs with our -- seen a recovery of that side of the structured market and a fair amount of issuance but it's still we would expect it to runoff at about that rate.
The more negative thing has been the cyclical impact that we're experiencing in DRs is even -- that hasn't bounced back.
So we continue to see more cancellations than issuance and so the universe of outstanding DRs for us to generate income on has declined.
The next question is from Josh Levin with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Gerald did I hear you correctly in your prepared remarks? Did you say you're sort of thinking differently about costs? Did you allude to something some kind of change in thinking? No.
The comment I made about it was we had our operational excellence initiatives in place that we publicly announced to everyone.
We're on track or slightly ahead of achieving those.
But my comment was we're looking at this and challenged ourselves to look at it beyond just traditional incremental cost savings and are looking at the core operating platforms of the company.
I've said to many of you that one of our real challenges is we're too complex to our clients in terms of our various operating platforms our accounting engines our reconciliation engines et cetera.
We're looking to dramatically simplify that and therefore make it easier and better for our clients to do business with us take risk out of the system and lower the structural costs.
And so we're moving into that phase of our review.
We have a new leadership team around this.
They're putting some fresh eyes on this.
And I'm optimistic we can gain some more benefits out of our program over the long term.
That's what I was referring to.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then a follow-up.
When you look at your different business lines where do you see the most opportunities or the opportunities for the greatest amount of operating leverage and the least amount of operating leverage? Well I guess I would address this slightly differently in terms of the way you've asked it.
We've traditionally looked at our investment services businesses as a series of individual business lines and almost as a portfolio of businesses.
We're looking at this much more holistically because that's what our clients do.
And so rather than having individual operating platforms per business we're looking to consolidate across the business lines and therefore offer our clients a more integrated product set and integrated solution set.
That's where I think there are some benefits working across the seams of our businesses to improve not only the structural cost but also the service offering to our clients.
So that's where I think there is continued upside leverage to our business model.
Josh I'll just follow up on that.
If you look at -- if you do look at the 4 key investment servicing lines that we indicate or we disclosed the highest margin tends to be issuer services and treasury services and then asset servicing and clearing services tend to have about the same margin.
So that'll help you understand where the growth is going to come from.
The next question is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A quick follow-up on the conversation you're just having and then a couple of other questions.
On the follow-up in order to do this does it take an incremental investment spend beyond what you've discussed with us before? Or is this embedded within the expense trajectory run rate that you've laid out? Yes the -- as we've disclosed right now we're most focused on delivering the savings that we've talked about which is in the $650 million to $700 million range.
That is net so every quarter we disclose to you exactly what our investment activity is going to be to get there.
So what we've laid out we don't want to get distracted.
We're going to execute on that.
Gerald is looking at -- he's really referring to what are the incremental things that we can do as we look at that expense base holistically.
And at this point in time it's too early to really say whether there's an investment to be made there or not Betsy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
That will come in -- you'll describe that in future quarters.
Okay.
Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then the second thing is on the administrative error review.
You indicated that there's a potential downside scenario and I just wanted to understand what that is a function of.
I mean obviously there's -- the review needs to be completed.
And then you're assessing the downside risk? Or are there other people you have to get opinions from like regulators or tax people within different jurisdictions? Yes ultimately we're going to have to work with tax authorities to determine whether we are obligated to pay tax on these investment gains.
And what we want to make clear is the downside to that if we do have a downside it will offset the gains that we have from a number of transactions that we're going to close on or have closed on in this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're expecting that the finalization of your assessment of the downside scenario would be made within the next quarter? Yes I can't -- I'm not certain of that Betsy.
There is some lack of certainty.
So it's possible that we could show gains in this quarter and still have that open item.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then lastly Todd you were talking about how we should be looking at NII plus security gains when we're thinking about returns on the portfolio.
And I'm just wondering how to think about the -- how long we should be thinking about your ability to harvest security gains going forward in the current interest rate environment? Yes.
The gains are coming from a couple of different sources.
One is as you come riding down the yield curve a little bit if interest rates haven't changed you actually get an increase in the market value of the security.
And there also becomes interest from money market funds and so forth to pick up those assets as they become eligible for funds.
So as they -- kind of as we do a rich/cheap analysis across the yield curve that's generating in our estimate about half of them.
The other half is really based on credit and the significant recovery in some of the sub-investment-grade securities.
There's still many many hundreds of millions of dollars in unrealized gains there.
But what the team does is they look at the -- they look at how those securities have performed the capital that they've consumed and where they can redeploy.
And from time to time there's a good reason there's an economic reason for us to take them and we do.
And so there's a substantial amount of a gain in the portfolio there that could be realized for a significant period of time if we stay in this rate environment.
The next question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just to follow up on the last question when we think about the reinvestment.
Can you guys talk a little about the yields that the securities that you're currently selling are earning today and maybe perhaps what you're reinvesting in and the yields on those investments? Yes.
If they're in the credit securities Alex they can have a little bit of higher yields.
But you're even seeing those securities come down into 3% or 4% type of range.
So there's kind of modest sales because the gains are so big so you're not giving up a whole lot of securities.
It does have a little bit of -- when we net it all out it could have a little bit of negative net interest income but it's the right economic thing to do under the time -- at the time.
New investments we look across globally.
It's probably averaging in the $150 million to $160 million within the securities portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just one more time on the administrative error and it sounds like you guys have some downside scenario in mind.
I was hoping you could share that with us what the I guess max liability could be.
And you mentioned a couple of sources of gains that you could take.
Does that involve just some of the businesses that you sold? Or does that involve a step-up in security sales? Like how should we think I guess about bridging the gap like knowing what the ultimate potential downside could be? Yes.
We have announced a few divestitures and closed on one of them and there are more that we'll close in the quarter.
And those gains so those are known gains right now that we will take in the second quarter are about the same amount that the downside case if it's determined that we do have a tax liability and that 100% of that exposure if we end up having to create a provision for that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay and just the last one for me.
On the side of the balance sheet it seems like noninterest-bearing deposits came down.
We're seeing the same with a couple of your competitors.
But as we look out from here does the balance sheet stay sort of stable? Or does it grow with net new business? I guess how should we think about the size of average earning assets from here? Yes.
The balance sheet has been relatively stable for the quarter and there's a little bit of a decline right at the -- from the very high levels that we had at the end of the fourth quarter.
But for these -- for the first quarter and moving into the second quarter it's been relatively stable.
I think as we grow assets we would see some growth in the balance sheet that typically comes with that.
What I mean by that is we -- as we grow assets that we service whether it's in corporate trust or in asset servicing or for that matter at -- in clearing we would expect to see about a similar growth rate in the underlying deposits.
The real driver though is if there's some economic environment that changes whether there's a flight to the quality or that the people continue to go out the risk curve where you might see some of the balances flow out into the market.
The next question is from Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> First question I guess is on just the top-level view of assets under custody flat quarter-on-quarter plus 2% year-on-year.
The fees are in that same range up 4% quarter-on-quarter 1% year-on-year.
So you mentioned a lot of the moving parts on the fee side.
On the asset side I'm just curious why we might not have seen better growth given the environment? And maybe it's a mix of business you can talk about what might be in the running off versus the new -- the type of new business that you're bringing on.
Yes.
Tim why don't you take that one? Sure.
Glenn yes I think what you see playing out a little bit with us here Glenn and we've talked about this before we're a bit more of a fixed-income-oriented book.
So income markets were sort of up marginally to flat.
We did convert about $350 billion in the quarter.
Currency is clearly not helping us here.
We did sadly lose one pretty significant client and you also saw that come out of our securities lending program and we had some redemptions in fixed income and in money markets.
So those were sort of the headwinds.
But I think the good news story is and this has been more of a continuing trend here is the types of products and services that we're winning and the clients are putting out to bid isn't really geared to AUC.
So a transfer agency sub accounting middle-office outsourcing would be 3 good examples of that.
And I would say our pipeline probably averages about 40% and about 40% of what we've been winning in the last few quarters would be that type of business that's not geared to AUC.
And I think that's why you're seeing sort of a little bit of a gap between AUC and actually having higher fee growth than what you're seeing on the AUC line.
So that is something I would expect to continue.
Yes so Glenn bottom line we saw some redemptions in the loss of a significant client which we're not pleased with at all.
But it was offset by new convergence and new business coming in.
That's the way to think about it.
Yes and I think you also have to think about our mix of assets too because despite the very strong equity market the net impact between currency and market was basically flat in our mix of assets.
Research Division</strong> Yes I hear you.
It actually makes me ask a silly question of I'm not sure what you're supposed to root for higher rates or lower rates because...
Still like higher rates.
Yes we'll go with the higher one.
I'll go with the higher rates Glenn.
Research Division</strong> Last one in your prepared remarks you mentioned on the expense side obviously the operating excellence benefits but you talked about doing a decent job on what is discretionary.
And I didn't know if you can give a little more color on what you thought across the expense line items what the key numbers what are -- what is discretionary and what isn't.
In other words you mentioned software is going to have to grow as you put new business on but can the professional fees can the sub custodian fees -- where do you see some discretion? Yes.
Why don't we tick through a number of them? Our staff expense has some measure of discretion.
So if you see -- I mean it is up for the quarter but recall this is a quarter where we have about $50 million of acceleration related to equity grants for retirement-eligible employees.
And we also saw a $10 million increase in our defined benefit pension expense.
So we were able to absorb all of that and still show some improvement.
On the professional legal and other the biggest component in there is consulting and any discretionary use of consultants we're keeping a very close eye on.
Software and equipment is -- a lot of that is the investment that we've made in the past as it comes online and the depreciation actually picks up.
So that's a little -- at this point it's a little less discretionary.
Occupancy just is we're going to see some improvement there Glenn as the -- especially the footprint actions that we've taken around New York City start to pay off.
So we actually wrote off some leasehold improvements in the quarter and then we'll have a lower run rate going forward.
So that's a good investment.
And the other discretionary item is business development.
And you can see that we've controlled it despite the efforts that we're making to invest in our brand and we will see some expenses around the branding efforts.
Our next question is from Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So maybe just quickly a follow-up on Glenn's question on AUC.
I understand that you lost a big client but the $205 billion in new wins also seems a little light at least compared to the 12-month figure you give.
And I'm wondering is that lumpiness? Or do you see wins slowing down at all? And then also on the loss of the significant client is that a big enough client to impact SEC lending going forward? Yes.
So why don't -- I'll take part of it and then turn it over to Tim.
Yes it was a significant client both in terms of assets under custody and they there were active in the SEC lending program.
That's why it showed up in both categories.
And as you all know we hate to lose and we're kicking ourselves for losing it.
It was a very competitive environment and we lost.
But the lumpiness we do see quarter-to-quarter lumpiness in the win side as well.
And so this quarter we saw $200-and-some-odd billion worth of wins.
The pipeline is quite strong.
It's actually up year-over-year so we're encouraged by our ability to win new business out of the pipeline going forward.
And we still have about $0.5 trillion worth of assets under custody yet to convert.
So we still see positive attributes in terms of our ability to grow this business.
But Tim if you want to pick up on it? Oh no Gerald I think the only other thing I would add to that Cynthia is again back to that mix point of sort of the 40%-ish not being geared to AUC.
So when we look at this internally we look at AUC and we also look at the value of what we're converting.
And I would have put this sort of in the pretty good news camp in terms of the $205 billion when you look at it on a value basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then I guess on the AUM side you guys had strong long-term flows in the quarter so can you talk a little about where the bulk of those flows were coming from? What's the blended fee rate on those? And was any of that seasonal? We have Mitchell Harris with us here today representing Investment Management.
So Mitchell perhaps you can address that.
Sure.
A lot of it is coming through LDI which tends to have a somewhat lower margin.
But we are starting to see a subtle shift in the markets and we are starting to see international equity and Asian equities global equities real returns as well as emerging market debt taking part of those flows.
So I think what we see longer term is a subtle shift from the lower-value fixed income products to a slow shift toward more of the equity products and the higher-value fixed income products like high yield and emerging market debt.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then maybe just one final one on custody.
Can you update us on the repricing initiatives? Tim that's yours.
Yes sure.
Cynthia thanks for asking.
You'll remember that we're sort of focusing our repricing effort not on the 80% of the fee line where it's more about cross selling it's on sort of the 20% the small- and medium-sized clients.
We're making very good progress.
All of the clients -- small clients have been repriced.
And as I think we talked about last quarter we're sort of now renegotiating with clients as their contracts come up for review and those tend to be the larger clients that are invested in multiple products.
So the good news is we've been making very good headway there.
We'll have another couple of hundred clients that will reprice this year.
I expect the retention rates to remain high although I expect the percentage rate increase that we will get will step down a bit well below in the 18% to 19% we've been seeing in the small clients so sort of right where I'd hope to be right now frankly.
The next question is from Brian Foran with Autonomous.
I guess I wanted to ask about a higher-rate environment as we think out a couple of years and maybe build scenarios into models and stuff like that.
So 2 questions I guess one more mechanical just with the securities changes you're talking about.
Should we expect you to get more asset-sensitive as time goes by? And then two when we think about the benefit to NII and money market fee waivers that you give us should we drop that all to the bottom line in a higher-rate environment and kind of think about a step change in pretax margins? Or would there be kind of some kind of change in the expense outlook as revenue changed as well? Brian the -- talking about the money market fee waivers most of that would drop to the bottom line.
What you can't predict is exactly what investor behavior is going to be.
I don't know if we'll see more money come into funds or there's a reason why rates are higher and money could exit.
But assuming behavior is the same that would be a significant contributor to -- and it would be just a step function if you will in the -- in our EPS.
Looking at the interest rates on our other earnings areas for example securities lending there are a lot of reinvest -- or repriced assets south of LIBOR so there's very little LIBOR curve there.
So it could help that substantially.
Again that would be a very high-margin business most of it dropping to the bottom line.
And finally with our net interest revenue so we're sitting on an awful lot of money that is earning 0 or something very close to 0 just in the European Central Bank for example.
That can be anywhere from $10 billion to $20 billion that is earning 0.
So if we do see a blip up there would be some ability to generate some income there as well as on the compression on our other deposits.
So I can't predict exactly what investor behavior would be.
We would certainly not expect it to be at such an inflated balance sheet in the event that we did see a tick-up in interest rates.
But we would as we've modeled this we would expect significantly higher NIR as well.
I guess as you think out as well about business opportunities in the collateral management and transformation opportunity you've been working to just what happened year-to-date? Would the regulatory changes just kind of push out the opportunity? Or has the opportunity been modified somewhat? Yes it's part of the Dodd-Frank legislation and the rule writing is still being finalized.
But we expect to see -- and it's showing up in our pipeline and our client conversations later this summer.
So some part of collateral management's being realized upon as we speak particularly in some of the transformation activities.
But as I said in my opening comments we expect to see a broader pickup later this summer and through the course of the year as Dodd-Frank legislation kicks in and our clients really do in fact have to start posting collateral all around the world.
The other thing that's happened is the financing-related aspects of it have actually picked up so we've seen pretty decent growth there.
But spreads and rates have come down so just over the past 6 to 9 months LIBOR's down about another 12 or 14 basis points.
So the repricing of that portfolio could benefit from the growth that's been offset by the repricing.
The next question is from Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So among your custodian peers you experienced the most amount of reinvestment risk -- or pressure rather last year.
And I was wondering if you might comment if there's been any changes in the composition or position of the portfolios in the last year including seasoning or legacy yields that would increase or decrease your exposure or reinvestment risk this year assuming that rates stay low? Yes we've put on a little more duration in the portfolio when we saw interest rates pop a little.
When the tenure went up over 2% we did extend it and take the opportunity to extend a little bit of the duration of the portfolio.
And that's why we're feeling that it'll probably be -- the yield on the portfolio should be a little more stable going into the next -- into the rest of the year.
Plus we've put a little more to work so the portfolio is up by about 6%.
During the course of the quarter most of that was -- most of the benefit of that wasn't really seen in the quarter.
We'll see it in the second quarter.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you said in the past that we might be able to gauge the success of your cost efficiency program by looking at pretax margin x NII and servicing.
I'm not sure if there's any distortion in the trends there but I was wondering if -- how you might comment on how you're grading yourself on that metric.
Yes.
If you look at the investment services business we give you a statistic that shows you the margin relative -- on the fee business and it's stuck at about 93% on a year-over-year basis.
That's largely -- what it's masking is the decrease in our higher-margin businesses is masking the improvement that we've -- that we're seeing in asset servicing.
So I think it's moving about as we've expected.
Now it's going to be a function of where the revenue lines are moving.
Well I was just going to say you can see from the fourth quarter to the first quarter we saw it getting back to that 93% zone from the fourth quarter.
So some of the savings are in fact kicking in and we just -- we saw some higher-yielding business come on like foreign exchange like some of our other asset servicing repricing.
So you are starting to see some benefit from the overall program.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just a final one for me I know you've commented twice already but I wanted to give it one more try on the technology spending.
Your competitor is saying they plan to become the low-cost provider in servicing through its technology transformation and you're acknowledging that you're still working on rationalizing your various platforms.
So I'm wondering is the kind of transformation that State Street's talking about even possible if you don't first combine your platforms? And is what you're saying is that you now believe it's imperative for competitive reasons that you need to start a new investment cycle? Or am I just reading too much into that? Well I think first of all we spend a couple of billion dollars a year already on technology so it's not that we're starting from 0.
And it's a matter of prioritization of some of those technology spends on maintaining existing programs versus investing in new ones.
And I think part of our job as the senior management team is to make sure we're allocating capital in our investments in the proper category to achieve the end-state platforms that we're looking to get to.
And we're going through that process now to make sure we're investing in the future architecture of the company.
Since many of our products are commodity like I think we have to be an incredibly productive and incredibly efficient operating platforms in order to remain competitive and to continue to grow our business.
And so strategically that's what we're looking to do is take advantage of the new technologies to invest in those sooner to get to the end state faster.
We're not ready to talk about what the level of investment is to get there.
We're still going through that process but I can assure we're looking at all avenues to take advantage of the new technologies in the marketplace.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I know you guys are a preeminent trustee and I'm going to ask about the $8.5 billion settlement where Bank of New York is acting as trustee for MBS from the country-wide situation.
And there was an expert opinion filed by an Adam Levitin saying why the deal should fail.
And some other experts have said this deal might not go through.
And I guess the hearings start May 30 where the court will rule if that deal should go through.
So I guess my question is what assurance can you provide investors that both the deal will go through and that Bank of New York won't be vulnerable to additional losses? I guess there are $108 billion of investor losses and Bank of New York acting as trustee decide $8.5 billion was the right amount.
So correct anything I said that was incorrect and tell me why you think this deal might go through or your view on it.
Well Mike it's Todd.
I'll take that.
Certainly as trustee we believe we've acted at all times in the best interests of the investors so we're confident about our position there.
In terms of our exposure we are completely indemnified.
So we don't see any specific -- we don't see or nor are we particularly concerned about risks to us in our role.
It's impossible for us to determine how the courts will ultimately rule but again we're indemnified and we're quite comfortable with our position.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Well I guess the one issue I'd focused on is who made the determination that an $8.5 billion settlement was the right amount.
And based on the review that I've done relying on some legal experts it seems as though only one firm RRMS came up with that valuation number.
Now there's other experts who I think said that number was okay and you obviously would rely on other experts outside of the financial area.
But is that correct that there's just -- you solely relied on RRMS for the financial conclusion that $8.5 billion was the right number? And what gives you confidence that that firm RRMS did a sufficiently good job? Well you have to remember Mike that firm worked with I think it was 18 large investors who were the principal owners of those tranches of investment -- of securities.
So you add 18 very large investors who thought that that was an appropriate amount to settle on not the firm that you're referring to and not us.
That -- those 18 investors with that firm had discussions with BofA in terms of whether that was an appropriate settlement.
And we're now looking to the courts to decide.
Research Division</strong> And I'll queue if I can call this my second-half follow-up.
Those large investors I think comprised only around 23% of the total investments.
And so that would imply there's almost another 80% of investors who would not be represented by those 18 or I had 22 large investors who agreed to that agreement.
Well Mike that's what the -- why we -- why it's in the courts.
It's up to the courts to decide.
It's not up to us.
The next question is from Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just back to the fundamentals.
On the -- just a question on the Investment Management business the realization rate on the assets under management were a little less than I thought.
If you can outline maybe the contribution from the negative foreign currency translation maybe that was the bigger driver and also the money market fee waiver delta from 4Q to 1Q and whether other than mix shifts between products that that was the primary driver? Yes.
Mitchell why don't you take the fee realization side of the question.
Sure.
It is mostly -- Brian you're right.
It is mostly on the foreign exchange side.
We're quite heavily exposed on our equities to sterling.
Sterling is the bigger driver.
It's about 2/3 of the current currency exposure to sterling which fell more than the euro did.
The euro is the other part we're heavily exposed to.
So over 50% of our equity revenues are exposed to non-U.S.
currencies.
So that's really been the drag going into the first quarter.
Yes.
And on the money market fee waiver they were up a little bit on a sequential quarter basis.
It was small.
But not a terrible amount.
For asset management it was sequentially -- it hurt them by about $5 million.
On year-over-year basis it helped them by about $5 million.
And it's about double that for the company.
Research Division</strong> Double that so okay is it about 5 -- I think you were at like  a $0.04 to $0.05 EPS run rate on fee waivers in prior quarters.
Is that still the right page? Or is it a little worse than that? No it is Brian.
It's still in that range.
That's about that same range.
Research Division</strong> Same range okay.
And then just lastly on the purging business if you can you talk about some of the outsourcing opportunities and maybe sort of the timeline that you're thinking that you can convert some new wins there and whether the organic growth -- the organic revenue growth from that can -- we can sort of see -- begin to see that in the results relative to the macro drivers of trading and obviously fee waivers.
Yes we'll have Brian Shea take that question.
Brian it's Brian Shea.
I would just -- I'll reverse it a little bit and just talk about the organic growth drivers first for a second and then come back to your new business pipeline-related question.
The core assets on our platform are growing pretty well.
So customer assets on the platform are up year-over-year double digits and 6% sequentially.
Mutual fund assets are up pretty solidly and that's -- and what's important about that is that we had significant net new long-term issue fund flows on our U.S.
platform in the first quarter and a real shift in the balance of the investor behavior.
Meaning that last year at this time it was primarily fixed-income-oriented mutual funds.
And this year through the first quarter it's a predominantly equity-oriented mutual funds which is a pretty big shift in investor sentiment.
And while we're not the predictor of that that would be I think a positive trend if it sustains itself in terms of investor behavior and willingness to trade.
And you're seeing that a little bit in the higher DARTS volume as well.
So the fundamentals of the current businesses are pretty solid and so we like that.
In terms of the new business what's happening is we're starting to see larger opportunities from self-clearing firms.
And it's really driven I think by continued pressure on large financial institutions in terms of regulatory change capital requirements capital investment.
So they're thinking through what their core competencies are and what -- where they can create their own leverage.
And so we're starting to see bigger global wealth management firms consider outsourcing to the purging platform.
So too hard -- hard to tell at this point whether -- what the yield will be on that or the timing but we're hopeful that we'll see some decisions in the second and third quarter.
And we're deeply involved in dialogue with a handful of firms.
The next question is from Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to -- first guys I just wanted to clarify a little bit on your new business win metrics.
I guess I have always assumed that that was a net number net of known future losses.
Is that net or gross the $500 billion left to convert? Yes that's a -- Rob it's Tim.
That's a gross number.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I guess the follow-up to that if we were to think of a net number based on known losses accounts things you may lose what would that be? I think the last time I looked at that it will be a net positive as I look out over the next quarter or 2.
We don't lose -- typically lose a whole lot of business Rob.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe a second question.
I'm just curious within issuer services obviously you still have the runoff with the legacy book.
But as you pointed out CLO activities certainly picked up since the start of the year.
And I'm just curious about any changes in the pricing dynamics of what you're seeing on like new CLO activity compared to maybe some legacy products that are running off.
Is the pricing similar? Has there been a change in the pricing dynamic one way or the other? Yes I think on the new CLOs first of all you have to remember they're less complex less leveraged and therefore that's one of the reasons why the pricing on the new CLOs is lower than the old ones that are rolling off.
And you have to remember when the old ones were being established at that time it was in a fairly frenetic market where the pricing discipline if you want to call it that part of the issue was less sensitive and so the new business is much more tightly priced.
So that's factoring into why the growth in Corporate Trust even with CLO is picking up isn't fully offsetting the amortization of the old structures.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Great.
And since I'm the last one can I maybe just -- indulge me on one more question? Okay.
Go ahead.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> In wealth management you've had pretty strong growth in loans and deposits.
And I'm just curious with some evidence of there being some increased risk-taking I guess conventional wisdom to some extent has been that that's coming out of kind of cash so maybe deposits.
I'm just kind of curious you had this strong growth in deposits and wealth management is that just market share gains that you're seeing? Is it -- is there something else going on in there because it's been pretty strong? Yes I know.
Actually I'm delighted you asked the question.
We like the wealth management business a lot.
I think we are in fact gaining market share.
We've added quite a bit of new staff to the team and I think it's paying off.
Some of the traditional wealth management firms that supported wealth management clients around the country or around the world have been challenged a little bit reputationally and we've got strong investment management products.
We have a great balance sheet.
The loans that we're putting on are very very very high-quality loans.
So we like the business a lot and it's growing nicely.
We'd like to continue to invest in it more.
Okay.
Thanks a lot Rob and thank you very much everyone who dialed in.
And we appreciate the call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Mr.
Andy Clark at (212) 635-1803.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference call webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted materials.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Andy Clark.
Mr.
Clark you may begin.
Thanks Wendy and welcome everyone.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO as well as several members of our executive management team.
Before we begin let me remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement on Page 15 of the press release and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today July 17 2013 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
Our press release and earnings review are available on our website and we will be using the earnings review to discuss our results.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Gerald.
Gerald? Thanks Andy and good morning everybody and welcome.
As you saw from the release for the second quarter we reported earnings of $0.71 per share.
This included an after-tax gain of $0.09 per share related to an equity investment.
Now looking at how our business model performed we believe we earned about $0.58 $0.59 per share on a core basis.
And Todd will take you through the numbers in just a moment on how we get there.
Clearly the headline for the quarter was strong revenue growth across all of our businesses without exception.
Total revenues reached a record $4 billion for the quarter.
After excluding the impact of the investment gain revenues were up 6%.
It's a clear sign of how our business model benefited from better market conditions during the quarter.
But more importantly it's a sign of our success in collaborating across our businesses to deliver solutions our clients need.
Turning to Investment Management.
It continued to have strong revenue growth again in the quarter.
This quarter Investment Management benefited from the 15th consecutive quarter of long-term inflows and improved equity value.
We had net long-term flows of $21 billion with particular strength in the liability-driven investment area certain equity and fixed income funds.
Our success in attracting new assets helped drive a 10% increase in assets under management year-over-year to a record $1.43 trillion.
In Investment Services fees also showed nice improvement across the board driven by growth in asset servicing issuer services and clearing services fees.
We also had a strong quarter for foreign exchange revenues which benefited from improved market conditions as volatility and volumes increased.
In terms of our FX business we're seeing some growth in our traditional products as well as our new product offerings.
We're also beginning to see the early benefits of our FX technology enhancements and we expect those enhancements to drive further growth.
Now that's a theme running throughout all of our businesses.
We're making targeted investments to enhance our product capabilities and it's starting to pay off.
A good example is in global collateral services.
Our investment in creating an end-to-end solution for our clients' growing collateral needs is starting to show up in our revenue numbers.
Optimization and segregation balances have grown nicely.
We were also awarded a U.S.
patent for a key process enabling the secure management of collateral.
It's a demonstration of our innovation and market-leading practices in this area and it positions us well as new collateral regulations continue to kick in.
Within Investment Management we made progress on a number of fronts.
In the Asia Pacific region we've been granted a license to establish a separately managed account business out of Hong Kong and that's leveraging the partnership between Investment Management and Pershing.
And we're already in the process of closing our first SMA client win.
We're also investing in expanding a greater share of the U.S.
retail market where we just launched our first close-end fund in a number of years which has already attracted nearly 300 million of assets under management.
Now last quarter I mentioned how we began expanding our wealth management franchise.
During the second quarter we officially kicked off the next phase of our multiyear growth strategy.
We're proceeding with plans to increase our sales force by 50% add private bankers portfolio managers and wealth strategists as well as additional sales support staff.
The new hires will strengthen the sales teams in our current locations and establish offices in key wealth management markets.
It's early days but again it's strong commitment to driving organic growth.
Meanwhile wealth management is also focused on better leveraging the rest of our firm.
For example we recently started making private banking loans available to Pershing customers and we're already seeing a nice level of receptivity.
Now we're also investing in our brand to help raise awareness that we have a more complete investment solution.
The message of our branding campaign is beginning to resonate as clients and prospects are recognizing that we are the only financial services firm that can provide solutions across the entire life cycle of a financial asset and it's our sole focus as a firm.
We're working across the firm whether it's wealth management partnering with Pershing or asset management partnering with Pershing or asset servicing with everyone's focus on anticipating and satisfying clients' needs in thoughtful creative ways that competitors can't match.
That's the power of our brand and the power of our firm.
The bottom line is we're making significant highly targeted investments in our businesses which come with some expenses but they're critical to driving future revenue and profitability.
It's an investment in growth.
Now a good way to sum up our quarter is this: We're pleased to see nice revenue growth across all of our businesses; We remain highly focused on driving organic growth controlling expenses returning capital to shareholders and growing shareholder value.
With that let me turn it over to Todd to take you through the numbers and importantly talk a little bit about how we're thinking about the leverage ratio under the new guidelines.
So Todd? Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the quarterly earnings review and we'll start on Page 2.
As Gerald noted EPS was $0.71 that includes roughly $0.09 related to a gain on our equity investment on ConvergEx.
It also includes the benefit of approximately $0.03 related to the accrual that we took in the first quarter related to administrative errors and there was also a loan loss provision credit in the quarter.
So that nets to core earnings of about $0.58 to $0.59.
Looking at the numbers on a year-over-year basis total revenue was a record $4 billion that's up 11% or 6% on a non-GAAP basis.
Our investment services businesses asset servicing issuer clearing and Treasury services each showed nice growth.
Investment management and performance fees continued their upward momentum.
FX and other trading was up sharply.
NIR benefited a bit due to higher rates.
Expenses were down 7% and up 6% if you exclude amortization of intangibles M&amp;I litigation and restructuring charges.
So that 6% increase was primarily reflecting higher staff cost which is related to improved performance and some meaningful branding initiatives.
Our return on tangible common equity was a healthy 25%.
Turning to Page 4 where we call out some business metrics that will help you understand the underlying performance.
You can see that AUM of $1.43 trillion was up 10% year-over-year.
That resulted from net new business and higher market values.
During the quarter we had net long-term inflows of $21 billion that was driven by strength in the liability-driven investments.
We did see some strength in equity as well and some fixed income funds.
Short-term outflows were about $1 billion.
Sequentially AUM was flat as net new business was offset by lower fixed income market values during the quarter.
Assets under custody and administration were up 4% year-over-year to $26.2 trillion and that primarily reflected the impact of higher markets and net new business.
Linked quarter AUC/A was down $100 billion as the impact of higher equity values was more than offset by lower fixed income values and also the impact of a stronger dollar.
Many of our key metrics showed good growth on a year-over-year basis.
Most clearing metrics were up.
DARTS volume and average long-term mutual fund assets were again up quite significantly.
Average loans and deposits in wealth management and investment services continue to grow.
And average tri-party repo balances were up.
The market value of securities on loan was down as a decline in short interest continue to negatively impact demand.
And the number of sponsored DR programs declined as we've exited less profitable programs but we did see a nice increase in global IPO activity.
Looking at fees on Page 6.
Asset servicing fees were up 4% year-over-year and 2% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects organic growth and higher market values partially offset by lower securities lending revenue.
The sequential increase primarily resulted from seasonably -- seasonally higher securities lending revenue increased core asset servicing fees all of which reflected organic growth.
We had an estimated $201 billion in new AUC/A wins for an estimated total of $1.1 trillion in AUC/A wins over the last 12 months.
Issuer services fees were up 7% year-over-year and 24% sequentially.
Both increases primarily resulted from higher corporate actions and there were also expense reimbursements related to technology expenditures.
Clearing fees were up 4% year-over-year and 6% sequentially.
Both increases were driven by higher mutual fund fees and clearance revenue.
The latter reflecting the strong increase in DARTS partially offset by higher money market fee waivers.
Investment management and performance fees were up 6% year-over-year and 3% sequentially.
The year-over-year and sequential increase was primarily driven by higher equity market values and net new business and was partially offset by the stronger U.S.
dollar and once again higher money market fee waivers.
And FX and other trading revenue was up 15% year-over-year and 29% sequentially.
If you look of the underlying components FX revenue was $179 million that's up 14% year-over-year 20% sequentially as we benefited from higher volatility and increased volumes.
The improvement was largely driven by the market but there are early signs that growth initiatives are yielding some benefits.
Other trading revenue was $28 million compared with $23 million in the third quarter a year ago and $12 million in the prior quarter.
Investment and other income totaled $269 million in the quarter compared with $48 million in the year-ago quarter and $72 million in the prior quarter.
Both increases reflected a gain related to ConvergEx' recent divestiture of its technology business.
Turning to Page 8 of the earnings review you'll see that NIR was up $23 million versus the year-ago quarter and $38 million sequentially.
Both increases were primarily driven by a change in the mix of earning assets lower funding costs higher rates and higher average interest-earning assets.
And the higher interest-earning assets are driven by the higher deposit levels.
The net interest margin was 1.15% compared with 1.25% in the year-ago quarter and 1.11% in the prior quarter.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects higher average interest earning assets lower yields partially offset by a change in the mix.
Turning to Page 9 total noninterest expenses that's x amortization of intangible assets M&amp;I litigation and restructuring charges they were up 6% year-over-year and flat sequentially.
The increase in staff expense year-over-year and sequentially was primarily driven by improved performance with the year-over-year increase also impacted by higher pension costs.
The growth in software and equipment expenses versus both periods was primarily related to reimbursable customer technology expenditures.
Now the reimbursement for these expenses is actually included in our fee revenue.
The growth in business development costs versus both periods was primarily driven by higher corporate branding investments and a number of client conferences.
Lower other expense primarily resulted from a decrease in the reserve that we took last quarter that I mentioned earlier.
In terms of any future liability related to this issue the timing still remains uncertain.
However we have lowered the reasonably possible loss estimate.
Currently we're estimating a reasonably possible loss of up to $100 million and that compares to our previous estimate of $175 million and that is after the reduction in the reserve.
Turning to Page 10 you can see that our operational excellence initiatives remain on course to exceed the original target established in 2011.
Our efforts during the quarter resulted in $150 million in quarterly growth run rate savings as the $13 million in incremental growth savings came with about $11 million of program costs.
In terms of the savings this year we continue our migration to global delivery centers and we realized the benefits from reengineering activities related to our boutique restructurings and real estate footprint consolidation efforts.
We also generated some savings as our investment services group continue to optimize their organizational structure.
As you can see on Page 11 we generated $892 million in gross Basel Tier 1 common during the quarter.
As you're thinking about our Basel III Tier 1 common ratios our estimate of June 30 is based on preliminary interpretation of and expectations regarding the fed rules that were released earlier this month.
At June 30 2013 our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio and this is under the standardized approach was 9.3% compared to 9.4% at the end of March and that also reflects the impact of the rate rise in the portfolio.
As regards to the supplementary leverage ratio we feel it's early to provide a firm estimate of the ratio because the final definition mostly related to the denominator is very uncertain at this point.
But before I provide our estimate let me give you some color on the rules.
The agency has released a final rule that included a leverage ratio and then issued a draft or comment that increased the requirements for large banks and raised some important questions on how it should ultimately be calculated.
Around the same time the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision released a consultative paper comment with a very different approach primarily to the denominator.
So at this time it's impossible to know exactly where we're going to ultimately be.
That being said however as for the July 2 rule we estimate our supplementary leverage ratio would be in the low-4s.
We also believe that there are good arguments that central bank cash and certain government guaranteed debt should not be included and that would have a major impact on us.
Just to give you a little background there we have more than $200 billion of cash and government guaranteed debt on the balance sheet of $360 billion.
So as we get more certainty we will update you where we think we stand.
However we think it will be helpful for you to know that there are a lot of levers we can pull if necessary.
So I'm going to walk you through a few of them now.
There are a number of actions on the liability side where we could reduce certain deposits and payables and we'd expect to be able to do that with only a modest impact to our clients and our earnings.
We could also work to de-consolidate certain asset management funds.
As monetary policy normalizes now remember this is a 5-year implementation period we expect our balance sheet which is already bloated due to this rate environment to normalize.
So there's no need for us now to urgently pull the liability levers.
Some of it should happen naturally over the time period anyway.
We also have significant room to reduce unfunded commitments again with limited impact to clients and earnings.
We could also issue other forms of Tier 1 if needed such as preferred stock which is significantly less expensive than common.
Given our credit ratings we were able to issue noncumulative perpetual preferreds this quarter at 4.5% and that is a record-low coupon.
And we did that to replace some of the trust preferreds that we redeemed in the quarter.
We also generated a lot of capital.
Let me illustrate it.
Currently our first call consensus for 2013 net income was approximately $2.6 billion.
In addition to net income we have over $200 million in after-tax intangible amortization that runs through the P&amp;L on an annual basis but it comes back into the capital account.
So assuming our current dividend payout and CCAR buyback plan this scenario would result in capital retention of approximately $800 million.
So that includes the $1.35 billion of approved buybacks.
Finally our business can grow without significantly growing risk-weighted assets that doesn't impact the leverage ratio but it does the Basel III Tier 1 common.
So let me sum this up.
There may or may not be some impact based on the final rule.
And if there is we have many levers to pull and a lot of time available to us before we consider interrupting our planned capital actions.
Now Page 12 details the composition of our investment securities portfolio.
You can see that at quarter end we had a net unrealized gain in this portfolio of $656 million.
The decrease from $2.2 billion at the end of the quarter was primarily driven by an increase in market rates.
In order to mitigate some of the impact to capital due to changes in rates we've increased the percentage of assets and to help the maturity portfolio over the past year.
Looking at our loan book on Page 13 you can see that the provision for credit losses was a credit of $19 million which is identical to the year-ago quarter.
The credit was driven by the continued improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio.
The effective tax rate during the quarter was 27%.
That primarily reflects the impact of the ConvergEx gain as well as the termination of investments in certain tax credits.
A few points to factor in as you're thinking about the current quarter.
Now traditionally third quarter earnings have been impacted by a slowdown in transaction volumes and capital markets-related revenues particularly foreign exchange and securities lending which is also have been offset by the seasonal increase that we've traditionally see in DRs.
NII should be equal or slightly better than the second quarter as we benefit from higher interest rates and we would expect lower securities gains in this environment.
The quarterly provision should be around 0.
Our merit increase was effective as of July 1.
We expect the tax rate to come in the range of about 26%.
In terms of any future liability related of the administrative area we really don't know where the timing is going to be on that and ultimately where that will land.
And finally we plan to continue to repurchase shares during the quarter based on market conditions.
So all in all we had a strong quarter across all of our businesses.
With that let me hand it back to Gerald.
Great.
Thanks Todd.
And Wendy I think we can now open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One on Todd what you were going through with regard to actions that you could take to manage the denominator.
I was intrigued by your comments on your view that you could lower the deposits without impacting business lower your commitments without impacting your business.
Could you give a little more color on how you're thinking about doing that? Sure.
Well some of it's going to happen naturally if we go back to the normal rate environment and we'd expect that to take place Betsy over the next 5 years.
But if we had to take more direct actions we have for example encouraged some deposits to come on rather than be out in money market funds so we could redirect some of that activity for example to reduce the deposit base.
Research Division</strong> And do you think that you can raise awareness with your customers as to the potential impact if this rule was kind of required by the market to get there sooner rather than end of 2018 as it's currently described? In other words are you going to have any help on the comment letter process from the client base? Well I really haven't -- I don't know Gerald whether you -- whether we're going to reach out to clients.
Yes I think the client impact Betsy which I think relates to your unfunded commitment issue is I think many of the institutions are going to look at unfunded commitments in terms of their capital treatment or their leverage treatment.
And so perversely it may cause the industry to lower some of those commitments or let them fall off because they don't pay a whole lot and they have high capital traction particularly in the leverage ratio.
So some clients may want to weigh into the -- as already said they may see some negative impact on availability of credit as a result.
We have not anticipated that in our discussions with the supervisors.
Our -- the most -- the main points that we're going to talk to the supervisors and -- through the comment period is the treatment of cash at central banks.
It's kind of perverse to think that we have to hold capital against cash that we hold at central banks.
So the bulk of our discussion or comments are going to be in that category which is a meaningful impact to us as it relates to the leverage ratio.
The next question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just want to dissect the NII picture a little bit.
I guess looking out for the next couple of quarters a wanted to see if you guys got any benefits from lower premium amortization this quarter and if you didn't how we should think about on a go forward basis and maybe some sensitivity around that.
Yes Alex we did get a modest benefit in this quarter and we'll expect it to pick up a little bit going forward as the number of the securities extended and therefore we amortized the purchase premium over a longer time period.
It was a little bit of the reason for the benefit for the increase in the second quarter and we'd expect that to continue unless or until rates were to come down.
Research Division</strong> Okay but no way to size it.
Because I think you guys last quarter was a fairly sizable number I think 1 40.
Any sense on where that stood I guess this quarter? Yes I know what the number is Alex.
But it's a little bit misleading for me just to give you the number.
The actual number is larger but it's because of the mix of assets.
So the way to think about it as the existing assets if they got extended the amortization of that premium is going to be extended net-net benefit was about $5 million or so for the quarter.
And we would think it would be more than that in the future quarters.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then second question on issuer services I guess a I wanted to clarify the expense reimbursement comment.
I'm not sure if we're able to size that and how we should think about that one-time in nature or maybe a more recurring event? And then just maybe the broader backdrop of higher interest rates on the issuer services business because it does look like the debt issuance activity around the world is likely to slow.
Why don't I take the first part of that question I can turn it over to Tim for the second part.
As -- and now I forget what the first part of the question was? It was about the reimbursement [ph].
Oh the reimbursement I'm sorry.
The reimbursement was about half of the increase in the issuer -- in the corporate trust component of the issuer services lines Alex.
And that's kind of an episodic I think for us.
From time to time we see it.
So we agreed to take on whatever expenses are to meet the clients' needs and then that gets paid through to us on the revenue side.
So you see it typically matches up.
It doesn't always match up in the same quarter.
But typically it matches up in the same quarter.
We called it out this quarter because it was uniquely large and we wouldn't expect it to be that large every single quarter.
As regard to the impact of higher rates and issuance Tim or maybe even Curtis could add to that.
Yes maybe I'll look at the new business pipeline.
We've been encouraged I think particularly in the U.S.
CLOs remain pretty strong.
We've seen very good growth particularly this quarter outside the U.S.
and the pipeline is surprisingly strong in corporate trust.
Although as we've said before I'd certainly characterize new business that's coming in being priced a little bit lower and thinner than what we see rolling off.
And I know you didn't ask but I'd also say the pipeline in the DR business has picked up nicely.
So I'm encouraged by the outlook on the issuer services side.
Curtis I don't know if you have a point of view on interest rates.
Yes our pipeline going into the third quarter is as attractive as it's been in a very long time.
I would tell you that we actually had a pretty decent pipeline in the second quarter that we're working through.
And I think in mid-June when the said tapering dynamics played a role and people were thinking about where the rule might be going next we did see people hesitate a little bit.
But it does seem like the pipeline discussions we're having with clients are pretty promising.
I will tell you that I think the other dynamic that's happening is that as you know we have a very large LDI business.
And with higher rates we actually have seen many people who were thinking about LDI being more interested in actually coming into it.
So I know everybody wants a pretty great rotation but I would actually tell you that there are absolutely flows both ways from clients as rates have risen.
The next question is from Josh Levin with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Todd you lifted some leverage you could pull to help mitigate the impact of the supplementary leverage ratio.
Could you sort of quantify what those levers in aggregate could be worth? It could be pretty meaningful Alex -- I mean Josh.
So I think we could get there depending on which ones we pull.
I think what we're trying to indicate if the rule is as it's currently stated we can get comfortably in place over a reasonable time period of a couple of years well ahead of when the final ruling without doing anything too dramatic.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on asset sensitivity could you walk us through how we should be thinking about your sensitivity in different parts of the yield curve and the shape of the yield curve? What really matters most for you? In terms of NIR the biggest benefit we get is on the short end of the curve.
So we get a little bit from the extension of the -- on the longer end of the curve from the extension of the unamortized premium.
But the short end is where we get the biggest buck and that would kick in -- the lending portfolio would kick in against a lot of our free deposits since most of our assets are shorter duration and a lot of it is in the form of cash as we had just pointed out.
And we'd also get a pick up from the longer part of the curve on our pension expense.
So 100 basis point increase in rates is worth probably about $60 million a year in our pension expense.
And if you put the combination of higher rates and good equity performance then we could finally see some relief in pension expense starting next year.
Also as it pulls in the probability of an earlier Fed move there's going to be some value reflected probably in the LIBOR curve which helps a number of our businesses including sec lending.
The next question is from Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes so last quarter you noted that you rarely lose a lot of business in the servicing business.
But a back of the envelope analysis using your quarterly disclosures on gross wins suggest that net new business is roughly flat over the last 3 years if I back off market appreciation and deals.
So I'm not sure what we might be missing in the calculations.
I just thought if maybe you would comment on what you believe the organic trends would look like in the business and perhaps offer a little perspective on why you and your competitors are now a little more transparent around those trends? Tim do you want to take that one? Yes I would say we track a lot of things.
I'd say we've been a net winner.
We track net wins versus net losses.
I think one good point for our industry is we see a lot more clients outsourcing about 1/3 of our pipeline in new business is new business for our industry versus takeaways from the competition.
I am encouraged if you put securities lending aside in our core asset servicing business you'd see our fee is growing at 6% versus AUC growing at 4%.
It's always good for us.
If you look at a new client versus organic growth new clients bring generally more expense with it.
So I think it's actually a good sign that we see net new and organic tilting towards organic because it has less expense with it.
And I think we're also seeing our investments in particularly collateral services which Gerald outlined is a big driver of our new business pipeline.
So the things we look at net new are we winning more than we lose? Yes we are.
Win rate of 52%.
But I'm encouraged by the organic flows and people coming back into the market.
And Luke we don't provide a waterfall around our custody business.
But we do -- it is more concentrated in fixed income.
So it did benefit from some of the upside but certainly less than the equity markets have.
So it's hard to decipher that just from looking at what you're -- just from estimating as I think you've done it.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
That's helpful.
And then I was hoping you might update us regarding the comments you made last quarter about the potential to announce some incremental spending to reduce the complexity of your technology infrastructure.
And really just broadly give us your latest thoughts on where you stand on the ongoing asset servicing technology race? Yes sure.
The -- it's Gerald here.
It's basically included in the operational excellence initiatives in the table we've already outlined for you that we are continuing to produce quarterly.
We are making further progress as you can imagine as part of our annual strategic planning process and getting ready for the budget cycle coming up in the end of the year.
We are targeting further investments in simplifying the operating platform that will yield longer-term expense benefits.
We're not ready to publish those numbers for you yet but it is part of our psyche to go after that even more aggressively than we have in the past.
The next question is from Howard Chen with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Gerald you highlighted the record revenues this quarter we can certainly feel that as we review these results.
But just for the unique gains you spoke to it doesn't appear like operating margins are expanding as you progress through operational excellence.
So when you weigh some of these targeted investments you're speaking about how important is it for you and the management team to balance that with just achieving more positive operating leverage? Sure.
It's a great question because we are in fact using some of those operational excellence savings and reinvesting in the businesses that aren't yielding necessarily bottom line income right now.
But we are convinced and we're seeing it empirically in ourselves that the investments are starting to pay off.
I cited some of the APAC platform the Asia Pacific platform of using the Pershing technology to introduce a separately managed account offering in the Asia Pacific region.
We've gotten approval for it.
We have our first client for it.
We have several other clients lined up for it.
And so we've been bearing all of that expense of both the technology and enhanced distribution and sales capabilities in the investment management area.
All that expense is being borne in our P&amp;L today and we think it's going to yield revenues and earnings in the future.
So we are trying to do that delicate balance of reinvesting some of those savings in our future growth and delivering some profitability to the shareholders.
We think we've gotten a pretty good balance here so far but it's something we talk about everyday.
But Howard when we budgeted for this year we recognized if we made these -- if we continue to invest in these initiatives it was going to have a negative impact on our operating leverage over the course of the year.
It just has to.
And we decided that it was worth it.
Research Division</strong> Right understood.
It makes sense.
And then Todd just a follow-up for you.
Thanks for all the thoughts on the leverage ratio.
Appreciate a lot of this is not finalized.
But I was just hoping you could just distill this conversation down to 2 main points for us.
One what do you see is the ultimate impact on how you all do business and from profitability as you pull these levers if you have to? And two do you think this will change the amount of capital you're returning to shareholders? Well that's why I kind of walked you through the numbers and that -- in the numbers that I walked you through in terms of the capital generation and the return don't even take into consideration any growth we might expect over the next couple of years.
So before I go on speculate on something like that Howard I need to have a little more clarity around exactly what the rule is going to be.
In the meantime just like we did with the Tier 1 common we're not going to take any knee-jerk reaction and change anything until we get a good sense of where the rules are.
The other thing is we haven't been managing to it.
So if you think about it back when we -- when the Basel III Tier 1 common rule was introduced and we first disclosed we've reduced our risk-weighted assets by 25% under that rule under the advanced approach.
We haven't had any impact on our business by reducing that 25%.
It's just making -- it's just optimizing and being more efficient and we haven't even begun that process around the supplemental leverage ratio or the new Basel III rule.
So I'd like to be able to take some time first of all to understand what the rule is and to pour over the data before I answer that question.
Yes let me just add if I could as a reminder we do have a very different business model than everybody else where the supplemental rule is being applied.
We are a very very highly-liquid organization which as Todd pointed out we have almost $200 billion of either cash or a very very high-grade government and agencies securities on our balance sheet.
And so yes our leverage ratio by absolute levels is relatively low but it's relatively low because we have a highly -- and we have a very different business model that's highly liquid and very low risk weighted assets.
We have to rethink some of the levers that Todd just described on deposits unfunded commitments the treatment of certain types of assets et cetera.
We think we have those capabilities within our tool set to be able to manage to the new requirements over the course of time that it's been laid out.
So I do want to stress that we do think we have many tools available to us long before we consider interrupting our planned capital returns.
The next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about the servicing business a little bit of a follow-on to Luke's question.
Obviously you guys have a bigger mix of fixed income assets and we saw that you still had really nice wins $200 billion again.
So can you guys help us understand the growth trajectory of the core servicing ex securities lending from here? And within that just how do we understand the effects of the fixed income market selloff on revenues within that part of the custody business? Tim that's all yours.
Yes maybe we start at investment services first.
Todd mentioned the broad-based growth we're seeing in fees where we're really pleased that that's really across the board.
Clearing has been leading the way.
We're seeing some interesting drivers there.
We're seeing a small and mid-sized brokers get out of self-clearing.
We're seeing private banks looking to us for unique product set.
You're seeing core issuer services net wins and organic growth.
We're seeing good uptick in our issuer business.
So broad-based one point is we're delighted that the core business is growing and we're seeing the new business convert.
Todd mentioned we are highly geared towards fixed income.
So we continue to be aggressive on the equity mix.
We didn't mention that we have about $350 million left to convert which is about twice what we did this quarter.
So it is a little harder.
We're seeing less gearing to AUC in core asset servicing also because outsourcing our collateral and our transfer agency and subtransfer agency businesses are playing an increasingly important role in the portfolio.
But as I step back and look across all of that we like the fact that the core businesses are growing pipeline is incredibly strong our win rate is high and the new things that we've been investing in are pulling through.
And over that -- over the cycle that portfolio should perform very very strongly.
Yes and Ken maybe just to add we do have a diverse set of businesses within Investment Services which is a plus.
And we're trying to rely less on fixed income securities as the driver for our businesses.
And so as Tim pointed out Pershing is a very good example where it's a terrific platform that serves the end investor the end individual investors.
The individual investor moves more into equities and more into other instruments that's a plus for us.
We see the DR business being more equity driven.
A lot of our asset servicing wins have been more equity-based or more fee-based not tied to assets under custody.
So we are further diversifying our revenue streams and being less tied to fixed income securities.
And that's a conscious effort on our part.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I understood.
And then my second question is just related to operational excellence.
The program has continued to have a nice quarterly benefit where you're taking out more cost each quarter and you're already at a $600 million run rate on an annualized basis well above where you're originally targeting for this year and even closing in on the total program cost.
Just wondering first of all just should we continue to see every quarter that there's still incremental costs coming out.
And then secondly what's -- it looks like you're going to be well ahead of that original goal.
Can any chance you can size for us how far ahead you might end up being at the end of the program relative to initial guidelines? Sure Ken.
The -- we are a bit ahead.
I mean part of the reason was we took some more aggressive actions in the fourth quarter last year related to our real estate footprint and we will start to reap the benefits of those.
It does tend to be lumpy so that there are actions that we're taking in a particular quarter that may pay off.
So you may see a couple of quarters where it could actually be flat.
And in fact we would have thought that might have been the case but we were able to do some more in the fourth quarter of last year.
Hopefully we're going to beat it so we put out a target that we thought we can meet.
We intend to meet it or beat it.
But as Gerald said we're also investing in our businesses elsewhere and we've used some of that benefit frankly to drive -- try to drive the future revenue opportunities.
The next question is from Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up on the liabilities-driven investment.
If the rise in rates spurs a lot of clients to do LDI does that lead to sort of a one-time spike of inflows followed by a lull? And could some of those clients take those assets in-house over time instead of using outside managers? So there's definitely been a trend towards LDI.
The biggest part of our LDI business today is in the U.K.
and one of our initiatives has actually been to expand.
We have U.S.
businesses as well but we really are growing pretty rapidly in the U.S.
and in other developed parts of the world where our pension funds have not been as aggressive in using LDI strategies.
So that definitely is a trend.
And at some point when LDI is fully on play with clients who wanted to go that direction I think you will see it leveling off.
I will tell you that some clients have looked at moving it internally and in some cases have done that.
I think managing their liability liabilities across the world of different complexity.
In the U.K.
they have an inflation component that is sometimes complex to manage against and they work with us to do that.
And I think clients make different decisions on whether to do it in-house or not.
But so far I would tell you that the trend has been more to work with investment management firms and we've been a real beneficiary of that.
The firms that we -- our investment firms that provide LDI services one of the great things that they do is they really do understand client liabilities.
And those liabilities can be very defined as in the case of a pension fund or they may need a tremendous amount of analysis in the case of even individuals high net worth clients in a broader range of institutions.
And so a lot of the intellectual capital and modeling tools around the liability side I think can be applied much more broadly to the full universe of investing clients.
I think it's part of what you see spawning the broader solutions movement that's happened in the investment management landscape.
And we think we're extremely well positioned to be a leader in the solution space helping clients understand their liabilities and how to invest against those liabilities.
So LDI is absolutely a very large trend we expect to continue for a while and we think that we are also well positioned to evolve it as the market evolves.
But that -- I really do believe that's years away.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also I'm just wondering if you could give a little color on money market fee waivers your outlook there.
And more generally just impact of the very very low repo rate than short-term rates that you're seeing.
I'll give an investment management answer.
This is Curtis Arledge again.
I'll give an investment management answer and maybe Todd or Tim if you guys want to talk more broadly.
We absolutely had seen an increase in fee waivers in this quarter versus a year ago.
Some of that actually is we have been working to -- the rules have been proposed by the SEC we see clients starting to think about what their longer-term plan will be and we have absolutely seen I think we're better positioned.
We think that we're going to be one of winners in the new money market world.
Institutional prime funds we think are going to end up taking less risk.
The yields will be different -- will be less different less varied across providers.
And we're -- we think we're very well prepared to benefit from an environment where clients are more focused on sponsor that they work with.
Being the safest bank in the United States doing really well all the stress tests and whatnot is definitely on our client's radar screen.
We've seen where we work with other parts of investment services and increasing usage of us in our money market funds by clients that are coming to us either from asset servicing or from Pershing or other parts of our company.
So part of the reason we have increased fee waivers is absolutely because rates -- part of it is also because we think our business is actually doing well.
So there's a revenue offset to much of the fee waiver business.
We've done a lot of analysis of our client base.
We've looked pretty closely at options that may play out when reform actually is put into place.
There essentially are 4 paths that we think make up the bulk of where clients will go in the money market world with institutional prime assets.
For those that absolutely have to have constant NAV many of them will choose going through treasury and government funds.
Again we will lose revenue on that institutional prime side but pick up some share of that revenue in our treasury and government funds.
Some subsegment of our client base have said that they will accept floating rate.
It's not a large portion of it but some will.
Others will stay with the constant NAV with liquidity gates if both of those end up being -- going forward as proposed.
And then finally there will be some that exit that need to move to deposits or to other types of stable investments.
When we look across the whole thing we think it's going to have an impact but not an incredibly large impact.
Some of that driven by the fact that we've already seen a diminution in our profitability from the low-interest rate environment.
So again if rates normalize we actually think a lot of assets will come back to the money market space.
We think we'll see meaningful growth there potentially.
And it may not be what it would have been without reform but we again think we're well positioned.
Maybe the last thing I'd say this whole leverage ratio discussion to the extent that if cash and high-quality assets treasuries and agencies are not excluded from the calculation and banks broadly end up owning fewer of them you would think that that would shrink the demand side of the equation and actually push short-term yields up which would shrink our fee waivers.
So there are some positive offsets to some of these leverage ratio discussions in our earnings profile.
And Cynthia for the rest of the company in fact fee waivers are about consistent with the size of our businesses about 25% to 30% of the impact is felt by the Investment Management side and the remainder by the Investment Services side.
It's largely driven by very short-term rates and the best correlation is just to the fed funds effected which inched it down a basis point or so in the quarter and it continues to trade at about that level.
So we've indicated in the past that it's about $0.05 or $0.06 right now a quarter with where these -- where the fee waivers are running for the entire company in terms of the pretax income impact.
The next question is from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Is there a little shift in terms of your emphasis on wealth management? It seems like you're talking about it more forcefully at the start of this call? Mike wealth management has always been a business we love.
And I've personally been a strong proponent of our wealth management business.
I wish it was a larger percentage of our company and we're just making good investments in people and in some of the infrastructure to make a more competitive and more markets across the countries.
So it's a good business it's a very sound business for us it's a steady grower it's got good margins it has all the right attributes and utilizes our investment management capabilities.
So we think it's got all the right attributes for further investment.
So it's just one of the examples of many examples where we're investing in our businesses for long-term growth.
I think I'd add to that Mike these investments of all the things that we do the ones that have the greatest probability of actually meeting our expectations will be this type of an investment.
But the challenge is it's a long payback period.
So you invest and you see it 2 3 4 years out.
But we think it's -- we just need to continue because there's real value there to building this organically.
It would be great if there was something that was a perfect fit but if there's not we're going to have to do it organically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question I know I asked it last earnings call but each time I go down to the court house for the Bank of New York hearing with the $8.5 billion settlement with Bank of America I hear some lawyers -- I'll paraphrase I think they say that Bank of New York rubber-stamped the $8.5 million mortgage put-back agreement.
And I know you can't comment on the particulars of the case but I just happen to be down there.
It was I guess yesterday was the internal counsel and last time I was there it was the external counsel for Bank of New York.
And my question is if the judge refuses to accept the $8.5 billion settlement what would be the implications for Bank of New York? And my thought process which I invite you to correct is that you only get a few basis points to act as custodian for a lot of these fees.
You don't incorporate the possibility that you'd have to expand a whole lot of effort for the sort of problem asset resolution.
And so if they deny this settlement does that imply that you have a much higher level of duty to the certificate holders that you act as trustee for? Mike we think we've managed this process and our role as trustee in these securities quite well.
It's going through the typical court process.
You're going to hear lawyers from all sides argue their case.
We think we've handled our duties properly and that's all I can say.
I'll just add one thing to that cost question Mike.
The agreements that govern the trust provided by BNY Mellon's trustee we're indemnified for any losses liability or expenses.
So if there are higher expenses we should indemnify them.
Research Division</strong> What I'm kind of getting to I mean the price competition among the processing banks has been tough for the last many years.
If you look at processing fees that's under custody it's still very low.
Each of the big players have talked about being more selective in how they price things.
Are you seeing any change in the pricing when you act as custodian? Mike for the very large clients the largest investment managers or sovereign wealth funds around the world continue to remain very price competitive and we try to win on service capability value-added capability rather than win on the pure commoditized settlement of it.
And that's why the diversified business model we have and the different solutions sets we have to offer we think has put us in a competitive -- positive competitive position.
The pure custody business is very commoditized.
I will grant it.
And that's why some of the operational excellence and some of the expense initiatives we have in place to constantly improve our operating platforms so that we can in fact maintain our operating margins as part of the nature of the business.
Overall the company's operating margins are quite healthy and we showed strong revenue growth we improved our operating margins and we're investing in our businesses for the future.
So we like these businesses.
There are elements of it that are clearly commodity driven.
Our next question is from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Todd I know you had given us some color on the supplemental leverage ratio.
And I think many of us on this call would agree you guys are clearly different than our largest banks.
If you're successful in convincing the regulators to allow you to deduct the cash and the government-guaranteed securities on your balance sheet just that portion of it would that put you over the 5% number do you think on the leverage ratio? Gerard I could barely hear you unfortunately.
I'm not sure what's wrong with the communications but...
LLC Research Division</strong> I'll try again maybe this is a little better.
You gave us some color on the leverage ratio and clearly you guys are different than the biggest banks.
If you're successful in convincing the regulators that deducting cash in the guaranteed-government securities that you own and others would do the same from the denominator.
Would that put you over the 5% by just doing that alone? Well if you deducted cash -- the way to look at it is we've got about a $360 billion balance sheet.
And if you deducted cash and government-guaranteed securities that's $200 billion.
So yes that throws us way over.
The answer is yes.
Under the way -- and I always want to phrase it under the way they're currently proposing that it'd be calculated.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And speaking on the leverage ratio your -- do you have an estimate for what the lead bank ratio is which is going to be 6% for everybody? It's about -- it's close to where we were at the holding company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Gerald finally coming back to the wealth management business what kind of projections do you guys see in terms of future revenue growth from this initiative now to grow this business pretty dramatically as you pointed out.
I think you said 50% types of increases in staff and people.
What do you think you could -- 2 or 3 years down the road relative to where you are today how much higher could the revenue be? Yes I don't want to give guidance and speculation but we wouldn't be making the investment if we didn't think we could meaningfully increase the rate of growth in the wealth management business.
We've -- as Todd said it's pretty predictable when we make these kinds of investments how the growth rate actually increases.
You're starting to see some of it in things like loans and deposits which is the easiest thing to point to where we've had meaningful growth already.
We had almost 20% increase on both of those categories year-over-year.
So it's starting to show up in the numbers already.
The next question is from Brian Bedell with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Gerald I think you mentioned in your earlier comments on the collateral management initiative beginning to show up in revenue.
Maybe if you and/or Tim could talk about the progress there that you're seeing so far.
If you can quantify the revenue in the asset servicing number and then where you think maybe a type of range we can think about that in 2014.
I think you had previously said that was more of a 2014 type of build.
It looks like you're seeing some early returns there.
Right.
As I said in my opening comments we're seeing it in the optimization and segregation balances and then it's starting to show up in some of the fees.
We're not breaking it out yet.
It's basically included in the overall investment services fees.
But one of the reasons for the year-over-year growth is then related to that.
We're also seeing it in some of our secured loan category which is part of the optimization.
And so that's one of the reasons why our net interest income and our secured loans are up.
But Tim maybe you want to add some comment.
Yes Brian thanks for the question.
I mean I still go back to Dodd-Frank it's still about only 1/3 written EMIR the European cousin to Dodd-Frank about the same.
These regulations continue to be phased-in.
The buy side's claiming a more important role because they have to comply with these regulations as well so we're doing a lot of education of the clients.
I mean Gerald nailed it between secured term loan financing the number of accounts we're segregating.
The amount of collateral we're reinvesting through our portal all the vital signs there are very healthy.
About 1/3 of our asset servicing pipelines being driven by overall activity in collateral.
But I think the 2 areas -- and so I think those services will continue to grow as clients are forced to put more the derivatives volumes through CCPs and collateralize them.
So that will happen steadily over time.
And then the 2 services that are going to become increasingly more important to clients probably in mid-'14 and later is segregating all of their collateral positions around the world and then providing optimization services on top of that and we charge for both of those things.
So I don't know if that characterization is helpful but those are the areas that we've been reinvesting in our technology capabilities.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Do you feel you're most of the way through that in technology investment you mentioned that the patent that you ordered? Or is there still a significant amount of buildout to capture those revenues out in '14 and '15? Yes I would say the majority of it is behind us Brian.
We're testing aggregation now with a couple of clients.
Yes so I would say most of that investment is behind us.
It's now more the ground assault marketing effort in getting out and talking mostly to the buy side.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one more for Todd.
On the unrealized securities losses the change in the first to second quarter.
Todd how do you think about that on the go-forward basis in terms of capital management in context of your comments on the Basel III leverage ratio and your mitigation strategies? Or is it -- if we get a back up on the yield curve substantially faster over the next several quarters would you move more securities to help the maturity or are there other mitigation strategies to that in terms of your capital planning? Yes we certainly take it into consideration.
We model the sensitivity to it and we've become a bit more defensive in both what we're buying and which account that we're placing it.
So that we could -- as we get closer to the ultimate days that the Fed actually does something it will be less impactful.
But securities are still a big part of our balance sheet.
So as a percentage basis it is something for us to keep an eye on.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And would you shorten duration then as a potential mitigation strategy? Certainly shorten the duration that would be exposed to the capital.
Our final question today is from Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
I just want to follow up on the net interest margin.
You guys were up 4 basis points sequentially.
You said it didn't really benefit too much from premium amortization this quarter.
You talked about an earnings mix shift.
But in the previous question you're talking about potentially being more defensive if you need to be in shortening durations.
So how do we kind of put all that together? What drove the NIM performance sequentially? Was it taking a little bit more duration or -- how do we think about that in the quarter and then going forward? There are 2 drivers.
One is actually cost of funds decline.
So if you look at our interest earning deposits they declined from -- 1 basis point.
Now 1 basis point doesn't sound like a lot but $140 billion and actually -- it actually adds up so we went from 8 to 7 basis points.
The other thing is we did -- we called our trust preferreds which fell through the deadline those were relatively expensive.
So we got a nice kicker from a reduced cost of funds and the -- then the other driver is mix.
So we did see an increase in our loan portfolio.
We'd like it to be a little bit bigger but we did see an increase in the loan portfolio.
We saw a modest increase.
Actually the securities portfolio from period to period was about flat.
It was bigger on average.
But from period to period it was about flat.
So we saw a decline on the available for sale and an increase Jim in the health of maturity as we use that a little more aggressively.
So we think that as -- and then we saw a little bit of a benefit from the fact that the unamortized premium is going to slow down.
So that helped us a few million dollars or $5 million or $6 million as well.
So you take that into consideration on a go forward we're going to pick up the benefit from the -- the benefit from the unamortized premium and will be more than offset from allowing the duration to shorten a bit.
Okay.
So you'd expect sort of that core NIM to stabilize but potentially getting more benefit from premium amortization? Yes I think that's the way to look at it.
We think we can hang in here without doing a lot to the portfolio.
Well thank you very much everybody for dialing in.
We really appreciate it.
And if you have any other comments or questions please reach out to Andy Clark and the rest of our IR team.
Thank you very much all.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Mr.
Andy Clark at (212) 635-1803.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference call webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Andy Clark.
Mr.
Clark you may begin.
Thanks Shirley and welcome everyone.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO as well as our executive management team.
Before we begin let me remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement in the press release and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today October 16 2013 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
Our press release and earnings review are available on our website and we will be using the earnings review to discuss our results.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Gerald.
Gerald? Thanks Andy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
As you saw from our release for the third quarter we reported earnings of $0.82 per share.
Now this includes the benefit related to our recent favorable tax ruling and after netting out this benefit we had earnings of $0.60 per share.
Now looking at how our business model performed we believe we earned about $0.58 per share on a core operating basis.
And Todd will take you through those numbers and how we get there.
For the quarter I see 3 key takeaways.
First we had strong year-over-year core fee revenue growth reflecting our focus on driving organic growth our ability to deliver enhanced solutions sets across our entire company and improved market conditions for most of our businesses.
Second we continue to exceed the goals of our operational excellence initiatives while making targeted investments to drive future growth.
And finally our businesses continue to be a strong generator of capital.
And in fact we generated more than $1 billion of capital this quarter.
For the quarter we had total revenues of $3.8 billion which is up 3% over the third quarter of 2012.
Investment Management business performance continues to be strong and resulted in the 16th consecutive quarter of net long-term inflows.
Net long-term inflows were $32 billion in the quarter for a total in excess of $100 billion over the last 12 months.
We continue to have particular strength in the liability-driven investments but we also enjoyed nice flows into more active asset classes which have a higher fee realization.
Our success in attracting new assets helped drive our -- drive a 13% increase in assets under management year-over-year to a record $1.53 trillion.
This organic growth along with higher equity values helped mitigate the pressure from higher money market fee waivers and Todd will talk to that in a few moments.
I would also note that Investment Management continues to invest in its franchise including the wealth management sales force expansion enhancements to the U.S.
retail distribution platforms and leveraging our Investment Services businesses particularly in the Asia-Pacific region to deliver solutions our clients need.
In Investment Services we had a nice year-over-year fee growth in most of our businesses.
This growth was driven by new business increased volumes and improved equity values.
We're continuing to see increased interest and dialogue around our Pershing or advisory services technology platform and that services advisors and wealth managers globally.
We see that as a long-term trend that we're well positioned to capitalize on.
We have both scale and a leading technology platform to deliver what the market is looking for.
Global Collateral Services also contributed to the Investment Services growth as changes in the regulatory marketplace have created new business opportunities particularly in collateral segregation and optimization.
Investment Services also benefited from better foreign exchange results.
Certainly increased market volumes and volatility contributed to this growth.
However the enhancements we've made to our electronic trading platforms also contributed to our improved performance.
On the expense front we remain ahead of our operational excellence initiative targets.
Our team has been focused on reengineering our processes and creating a simplified end-state operating platform.
We have also leveraged our procurement function and reduced our real estate footprints to reduce costs.
These savings have provided us with the flexibility to make targeted investments for future growth and help absorb the impact of regulatory costs which are not insignificant.
On the capital front they said [ph] we generated over $1 billion of new Basel III Tier 1 common capital and we achieved an excellent return on tangible common equity of 21%.
The supplemental leverage ratio remains a focus for us and the market in general and we're certainly supportive of strong leverage ratio standards and good liquidity management.
However we've been meeting with policymakers to provide an opportunity for them to understand how the proposed SLR affects the market and we hope to see final rule which does not create a disincentive to hold strong liquidity positions.
In sum it was a quarter with solid fee growth good progress in our operational excellence initiatives and a continuation of our strong capital generation.
So with that let me turn it over to Todd to go through the numbers.
Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the quarterly earnings review and will start on Page 2.
As Gerald noted EPS was $0.82.
That's $0.60 after excluding the benefit of that recent tax court decision.
The $0.60 include the benefit of approximately $0.02 related to the sale of a property at one of our equity investments so we see it as a $0.58 quarter.
Looking at the numbers on a year-over-year basis total revenue was $3.8 billion.
That's up 3%.
In our Investment Services businesses we enjoyed growth in asset servicing issuer and clearing.
Investment management and performance fees continued their upward momentum.
FX revenues again up strongly year-over-year.
NIR increased and expenses were up 4% on a non-GAAP basis.
Turning to Page 4 where we call out some business metrics that help explain our underlying performance.
You can see that AUM of $1.53 trillion was up 13% year-over-year and 7% sequentially.
That was driven by net new business as well as the higher market values.
During the quarter we had net long-term inflows of $32 billion benefiting from -- as Gerald said from the strength in our liability-driven investments but we also saw some movement into alternative investments as well as active equity and index funds.
Short-term inflows were $13 billion.
Assets under custody and administration were up 4% year-over-year to $27.4 trillion primarily reflecting the impact of improved market values and net new business.
Linked-quarter AUC/A was up 5% due to improved market values and also the impact of currency rates.
Many of our key metrics showed good growth on a year-over-year basis.
Most clearing metrics were up.
Our estimated DARTS volume and average long-term mutual fund assets continued the recent strong growth trend.
Average loans and deposits in wealth management and investment services were again up nicely and the market value securities on loans was also up.
We saw the declines -- we did see some declines in a number of sponsored DR programs also in the average tri-party repo balances.
Looking at our fees on Page 6.
Asset servicing fees were up 2% year-over-year and they were down 2% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primary reflects higher market values some organic growth and net new business and that was partially offset by lower securities lending revenue and the securities lending revenue was down largely because of narrower spreads.
The sequential decrease primarily resulted from a seasonal decrease in sec lending revenue lower activity as well as lower expense reimbursements in the third quarter.
We had an estimated $110 billion in new AUC/A wins for an estimated total of $700 billion in wins over the last 12 months.
Issuer services fees were up 4% year-over-year and 10% sequentially.
Year-over-year increase primarily reflects higher Depositary Receipts revenue and that was partially offset by lower corporate trust fees primarily related to lower money market mutual fund balances and higher money market fund fee waivers.
The sequential increase reflects seasonally higher DR revenue and that was offset a bit by lower expense reimbursements which we noted on our second quarter earnings call.
Clearing fees were up 10% year-over-year and they're down 2% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase was driven by higher mutual fund and asset-based fees and volumes and that was partially offset by higher money market fee waivers.
The sequential decline was primarily driven by seasonally lower clearance revenue reflecting a seasonal decrease in DARTS and higher money market fee waivers.
Investment Management and performance fees were up 5% year-over-year and down 3% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by higher equity market values and net new business and that was partially offset by the average impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
The sequential decrease primarily reflects seasonally lower performance fees partially offset by net new business and higher market values.
Comparison to both prior periods were negatively impacted by higher money market fee waivers.
Now in terms of money market fee waivers the aggregate corporate impact EPS this quarter was approximately $0.06 and that's as high as we've seen it.
From a revenue perspective the incremental drag was $41 million on a year-over-year basis and it was $23 million sequentially.
If you exclude the impact of fee waivers year-over-year fee growth would have been approximately 4.5%.
From a business line perspective the drag was fairly evenly split between Investment Management and Investment Services.
In FX and other trading total revenue was down 12% year-over-year and 23% sequentially.
Let's look at the underlying components there.
FX revenue was $154 million.
That's up 27% year-over-year.
It's down 14% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects stronger volumes as well as higher volatility.
The sequential decrease was primarily driven by lower volatility while volumes increased a bit.
As Gerald noted we've made some enhancements to our electronic trading platforms and they have contributed to the improved volumes and results.
Other trading revenue was down $55 million over the year-ago quarter and $22 million over the second quarter.
Both decreases primarily reflect lower fixed income and derivatives trading revenue.
The year-over-year decrease also reflects a loss on inventory positions driven by higher interest rates.
Investment and other income totaled $135 million in the quarter.
That compares with $124 million 1 year ago and $260 million -- excuse me $269 million in the second quarter.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects higher equity investment revenue which was partially offset by lower seed capital gains.
The sequential decrease primarily reflects the gain related to our equity investment in ConvergEx that was recorded in the second quarter.
To provide some more color here equity investment income included $36 million of revenue from the equity investment as we shared in the profit of a piece of real estate they sold so they sold a piece of real estate and that was our equity share of it.
This favorably impacted our EPS by about $0.02.
The asset-related gain item that you see here included $32 million related to the pretax gain on the sale of Newton's private banking business.
There was really no positive line impact here on the transaction as the business had an extremely low tax basis so the tax gain wiped out the pretax benefit.
Turning to Page 8 of the earnings review you'll see that NIR on an FTE fully taxable-equivalent basis was up $22 million versus the year-ago quarter and $16 million sequentially.
Both increases were primarily driven by lower premium amortization on investment securities as well as a larger balance sheet with more interest-earning assets.
The year-over-year increase also reflects a change in the mix of earning assets including a decrease in the size of the investment securities portfolio.
During the quarter we reduced the size of the portfolio which led to $22 million of security gains.
We also transferred agency mortgage-backed securities with an amortized cost basis of $7.3 billion from available for sale to held to maturity.
We expect that both of these actions will help reduce our capital sensitivity to other comprehensive income in the event of a rise in long-term interest rates.
As our asset liability management strategy continues to limit our overall exposure to long-term rates we would expect to be relatively defensive in our reinvestment in the near-term where -- resulting in a modest negative impact to net interest income.
The net interest margin for the quarter was 1.16%.
That's compared with 1.20% in the year-ago quarter and 1.15% in the prior quarter.
Turning to Page 9 total noninterest expense x amortization of intangible assets and M&amp;I litigation and restructuring charges were up 4% year-over-year and down 1% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily resulted from higher staff expense driven by the annual employee merit increase of 2% which was effective on July 1 as well as higher incentive and employee benefit expenses.
Turning to Page 10 we're pleased with the performance of our operational excellence initiatives and expect to beat our targets for the year.
Our efforts during the quarter resulted in $170 million in quarterly gross run rate savings as the $20 million in incremental savings came with about $11 million of program costs.
Among the areas that we continue to be focused on include reducing costs through our enhanced procurement process continuing to work on reducing our expensive real estate here in New York and as Gerald mentioned we've already -- we're already generating some savings and see more opportunities to enhance our technology and operations.
At a conference next month Brian Shea our Head of Client Service Delivery and Client Technology Solutions and Suresh Kumar our Chief Information Officer will outline our efforts progress and potential in these areas.
Offsetting some of these benefits we've seen increased costs related to the regulatory environment.
These costs continue to grow as we've strengthened our compliance risk and control functions and work to make us an even more resilient company.
As we've mentioned we're also investing in our brand as well as other revenue-producing initiatives such as building the separately-managed account business in APAC increasing Dreyfus' share of the U.S.
retail market building our global collateral services capabilities enhancing our global market capabilities and expanding our wealth management franchise all important investments in our growth.
As you can see on Page 11 we generated $1.1 billion in gross Basel III Tier 1 common during the quarter and our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio has increased substantially.
We purchased 122 million shares of -- of our shares in the third quarter.
That's less than what we've done in the earlier quarters largely driven by defensive positioning given the ongoing uncertainty about interest rates and the potential impact on AOCI and ultimately capital.
As mentioned earlier we've muted the potential impact to the AOCI through actions in the third quarter.
And that and in addition to our significant capital generation during the quarter has positioned us to increase our purchases in Q4.
At September 30 2013 our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio this is under the standardized approach was 10.1% and that compares to 9.30% at the end of June.
Now we've calculated these ratios on a fully phased-in basis so the 80-basis-point sequential increase primarily reflects the benefit of capital generation.
And if we looked at it under the advanced approach also on a fully phased-in basis we are at a very healthy 11.1%.
Our estimated supplementary leverage ratio during the quarter did rise and is now approximately 4.3% a little less than anticipated because of the spike in the balance sheet that we saw at quarter end.
Frankly we permitted this spike because we have significant capacity and plenty of time to take the steps to ultimately comply with the SLR.
Some of those steps just happen naturally through the normalization of monetary policy and we'd see some decline in deposits.
As previously mentioned we have many levers to pull if necessary to improve the ratio with only a limited impact on our business.
For the time being we see no reason for immediate actions given the uncertainty around the final definition and the fact that it won't take effect for 5 years.
Page 12 details the composition of our investment securities portfolio.
You can see that at quarter end we had a net unrealized gain on the portfolio of $723 million.
That's a little increase from $656 million at the end of the prior quarter and it was driven primarily by lower credit spreads on foreign securities.
Moving to our loan book on Page 13.
The provision for credit losses was $2 million.
That compares to a credit in the year-ago quarter of $5 million and a credit of $19 million in the prior quarter.
The effective tax rate for the quarter on an operating basis and that's excluding the U.S.
tax court's reconsideration was 26% in line with our previous guidance.
Now a few factors to include in your thinking about the current quarter the fourth quarter.
We expect a significant seasonal decline in our high-margin DR fees.
A portion of that should be replaced with the lower-margin Investment Management performance fees and I should be down somewhat due to our defensive investing.
In the fourth quarter we typically see higher business development and marketing expenses.
Also I want to remind you that preferred dividends will have an impact of approximately $0.02 because of the recent issuance.
The quarterly provision should be somewhere around 0.
We expect the tax rate to come in in a range of 26%.
And based on market conditions we believe we're much better positioned and expect to execute on our buyback plans which should be in a range similar to the second quarter.
To recap all in all a good revenue quarter in our Investment Services and Investment Management businesses.
We continue to execute on the operational excellence initiatives and we strengthened our balance sheet and improved our capital position.
So with that let me turn it back to Gerald.
Great.
Thanks Todd and I think we can now open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Okay so 2 questions.
One is on the outlook for NII.
Todd you mentioned during this quarter that you were shortening the duration of the portfolio.
And it's -- obviously it didn't come through in the NIM in part given the premium amortization reduction.
But could you help us understand kind of pace or rate of change we should expect in the NIM given the actions you've taken on the portfolio? Yes.
I think in the fourth quarter you're likely to see NIR given those actions and the rate of the amortization premium -- premium of the -- amortization of the premium.
I would expect it to be somewhere in the range of what we saw in the second quarter Betsy.
Research Division</strong> And so what's the duration of the securities portfolio right now? And what's the targeted duration? Maybe you could speak to the entire portfolio not just the AFS or the HTM bucket separately.
Yes.
The -- it's a little over 2.
And we target the duration of the AFS to be in the 2 range.
So we're pretty close to where we want to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And was it higher last quarter? Because I know you were trying to shorten duration.
Yes it had gotten a bit higher when we saw the extension that came late in the second quarter so we did sell out some securities.
And then we just let some -- we didn't add aggressively to the portfolio in the third quarter and that's why it's down so we just let some securities burn off a natural duration burn off.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's the AFS book not the HTM book? It includes both but more directed to the AFS book.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
Helpful.
And then just second thing is on the buybacks.
So I know you indicated that given market conditions you'd be more likely to buy back more this quarter.
I mean obviously your capital ratio is up significantly with earnings and the benefit of the court decision.
But I guess I'm just honing in on your comment that market conditions may get more -- probably going to buy back stock this quarter.
Are you just talking about seasonal weakness in the third quarter is what kept you from doing more buyback in 3Q? Well we're a little defensive around the AOCI issue too Betsy.
And so until we got the portfolio better positioned so we had less volatility to our capital account that made us a bit defensive and then we had the good things at the end of the quarter play themselves out.
And we're just in a much stronger position.
Next question comes from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just picking up on the last question.
As you guys approach this year's CCAR exam it feels like there's a lot more elements that you have to balance around and weigh in on.
So maybe you can just talk broadly about how do you expect to approach this year's stress tests and when it comes to the capital returns should we still expect you guys to return more capital next year versus this year either from the amount basis or as a percentage of earnings? Well Alex we don't know what the stress test is yet.
We -- our understanding is we'll get the instructions around November 1 what the actual environment would look like.
But obviously we've grown our capital our ratios have improved so we are well positioned to approach the stress test.
But I think it's too early to say and obviously I wouldn't -- I can't -- there's no way I can talk about what our future actions would be but we're certainly in as good a position as we were last year.
Yes just to add to that Alex.
I think we feel very good about the strength of our capital and liquidity going into the stress test.
We think the earnings are very solid.
So we feel pretty good about our position.
We'll wait to see what the parameters are at the stress test and then layer into it what capital actions we think are appropriate.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on the core kind of asset services side of the business I know that you mentioned there are some seasonal changes 2Q to 3Q.
But I guess if you look at it broadly pretty good growth in assets under custody.
And if you look at the servicing fees even excluding securities lending they were down sequentially and the fee rate is also kind of down.
So just -- can you help us just flesh out a little bit more and is there any changes you see on the pricing front or is it just a seasonally slower activity quarter for you guys? I think that would be helpful.
Okay.
Lots of questions in there Alex.
Maybe I can start and then turn it over to Tim.
On a year-over-year basis you can see that our assets under custody and administration are up about 4% and our fees are also up about 4%.
The third quarter was a bit of an anomaly both in our AUM and Curtis can talk to that and AUC because we saw a quarter where the dollar was stronger for most of the quarter and then weaker at quarter end.
We saw fixed income prices down for most of the quarter but then strengthening at quarter end and as you know we're largely a fixed income shop.
So I don't think -- I think you'll from time to time see these kind of anomalies on a quarter-to-quarter basis so it's not necessarily reflective of the -- of what you might see in the fees.
And -- well Tim why don't you do a little more -- do a deeper dive on the fees.
Yes Alex it's Tim.
There are 3 things I'd point to worth mentioning on this call.
One is we saw a pretty significant drop from second quarter to third quarter in out of pockets.
These are the things that would come from our subcustody network and CSDs largely to support growth in handling corporate action activity in our network.
The second thing which we expected to see a seasonal drop in overall activity I would say across the board whether you look at middle-office outsourcing transfer agency or accounting we saw an across-the-board drop in activity a bit more frankly than I would have expected to see.
And then we also saw redemptions.
I didn't quite expect to see the level of redemptions that we saw third quarter over second quarter.
I think if you would put all those things aside I would have expected to see us flat to maybe up just slightly.
And on your pricing question it's still way hot at the high end which is why we keep repricing the low end of our book.
But the story I would maybe draw your attention to is around expenses.
Both Gerald and Todd talked about this.
You see expenses down for the quarter 3%.
If you adjusted for the seasonality of DRs you would have seen that our coverage ratio so fees to expenses actually improved by 0.5 points despite increased fee waivers and soft sec lending.
And then year-on-year you see the expense story is well we continue to be very very disciplined and our operational expense initiatives are paying off.
So a bit of an anomaly on the quarter-to-quarter drop but we're razor-focused on operational excellence initiatives and they're showing up in these results.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
And then could you just clarify the seasonal benefit in DR business this quarter like how much was in that $322 million number? Todd you want to have it? Yes.
It's about -- sequentially it's about $70 million.
And the -- and just to give you a heads-up into the fourth quarter that fourth quarter tends to be our weakest so it can be even larger than that.
Our next question comes from Howard Chen with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First with the government shutdown and looming default I was just hoping you could discuss 2 aspects of it: one recent client behavior across the businesses; and two what have you all been doing operationally prepare maybe including from a balance sheet management perspective or is it an important part of the tri-party repo market? Sure.
Howard it's Gerald.
Obviously we're taking this very seriously and we have a variety of contingency plans in place with a variety of different scenarios because we're not quite sure what may come out of Washington.
And that being said I think we're as well prepared as anyone going into this.
Client activity not surprisingly we've seen some various money market funds and various clients get more defensive and put more into cash so our balance sheet's up about $10 billion since quarter end.
We are prepared to handle that.
We've talked to clients about utilizing our balance sheet at least on a short-term basis to accommodate their needs.
And so we're sort of acting business as usual as it relates to clients -- client activity.
As every day goes by more people are getting more defensive and liquefying more.
No real impact on tri-party per se.
The market has been deleveraging for quite a period of time and you're seeing what's happening in our tri-party balances.
They've come down a little bit but generally holding pretty steady.
So that's about it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my follow-up is in the core Investment Management franchise.
Flows have been excellent.
You had another strong quarter of equity market tailwind.
I guess we would have thought you might see a little bit more revenue growth in the core management fees from last quarter.
I was hoping you could -- as you look deeper into the data was that -- what do you see? And then could we get sort of a check on what investment performance is like for those strategy that generate year-end incentive fees? Yes absolutely.
I think what Todd talked about earlier around assets under custody and some of the dynamics actually played out for us as well.
So AUM quarter-over-quarter up 7%.
Almost 3% of that came from the movement in FX.
So a weaker dollar means our non-U.S.
revenues -- non-U.S.
AUM I should say were boosted by weak dollar really right at the end of the quarter.
So we didn't -- we charge management fees primarily on an average FX rate.
And the 7% number is actually a spot AUM comparison.
So we didn't get in this quarter the benefit of the weaker dollar and what it does to the AUM or nondollar assets.
Just to remind you about 46% of our revenues are non-U.S.
So it's pretty meaningful to know what's happening on the FX front.
And then the remaining portion of the story really is about the AUM growth that we had in short-term assets and more importantly the overall impact from fee waivers.
So this is the second-worst quarter we've had in terms of fee waivers.
Very low fed funds rates and short-term market rates significantly depressed the management fee revenues in our business there.
And so I think that is really the -- those 2 really tell the story.
I would tell you that the -- sort of the organic activities are pretty promising.
We have as you've pointed out we've had good AUM growth.
Todd and Gerald mentioned that that has come from some of the lower-fee LDI-oriented products over the past several quarters.
But in the third quarter we actually began to see some of the confidence that I think the market was feeling earlier in the third quarter show up in our growth.
We had good growth in active equity.
We actually have been positioning our platform around a number of alternative and absolute return products.
They actually had great AUM growth in the quarter.
Some of that came later in the quarter and so the revenue impact is not felt in the quarter.
You may get new revenues in the quarter but not out of earnings as much as the revenue yet.
And in fact so we look very closely at forward revenue streams from our asset growth.
But third quarter is seasonally a low quarter.
Generally clients put money to work in the first quarter and it remains reasonably strong in the second the third quarter is lighter and then the fourth quarter is not usually as strong as the first quarter but picks back up.
We actually this year have a very different seasonal.
Our third quarter was quite strong in terms of what forward revenue from new mandates.
Additionally last thing I'll say is that our one not-funded pie client is also growing.
The forward revenues from wins that have not yet funded for various reasons just haven't happened yet or some of them are triggered based on market outcomes has grown by over 20%.
So I think the organic AUM story is more promising both in an AUM basis and a revenue basis going forward.
Performance across the platform as you can imagine from our size was over $1.5 trillion in assets under management.
We have a number of strategies quite large strategies that drive revenue.
There are an array of investment performance outcomes.
We continue to see pretty strong performance in some of the larger categories that I've just gone through.
Our LDI team continues to have exceptional performance and has done a great job for those clients.
That's why Insight most specifically has won a number of awards this year for the great work they've done.
Our -- if I had to characterize our overall platform we have a firm that I think is more built around equity and fixed income management that is more conservative in nature.
So we don't have big momentum strategies sharp increases in the market all at once.
Again this is a very blunt statement.
But generally we lag in those types of markets and then do better as valuation analysis and finding value in markets becomes more important.
Again we have a big index business that follows the market and so it's important to understand the mix of assets that we have on our platform.
Our next question comes from Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So thinking about top line growth AUC AUM -- actually AUC.
I was wondering if you might comment on the decision of one of your clients to appoint a shadow servicer whether you think that could be an increasing trend going forward? And if so what underpins that demand and do you think there's a meaningful opportunity in it for BNY Mellon? Yes Tim why don't you take that one.
Luke Tim Keaney.
Yes we're watching the situation very carefully.
This is a large hedge fund that's appointed us for their middle office.
The reason why this is an interesting space for us Luke which we're watching very carefully is the regulators are putting more and more pressure on clients that outsource activity to make sure that they lower the risk of their operations.
That's happening in Europe first.
It's also gaining traction here.
And there are some companies that will look to provide or have shadow providers for contingency purposes.
So that's what's happening.
This is the first major hedge fund to do that.
I think there's a lot of interest and people are watching to see how this plays out between now and next May June.
I suspect we'll keep that on our radar screen.
So it's unique.
But I think it's a function of risk management and risk tolerances and the fact that the regulators are putting a lot of pressure on those that outsource activities to make sure that they've got good risk management plans.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just switching gears a little bit a question on your philosophy for managing the securities portfolio.
I think we often focus on top line revenue and yield but I think there's an argument that the fixed income markets are relatively efficient and that the higher yields in the credit product are simply compensation for risk.
And it also seems like most of the value in your balance sheet comes from the deposits.
So I know these securities are mostly A-rated but given what happened in 2008 and 2009 what's the justification for continuing to hold private-label MBS CLOs et cetera.
I'm not making a judgment but I would like to understand the philosophy better.
It's something you guys debate internally or not? Yes Luke we don't buy private label.
Well it's -- there's no production of it anymore.
But we don't buy private-label MBS and these are remnants from what we owned back in 2008.
So if you look at the quality of our securities portfolio it's primarily agencies treasuries and other top-rated sovereigns.
So it's extremely low risk.
The legacy assets that we've chosen to continue to hold we actually like their interest rate characteristics a lot because as rates have moved up those things have performed very nicely and they've held their value.
So they were so depressed back in 2008 and '09.
We elected -- we reviewed the portfolio very carefully.
We sold about 30% of the portfolio we retained the other securities and we're letting them burn off and act as a very nice interest rate hedge and they've performed exactly as we hoped they would.
I would just add to it.
It is our philosophy to run a very conservative investment portfolio.
Our clients entrust their most precious assets with us as a custodian or as a trust organization or as an investment manager.
We don't want to do anything that has the appearance that we don't have the capital strength and liquidity to be able to manage through any crisis or any cycle.
And so our posture is to run a very conservative investment portfolio short duration high quality.
And that spills over into our loan book as well.
So it's a very clean high-quality loan book.
Our philosophy is not a lot different than what you just said to be a buyer of securities we don't think it's creating too [indiscernible].
And perhaps if we were an originator we might think of it otherwise.
The next question comes from Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Apologies if you covered this but it looks like in terms of the AUC in the earnings release you mentioned the increase attributed to higher market values and FX.
And I'm just wondering does this mean you didn't have net wins in the quarter? And just in general how's your win-loss trend? Tim why don't you take that.
Okay.
Pardon me.
Yes Cynthia we had 3 things happen.
We've -- obviously currency and the market helped a lot in the 5% linked.
We did have some new business convert during the quarter about $145 billion.
It didn't all convert in the beginning of the quarter but I -- one point I made to an earlier question was around redemptions.
We did see an awful lot of redemptions in the market that basically ate away what we did convert during the quarter.
But just more broadly to your point it is a competitive environment.
Pipeline in asset servicing year-on-year has grown substantially.
It's up about a 30%.
We pay very close attention to our win rate.
That's been pretty steady on the last 4 quarters a little over 50%.
So I don't know if that directly answers your questions but that's what I'd -- the way I'd describe it.
Research Division</strong> Yes it does.
And then you mentioned -- I think you mentioned core EPS at about $0.58.
So I'm just wondering if you could just go through the -- what you exclude there and how you think about that versus the adjusted.
Yes there's really only -- it's a pretty clean quarter.
We had a little bit of unusual gains on the asset gains and one of them was related to equity accounting.
One of our minority interest sold a building and the gain on that sales -- our percentage of that our pro rata portion of that is in the P&amp;L.
That was about $0.02.
The rest of it is pretty straightforward.
The next question comes from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> First just a couple of quick clean-up things.
Can you tell us either what the premium amortization amount was or at minimum what the delta was sequentially? Yes the delta was about $25 million Ken.
Research Division</strong> Is that a substantial reduction of what the overall carry is of it? Yes I mean the way I look at it that was probably a little more than 20% reduction in the amortization that we had seen in the previous quarter.
Research Division</strong> All right that's helpful.
And the accounting accretion was 55? That's right and that was about flat.
Research Division</strong> That was flat.
Okay.
And then my bigger-picture question is you guys are doing a really good job on the cost containment and are obviously well ahead of the original plan that you guys had laid out.
But I just wanted to ask you guys just conceptually and structurally where are we from here in terms of incremental cost reduction? And what initiatives are going on given that we're still in this kind of so-so revenue environment to either reduce or control the rate of expense growth from here given that you're already kind of a low of your original plan so to speak? Yes Ken it's Gerald.
Obviously we have a philosophy of continuous improvement in our operations and technology areas.
We talked in terms of the opening comments that we are working very diligently and very focused on simplifying our operating platforms and models.
We think there's more upside to be had from that.
We're finishing out sort of what I call the lifted shift in terms of labor movements.
We're pretty -- we're towards the end of that.
But we do see a lot of upside still to be had in continuous improvement in the operating and technology areas.
So you'll hear more about that as time goes on.
Your next question comes from Glenn Schorr with ISI.
Research Division</strong> So I heard your comments loud and clear on leverage ratio before.
But I'm curious is it about 1/3 of the balance sheet is sitting in deposits with banks or deposits with the Fed? Is that one of the big primary sources of your confidence that if and when you need to adjust you can adjust? And then just a follow-on to that is is how else did the leverage ratio focus make its way -- impact from a business standpoint? Because from a balance sheet standpoint it looks like you have the flexibility.
Yes.
I mean I think there's a number of things that we can do.
We actually on that big balance sheet right now we've consolidated some asset management funds which the accounting is likely to change and we'd be able to deconsolidate that before these go into effect.
The other thing as you've pointed out as well that a lot of those are central bank deposits and cash.
And we would think Glenn just in the normal course we are sitting on an awful lot of balance sheets -- awful lot of balances because of the very unusual interest rate scenario that we're in right now.
And we would expect at least $50 billion or so of that to be reduced just in a more normalized interest rate world.
And then we are -- even if we continue to pay out at the same levels that we pay out we're also creating quite a bit of capital.
And we can also manage the balance sheet more tightly in a number of places including we make some loans out of the holding company.
We don't need to do that.
So there's tens and even twenties of billions of dollars of things that we can do outside of just the normalization.
So we don't see any business model action that we need to take.
We think that during the normal course it will work through it.
It's also -- and we don't know what the final rules are going to be so there is some possibility they could change in our favor or not and we will adjust to them as we need to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
I agree with that.
Last one is just on LDI.
I mean it seems like Insight is doing great looking at $93 billion total inflows for the year-to-date so far.
I'm just curious what percentage is LDI? What's the average fee rate? What are the type of clients that they're landing? Because those are pretty long-dated mandates right? Yes they are.
I mean I think it's a very important trend to understand and -- in the big debate about the great rotation that this -- in the top of everybody's mind I think it really is important to understand the accounting changes that have happened in the pension industry and that will start to also take place for public funds after June of next year where volatility in pension plans is less welcome.
And so there are a lot of pension plans globally both corporate and public that are focused on being able to manage against their liability stream.
And Insight is the world leader in being able to help those plans with that.
The fees as well as the mandates -- because the liability is fixed income in nature a lot of the fees are oriented more towards fixed income-type fees that are lower fees in general on an absolute basis but as you pointed out the size of the mandates are very large.
So as rates go up actually it becomes easier for pension plans to address their managing against their liability and as they become more funded.
So again I would tell you that we're very excited about the business.
One of our initiatives is to -- we've actually invested in helping Insight grow its business in the U.S.
and in Asia.
They have been primarily focused in the U.K.
and also growing in Europe.
And so really excited about what they're doing there.
And I would also say is their products extend.
When you have the ability to evaluate liability streams and hedge them very effectively and manage portfolio through assets that are outperforming liability those are a lot of the same skills that are broadly needed by a larger group of clients in the absolute return space where we think a lot of clients are growing everyone from wealth clients to other institutions that are just simply looking for less volatility but still trying to get some return on their investment portfolio.
So very excited about it and think they have a great future as many of our other investment firms do as well.
Shirley we have time for one more question.
Your final question then comes from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you guys come back to the planning that you're doing with the government problems that we're having and tell us do you guys own many short-term T-bills that may be maturing in the next 15 to 30 days? Yes.
Todd can talk to the -- our ownership.
Yes we have very few but we do have a little bit that mature within this year probably in the $60 million range or so.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second over the years you guys have done a number of acquisitions.
Obviously you haven't done anything materially recently.
Do you get the sense aside from market conditions as maybe the reason nothing has happened in the custody world in terms of acquisitions but do you get a sense that the regulators are more or less supportive of banks your size going out and making sizable acquisitions? Well let me put it this way Gerard.
I think we have so much opportunity internally to invest in our existing businesses that our operations and technology platforms is not a high priority.
And we think we can get a much better return on investments in our own businesses and our own products and services that we have so much on our plate right now and so much in motion right now that I think is a much better return to our shareholders even considering what you're suggesting.
So I don't want to comment on the regulatory part.
It's really a matter of our choice to invest in ourselves.
So we have -- Gerard we have done a couple of small things and we have done something at asset management where we closed on our German JV where we had a partial ownership of it and then we owned all of it.
And we took Pershing international a little bit more too in some of the -- in our strategy.
So we've done some fill-in things but I don't think we believe we need to do anything major certainly not in the asset servicing space.
Thank you very much everyone for dialing in.
We really appreciate it and you can contact Andy Clark for further follow-ups.
Thank you.
For any additional questions or comments you may contact Mr.
Andy Clark at (212) 635-1803.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference call webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Andy Clark.
Mr.
Clark you may begin.
Thanks Wendy and welcome everyone.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO as well as our executive management team.
Before we begin let me remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement in the press release and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website.
Forward-looking statements in this call will speak only as of today January 17 2014 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
Our press release and earnings review are available on our website and we'll be using the earnings review to discuss our results.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Gerald.
Gerald? Thanks Andy.
Welcome everyone and thanks for joining us.
As you saw from the release for the fourth quarter we've reported earnings of $0.44 per share.
Now this includes an after-tax loss of $115 million or $0.10 per share related to the write-down of an equity investment.
After netting out this loss we had adjusted earnings of $0.54 per share.
We had a strong year-over-year growth in core Investment Management and Investment Services fees.
The growth reflects improved market conditions and importantly our success in providing solution sets across our businesses that our clients are seeking.
As we have said in the past we are making strategic investments in several areas to expand our capabilities and we're seeing early evidence of returns on those investments.
For the quarter we had total revenues of $3.8 billion which is up 4% over the fourth quarter of 2012.
The Investment Management business performance remains terrific.
Our success in attracting new assets help drive a 14% increase in assets under management year-over-year to a record $1.58 trillion.
In 2013 net long-term flows were $95 billion as we continue to have particular strength in the liability driven investments category.
Now this organic growth along with higher equity values and performance fees helped mitigate the pressure from higher money market fee waivers year-over-year.
Similar to Investment Management we had strong year-over-year growth in Investment Services.
We saw growth in Asset Servicing Issuer Services and Clearing fees driven by higher volumes improved equity values and net new business.
Clearing Services in particular continues to show strong growth as our technology platform serving investment advisers is more broadly adopted.
But some of our investments also contributed to this growth.
Our Global Collateral Services business continue to collect -- gather collateral management assets.
We enjoyed better foreign exchange results year-over-year as our investments in the electronic channel had made us more competitive and we are attracting greater volumes.
Now in terms of our expenses seasonality played a large part of the sequential growth.
Our expenses have been impacted by our strategic investments for future growth as well as increasing regulatory and compliance requirements.
Notably our operational excellence initiatives' savings help mitigate some of this expense pressure.
And you will see that we achieved our operational excellence targets of over $650 million a full 1 year ahead of schedule.
And importantly we're not done.
We're now transitioning to a broader continuous improvement process designed to improve efficiencies.
This process is not a program or an initiative or a one-time project.
It will be an ongoing area of emphasis that is becoming part of the fabric of our culture.
Now we already have line of sight into several hundred millions of dollars of financial benefit over the next few years.
Turning to the capital front.
Our business model generates a significant level of capital and allows us to perform well in stress scenarios giving us increased financial flexibility.
In 2013 we have returned approximately $1.7 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends or share repurchases.
Now in terms of share repurchases during the first quarter we are in a position to potentially increase the total share buyback relative to the fourth quarter.
And Todd will cover that in more detail in a minute.
So for the quarter continued growth in core Investment Services and Investment Management fees successful completion of our operational excellence initiatives and continued strong capital position.
Now looking ahead to 2014.
We expect to see more of the benefits in some of the investments we've been making.
In Global Markets we're continuing to roll out new electronics foreign exchange and capital markets trading capabilities that position us to capture additional activity.
The growth of our Global Collateral Services business should benefit as the markets deal with new collateral regulations.
In Investment Management we're in the midst of greatly expanding our wealth management sales force.
Additionally we are making significant progress reaching individual investors by expanding our retail distribution capabilities and product offerings.
We've also made progress in expanding our Investment Management and Investment Services capabilities in the Asia-Pacific region with our separately-managed accounts platform scheduled to go live shortly.
We've successfully piloted an intermediate -- Intermediary Private Banking program between wealth management and Pershing and will look to build on that momentum.
And we continue to reposition to benefit even more as fund managers look to leverage our technology and advisors and brokers move away from self-clearing.
We like how we're positioned and we're upbeat about our prospects for 2014.
With that let me turn it over to Todd.
Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
As in the past my comments will follow the quarterly review and let's begin on Page 2.
As Gerald noted EPS was $0.44.
That includes the after-tax loss of $115 million or $0.10 per share.
That was related to the equity investment we have a minority interest in ConvergEx.
So we see it as a $0.50 -- $0.54 quarter but that does include the benefit of approximately $0.01 on tax.
Looking at the numbers on a year-over-year basis total revenue was $3.8 billion.
That's on a non-GAAP that's up 4%.
In our Investment Services business we had growth in Asset Servicing Issuer and Clearing Services.
Investment Management and performance fees continued their strong trend.
FX revenue was up and NIR also grew.
Expenses were up 2% on a GAAP basis.
Adjusted they were up about 4% largely reflecting higher staff legal consulting and business development expenses.
Turning to Page 4 where we call out some business metrics that will help you understand our underlying performance.
You can see that AUM of $1.58 trillion was up 14% year-over-year and 3% sequentially.
Now this was driven by net new business wins and higher equity market values.
During the quarter we had net long-term inflows of $2 billion and short-term inflows of $6 billion.
Assets under custody and administration at quarter end were $27.6 trillion that's up $1.3 trillion or 5% year-over-year.
It primarily reflects the impact of higher market values and net new business.
Linked-quarter AUC/A was up about 1% and that's due to improved market values.
Most of our key metrics showed solid growth on a year-over-year basis.
Average loans and deposits in wealth management Investment Services were up very strongly most clearing metrics were up quite nicely as well.
DARTS volumes and average long-term mutual fund assets continued that recent strong growth trend.
DR programs were down in the quarter and that's really reflecting market events including M&amp;A and corporate restructurings.
So when you do see an M&amp;A transaction it can result in the termination of a given program.
And we have been disciplined I might say around the pricing in that business.
Average tri-party repo balances were down year-over-year but up sequentially as we continue to see opportunities for growth for Global Collateral Services.
Asset Servicing fees were up -- this is on Page 6 were up 4% year-over-year and 2% sequentially.
Both those increases largely reflect higher market values organic growth and higher collateral management and segregation fees in Global Collateral Services.
The year-over-year increase was partially offset by lower securities lending revenue and that was primarily driven to -- by lower spreads.
We had an estimated $123 billion in new AUC/A wins in Asset Servicings.
And for the year in total we had new AUC/A wins totaling $639 billion.
Clearing fees were up 10% year-over-year and 3% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase was driven by higher mutual fund fees asset-based fees and volumes and that was partially offset by higher money market fee waivers.
The sequential increase was primarily driven by higher clearing revenue and mutual fund fees.
Issuer service fees were up 10% year-over-year and they were down 26% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primary reflects DR revenue that was really driven by corporate actions and that was partially offset by the runoff that we've seen in securitizations in Corporate Trust.
The sequential decrease as we've mentioned before was primarily resulted from seasonally lower DR revenue in the fourth quarter versus the third.
Investment Management and performance fees were up 6% year-over-year and 10% sequentially.
And if you adjust them for the sale of our Newton private client business last quarter they were up 7% and 11%.
The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by higher equity market values net new business wins and higher performance fees and that was partially offset by higher money market fee waivers and the average impact that we saw in the strengths of the dollar.
The sequential increase primarily reflects seasonally higher performance fees and higher equity market values.
Now in terms of money market fees the aggregate impact or EPS this quarter was approximately $0.06 to $0.07 that's pretty much in the range that we saw in the third quarter.
From a revenue perspective on a year-over-year basis that drag was $47 million and it's split fairly evenly between our Investment Management and our Investment Services business.
Moving on to FX and other trading revenue was up 5% year-over-year and it was down 9% sequentially.
The underlying components FX revenue was $126 million.
That's up 19% from last year that's down 18% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects higher volumes and we did see a little bit higher volatility.
The sequential decrease was driven by a significant decline in volatility sequentially but that was partially offset by volume increases.
So as Gerald noted earlier the enhancements we've made to our electronic trading platforms have contributed to the results and we have definitely seen a significant increase in volume.
Other trading revenue was down $13 million from the year ago quarter and up $14 million from the third quarter.
The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects lower derivatives trading revenue.
The sequential increase was driven by higher fixed income trading and that was partially offset by a lower equity derivatives stream.
Investment and other income was a loss of $60 million compared with income of $116 million in the year ago quarter and income of $135 million on the prior quarter.
Both decreases primarily reflect the write down of the goodwill in our equity investment in ConvergEx.
Turning to Page 8 of the earnings review you'll see that net interest revenue on a fully tax equivalent basis was up $41 million versus the year ago quarter.
It was down $6 million sequentially.
The year-over-year increase in interest revenue is primarily driven by higher average interest earning assets.
The sequential decrease primarily reflects the change in the mix as we saw a full quarter impact of the move to a defensive rate position that we took pretty much in the third quarter.
And that was partially offset by an increase in revenue generated by the higher deposits.
The net interest margin for the quarter was 1.09%.
It was flat with where we were last year at this time.
And down a bit from 1.16% in the third quarter.
Turning to Page 9 total noninterest expenses and this excludes the amortization intangibles M&amp;I as well as litigation restructuring charges were up 4% year-over-year and about the same sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily resulted from increased staff expense and that was driven by higher incentives due to the higher pretax income that we had as well as increased employee benefit cost and that's really came down to higher pension expense for the year 2013.
Higher legal expense was related to litigation defense.
We did see some increased consulting expenses as Gerald had mentioned largely driven by regulatory and compliance requirements but also to support some of our key business initiatives.
And we did have higher business development expense and that's a lot to do with our corporate branding campaign and the marketing initiatives that we've had as we continue to invest in building our brand.
The sequential increase primarily resulted from higher legal consulting and business development expenses reflecting the factors that I noted above as well as seasonality and the timing of client conferences and corporate sponsorships.
Page 10 details our success in achieving our operational excellence initiative goal of more than $650 million expenses.
We've done that a year ahead of schedule.
In fact we've now achieved savings at a rate of about $716 million.
One noteworthy accomplishment in the recent move of our New York Treasury and Trading operations from a leased building in downtown Manhattan to one of our own properties.
It's a state-of-art facility and it's another example of how we're taking action to reduce the cost of our real estate footprint around the globe.
Now that we have met our operational excellence goals this will be the last quarter that we report them to you.
As Gerald mentioned we're now shifting to a broader transformation process one that we've internally branded Transforming for Success.
And that moves us from a project or a program orientation to one of a culture of continuous improvement.
This work should provide significant beneficial impact as we've identified a number of things that we'll be doing over the next few years.
But it's not simply about cost of course that's very important to me and an important component.
It's also about raising the bar on service quality driving productivity gains and importantly reducing risks.
Turning to our capital story as you can see on Page 11.
Our key ratios strengthened substantially over the quarter.
At December 31 our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common ratio under the standardized approach was 10.6 and that compared to 10.1 at the end of September.
Now this ratio is calculated on a fully phased-in basis.
The 50 basis point sequential increase primarily reflects lower risk-weighted assets that are related both to securitizations as well as to margin-wise.[ph] Our estimated supplementary leverage ratio actually declined by about 10 basis points during the quarter.
That was largely due to a spike that we saw in year-end balance sheet.
Our year-end balance sheet was actually $18 billion larger than the average for the quarter.
On Page 12 you can see that at quarter end we had a net unrealized gain investment securities portfolio of $309 million.
That was down from $723 million at the end of the prior quarter.
And that was driven by the rise in interest rates that we saw in the fourth quarter.
Looking at our loan book on Page 13.
You can see that the provision for credit losses was $6 million.
This was driven by an increase in the allowance related to a municipal-related entity.
And that compares on a year-over-year basis to a credit of $61 million and a provision of $2 million in the prior quarter.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 21.8% and that was positively impacted both by the tax benefit associated with the loss to an equity investment in fact that was the major driver as well as some benefit from lower state taxes.
Now a few points to factor in to your thinking about the current quarter.
Incentive expenses is impacted by divesting of long-term stock awards.
As we've mentioned in the past for retirement-eligible employees.
So typically we do see a seasonal increase in the first quarter.
We would expect a decrease in our pension expense given the very strong performance that we've seen on the assets in 2013 as well as an increase in the discount rate.
We would expect net interest income to be down in the quarter due to a lower day count.
So there's 2 fewer days as well as a smaller balance sheet as we have seen a lot of the spike in deposits run off.
The quarterly provision should be in the range of $0 million to $15 million as we've seen in the previous number of quarters.
We expect the tax rate to be around 26%.
Also in the fourth quarter our gross share repurchases including open market employee benefit plan related repurchases totaled about $321 million.
In the first quarter our gross share repurchases could increase by as much as $60 million.
But that is of course subject to market conditions and other factors.
During the quarter and all of 2014 we'll be focused as I think you've heard from both Gerald and I on 3 main activities.
One is investing in our organic growth opportunities.
Number two is transforming our businesses to this continuous improvement that drives productivity gains saves us some money and generates premium service quality.
And number three is we will continue to deploy our capital and manage our risks wisely.
With that let me turn it back to Gerald.
Thanks Todd and I think we can now open it up for questions Wendy? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> One question just on the outlook for the SLR.
There was over the past weekend some discussion coming out of Basel that a lot of investors kind of focused on that did not have a carve out for deposits at the Fed or central banks.
And just wanted to get your updated sense on how you're thinking about that.
I realize that the U.S.
[indiscernible] hasn't opined yet but there's a little bit of a concern since Basel did this that we'll follow.
Sure Betsy.
It's Todd.
I think the good news on the final Basel rule is that they are going to treat unfunded commitments a little more reasonably.
So the impact of that is probably a reduction of about 50% on the balance sheet.
There still is an open issue not so much with Basel on the treatment of central bank cash but ultimately how the U.S.
is going to treat that.
And I think it's too early to call so there's plenty of room within the U.S.
interpretation to do something.
And we hear things both positively and negatively along that but I just say at this point we really don't know.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give us a sense on the unfunded commitments what the benefit is to you from that? Yes.
We have anywhere from around $45 billion $40 billion to $45 billion on unfunded commitments.
And it moves it from about 100% to about 50% is our rough estimate we really haven't -- this news just came out so we really haven't gotten completely underneath that yet.
Research Division</strong> Sure great.
And then separately on the investments that you've been making in retail Gerald you highlighted I think at the beginning of the call some of the opportunities out there and expectation.
Can you just give a sense as to -- kind of the timeframe for what you're thinking the retail investment spend will drive some increases in top line and over what timeframe magnitude? Yes.
I'll start and then perhaps turn it over to Curtis.
As you know we are relatively underexposed to the retail investor.
And this has been something of great focus by the firm.
We're starting with improving some of our distribution capabilities investing at wholesalers to get our products on various retail platforms around the world not just in the U.S.
We're investing in some of the product capabilities.
We're investing in some of the areas around the Dreyfus brand and capabilities to enhance some of those product offerings.
And so this is not a short-term fix because this takes a fair amount of investment in both people and strategies to broaden our exposure to the retail investor.
So this is a long-term investment and this is something we plan to continue to push.
Curtis? I think that's well said.
We've obviously got a great start.
The Dreyfus platform here in the U.S.
has obviously got all the infrastructure and very importantly the relationships with the adviser community through Pershing we're able to connect with some of their clients as well.
So I think that we have a lot of foundation to build upon.
To your specific question I mean we've gotten -- started adding staff adding product development capabilities investing in our brand.
And I actually think we're going to see some -- we're going to see the beginning edges of our improvement toward the end of this year.
There are some product specifically that we have a very strong investment performance in that I think the market has great demand for.
So we're very optimistic about our future here.
Research Division</strong> So what percentage into the investment spend would you say you are? I'd say we're about 20% of the way into the investments spend.
And at the end of 2014 I expect to be closer to 50%.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then the revenue piece is starting at the end of '14? Yes we're obviously we're already in the business.
So we have revenues in the retail space.
But seeing real momentum I think that I hope we'll be able to see it in the third and fourth quarter this year.
The next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Gerald you guys have made some comments at a recent conference just about operating leverage going forward and what kind of environment you'd need to deliver positive operating leverage.
And it seemed like even with these hundreds of millions of expenses and per the last answers about where you are on the build that the operating environment needs to still get meaningfully better to really generate bigger operating leverage.
So can you kind of give us your thoughts as far as next year to on your belief in what revenues you think could look like on the top line? And then if you can in fact deliver operating leverage as you look go ahead? Well first Kenneth I don't want to get in the forward guidance business.
But I think in this environment we are challenged.
But we're challenging the team to produce positive operating leverage.
I think we said in a 4% to 5% zone or north of that and we should be able to produce it.
We are obviously bearing the cost of regulatory compliance and investments in our businesses so we're partially reinvesting some of those gains from operational excellence right back into the business and covering those other costs.
But I sure would like to produce positive operating leverage.
It's our goal.
I know it's top of the mind on our investors and by you all.
And that is part of our goal.
Ken I'd add to that.
I think that what we had indicated a couple of years ago at our investors conference is we felt our revenue growth rate should be in the 3% to 5% range.
It's been approximately there at about 4% this year.
At the lower end of that it's pretty difficult to generate a lot of positive operating leverage as we get to the higher end of it we do start to generate it.
This year we made and this year being 2013 we made a conscious decision and I think Curtis just pointed out a couple of the types of investments that we're making.
We made a conscious decision to put 1% or 2% if you will of our expenses growth into reinvesting in opportunities for the future.
So I think that otherwise you would have seen a meaningful operating the core business did generate a meaningful operating leverage.
Research Division</strong> Yes and related to that just on -- you pointed out that this quarter there seem to be a good amount of partially seasonal expense pickup.
But can you help us try to identify how much of that increase might have been one-time or above trend relative to the expense result this quarter? Sure.
I mean some of it is episodic.
So we have seen a sharp rise in our defense -- litigation defenses.
That's likely to run for some time but for -- certainly not permanently we have seen a pickup around certain compliance and regulatory issues some of that is episodic.
But the run rate is certainly higher.
I'd say the growth rate of that has probably curtailed a bit.
And then we saw marketing costs which tend to be somewhat seasonal as we picked up our advertising campaign and we have a number of conferences and corporate events that typically take place in the fourth quarter.
So that is seasonal.
And I think we did make a push with our brand campaign in 2013 that would abate a little bit.
Ken the other point I would like to make is one of the reasons why we view this continuous improvement process is something that's got to be part of the core fabric of the company.
And we do see as I said in my opening comments a line of sight for continuing to get expenses and efficiencies and higher levels of productivity out of our core operations.
There's no question in my mind that there's hundreds of millions of dollars there and we have an ability and certainly an attitude to get at it.
The next question is from Glenn Schorr with ISI.
Research Division</strong> A quick one on RWA inflation or lack thereof which is a good thing.
So I see RWAs whether it be centralized or advanced came down some in the quarter.
So my quick question is a couple of banks have been reporting inflation on higher operational risk.
I think that's been accounted for in your models a while ago.
I just want to know if we should be looking for any other RWA inflation as all these final rules have come out? Sure Glenn.
It's getting complicated because there's a lot going on right now.
But if you look at we give a fairly detailed disclosure around the changes to our risk-weighted assets both in the standardized and in the advanced approach.
And when we reflect that that's on a fully phased-in basis.
Actually now there are phased-ins that start to take place this year so our actual reported the numbers this year as we move into Basel III are going to be quite higher than the fully phased-in numbers.
All of that being said if you look through the numbers there's a couple of drivers there OCI had a modest impact to us because we did see a little bit of downturn in the securities portfolio.
We got a little bit of a pickup in the pension portfolios it's gone up in value.
And then the meaningful driver is the RWA calculation in the standardized approach.
Now just to add complexity the standardized approach does not take into consideration operational risk.
It just has -- uses Basel I and adds severity to it if you will.
And so the large driver there is around securities our securities lending mix as well as margin lending and the quality of the collateral that you have in those margin loans.
So we did see some improvement there.
And we saw less of that reflected in the advanced approach.
So it's not to say that there couldn't be changes.
But from our best estimates right now we're not really -- we don't really require a whole lot of RWAs to build our business.
And I think the kind of the other thing to point out is we do have these non-agency securities and the securitizations and they do tend to draw a little bit higher capital charges.
And they're slowly paying themselves down.
So that should continue to be a positive for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay I get that.
And then LDI flows for the year were awesome.
I don't know if I saw what they were for the quarter.
And I'm just curious if higher long-end rates are in a weird way bad in the short term but really good in the long term for that business.
I'm just curious if it had an impact in the quarter and what your outlook for the LDI outflows are.
Glenn it's Curtis.
I definitely think that looking at this funded status ratio of pension plans is an important indicator here of kind of what's going on.
If you look at where we are today that's where the average plan is funded at about a 95% 96% ratio which dipped actually below 75% back in 2011.
We're at the highest levels we've been at since before the financial crisis 2008.
And so pension plans have been on a pretty wild ride around their funded status ratio.
In the quarter we definitely saw more interest in talking about whether they should move towards locking in some of this recent improvement there was definitely some de-risking.
We even saw it index in the index businesses where there were actually outflows in equity index products and movement towards fixed income and towards more balanced risk.
So I definitely think that the LDI business is still a very promising business as pension plans are in many ways better positioned to be able to move to that strategy.
The next question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to touch base on the collateral management opportunity and kind of what the learning is this year.
So migration to clearing happened this year fairly seamlessly which I guess is a good thing.
But looking out I guess when you think about the opportunity for yourself and it sounded like there's already a little bit of revenues coming through the model today.
So I was hoping maybe you can help us quantify that and maybe give an update on how big do you guys think collateral management could be for you? And I guess what are the catalysts we need to look forward to to see more a material impact? Sure Alex.
I think as we said in the past we're still I think frankly in the early stages of the impact on the marketplace.
The dealer side has been impacted early on.
Now the -- the long investors of risk accounts other market participants the buy-side is now having to deal with this particular issue.
We've cited insurance companies as a good example in the past where historically they have not had to post collateral and now they have to start doing so.
So I think we're still in the early innings of the impact in the market broadly.
Though most of the revenues that we've seen as we've been -- seeing some success here in collateral services has been around the segregation or the optimization of the collateral as opposed to moving into the next phase of transforming it and making it more available and more easily movable around the world.
And so I still think we have many innings to go in terms of the opportunity here.
And so we're -- as I said in my opening comments we're seeing increased revenues.
It's showing up in our asset servicing fee line that's where it shows up.
And we're quite positive about the prospects here.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then Todd just a question on expenses follow-up to Ken's question I guess as well.
But as you pointed out a couple of years ago you said I think around 3% expense growth rate is reasonable.
There's new investments you guys are making relative to what you outlined a few years ago.
But also it sounds like there's new savings that you will try to achieve.
So kind of blending it all together is a 3% kind of normal expense growth rate for the next couple of years still a reasonable way to think about it? Yes.
But Alex it's going to obviously be tied to the revenues and it's going to be tied to types of revenues that we see.
So the mix can have a meaningful impact.
Certain of our revenues are very -- have fixed cost so massive amounts of operating leverage to them whereas others come with meaningful cost.
So the revenue mix has a big impact.
I mean the good news is we've had a headwind of increasing pension expenses year-after-year.
And that should ease a bit this year.
But I think generally it's going to come with -- depending on the mix of revenues and the amount of investments as opportunities that we see for organic growth.
The next question is from Ashley Serrao with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So on expenses.
I hear you loud and clear on your $100 million program.
But maybe you can give us some examples of what you're working on today and how we should be thinking about the incremental investment spend there versus the savings? Sure I'll take a stab at it and then Todd maybe you want to weigh in.
In many ways it's fairly basic and it's -- and we said in the past we've had -- we have multiple operating platforms.
We're going to the conversions of that now and being able to shut down different things.
It makes it a much more efficient operating environment when you have fewer platforms and fewer engines to work across so improvement going from a more manual process or to a more automated process really applying some metrics and engineering around our capabilities.
We have multiple centers around the world that do things like reconciliations and tax claims and corporate actions and stuff like that there's ways to consolidate those.
Just a whole variety of different things.
Brian Shea is really leading the charge with Suresh Kumar our Chief Technology Information Officer.
Brian maybe you want to weigh in here.
Yes.
Thanks Gerald.
I think what we're doing in terms of this Transforming for Success program is expanding the focus beyond just pure expense reductions although that's an important part of it for sure.
A couple of things that are new and different.
One is we're working across the Investment Services businesses which have been run more like individual businesses in the past and effectively.
But we're trying to drive best practices across those businesses and create more leverage.
So an example would be cross line of business solutions for clients which actually generate new revenue streams.
One example which -- and that's happening within Investment Services and across Investment Services and Investment Management.
And a good recent example would be that we just piloted an Intermediary Private Banking service for Pershing registered investment adviser customers.
And in a pilot program of only less than 6 months we've had over $300 million in loan demand generated from the independents RIAs who are actually leveraging BNY Mellon's wealth management capabilities in a different way.
Similarly by working across the businesses we're looking at -- we're evaluating the portfolio of services and solutions we deliver trying to figure out if there are subscale solutions or services that we don't actually need to provide that can reduce expenses.
And we're instituting essentially consistent expense management disciplines and process and reporting and doing other things like that that actually can drive higher return on what we already do.
And it's not rocket science but it's just working differently across the businesses.
So that's one of the big things.
And we believe that there's tremendous opportunity in these cross business solutions that we can generate revenue.
So that's why this is different.
It going to include revenue generation as well as expense reduction.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And maybe on capital.
You got a welcome downgrade in the GSIV rankings.
I believe the substitutability criteria helped you there.
But how does this impact how you think about running a capital cushion on top of your leverage requirements? And how does this impact how you think about CCAR in general? In terms of running the cushion we're already as you can see actually running a pretty substantial cushion.
So that we obviously think that puts us in a better position.
But what we do is we sensitize what those capital ratios can be.
We do our own internal stress test of many different types to estimate what we ultimately think the cushion ought to be.
We don't really know what our additional GSIV requirement is going to be.
That was under the Basel framework the global requirement.
But we have not been designated within the U.S.
what that might be.
But we certainly feel quite comfortable about the level that we're operating today.
We think it's prudent and we think it's got plenty of cushion for potential downside.
I think the good news in our business model is we have as you know very low risk-weighted assets so there doesn't tend to be a lot of volatility around those assets.
They're very high quality most of them are secured and short-term.
And then our securities portfolio is also extremely high quality mostly agencies and treasuries.
So it survives any stress test typically quite well.
I think the other thing in our business model is we do have a lot of annuity-like businesses.
And we've got a less risky mix of assets.
Now that doesn't always help us when the equity market shoots up like it did in the fourth quarter.
But when it goes the other direction we don't feel the pain quite as much as most.
And that makes us a little more resilient in terms of stress testing as well.
So hopefully that helps you to get a little better understanding of our perspective.
Yes.
I think in general that we have a low risk-weighted asset model.
We have good capital cushions.
We're getting a better line of sight on some of these new rules and regulations as they're unfolding.
And as we've said earlier we think we have some pretty good financial flexibility as we go into 2014.
And we'll see the results of the CCAR exam at the end of March and stay tuned.
The next question is from Josh Levin with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> You talked about meeting operational excellence goals a year ahead of schedule.
For those of us on the outside who don't work for the company we only have access to publicly available information.
Where can we look to sort of see the fruits of operational excellence? Where is it flowing through? Yes.
Josh I think what we had indicated in the -- 3 years ago almost 3 years ago now was if we initiate this program those numbers amount to about 2% reduction in our annual run rate.
And we had indicated there was probably about a 2% inflation in our annual run rate.
So by making these improvements we won't feel the impact of the inflation.
That's merit increases the increase in cost of pensions and the increased software amortization was largely where I reflect it in the inflation component.
So that would let our businesses and our business mix reflect upon itself.
So we indicated that a 5% type of revenue growth rate we thought we could see something like 100 to 150 basis points positive operating leverage 4% a little bit less than that.
So that's exactly where we are running right now.
Obviously the revenue mix makes a little bit of a difference.
But what you saw this year on a GAAP basis was 4% over 2% and adjusting it for some of those one timers you saw basically 4% over 4%.
And the reason you didn't see more operating leverage is because we made a decision to invest organically.
If we were investing -- if we were doing M&amp;A rather than organic growth you would have seen it.
We think the organic growth comes with a much higher IRR.
It's much more interesting rather than paying somebody else for their labor developing ourselves is much more interesting our long-term run rate.
And that's why you see what you see.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
There's been a lot of talk that the M&amp;A environment might pick up.
If we do see a lot more M&amp;A activity how does that impact your various businesses? Well usually when there's more M&amp;A activity it increases volumes and volatility in the marketplace.
And volumes and volatility help our business model.
And anytime there's more action going on in the markets people are willing to take a little more risk take a little more positioning.
We see that flow through our business model through transactions.
And it also improves some values.
Areas like Depositary Receipts anytime there's corporate actions boy it shows up there real fast.
The next question is from Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So coming back to the asset management business for a second.
The margins there are in the low 30% range and that's below I think what you see at some of your peers.
So I wondered if you might touch on what you think the issue is there.
Is there a good structural reason for it or do you see some opportunity to get it higher? I think you talked earlier on the call about the retail opportunity.
Is that part of a margin improvement story? And what level of margin do you think the asset management business could support beyond the investments you're making in retail? No I think you're actually right on it which is some of the higher-margin activities within the investment management industry are in the areas that we've talked about investing in which is retail.
Growing our overall absolute return and alternatives efforts which we've seen actually some nice progress.
And we actually do a whole lot of work around our margins and benchmarking to the industry.
And margins obviously vary across different asset classes that investment managers are exposed to.
So we're a pretty diversified asset manager that is more weighted towards institutional at the moment.
Equity managers might have higher margins but they're also substantially more volatile.
Our margin actually is pretty stable through time.
So those are some of the factors that we look to.
We -- again clearly the last several years have been very challenging in fee waivers.
So the business has a large mix of assets that are exposed to the money market business.
And that has been a major dampening.
You're talking about reasonably higher-margin business that has been under a downward pressure now for a number of years.
So that has definitely put a damper on it.
We're obviously waiting to see where the SEC goes with the rules around money markets.
But hopeful that someday that actually will bear fruit either in money market form or those assets will have to move somewhere.
And potentially to -- some of them will get a short duration fixed-income product.
So that's sort of the thought around margin.
And I also would add that's why strategically and longer term we feel like we need to make the investments to have greater exposure to the retail investor and retail products and also in the alternative space those are 2 key areas of focus that are going to require a level of investment.
But I think those are the areas for growth and are also the areas for margin improvement.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay helpful.
And then the issue of spinning off asset management.
I'm actually not sure the rationale for that is very good but it's something you've been asked about more lately on.
Some people question whether there are real synergies with the servicing business so I thought perhaps an opportunity to comment on that.
Sure.
We obviously like the Investment Management business.
We think there are some benefits and synergies across our Investment Services areas.
We see clear evidence of it in terms of the clients we serve.
When they trust us to manage the money we have opportunities to servicing and vice versa.
Having the intellectual capital internally around our Investment Management boutiques to help us be a better service provider absolutely helps.
You heard Brian Shea talk about some of the initiatives that we're doing across Pershing and Investment Management utilizing that platform more robustly.
We just see a number of different opportunities connecting to our wealth business Investment Management the whole strategy in Asia-Pacific it's building the technology platform to put our products on top of it and have attracted advisers and wealth managers globally.
We use that platform and put our products front and center on it.
We just see lots and lots of different opportunities to continue to grow both businesses together.
The next question is from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I have some real specific questions and then just a broader question.
But my specific questions can you just remind us what are your main financial targets? You mentioned 3% to 5% revenue growth but what are the other main targets? What we had indicated Mike back on investors day that we've anticipated 3% to 5% revenue growth.
We expected anywhere from 0 to 200 basis points of operating leverage based upon where we would be within that.
Obviously that would be largely driven by revenue mix.
And one of the issues that Curtis just pointed out in fee waivers is meaningful it's $0.06 to $0.07 a quarter with very limited expenses associated with it.
The other indication is we thought we would over time generate a 10% plus return on shareholders' equity that leads to quite a bit higher return on tangible common equity.
So those were the basic underlying themes.
Research Division</strong> And the investment spending that you're talking about you said you're 27% done.
What is the total dollar amount of the investment spending? We haven't disclosed that Mike and what Curtis was speaking to specifically was investment spending within Investment Management where we've got a number of projects that he alluded to.
So we're about 20% of the way through that we'll be as he indicated about halfway through by the end of the year.
At which point we'll see some of the benefits of the earlier investments.
That was specifically in the retail space.
Right and that was specific to the retail space.
And we also have mentioned on a number of occasion the types of investment that we are making in our Investment Services businesses as well.
Research Division</strong> So last year that investment spending equaled 2% of expenses or maybe how much did it equal last year? I think we had indicated for 2013 it was roughly in line with a 2% increase in our expenses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as far as the continuous improvement project you said that should save a few hundred million.
Can you specify that a little bit more concretely? At this point we're debating that internally whether we want to go public with that Mike.
So I think it's too early to say.
We are looking at the various expense savings that we're going to be able to generate.
As Brian pointed out some of this is -- as we become much more process-oriented there are some also revenue benefits that we think we will get out of this as well.
But we haven't determined whether we're going to go public with that or not yet.
Research Division</strong> The reason I ask those specific questions someone else asked about the operational excellence and where do we see it.
And so how do we on the outside know if you're achieving your targets with the continuous improvement or the investment spending? Or do you want us just to look at those general financial metrics that you're shooting for? Yes.
That's what we're debating internally Mike.
We really haven't reached a -- ultimately and I think it was Josh at Citi that pointed this out ultimately you got to see it.
And we believe you will see it.
And I think we've been pretty consistent with the guidance that we gave a number of years ago there's obviously a lot of factors in markets that go on that can create noise there.
But that's why we're debating.
And so let's just -- let's drive it through and perhaps let it reflect itself.
Research Division</strong> And then my general question.
You mentioned that you're underexposed to the retail investors and you want to get more involved in the retail investors.
I'm just trying to reconcile my thought of Bank of New York from several years back when Bank of New York was referred to as the banker to banks more wholesale institutional.
And now we're talking about Bank of New York getting involved with the retail investor.
Going back you had branches.
And so I'm just trying to reconcile that prior perception with the direction where you're going now.
And you also mentioned Investment Management private banking how far to the retail investor would you like to go and when did you make this mental change? Yes.
So Mike retail banking and exposure to the retail investor are 2 different things in my mind.
When I say exposure to the retail investor when you think about pension funds things like that are not growing that's not where the assets are being accumulated.
They're being accumulated at the individual investor as they plan for retirement on a global scale.
And so we manage a lot of money in the institutional space.
We manage some money in the retail space.
And we'd like to be able to have a better balance there.
Dreyfus is our principal retail mutual fund brand.
But it's not just Dreyfus it's having our boutiques and their investment strategies on various platforms around the world.
So I don't think you're going to see us get into the retail banking space but to utilize things like the Pershing platform to make our products available on different platforms around the world where our investment boutiques and investment strategies are quite strong.
Yes.
And Mike maybe I would add if you think about it we're the 8th largest investment management firm in the world and Dreyfus ranks about 23 24 in terms of mutual fund volume.
So we have all of the investment capability around the globe and certainly within the United States specifically to create investment offerings we think will be very attractive that -- really the adviser community so we will reach retail investors and mutual funds primarily through the adviser community.
And again Pershing helps with that.
But certainly Dreyfus is a very long as long as any one relationship with much of this community.
We just need to invest more in it to make more of it.
And then we directly reach individual clients through our wealth management business.
We're the eighth largest wealth management firm in the United States but have been heavily concentrated in a few key markets.
And so our investment there actually has been expanding our geographic footprint in the wealth management business where again we are delivering investment capabilities to clients -- wealth management clients but not in a large enough part of the market.
Research Division</strong> And when would you say you made this change overall? I mean just -- you seemed like you're -- it's a continuum from you don't want to do consumer banking I guess that more wealth managers are talking about a little bit more about consumer banking.
Take a look at Morgan Stanley all the way up to your Dreyfus.
Where do you draw the line and say we want to be here we don't want to be on the other side of that line? As the investments company in the world we go to where the investment assets are.
And the investment assets are with wealthy individuals.
They're being managed through advisers they're being managed through different retail strategies and that's what we want to continue to build upon Mike.
The next question is from Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just very briefly to follow up on the investing in organic opportunities.
So you guys gave a sense of the timeframe for the Investment Management business.
But outside of that what kind of timeframe are you thinking of? Is this investing over this year next year or is it sort of a permanent shift? Well why don't I -- why don't we hit on a couple of those things in the Investment Services business in some ways those are even further along.
For example we've talked about Global Collateral Services quite a bit.
We've made investments in our capabilities there and we're delivering on those.
Some of that's around financing that's been a bit disappointing.
As Gerald had mentioned it hasn't moved as quickly as we had hoped.
And it's also being impact -- it's being impacted a little bit just by market rates.
So very low rate environment has made less need for transforming securities.
That's been offset with the segregation business on some of the legacy stuff which has been terrific as well as some of the optimization capabilities that we ported to our clients so we're seeing good growth there.
The other area that we've talked a fair amount is the electronification of our FX business.
So we have -- we are probably about I would say 50% or 60% of the way through that investment.
It is starting to pay some dividends -- or it's still early but I think it's starting to pay some modest dividends.
I don't know Tim if you have anything to add to that.
Yes.
I might just add 2 points Todd.
And some of this gets back to the question Mike Mayo was asking.
We continue to make investments around Pershing's platform and making it global as a lot of these private banks see lots of opportunities to serve their clients well we feel really good about both the technology play there and our domain knowledge.
And these private banks have a huge opportunity but they also have to deal with an increasing regulatory environment that makes it actually much easier for them to outsource.
And then Eagle and outsourcing it's been a theme now for probably the last couple of years where asset managers and the insurance subsidiaries -- the asset management companies of insurance companies are outsourcing it at an unprecedented rate.
And the investments we continue to make in Eagle around data warehouse and accounting are driving well over 1/3 of our new business pipeline now.
So those would be the things Todd I would say we're investing in and I think we see across the board.
The real sign is that they're starting to pay off and should have real traction in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just to follow up on FX.
Can you give a little color on how you're thinking about the market -- your market share at this point and the mix of electronic and higher touch? Is the sort of rotation over to more electronic trading done or do you feel like there's more to go? And how is your market share? Yes.
As I said in my opening comments we are seeing the benefits of our electronic platforms being adopted.
We are -- we definitely feel we're capturing more volume than we were in the past.
We're clearly moving more to more negotiated type trades or commercial type trades on the platform itself.
It's very fast it's very efficient it's very transparent.
And so we feel pretty good about the positioning of it.
We're streaming prices to our traders and we're getting in the position to stream prices to our clients on desktops so they can automatically tap into us if they like the price and we'll be able to execute it.
So we feel good that the investments we're making are gaining traction.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just a last small one.
You mentioned pension costs will fall.
Can you size that? We're analyzing it right now.
We will disclose that in the annual report but it could be in the range of $10 million to $20 million a quarter.
The final question today is from Andrew Marquardt with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Just to pile on a little bit on the Transformation of Success -- or Transforming sorry.
The initiative or non-initiative in terms of cultural shift.
Can you help us maybe frame it a different way in terms of how should we think about in terms of operating margins right? Maybe piling into the former initiative laid out that you've now met and exceeded.
How should we think about getting operating margins up from kind of the mid-20s to maybe upper 20s or 30s.
Is that going to be kind of the next leg to do that or do you still need to have kind of a better macro rate environment? Yes.
I think there are couple of drivers there Andrew.
So one of the disclosures that we make around our Investment Services business is our revenue fee revenue our core fee revenue to expenses.
And that will be the first place that you visibly see then ultimately that will come into the operating margin as well.
Now 2 things can happen there.
We're either getting more efficient or less efficient which you would see and we're getting better pricing or pricing is more challenging.
So right now we are starting to see some modest improvements.
We didn't see a big improvement over last year this year and a lot of that can be driven by revenue -- by mix.
So as you see more and more loss of fee waivers for example there's -- that's all pretty much a fixed cost business there is no additional expenses.
That can make noise in those numbers from period-to-period.
But I think we've given adequate -- actually we give very good disclosures so you'll get a sense of where that's driving.
And our goal is to get that on average -- there is some seasonality to it on average to pick that up 4 or 5 points.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then -- so does that translate into kind of an all-in pretax operating margin in the upper 20s or can we kind of get back to -- or maybe [indiscernible]...
Most of that would come down -- fall through the operating margin.
But if you think about it if we're saying $0.06 or $0.07 a quarter on fee waivers and you just -- that's a substantial growth rate right there.
If it doesn't come with much expenses.
That would overwhelm what we do on a period-to-period as we grind down our -- and make ourselves more efficient.
Yes.
And I think the way to think about it is certainly in a traditional custody business it's highly commoditized.
And we want to be very aggressive around making sure we have a highly efficient operations around commoditized products.
And so that's one issue.
We can't wait for rising interest rates to improve our operating margins and that's what this program is about this process.
And we were just taking control of what we can do and making it much more efficient using technology using productivity to drive the cost down in commoditized areas and on the investment side introducing applications on those platforms that our clients want and are willing to pay for.
So that's a good way to think about it.
Research Division</strong> Got it that's helpful.
And then related to this transformation process.
One of the things you noted obviously cost service and productivity but then also you had mentioned reducing of risk.
Is that more of an outcome of this initiative or this process or is that kind of a dedicated focus? And how should we think about that what is that related to? Yes in some way it's a dedicated focus but it's also an outcome.
The more human labor content you take out of the process the more straight through the more electronic it is the more you use technology the less chance for error.
And the less chance for error means less risk.
And so we're really trying to constantly drive down the operational risks associated with many things that we do.
And using technology and using the capabilities that we have we think we can improve efficiencies and reduce the operational risk.
The infamous [ph] straight-through processing the higher levels of straight-through processing the less risk associated with the business.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just a couple of ticky tack...
No go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Just couple of ticky tacks.
On the balance sheet side you previously talk about excess deposits maybe in the range of $50 billion so that's the hold.
And what kind of rate environment do you have to see that -- do you think to maybe have that reversed? Yes.
We've -- as we do a lot of analysis around our deposit base right now it is most correlated to a couple of things.
It's correlated to our -- obviously to our underlying core business.
So it's very much tied into fee business.
So it tends to be frictional types of cash so the more we grow our fee business the more we grow our deposit business.
So there's probably an underlying 4% or 5% growth rate in it for our core fee business.
But right now what's overwhelming is the unusual monetary policy that we're facing.
So the feds got a $4 trillion balance sheet.
It's sitting on $3 trillion of excess reserves.
As those excess reserves come down and there is draining we are going to see a substantial decline in our balance sheet anywhere from $50 billion to $80 billion would be our expectation as we get to more normalized rate environment.
So all that cash that we're leaving at the Fed and not earning that much we would expect to in a normal rate environment to normalize.
And the good news there is we more than offset that with the spread on the remaining cash and the fee waivers.
We do have a large balance sheet that at this point in time that's really reflecting this current environment.
And I think it's important to understand.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then just lastly on other and fees investments and other income.
Obviously you reflected the write-down or the loss but it also had some maybe higher-than-usual C capital gains and asset gains.
Should we -- I think you previously talked about that that line should be in kind of $80 million kind of quarterly range.
Does that still hold? I mean it's kind of...
No.
We'd indicated that it will be more in the $80 million to $100 million range and we've been on the high end of it.
But then you'd like to -- it's based on circumstances but yes we'd still look to keep it in that range.
Well thank you very much everyone for dialing in and your interest.
And Wendy and everyone else who's still on the line if you have further questions please follow up with Andy Clark and our IR team.
So again thanks very much everyone.
Thank you.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Mr.
Andy Clark at (212) 635-1803.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference call and webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Andy Clark.
Mr.
Clark you may begin.
Thanks Wendy and welcome everyone.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO as well as our executive management team.
Before we begin let me remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement and in the press release and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our Web site <a href="http://www.bnymellon.com" rel="nofollow"><u>bnymellon.com</u></a>.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today April 22 2014 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
Our press release and earnings review are available on our Web site and we'll be using the earnings review to discuss our results.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Gerald.
Gerald?  Thanks Wendy Andy and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
As youve see from our release we achieved good results this quarter with pretax earnings up 12% year-over-year.
Were reporting earnings of $0.57 per share with total revenues of $3.6 billion.
We also achieved a 3% fee growth in Investment Management and Investment Services which within a context of what is a persistently slow economic recovery is deep and see growth.
Investment Management benefitted from our continued success in attracting new assets.
We recorded our 18th consecutive quarter of positive long-term flows with net long-term in flows of $21 billion.
Assets under management was up 14% year-over-year to a record $1.62 trillion.
Driven by the continued strong flows into our liability-driven investment strategies.
Investment Services fees were also up benefitting not only from strong growth in clearing but also a nice growth in asset servicing.
Now Investment Services business was also held by the growing contributions from Global Collateral Services.
As usage of our optimization and segregation solutions continue to improve.
And in Global Markets the enhancements weve made to our electronic foreign exchange platform have helped us attract greater volumes.
Now during the quarter the strength and quality of our asset servicing capabilities were recognized in a key market service.
Among our peer group we earned a number one overall score in the R&amp;M Global Custody survey of clients and fund managers.
We were also the number one in the experts category which included investment managers who rated 5 or more global custodians.
In total we received 10 number one ranking in our peer group.
Its the latest vote of confidence in our ability to provide the expertise clients need to navigate the challenging times as they struggle to manage regulatory change risk and cost.
And we were able to achieve the growth in Investment Management and Investment Services fees in spite of some ongoing sizable challenges.
One the substantial impact of money market fee waivers; and two the decline in the pretax income of Corporate Trust.
As a revenue from structured debt securitizations has run-off faster than a revenue coming from new business.
Year-over-year our rough estimate is that money market fee waivers and a run-off in Corporate Trust fees accounted for a drive for a total fee revenue growth of approximately 200 basis points.
On the expense front total expenses were down both year-over-year and sequentially.
And Todd will cover more on expenses in a moment but what I do want to emphasis is that we are taking aggressive action in virtually every expense category from moderate to growth rate here.
So for example we are controlling a rate of expense growth in technology by in-sourcing application development reducing storage cost in consolidating platforms.
We are reducing our real estate foot print.
We are reengineering how we work including rationalizing our client-coverage teams making it more efficient and allowing us to reduce costs while enhancing the client experience.
And importantly using evidence of all of these moves and our commitment to aggressive expense management this year.
I should add that like all large financial institutions our regulatory control and compliance costs have risen substantially and continued to be high and I have to say it is a critical that we maintain a great control environment.
But now that we are beginning to gain more clarity on the new rules the rate of related expense growth should begin to slow and thats encouraging.
On the capital front our capital story is among the very best in the industry.
Our key capital ratios continued to strengthen.
We achieved an excellent return on tangible common equity at 18%.
Now given that significant levels of capital that we generate and our strong capital positions we have the financial flexibility to invest in our businesses and maintain a high payout ratio which was more than 80% in the first quarter of 2014.
Earlier this month we announced another dividend increase of 13% which followed a 50% increase last year.
So the bottom-line is we are executing to drive our shareholder value and we are actively aligning our business model and we are focused on managing expenses well and generating strong returns on tangible common equity.
With that let me turn it over to Todd.
Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the quarterly earnings review and well start on Page 2.
As Gerald noted the EPS was $0.57 we should note that the $0.57 includes about $0.03 to $0.04 for the combined benefits of a lower tax rate.
And also we had a loan loss provision credits.
Looking at the numbers on a year-over-year basis total revenue was $3.6 billion.
Investment Services fees were up 3% that is driven by strength in asset servicing in our clearing businesses.
Investment management and performance fees were also up 3% and that number would be 5% if you excluded the impact of money market fee waivers.
FX revenue was down driven by the volatility we experienced in the quarter.
NIR on a fully taxable equivalent basis was up 2% and securities gains were down $26 million.
Finally expenses were down 1%.
Turning to Page 4 where we recall some business metrics that will help explain our underlying performance.
You can see that AUM of $1.62 trillion was up 14% year-over-year.
And thats 2% sequentially thats driven by both market as well as net new business.
During the quarter we had net long-term inflows of $21 billion and revolver short-term outflows we can seen it was $7 billion.
You will note that weve enhanced our full disclosure providing flows by all of our major asset classes including the Index and LDI strategies.
Assets under custody/administration at quarter end were $27.9 trillion.
Thats up $1.6 trillion or 6% year-over-year.
Thats primarily reflecting the impact of market as well as currency impact.
Linked quarter AUC/A was up 1% due to improved market values.
We had an estimated $161 billion in new AUC/A wins during the quarter.
As you look down the list most of our key metrics continue to fuel growth on a year-over-year basis.
Average loans and deposits in Wealth Management Investment Services were again up strongly.
The market value of securities and loans at period end increased.
All of our clearing metrics were up with DARTS volumes particularly strong yet again.
On the flip side DR programs and average tri-party repo balances were down slightly.
In terms of the key external indicator markets were up but most importantly for us the FX Volatility Index was down 14% and that really is whats driving FX revenue.
The average Fed Funds effective rate was down 7 basis point or nearly 50% from last year which had a negative impact on our money market fee waivers and our net interest income.
Looking at fees on Page 6 asset servicing fees were up 4% year-over-year and 3% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase reflects higher market values net new business and organic growth.
The sequential increase primarily reflects organic growth but it did benefit from higher securities lending revenue and net new business.
Clearing fees were up 7% year-over-year and flat sequentially.
The year-over-year increase was driven by higher mutual fund fees higher asset-based fees and an increase in DARTS all of that was partially offset by higher money market fee waivers.
Sequentially higher clearance revenue was primarily offset by fewer trading days during the quarter.
Issuer services fees were down 3% both year-over-year and sequentially.
Both decreases reflect the impact of the continued net run-off in Corporate Trust.
The year-over-year decrease was partially offset by higher DR revenue driven by corporate actions.
The good news is we can see the net fee run-off abating in the next 18 months to 24 months as the pace of the structure debt maturities slows and new business should more than offset that run-off.
When you look in investment services you will see that investment services fees as a percentage of noninterest expense were up versus the year ago quarter.
This improvement was primarily driven by an increase in investment services fees with little additional expenses.
Investment management and performance fees were up 3% year-over-year and down 7% sequentially.
Excluding money market fee waivers investment management and performance fees were up 5% year-over-year and down 6% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects higher equity market values and the net impact of new business.
The sequential decrease primarily reflects seasonally lower performance fees and there were also fewer days in the first quarter.
When you look at our Investment Management business youll see a new disclosure that we think provides a better basis for comparison to other investment managers that is its an adjusted pre-tax operating margin which excludes intangible amortization net of distribution and servicing expense and also adjusts for fee waivers.
On this basis our pre-tax operating margin for the quarter is 35%.
In FX and other trading revenue was down 16% year-over-year and down 7% sequentially.
If you look at the underlying components FX revenue of $130 million was down 13% year-over-year and up 3% sequentially.
Comparisons for both prior periods were impacted by lower volatility.
The good news here is were capturing higher volumes driven by enhancements to our electronic FX platform.
Other trading revenue was down $6 million from the year ago quarter and $14 million from the fourth quarter decreases from both periods reflect lower fixed income trading revenue and the impact of market-to-market losses on certain hedges.
Turning to page 8 of the earnings review down from 1.11% in the year ago quarter and 1.09% in the fourth quarter.
Turning to page 9 total noninterest expenses were down 1% year-over-year and 4% sequentially comparisons to both prior periods were impacted by lower pension expense and higher incentive expense due to the acceleration of the vesting of long-term stock awards for retirement eligible employees.
The sequential decline also reflects the decrease in business development expense as well as lower professional legal and other purchased services and risk-related expenses.
The year-over-year decrease also results in a provision for administrative errors in the cost of generating certain tax credits both of which were recorded in the year ago quarter.
On page 10 you can see at the quarter-end we had a net unrealized gain on the investment securities portfolio of $676 million the increase from $309 million at the end of the quarter was primarily driven by the reduction in market interest rates.
Looking at our loan book on page 11 you can see that the provision for credit losses was a credit of $18 million.
This was driven by the continued improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio.
That compares to a credit of $24 million in the year ago quarter and a provision of $6 million in the prior quarter.
Turning to our capital story as I mentioned which is a good one.
As you can see on page 12 our key ratios strengthened over the quarter.
At March 31 our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio under the standardized approach on a fully phased-in basis was 11% that compares to 10.6% at the end of December.
The 40 basis point sequential increase primarily reflects capital generation during the period.
And that was partially offset by some increase in few of the risk-related asset categories.
Our estimated supplementary leverage ratio also improved substantially during the quarter to approximately 4.7% primarily reflecting two things.
One are some changes to the treatment of unfunded commitments and the methodology is actually calculated average assets as well as the strong capital generation that weve mentioned earlier.
During the quarter we repurchased 11.6 million shares for $375 million completing our repurchases under the capital plan for 2013.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 25.1% We anticipate gross share repurchase is up to approximately $430 million of course thats subject to market conditions.
And we also expect to record a pretax gain of nearly $500 million on our interest in Wing Hang when the sale closes which is expected to be in the second or third quarter.
Bear in mind 000 square feet.
There are maybe some costs associated with this consolidation as we reposition our staff but we expect gains to more than offset these costs when one Wall Steet building and move to a more efficient space.
That sale is beginning to take place in the second or third quarter.
So as Gerald indicated you will see evidence of these actions this year.
So wrapping up we are taking actions to control expenses relative to our revenues and we want you to see in our results.
We are going to provide you with more details on this at our Investor Day that we are planning to be hosting in the fall.
With that let me hand it back to Gerald.
Thanks Todd.
And I think we can open it up to questions Wendy.
Thank you.
At this time we are ready to begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hi thanks good morning.
Good morning.
A Couple of questions one on expenses one on capital.
On the expense side Todd you went through the outlook for the improvement in expenses associated with the space that you are getting rid off.
Could you give us a sense of Joe whether that is going to be on a run rate basis? Is that exactly what the gain is going to be but maybe you can help us on the run rate expense ratio side?  Its actually hard for us to put in exactly a number on that because we havent decided were actually going to be located.
We havent signed a lease on the new property or with some of the cost associated with that.
We do know there will be improvement but Betsy its a little early to actually specify a number.
Okay.
Maybe a little bigger picture on the expenses than Gerald mentioned during your prepared remarks that your expectations are that expense gross could slow down here with regulatory expenses falling down.
Did you suggest there that regulatory expenses could exactly start to fall following the overall growth rate or just the regulatory expense gross will be slower? Just slower they are not going to fall thats for sure because we are still building out risk compliance right to date aggregation models risk analytics models et cetera weve incurred about $73 million of additional expense in that business associated with regulatory compliance and satisfying tri-party reform.
Thats in our run rate today.
So that is a good example where the rate of growth will slow.
But it wont decline.
Okay.
Hey Betsy let me add something there.
The rate of growth in the risk and kind what well call the center or in the shared services has been a two to three times the rate of growth in the businesses.
And we are trying to bring that more in line.
Okay.
So if we are thinking about just operating leverage generally and the kind of operating leverage you are looking to manage towards.
Maybe you could give us a sense of what kind of range you are anticipating all the actions that youre doing is going to end up driving in terms of operating leverage.
Yes Betsy as we try to make it clear operating leverage is going to be driven both by the expense control that we implement as well as the revenue mix.
So when we see fee weighted risk for example increase we are seeing a loss revenue with no additional expenses and we get replaced by increases either in Investment Management or Investment Services.
Traditional fees they are typically expenses that come with that so I want to make it clear that revenue mix is absolutely essential to what actually happens to operating leverage.
Now that being said we are controlling nominal expenses.
So we are getting our hands around a number of things both in the center just slowing the growth rate even flattening it for example our capital budget is flat we are getting more out of the tax spend that we currently have.
And we can expand on that conversation a bit.
But if all things fully constant yes you will see in other words if the revenue mix stays into this and the market stays into this then you will see positive operating leverage even at relatively low growth rates.
Okay and that's great.
Just one quickie separate question you went through the capital ratios that all look good going up obviously what was the reason that EBITDA came down? The tangible common equity is total Right right it just look like a 20 bps decline Q1 scale.
Its not much of a change if there is any change.
The balance sheet might have averaged a little bit large of that.
I dont think it must have changed balancing out.
Yes now it was 20 bps just wondering.
Okay and then on SLR up nicely in the quarter I mean that your SLR assumes that your deposits are fair or not taking out or they are not in the denominators they are in? No they are in the denominator.
Cash has not removed from the denominator.
Right okay so you are assuming that and I know its not final rule you have to were assuming that it can be in the final rule.
So from here is it just normal course to get up to the 5%? Is there anything special that you feel like you need to do right now at one point we were talking about you potentially having to charge for deposits but doesnt seem like that in the run rate given how youve gotten this up to now? Yes I think that we can actually get over the hurdle pretty quickly.
I think the one thing we made clear is it doesnt make sense to get there just by holding additional capital.
So we can look at the deposit base and the deposits that have less value to our net value under the SLR or even the liquidity coverage ratio we could certainly put those types of balances off the balance sheet.
But we are still looking at some point well be able to be consolidate some of the assets from our asset manager.
So there are a number of ways that we can get there and we always have more room to issue preferred stock if we thought it was appropriate to bolster our Tier 1 leverage which should be a lot less expensive than holding common.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Glenn Schorr with ISI Group.
Hi thanks.
One quick one on the Investment Management side I heard your comments and disclosure on the 25% versus 35% margin in Investment Management.
Are you able to break down which is due to the distribution adjustments versus the money market fee waivers I think its fair and interesting just curious on the breakdown? Yes my recollection Glenn is about 200 basis points over this related to fee waivers.
And you can calculate we disclose intangible amortization so you can calculate that and the remainder would be the impact of the distribution fees.
Some show there is a gross up and some show is a net to the revenue.
Got it okay that's cool I could do that.
And then I dont know if you could talk a little bit about the lending growth inside Investment Services.
I think it was up 18% year-on-year.
Just curious whats driving that.
Sure.
Thats associated in some ways with our collateral services area where we provide some level of secured financing to the broker/dealer community as far the optimization segregation but its also around collateral services around that area.
So its a program where there are good safe loans highly collateralized to some of our largest clients around the world.
Hey Glenn this has come a little bit slower than we had hoped.
Were actually starting to see a pickup and were seeing that trend even in the second quarter.
Yes and a little bit of it is called term funding.
So its having the dealers who rely on this short-term wholesale funding.
So were seeing six nine months in some cases one year maturity on these loans.
So that helps their clients who have less reliance on wholesale short-term funding and its a good earning asset for us.
Okay.
Last one non-interest bearing deposit growth was up 16% year-on-year.
If you look at your foreign deposits you have like $100 billion.
Curious whats driving the growth and more importantly whats in the Euro zone has they contemplate the negative deposit rates? Just curious on how we should expect the balance sheet to react.
Yes good question.
So they are fair amount of European as well as U.S.
deposits and the actual average deposits is about flat slightly down.
Free deposits are actually up but interest-bearing deposits are slightly down on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
If the Euro zone were to go to negative rates that would actually present the opportunity for us to charge for deposits and we are giving that very serious consideration.
In the two non-Euro zone European countries that did go to negative rates we did pass-through that through to deposits.
And now client pushback? And I guess where Im going with it is one route is charging for deposits sometimes with large customers thats a bit of an issue.
Is it possible to rather mismatch and move your assets outside the zone or is that not something anybody wants to take on in terms of a mismatch? Well typically youll have the interest rate parity that comes towards the hedging of that type of a transaction as long as assuming youre not taking any FX risk.
There is some opportunity to do some of that with the hedging but again managing your liquidity and also the liquidity coverage ratio targets that the regulators were establishing will have to be taken into consideration when you do that Glenn.
Okay.
That makes sense.
I appreciate that.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The next question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Great thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Just a question on the Investment Management business.
I guess if you look at the growth in assets and the fee rate quarter-over-quarter it seems like it saw a pretty decent decline and understandably some of that is money market fee waivers although it didnt seem like the dollar amount was that different sequentially.
So I guess the day count counts for the rest of it but can you guys just kind of walk us through the expectations for the fee rate and the Investment Management business ex-performance fees in the coming quarters and to tie into that maybe just to address what kind of fees are you guys getting on the LDI mandates because that obviously seems to be a big driver?  Alex Curtis Arledge here.
So on a year-over-year basis then Ill talk about sequentially as well.
The biggest drag as Todd mentioned was the fee waiver impact.
A very significant decline year-over-year in short rates and that has absolutely dampened revenue growth.
So revenue growth of 3 would have been north of 5 actually is Investment Management a little more than 200 basis points just a fee waiver impact.
We also are comparing our third quarter of 2014 to a  with a very strong first quarter 2013 on the fee side.
We actually have fees when we have a less than 20% an investment boutique their performance fees and carried interest actually our share up to the performance fees and carried interest actually runs through that fee line and it can be somewhat volatile.
We had a very strong first quarter 2013 so if you just look at the normalized rate that probably is another 100 or 200 basis points of fee growth.
So we are actually pretty happy that fee growth generally given the mix of assets that we have in the market performance overall very nice performance on the new business front.
The sequential story is really not that different so fee waivers have a smaller impact as you said the days actually was a pretty meaningful impact and then again the volatility in our management fee line from performance fees they are on at the boutiques where we have less than 20% stake also attributed to that also.
Its small but nonetheless its still directionally the same hence the year-over-year results.
LDI obviously a business that we are doing extraordinarily well and not just the LDI business that insight in the U.K.
that their ability to leverage that into other growth in active fixed income in absolute return products so its a springboard for many other businesses.
LDI by itself is a business that does have lower fees but on giant volume of assets and they are also want to make sure that everybody understands that the what the management fees might be there also is a meaningful opportunity in a number of those mandates during performance fees.
And so when you see our fourth quarter performance fees a meaningful portion of that is actually coming from LDI related mandates where we have given opportunity on our performance fees if we outperformed a clients benchmark.
So its a great business for us overall and again its helping to drive not just revenues in LDI but other revenues as well.
Got it.
Thanks Gerald its a lot of color.
And just a follow-up on expenses I guess Todd bigger picture seasonally first quarter I guess tends to be a little bit lighter some of the myriad increases things that have already kick in for you guys in the second half of the year.
So maybe just taking a step back how should we think about the expense growth of the current base because it does seem like that's the lowest or one of the lower kind of core expense numbers have seen from you guys in a while so kind of $27 billion $28 billion run rate quarterly is that a sustainable number or what kind of growth we should think about from off of this base?  In the second half you are right typically July 1 since where a myriad increase pull through but we are looking to I think we are looking to keep most of the expense lines as flat as you can.
I think you will see a little bit higher software amortization and its going to be a little bit more in the noise than anything.
The first quarter you got to remember does also is also impacted by the acceleration of retirement to eligible employees on their deferred comp.
So that should reverse itself in the second quarter.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
So my sense is you have been working on a benchmarking analysis so that your asset management segments margins versus your peers.
Now I guess adjusting for few ever you said there in the mid 30% range which I think seems a bit low for from your scale and $1.6 trillion asset management so.
Im wondering if youre able at this point to communicate whether you think there is a good structural reason for that or if you see there is maybe a meaningful opportunities improve margins in the business.
I think with that the revenue yields in LDI indexing cash are pretty low and those are probably 65% of the total implied may be overall contribution margins in those businesses and could that be enough to offset revenue yields?  Hey Luke its Curtis.
We obviously spend a lot of time on understanding the industry framework and working clients across a large different channels thinking by what means to margins.
I do think as Todd walked through earlier the intangible amortization the distribution netting  distribution costs and fee waivers get us into that mid 30 range.
I also would highlight that as weve talked about in previous earnings calls over the past year or so really last nine months or so most impactful and weve also been investing in our business.
And so Ill add that probably 1% to 2% range of margins just in terms how we think about it.
When we look at the structural So it would be nice to not our fee waivers obviously that would help a great deal.
And then the nearest structural thing weve also talked about is that if you look at our business and you commented on somewhat in your question we are if predominantly focused on institutional clients in management firm.
And its why we have been over the past nine months or so really making pretty meaningful investments in two ways to expand to reach more individuals as investors.
We do that in two ways one directly through direct comp contact with individuals through our wealth management business here in the U.S.
great business seven partners in the U.S.
there is great room also great opportunity for us to expand and weve been growing in markets where weve had little presence and even in some cases no presence.
That is actually on quite well.
Weve talked about expanding our sales force by about 50% about a year-ago and were about 60% already through that expansion.
Starting to see revenues from having done that and were really quite excited about it.
Its just bringing the great offerings and investment offerings we have around our firm plus the power of being private bank and Ill highlight you that what we know in our earnings release well we are named top ranked bank our wealth management team is doing an exceptional job and expanding that reach is going to be fantastic.
The other way we are expanding the individual investors the second method is through intermediaries where we work with advisors and there has been some coverage of this and whats going on with us.
Ill highlight this is not a startup effort on our part.
In fact Dreyfus was one of the original creators of mutual fund industry and BNY MELLON that has both U.S.
presence to drive this but also has the global presence.
Weve about $156 billion in long-term mutual fund assets.
Which would make us $200 million just on retail basis on what is 100 asset managers on a whole just on a retail asset base.
So we already have a pretty significant presence here but it isnt anywhere close to what we think it should be.
So weve also been investing there.
And I think if when you look at firms you have margins higher than ours.
Theyre able to take your investment offerings and get them through client channels.
They are not just institutional but also reach individuals as well and interrupt while in doing that.
We do a lot work like look I talk about the study that  we used Mackenzie.
We think Mackenzies benchmarking study is one of the best in the marketplace and we got actually right out or slightly above peers who look like us.
So thats sort of long-winded answer to your marketing question.
Okay.
Just a follow-up on that.
I guess Im not  in terms of the investments youre making in retail business Im not clear why do you think thats a higher margin business or thats more about having an underutilized retail platform that youre going to scale up.
And then I guess along with that how do you rate the strength of the Dreyfus brand especially in the warehouse distribution channel and are you considering a rebranding campaign or do you think thats the brand that you really want to build on?  So the first question is I think there is a underutilized potential.
I think the contribution margins of taking investment capabilities that we already have today that we are offering in some ways to the retail channels and directly to wealth management also but expanding that will be pretty a meaning contribution margin.
We dont have to expand our investment capabilities all that much and can reach a much broader universal clients and again this is a market where we are already very present and we just want to get a figure out of it because we think theres big opportunity with what we have.
On the Dreyfus branding side I definitely think that part isnt just about covering clients.
You also have to have the right products.
Weve launched a number of products and are actually seeing very early success.
I will tell you were already seeing success.
If you look at our line and the earning release today weve had a $2 billion of inflows and alternatives as an example and that has actually come through what we traditionally called retail channels.
The new products weve launched have been everything from long short funds for the Newton and The Boston Company to multimanager and liquid our strategies that are managed by EACM which is our fund of hedge fund investment firm and also launched a well use the term smart data product as well.
So its getting us the ability to reach more clients with more products and again its benefiting from the great position we already have in those channels.
The Dreyfus brand I think will grow with our expansion here and any changes around branding  those are certain things we talked about.
Gerald if you want to comment.
Yes I guess I have one more comment Luke and that is were not totally relying on the Dreyfus brand and so the other boutique brands which have strong names in their own right are being put on the various channels and various platforms around the world.
And so pick a name; a Newton a Walter Scott The Boston company Standish all have branding name recognition in their category space and placing those more aggressively on third-party platform is part of the goal here and I think they have good names in order group of assets.
And maybe the last one on this question is we actually have a BNY Mellon fund family outside the U.S.
Its quite large and actually inside the U.S.
its about $80 billion north of assets.
Its been primarily used as the way that our wealth management business has managed mutual funds.
So trying to assess that long-term assets is about $66 billion.
The Wealth Management in the U.S.
being Mellon family is slight around $80 billion and theres north of $70 billion outside the U.S.
So being Mellon brand globally actually is in pretty good condition.
And then I would also tell you one of the places that we are very excited about is the ability to connect with our brethren in the Pershing organization who are reaching the RIA and the independent broker/dealer network.
Thats substantially more clients and its actually a very difficult  quite challenge to reach unless you have the ability to partner with our firm with Pershing and call list they have with those clients.
So a lot of opportunity here were excited about it it will obviously take sometime.
Weve been making investment center.
We went a little over a year ago actually we had our board and management team here and approve this investment and were excited about progress were making already the teams working very hard in coming together.
you may have seen we made senior hire recently and those people are very important to helping build the brand that well market.
Very helpful thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning ken.
I was wondering or Im sorry just for anyone is most relevant.
The new business wins on the custody study side its kind of been running at sub 200 for a couple of quarters.
Now just wondering because its flavor for the business pipeline on the asset servicing side whether its a market effect or whether it is changes to the marketplace and how you are pipelines working? Tim why dont you take that.
Sure.
Hi Ken Tim Keaney.
We look at it Ken both on an asset basis and revenue.
Id say its actually been pretty consistent particularly on the revenue side for the last six quarters we saw.
And I think its reflecting something weve talked about on the last few quarterly calls and well shift in non-AUC/A types of business things like our transfer agency business or sub transfer agency or subaccoutning business and middle office outsourcing which now is about a third of our pipeline and has been consistently slow now for the last several quarters as insurance companies and asset managers looked outsource.
So I wouldnt be overly concerned about that sub 200 number I feel pretty good about the consistency of the revenue and its sign of the mix.
And the overall point on the sales pipeline its about $2 trillion state tax been not quite a high water mark but a very very strong pipeline both in asset servicing and I would also Brian Shea say in Pershing.
Okay.
Secondly just Todd to your points on the NII front Im just wondering you saw a decent decline in your earning asset yields and I hear your points about keeping duration short.
But can you just talk to us how youre balancing the rate environment with the longer-term asset sensitivity and where youre kind of new investments are versus your rolling-off rate? Yes.
Were probably going to achieve a little more in the loan book.
So thats one of things that you see pick up.
As weve seen a little bit of the decline in cash at central banks as well as Interbank placements.
So thats rolling into the secured loan book that we talked about and it offset some of the slight spread tightening that weve seen just from generally from narrower spread.
We are taking a hard look at the investment securities book now and given the new regulations that are meant to go into effect next year; we will probably need to reposition that book a bit.
And there are certain types of asset that will become more attractive to us such as commercial mortgage-backed securities well probably hold a little less of certain high quality asset-backed securities.
We have to think about what we might want to do with communities for example because of how they get treated? Today weve actually build up a bit of a short-term treasury portfolio as well.
Just to be defensive in case interest rates ever actually went south or the interest on accessories go south in the short-term.
We dont think thats going to happen but its the defensive position with very little risk.
So we actually came in the middle of analyzing exactly what we were ultimately going to look like.
Okay and did some tough driver answer today but is that something that well hear about you think in a quarter or two or is that something that will evolve over the next year or so and how do we get the sense of what the net effect of that all might be from an income statement perspective.
Right now we are thinking its probably neutral.
So I will give you that much guidance but well give this is one of the reasons that we targeted the late fall holding Investors Conference to give clarity around this also around the capital implications the balance sheet and so forth and some of our other strategies.
So it fits pretty neatly into that timing.
Okay.
And then just last two quick clean-ups together.
Do you have the accretion number this quarter and also was there anything notable in the nice reduction you saw in other expense? The accretion and there are really two things that are helping us they are actually negatively impacting the net interest margin; one is the accretion and both on year-over-year and sequential basis its about $5 million and the other is the amortization of the premium.
And on year-over-year basis there was about $11 million so that's about $16 million impact a little less than sequentially.
And so that's whats driving some of that number I dont expect that to change too much so accretion should be kind of in that ballpark as we see these securities just continue the kind of burn off over time.
Nothing particular notable in the other side we did have a litigation recovery or release from our provision of about $12 million and so thats one of the beneficiaries there other than that everything is pretty well controlled in the other category.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi thanks a lot.
So a question on the Corporate Trust you mentioned the run-off the higher margin securitization over the next 12 to 18 months and I was wondering if you can give us a sense of the magnitude of the revenues associated with that and I saw for instance that your services were down about $8 million sequentially.
Is that typical of the kind of step down we could expect or do you expect it to occur evenly any color will be great.
Todd?  Cynthia what weve in terms of fee revenue what weve explained or weve disclosed is that we expect about a half of 1% of our total revenue to step down as a kind of the net run-off impact.
So somewhere in the vicinity of $50 million to $75 million a year and within issuer services there are really two businesses now there is depository receipts and there is Corporate Trust and its depository receipts actually did a little bit better and Corporate Trust is the difference so pretty consistent with the guidance that weve previously given.
Okay so you expect that to basically to bottom out after 18 months and then be steady? Yes there is a lot of these securitizations were in the ballpark of 10 years or so and so a lot of them were constructed back in 2006 and 2007 so well get to that end point and I think the other thing to note is there is not a lot of reduction in expenses that comes but you still have to do the same service and even though its just on a small base.
And I will point out we are getting more than our fair share of the new issuance market and we are seeing some CLO pickup activity in the CLO space where bid encouraged that the housing market will see some recovering securities coming ahead of that.
So I think we are bit more optimistic about seeing some new business come on to hopefully shorten that timeframe but it really depends on the markets recovering and new securities being issued.
So the proposals that are currently coming out of the senate are looking for a private solution at least in terms of the securitization market which will present opportunities for us in our corporate trust functions again that  those and thats going to actually be passed but its at least going to see some indication of what the future might look like.
Okay and then just a small one on set landing I know you are planning a big business but look like the market value of securities on loan was up quite a bit sequentially whats behind that and how do you see that business.
Is it ever going to recuperate the past levels do you think? Yes Cynthia.
There was a very nice pick up in securities that on loan picked up during the quarter and we are taking some action on our own parts to put some securities out in the marketplace and satisfy client demand.
So and we are optimistic well see that the rate of growth will continue to improve.
Spreads are very low but the volumes are up.
So well take it.
Okay thank you.
Hello there.
A quick question on the asset from the cost of the growth which seems to be lacking some of the peers groups.
So I guess the question If I to have is if your customers are very satisfied you mentioned the Global Custody survey where you came out well why isnt that translating into stronger growth in asset under custody and do you want to change that? Well two things I think we are pretty much inline with most of our peers quarter-to-quarter its also a bit episodic you can have some lumpy And you mentioned the need for price discipline and not chasing every piece of business.
What are the areas where you think competition is particularly in terms of the movement? Tim why dont you take that one? Sure.
Hey Ken but I would say on the flip side they are very open to doing more business with fewer providers and its much more about share wallet and gaining share wallet which is why I think Gerald referenced a referenced a cup of key points that I hope weren't overlooked the progress that we are making on the investments weve made on building out our collateral capabilities and continuing to invest in our electronic platforms in foreign exchange.
Those are paying off.
So its about doing more with the largest clients but it is still very tough price competition at the high end of the market.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong>  Question really focusing on asset servicing and understanding that your underlying mix is I believe skewed towards fixed income and cash.
So you dont necessarily get the full benefit of the market lift.
But now weve had a I guess pretty strong past year kind of at least equity market tailwinds.
It does seem like business activity has been reasonably active and I think the 4% year-over-year growth excluding sec lending.
So what does it take really to get that business kind of to a faster growth rate or high single-digits? Is it just structurally just even with some good tailwinds that structurally its really just kind of in this low single-digit growth business or is there something else that were not seeing that you think is really weighing on that particular revenue line?  Robert Tim Keaney again.
I think if you pull out securities lending which is probably the more helpful way to look at it youd see fees in asset servicing up 5% year-on-year and 2% sequentially very closely aligned with sort of AUC growth.
But I think whats changing in the market is a shift towards financial institutions.
We dont see a lot of defined benefit pension plan or central bank business moving and thats a good thing because we have a big market share there but they are very slow growers.
Whats really been growing the asset servicing business is financial institution.
So mutual funds banks brokers and hedge funds and I think that really plays to our strengths because weve been investing in our outsourcing capabilities.
Bridgewater is I think a great example of where weve been making some big investments.
I mentioned Collateral and FX and I think thats where the opportunity for us is going to turn as we focus on bundled players that are winners in the consolidating industries that they compete in.
When our clients grow we grow but it also means we need to continue to invest in the products and services that our clients need.
And those areas are ones that we really believe are going to continue to drive our growth.
And I would also say there is a space that we have a unique position and that we dont see a lot of our traditional trust bank competitors and thats where private banks and other financial advisors are getting out of self-clearing and they are looking at Pershing and the platforms that weve been investing in there.
That we believe over the next year or two is going to be another really bright spot for us.
So I guess those two or three things that will be real catalyst for us.
And maintaining strong price discipline.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
And maybe just I know its both a question and a suggestion maybe.
You talked about new business wins and you did mention that youre seeing a lot of business not coming  revenue streams that are tied to AUC or administrative assets but possibly get a sense for what the revenue impact is on your new business wins if you have $160 billion of active wins.
Should we be thinking enough? Though its hard to translate that into what it really means.
Is that $5 million of revenue $25 million of revenue? So I guess its a question or suggestion it would be great to get some of those kind of metrics in the quarter and kind of the revenue impact of net new business?  I think Robert its just a point.
Im nodding at Todd here.
Its really hard to answer that question with any specificity because of the business mix and I just will go back and say that question that was asked earlier.
Am I worried at all about the sub-$200 million of AUC/A wins Im not weve been looking at and quantify what we see the value of the business be in each quarter.
And its been pretty darn consistent with the last six quarters or so I dont know.
Yes I think I just add the fact that our revenues in asset servicing is closely related to the growth rate than AUC whether its market driven or new business win I think its keeping that correlation pretty tight.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> All right well thank you for taking my question.
Welcome.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just on the SLR here a lot of encouraging moments here this quarter.
I was just hoping just mechanically may be you could break down the improvement in the SLR to the different components in how much was retained earnings versus daily average balance on the asset side and such.
And also give a reminder or some sort of sense Basel kind of what you intend to run rate above the 5% requirement I hope.
Okay sure Brennan.
In terms of the break down between capital generation and what Ill call is the change in the denominator its about half in capital generation and half the change in the denominator.
And so the change in the denominator where really two things as the U.S.
is moving towards these Basel adoption of the denominator definitions.
What is unfunded commitments get treated using the credit conversion factor that was established under Basel I that was worth about a $20 billion reduction in assets that we have to otherwise have put into our denominator.
And then the rest of it was the change from going from an average calculation of the balance sheet to a month end calculation so the average of three month ends.
So typically we would see balance sheets grow especially a quarter end so a little bit.
And you can see our spot balance sheet versus our average balance sheet is almost always higher.
That was probably worth about $12 billion or $15 billion in assets so the combination of the two which is just about  On the Basel part of your question given how much cash we have at central bank we dont expect to run much in the way of Basel.
Okay that makes sense.
And then on the money market fund business can you may be give us the sense of the size of the institutional money market business if you have in the U.S.
and how much of that is institutional account that institutional book breaks down in between prime versus treasury and other.
Well virtually all of the money market business is U.S.
we really dont have much in the way of outside the U.S.
money market funds.
Most of it is sourced through almost 50% of our money market funds come from our cash with servicing encouraging platforms less than one of the positive synergy is not worth this much right now.
But it is one of positive synergies kind of being associated with large asset servicing book of business.
So a lot of the deposits in the money market funds are sourced from internal clients or encouraging platform.
Thats the way to think about it so its really a U.S.
based business.
Back to the split between treasury and client I dont have a stuff in my head Gerald.
Yes it moves rapid and we have a  so let me give you some general answer.
So its we have a much larger institutional in retail money market business and a much larger treasury then client compared to many others.
Again the numbers youre rounding its a pretty meaningful treasury business.
Okay.
So if we think about where the market is in those various break down.
You guys probably  with its skew more to the treasury side than the product market business.
Yes.
Exactly right.
And so thats why you see everything is obviously with treasury rates at zero  More yields.
Yes exactly.
Sure sure.
Thanks thanks for the color.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ashley Serrao with Credit Suisse  Good morning.
On collateral management you touched a little bit about the investment youre making build out the business but how should we think about the longer-term opportunity for you there? So any color on how much money youre making from the business today and how the competitive landscape is evolving would be appreciated? Okay.
Weve been making investments over the last year year and a half in that stage.
Its starting to show up in the investment services achieve its one of the contributors to the growth there.
We dont break it out individually.
Right now were seeing more in the segregation category I being the custodian for the segregated assets around collateral services.
At some point we little start to move into the higher value transformational aspects of collateral services.
Doing some secured financing is also been a contributor to the collateral services.
We do see thats evolving its evolved more slowly than we would have expected as the new laws in regulations are kicking in.
We expect this to pick up over the course of time and its a global phenomena I might add.
So we see opportunities to do this in all parts of the world.
Great.
Thanks for the color there.
And on the SLR it could progress this quarter but as the rule hopefully enters the final inning.
What impact do you think the rule as it stands today has on business decisions for you and more probably the industry? And then just broader update on the global regulatory landscape laws we appreciate it.
Ill deal with the SLR question maybe Gerald you can handle the broader question on the regulatory landscape.
In terms of  for I think everybody in the industry and certainly the big institutions.
They can be more balance sheet sensitive.
So use of the balance sheet is going to come to play with a higher cost.
So that as we look at any of our businesses the balance sheet intensive businesses they are going to come under tighter scrutiny and can we make the returns and how do we squeeze the returns out of them.
Part of the reason that we frankly we like the investment management business because there is no balance sheet things that comes with that.
So I think that is a question that we  that all large financial institutions are dealing with right now.
Gerald I dont know if you want to comment on the regulatory.
Well.
The regulatory fronts and I guess the thing thats challenging for all of us is the lack of harmonization across the regulatory environment with Basel adopts the U.S.
has a different standard U.K.
has different standard the ECB has a different standard.
Its particularly challenging to all of us to determine what's the right mix of businesses and use of balance sheet or not with these changing environment.
Were starting to get a little more clarity around it.
And its  were certainly very focused as the company around making sure our business model performs well in the new environment other firms are going to the same decision making process.
I think as Todd pointed out anything thats balance sheet intensive is either to shrink or get priced up.
And I think thats one of the things the regulators are looking for is to make sure risk is peripherally placed in the marketplace or stop doing the activity and so I think thats going to be some of the changes you see more broadly across the industry.
Great thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
The next question is from Rob Rutschow with CLSA.
Hi good morning thanks for taking my question.
The first question is on expenses you had close to a 10% decline in the employee benefit expenses sequentially.
And if Im reading the numbers right you also eliminated and some liability for capital purposes so with the sequential change just through to a change in assumptions or is there something else youre doing there that allows you to produce those things and expenses.
Rob the reduction in the pension expense is the combination of the  there is nothing unusual there.
The plan has been to define benefit plan its largely driven by I should say by the define benefit plan.
The defined benefit plan was frozen two dimensions quite a few years ago.
And the year-over-year changes first time that we actually saw interest rates go up quite a few years as the discount factor on the liability.
That in combination with the very strong underlying performance with the assets the seasonal fund.
Even though we reduce what we estimate our go forward returns in R&amp;D.
That reduced our pension expense we estimated by about it should be by about $100 million this year.
So $25 million or quarters so thats marginally the driver of whats you are seeing on the benefit side.
Okay thats helpful.
The follow-up question would be on the I dont know if you guys have provided this or we can  what would be your total regulatory expense and is there any way to segment that between servicing investment management.
Thank you.
Yes we have not disclosed a specific number except for the cost of actually compliant with Tri-Party Reforms where we have seen our expenses in that particular unit run rate go up its not exclusively related to Tri-Party Reform but most of it is by over $70 million.
There is very limited impact in the investment management space around regulatory its almost all investment services related.
Thank you.
The next question is from  Wendy we have time for one more question.
The final question is from Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning.
Maybe I could just ask about the TR business and it looks like M&amp;A is picking up cross border IPO activity seems to be picking up.
Can you discuss that the pipeline I guess and relative to the similar week results this quarter is just a little too early to tell.
How do you think of that going forward? Yes let me start just by referring to this quarter Jim it actually wasnt a bad quarter.
We saw some decent corporate actions and revenues werent too bad.
So when you look at the issue with services downward thats masked by the weaker performance in Corporate Trust that we discussed.
Inc.</strong> Its sponsored programs I guess for now this quarter.
Some of the sponsored programs are down mainly because of our own choice.
We're just being again more disciplined - the category being more disciplined around the pricing of working with different programs where our market share is still holding in roughly 60% category.
So you're just seeing a slight decline in number of programs.
It's not a big deal and it's really that we've been proactively managing it.
Inc.</strong>  And in terms of the outlook.
The outlook as M&amp;A activity picks up and as IPOs pick up around the world this is an area of the benefit and its mostly an emerging markets business.
And so as youre seeing activity in that space DRs will clearly benefit from it.
Corporate actions and M&amp;A are the big revenue drivers for this business.
That necessarily with day-to-day trading although thats the foundation of it all those things that you mentioned really turbo-charged the revenues in that business.
So were optimistic as you are.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then on the  quick follow-up on the capital ratio.
I noticed that your Tier 1 common on the standardized approach rose I assume with retained earnings but the advanced approach declined by 30 basis points.
Is that simply higher operational risk assumptions or is anything else in there?  No thats largely driven by some of the parameter changes as we got ready to come out of the parallel run.
There were some parameter changes around some of our risk-related assets that drove that change.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
All right thanks.
Great.
Thank you.
Well thank you very much everyone.
And before closing the call I just want to remind you well plan to host an Investor Day in the late fall and there well be able to share more details around our business model and our strategy.
So again thank you for joining us today and look forward to taking with you.
If you have any questions please follow-up with Andy Clark.
Thank you very much everybody.
Thank you.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Mr.
Andy Clark at (212) 635-1803.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes todays conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference call and webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I would now turn the call over to Mr.
Izzy Dawood.
Mr.
Dawood you may begin.
Thanks Wendy and welcome everyone.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO as well as our executive management team.
Before we begin let me remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement in the press release and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our Web site bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today July 18 2014 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
Our press release and earnings review are available on our Web site and we'll be using the earnings review to discuss our results.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Gerald.
Great thanks Izzy and welcome everyone and thanks for joining us this morning.
So a few key takeaways for the quarter were attacking our expense base as we continue to align our operating model with the reality of the macro environment.
We are absolutely committed to aggressive expense management and to reducing structural costs and its paying off helping us generate positive operating leverage during the quarter.
Investment management fees and most of our investment services fees continue to grow demonstrating our ability to meet the increasingly complex investing needs of our clients.
Our capital position remains strong adds to our ability to generate capital providing us with the financial flexibility to continue to return capital to shareholders.
So looking at our performance during the quarter.
As you saw from the release we reported earnings of $0.48 per share which included a $0.14 per share charge covering two items we previously disclosed.
One was the charge related to certain investment management funds and two a severance charge related to progress in streamlining our organization which I might add is expected to benefit our expense run rate in excess of $120 million charge.
And we should begin to see the benefits this year with a full effect in 2015.
Now when you add these items back one might say that we earned $0.62 per share but we think we really owned about $0.58 per share on an operating basis.
So turning to revenues.
Total revenues were 3.7 billion.
Investment management had a good quarter and continues to demonstrate why we value this business.
Investment management and performance fees were up 4% year-over-year and they were also up 5% sequentially.
Assets under management increased 15% year-over-year to a record $1.64 trillion.
And we are continuing to execute on our initiatives to drive future earnings growth including our strategy to increase our focus on individuals as investors by broadening our reach to intermediaries and the retirement market and by expanding wealth management.
Now another key strategy involves building out our local capabilities for clients looking to invest in Asia.
In fact in APAC were currently on-boarding our first client onto the separately managed account platform that we built in conjunction with our purging operations.
So were not only attracting clients that will use our technology but were also getting asset management mandates on it as well.
During the quarter Insight Investment was named the winner of Global Investor Magazine to annual award for investment excellence as asset manager of the year in its category.
Insight was also named the LDI manager of the year by the UK Pension Awards.
So a great performance in our investment sector in that regard.
All-in-all a good quarter for investment management which remains a significant earnings contributor and capital generator for our firm.
We like the fact that this business is balance sheet light and that it continues to serve as a valuable role in allowing us to leverage and deepen our client relationships across the Company.
In investment services asset servicing clearing and treasury services fees grew nicely while issuer services was down.
Investment services business was again helped by the growing contribution from global collateral services which showed good growth during the quarter as usage of our optimization and segregation solutions continued to increase.
In global markets the industry-wide low volatility negatively impacted our revenues but weve been able to offset that partially as enhancements to our FX platform drove a significant increase in volumes.
So again our investments are paying off.
Now during the quarter our asset servicing and global collateral services capabilities received a number of awards for innovation service quality and the strength of our capabilities and we again came out on top of our peer group in a key industry survey this time in Global Custodian Mutual Fund Administration Survey.
Now on the expense front earlier this year we outlined some of the actions were taking to manage expense growth including streamlining our organization reducing our real estate footprint consolidating platforms reengineering processes and getting more out of each technology dollar we have spent.
I said you would see evidence of all these news this year and our progress is now being reflected in our numbers.
Weve succeeded in reducing operating expenses both year-over-year and sequentially notwithstanding the impact of regulatory risk and control-related expenses.
So let me highlight two important areas.
The first item involves reducing employee costs.
We made good progress in streamlining our organization which includes reducing positions in layer in getting to fewer more effective managers.
The employee cost reductions are real and very sustainable.
But while the cost savings are important these actions are not just about costs theyre about creating an organization that is better aligned and connected with our clients and markets and cultivating a high performance culture.
Now as part of these moves we promoted Brian Shea to head investment services bringing the front and back-end together to drive better client solutions and improve our productivity and efficiency.
Curtis Arledge added to his responsibilities the oversight of the newly formed BNY Mellon Markets Group which brings together global markets global collateral services and prime services.
Now Curtis has extensive experience in capital markets and asset management and it gives to me unique insight into the markets and needs of our clients both buyer side and sales side clients.
That together with a new structure will help to further accelerate the delivery to clients of solutions and trading securities financing and securities lending.
And I might add importantly our clients have told us this is how we should be organized to better serve them.
The second expense item is our real estate footprint.
You saw that we reached an agreement to sell our One Wall Street building for 585 million which will reduce our New York City footprint by 750 000 square feet.
Now in terms of the future financial impact there will be some incremental expense in 2015 as we work through some overlapping occupancy expense.
And in 2016 we will see the benefit of this action and Todd will cover this more in just a moment.
Now our focus is on driving productivity improvement across our businesses across geographies across functions and doing it aggressively every single day.
Turning on to the capital front we continue to generate significant levels of capital resulting in strong capital ratios which provide us with a financial flexibility to return more to shareholders and drive shareholder value.
During the quarter we increased our dividend by 13%.
We repurchased 12.6 million shares.
Now another compelling statistic since the financial crisis our strong capital generation has enabled us to more than double our tangible capital while also reducing our shares outstanding below pre-crisis levels.
Now before I hand it over to Todd let me wrap up with an update on our corporate trust business.
Back in May we told you we were exploring whether the corporate trust business is worth significantly more to someone else rather than to us.
We have now completed that process.
When we weigh the benefits of the sale of the current environment against both the near-term pressures on this business in a more positive long-term outlook we concluded that we can create more shareholder value by retaining it.
We will continue to focus on driving profitable growth.
This business is positioned to benefit from the significant upside for earnings and operating margins that will result from an eventual move to more normalized monitory policy the expected vacant and structured debt maturity and a potential recovery of a non-agency mortgage backed market.
I have always liked this business and our leading market share position and I am confident of its future growth potential.
Now the bottom line is were executing to drive shareholder value through our focus on three activities one streamlining our organization and continuously finding ways to improve our productivity and efficiency primarily through enhancement to our technology and operations and by sustaining the momentum that we have established on the cost front.
Two executing our initiatives to drive revenues and profits focusing on growth opportunities such as individuals as investors our APAC investment management strategy leveraging our investment services scaled to develop highly affective mid and back office solutions and enhancing our collateral systems and FX trading platforms to provide clients with better liquidity management tools.
And finally complying with a host of new capital liquidity and other regulatory requirements and doing it as efficiently and effectively as possible.
Now as I said before we expect to see the benefits of all these actions to continue to show off in our numbers this year.
With that let me turn it over to Todd.
Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the quarterly earnings review beginning on Page 2.
As Gerald knows EPS was $0.48 the $0.48 include the $0.14 for the previously disclosed items.
It also includes the benefit of approximately $0.04 between the credit provision which was negative for the period as well as a little bit higher than normal investment and other income so all in we view it as about $0.58 quarter.
Looking at the numbers on a year-over-year basis total revenue was 3.7 billion investment services fees were down 1% we saw some strength in asset service and clearing services but that was more than offset by the weakness in issuer services and well talk about that in a minute.
Investment management and performance fees were up 4% and if you exclude money market fee waivers they were up 5%.
FX was down on the lower volatility numbers and NIR was down 5%.
Expenses on an adjusted basis were down 4% so for the quarter our operating revenues were a little soft down about 2% year-over-year but we more than offset that by the decline in expenses enabling us to generate 200 basis points of positive operating leverage.
We do expect the revenue growth rate to recover in the third quarter.
Turning to Page 4 what we call our some business metrics that help explain our underlying performance you can see that we had record AUM of 1.64 trillion thats up 15% from a year ago driven by higher market values as well as new business.
During the quarter we had net long-term outflows of $13 billion and short-term outflows of $18 billion.
The long-term outflows were primarily driven by our liability driven investments AUM where we had one client that opted to bring that service back in-house.
Assets under custody and administration at quarter end were 28.5 trillion thats up 9% year-over-year it primarily reflects the impact of higher market values as well as some currency impact.
Linked quarter AUC/A was up 2% due also to improve market values.
For the quarter we had an estimated $130 billion in new AUC/A wins.
Looking at to our key metrics you can see share growth over a year-over-year on most of them average loans and deposits in wealth management and investment services continued their growth trends.
The market value on securities on loan at period end grew and most of our clearing metrics were up while DARTS volumes were actually down.
On the flip side DR programs and average tri-party balances were down slightly.
In terms of the key external metrics both equity and fixed income in our markets were up but I would point out that fixed income appreciation trialed the equity market improvement and as we have discussed before AUM and AUC/A are more oriented towards fixed income assets.
The FX volatility index average was off 37% the lowest average in a quarter since pre-crisis impacting FX revenue.
And the average Fed Funds effective rate was down 3 basis points or 25% from last year which had a negative impact on our money market fee waivers.
Looking at fees on Page 6 asset servicing fees were up 3% year-over-year 1% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase reflects higher market values it also reflects the impact of a weaker U.S.
dollars net new business and organic growth partially offset by lower securities lending revenue.
The sequential increase primarily reflects seasonally higher sec lending revenue and higher market values.
Clearing fees were up 2% year-over-year and up slightly sequentially.
The year-over-year increase was driven by a higher mutual fund fees partially offset by a decrease in DARTS and higher money market fee waivers.
Issuer services fees were down 21% year-over-year and up 1% sequentially.
The year-over-year decrease reflects lower dividend fees partially due to timing and corporate actions and DRs.
In addition the comparison was impacted by lower customer reversements in corporate trust as well as higher money market fee waivers and that impact of the continuing net maturities in corporate trust.
The good news as Gerald indicated is that we can see the net maturities of structured securities abating in the next 18 or 24 months as the pace of the maturities slows and the impact of the new business should begin to more than offset.
When you look at investment services you will see that our investment services fees as a percentage of non-interest expense declined from 94% to 93%.
However if you adjust for the money market few waivers and also the impact of the issuer services business for the quarter the ratio actually improved by 1% demonstrating some operating leverage there.
Investment management performance fees were up 4% year-over-year and 5% sequentially.
Both increases reflect higher equity market values and the average impact of a weaker U.S.
dollar.
The year-over-year increase also reflects net new business which was partially offset by money market fee waivers and lower performance fees.
The sequential increase also reflects lower money market few waivers and higher performance fees.
Excluding money market fee waivers investment management performance fees were up 5% year-over-year and 3% sequentially.
In FX and other trading revenue was down 37% year-over-year and down 4% sequentially.
And looking at the components FX revenue of 129 million was down 28% year-over-year and 1% sequentially and thats primarily reflecting lower volatility offset by higher volumes.
In fact if you look at the composite on Page 5 you can see that market volatility was down 37% year-over-year and 20% sequentially.
So clearly we are capturing higher volumes.
Other trading revenue was down 27 million from the year ago quarter and 5 million from the first quarter.
The decrease from the year ago period reflects lower derivatives trading and the sequential decrease primarily reflects lower fixed income trading.
In the second quarter we exited one of the derivative business lines and Curt are considering further actions to improve the performance of this unit going forward.
Investment and other income was $142 million in the quarter compared with 285 million in the year ago quarter and 102 million in the prior quarter.
The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects a gain related to an equity investment recorded in the second quarter of 2013 and that was offset by higher other income and seed capital gains.
The sequential increase primarily reflects higher other income equity investment revenue and asset-related gains which was partially offset by -- we actually had lower lease residual gains in the quarter.
Turning to Page 8 of the earnings review you will see that NIR on an FTE basis was down 35 million versus the year ago quarter and down $8 million sequentially.
The year-over-year decrease resulted from lower yields on investment securities and that was partially offset by the higher average earning assets which is largely driven by higher deposits.
The sequential decrease was primarily driven by the higher premium amortization on agency mortgage backed securities.
As you recall from previous quarters when rates do go down the premium amortization rate excuse me -- when rates go down the premium amortization rate actually increases.
The net interest margin for the quarter was 98 basis points down from 115 a year ago and 105 in the first quarter.
Turning to Page 9 our non-interest expense included two non-recurring items.
The first was 109 million charge related to the previously disclosed administration of certain investment management funds with the charge we are adequately reserved for this issue I would point out that the charge has been broken out in the investment management disclosure which will enable you to evaluate the segments results on an actual operating basis.
The severance charge of $120 million related to the streamlining actions which Gerald mentioned in his earlier comments this charge was included in the M&amp;I litigation and restructuring line.
These actions will benefit our expense run rate in the second half of this year and I will give you a little more detail on that in a moment.
Looking at our results adjusted for these items total non-interest expenses were down 4% year-over-year and 2% sequentially both decreases were primarily driven by a 5% reduction in staff expense and we were able to do that despite the impact of increased regulatory risk and control expenses.
The year-over-year decrease also benefitted from a 24% reduction in the business development expenses.
On Page 2 you can see that at quarter end we had a net unrealized gain on the investment securities portfolio of 1.2 billion.
This increase from 676 million at the end of the prior quarter was driven by the lower rates that we saw in the quarter.
Looking at our loan book on Page 11 you can see that the provision for credit losses was a credit during the quarter of 12 million which was driven by the continued improvement in the credit quality of the book.
This compares to a credit of 19 million a year ago and a credit of 18 million in the first quarter.
Turning to capital on Page 12 at June 30 2014 our estimated Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio fully phased in under the standardized approach was 10.4% compared to 11.1% at the end of March and under the advanced approach it was 10% compared to 10.7 at the end of March.
The 70 basis point sequential decrease primarily reflects an increase in risk weighted assets related to the assets of certain consolidated investment management funds.
As a reminder the fully phased in common equity Tier 1 ratio will be effective in 2019.
Also in the second quarter we exited the new parallel runned under the Basel advanced approaches and are now required to perform both standard and advanced transitional calculations.
The binding of these ratios is the lower of the advanced standard common equity Tier 1 which is currently the advanced at 11.7%.
Note that the quarter-over-quarter decline in our transitional risk-based capital ratios has two main components.
First of all the switch this quarter using the advanced approach methodology is the most significant one.
And the impact of the assets of the consolidated investment management funds I just mentioned also impacted that.
Our estimated supplemental leverage ratio was flat during the quarter at about 4.7% and that's despite a 4% sequential increase in the average balance sheet.
During the quarter we repurchased 12.6 million common shares for a total of $431 million and the effective tax rate for the quarter was 26.7%.
Before moving to some outlook comments let me spend a few minutes on the two transactions we expect to close in the third quarter first of all the tale of our equity investment Wing Hang actually has already closed in the third quarter.
This quarters results or next quarter or the third quarter will include an after-tax gain of approximately $320 million.
Note that our equity investment revenue related to Wing Hang totaled $20 million in the first half of 2014 and $95 million in 2013.
The 2013 numbers includes a gain that we had with sale of property at about $37 million.
Also the One Wall Street building is expected to be the closing of it is expected to be done in the third quarter.
It will result in after-tax gain of approximately $200 million 345 million pre-tax.
We have entered into a new lease now for our new corporate headquarters which we expect to occupy by the end of 2015.
A few points to factor into your thinking about the current quarter and beyond third quarter earnings are generally impacted by seasonal downturn in transition volumes and market-related revenues particularly foreign exchange and securities lending while DRs will it tends to be much stronger in the third quarter.
Two transactions will impact investment in other income going forward.
As I noted earlier the Wing Hang investment contributed approximately 10 million per quarter for a line item in the first half of the year.
In addition we recently adopted the accounting standard related to low income housing.
That will result in additional investment in other income of approximately 15 million per quarter.
And that will be offset in the income tax expense.
So these two transactions will increase the lower end of the previous guidance range for this line item by approximately $10.
So we see investment and other income to be in the range of $90 million to $100 million on a go forward basis.
In terms of net interest revenue in the second half of this year were also planning to reduce our exposure to introduce two inter-bank placements asset so actually reducing the amount of cash that we have there and increase our securities portfolio inventory of high quality liquid assets.
The anticipated revenue as a result of these tactical actions should mitigate the impact of our net interest revenue as a result of the ECV interest rate actions as well as this prolonged low investment rates in the U.S.
Severance charge this quarter will benefit in our expense run rate beginning in the second half of the year.
We expect the savings of our streamlining actions to more than offset the impact of the July 1st merit increase.
As mentioned earlier we expect our headquarter sales to close this quarter.
In terms of the financial impact well see incremental occupancy expense of $30 million in 2015 as we absorb the rent expense on the new headquarters as well as the expenses of transitioning of the One Wall Street.
Once we do make that transition and get through the overlap we expect to see a benefit of our expense base of approximately $10 million in 2016 and beyond and that's versus staying here at One Wall Street.
In addition the proceeds will enable us to pay down nearly $500 million of long-term debt and well also receive some benefits from tax incentives provided by the State of New York.
We intend to continue to buy back stock in the third quarter based on market conditions.
We expect the tax rate to be around 27% for the quarter.
Our focus has been and will continue to be on executing to drive shareholder value.
As Gerald said were not relying on market activities to improve.
Were continuing ways to identify ways to increase our efficiency and were ensuring -- working to ensure that the actions that weve taken continue to show up in our numbers.
With that let me hand it back to Gerald.
Great.
Thanks Todd.
And Wendy I think we can now open it up for questions.
Good morning.
Gerald you just come off of a sizable expense program you recently announced for the expense initiative that is supposed to begin in the second half of this year yet you found some levers to pull this quarter as well.
So my question is what else are you evaluating today? How quickly can you deliver? And should we expect this 4% year-over-year decrease to actually build going into the back half of the year or is there some investment spend taken into consideration as well? Well thanks Ashley for the question.
We continuously look at all of our expenses as a way to try to control them better in recognition of the macro environment that were in and rightsizing the size of company to the reality of the revenues that are being generated.
So its a continuous process that's why we havent announced any program we havent announced any separate initiative.
It is day in and day out reduced any expenses and improving our operations and efficiency.
I feel good about what we have achieved so far in the first half of this year.
Were looking to do more in the second half.
The severance cost that we are taking this quarter the run rate will improve and offset the normal merit increase in the second half of this year.
So I feel good about going into the second half in terms of continuing to control expense as well.
Got it.
And then can you remind us of what your ROE and ROT targets are? And give us a sense of where you think you can go without any help from rates and how quickly you think you can get there? Yes we had indicated a few years back that our target on ROE was about 10% and return on tangible common equity would be substantially higher than that so far the first quarter I mean excuse me for the second quarter return on tangible common equity was about 18%.
We think we can continue -- in the first quarter were going to be around 8% and 18%.
We think they can continue to grind that up into that 10% range without a significant move with rates or volatility.
Obviously I think we saw move in a better market conditions here than we would see a much more significant jump.
Alright thank you for taking my questions.
Thanks Ashley.
Thanks Ashley.
Thanks guys good morning.
A quick follow-up on the numbers I guess on expenses and then a big picture question after.
So lots of moving pieces you guys announced additional measures and you just have had obviously the -- some of the benefits will come in next six months or so in comp but I guess if you look at the expense base overall 2.7ish billion dollar run rate in the quarter today like ex one of the ex some of the one timers.
Is that a fair run rate do you guys expect to grow that as the business continues to grow? Or is this kind of the run rate in expenses that we should think about over the next six months to 12 months as you realize some of these savings albeit offset by some of the goal initiatives?  Yes Alex its Todd we are working real hard to try to maintain this expense level or keep it from growing so that the actions that we have taken around the headcount the actions that we have taken around occupancy the very careful analysis of all of our discretionary spend we want to try to keep overall expenses flat and some of the benefit of that we are using to invest in some of the new revenue streams that Gerald has talked about but all-in-all there will obviously be some noise in those numbers were trying to keep it as flat as we can.
Got it thats helpful.
And the second question just on the current environment over the last three to four months or so weve seen increased pressure on the bigger banks to shrink the balance sheets to get faster compliance with SLR.
You see that resonate in the retail markets declining 10ish percentage year-over-year.
Just curious to think about how that impacts your business holistically.
You guys are obviously a big tri-party repo manager.
So curious to see how that kind of flows through to your operations and just overall given the fact that you are big counter-party to a lot of the banks on Wall Street.
Is that having any sort of impact on the business overall? Yes Alex great question.
Certainly some of our largest clients are shrinking their balance sheets and reducing their repo positions.
So whats interesting is our tri-party repo program has essentially been flat so as the dealers in the U.S.
have shrunk the marketplace the global tri-party program has increased.
So we are able to maintain the revenues and their profitability in the business and get a good return on the investments we have made in the tri-party repo reform program.
There is no question that as the big dealers in the U.S.
shrink their activities there is some impact in our revenue streams there.
But we are making up for it through enhanced services and capabilities in other places like collateral services.
Collateral services as you may recall was originally designed for the sales side the buyer side is the one thats going to serve using it much more heavily.
And so we feel very good about our position to be able to offset the declines in the large broker-dealers with more activity from other clients.
Got it great.
Thanks so much guys.
Hi two questions first on the corporate trust you indicated that you went through the review and decided to retain it could you just give us a little bit more color on the ends announced into that decision? Sure Betsy thanks for the question.
When we said -- in May when we made more public that we are exploring this we said at the time let someone was willing to pay us a premium value for this business we wouldnt sell it because we like the business we like the attributes of it.
Its a fee-based business.
It has future upside potential with a more normalized monetary policy and is structured notes and mortgage backed securities come back on.
We see light at the end of the tunnel.
We would only sell it if in fact someone would pay us the premium what we thought the value of these businesses were its a challenging environment for someone to acquire something of this size and complexity.
And so we decided that we couldnt get the kind of premium that we thought that this business was worth and we think that its much more valuable in our hands and we can continue to build upon it and leverage it and its a great business.
And thats why I said we have always liked it.
It was only a question whether it was more valuable to someone else than versus us.
Okay.
So I mean obviously the Street know that there is a increased activism in the Company.
And I guess the underlying question is was this undertaken impart to answer questions to those folks or were you able to get to higher ROE RTCE expectations the work youre doing now on the expense side? Well the consideration to begin we have started a long time ago so lets start with that.
Our Board has always been very active and we as a management team have been very active.
And looking at our -- all of our portfolio of businesses and making sure that theyre best held in our hands versus someone else.
And on corporate trust in some ways it was a simple math in a low interest rate environment with a level of deposits that were generated if someone could make better use of those deposits and get a better margin on it and pay us a premium for the business thats when we would consider.
To the extent that someone couldnt take advantage of it were happy to have the business and continue to own it and grow it and thats our leading market share of business.
So that was the core reason for that.
We think we can achieve our capital ratios our leverage ratios our liquidity coverage ratios all within our own needs irrespective of retaining the corporate trust business.
Got it.
And then just separately kind of ties into the collateral management question earlier but as the fed starts to well ends tapering and then starts to increase reversed repo program obviously youre in the middle of that.
And with money market funds management product you have got as well as with the tri-party exposure that youve got maybe you could get youre in a unique position to give us some color on how you think that higher increased RRP program is going to impact the financial markets? Well Ill start with part of the answer and then Ill turn it over Todd Todd has become a student of this as well as Curtis.
We are the vehicle through which the reserve repo program of the Fed is -- were the mechanism for allowing it to happen in the marketplace or for them to put the program in place.
So and the Fed is a client of ours in that regard and so we do see the activity running through us and were not going to violate any confidences there.
But I think it is certainly one of the tools in the Feds tool box in terms of managing monetary policy and interest rates.
And so maybe with that Ill turn it over to Todd or Curtis.
Yes.
I would just add Betsy that given the new liquidity and capital rules its going to be difficult for the Fed to open market transactions the way theyve done in the past hence the reserve repo program where they go directly to money market funds came into place.
I think there is some question about just how much the Fed wants to expand that program.
And obviously if they do expand it they would do through the tri-party repo so we do see that activity.
The other alternative that they have to increasing interest rates or drain its to either sell some of the assets that they have or increase the interest that they pay on access reserves or in this term deposit facility that they have in the banking system.
So if they do reserve repo the cash will come out of the banking system and it will go into money market funds based on price and then the banking system would have to bid against that some of the cash that went into those funds would come back into the banking system.
But I think it composites its kind of that simple and as reserve repo grows the access reserves should decline.
Hi thanks very much.
So the actions that youd described taken to offset some of the lower rates and the actions in Europe I am curious if you feel that has any material change on your asset sensitivity once all the changes are in motion I heard you on the revenue neutrality but just curious on what that means in rising rate environment in the U.S.? Yes.
As you can tell from our NIR position weve taken a bit of a defensive stance weve actually reduced our asset sensitivity substantially from where we were last year.
We do pay for that a little bit on our NIM there is no question about it.
There will be a little bit of an increase as we do make that transition Glenn.
I dont think it will be significant it will be in the vicinity of about 10% so our sensitivity would increase about 5% to 10%.
And we will be users of the health and maturity account as well so theres less sensitivity to the capital ratios.
Got it okay cool.
And speaking the capital ratios just looking for a drop more color on what specifically got consolidated from asset management to produce the drop in the ratios? And I am just curious on timing on why it happened this quarter I am just not familiar with it? Sure we actually consolidated some of the CLOs that one of our asset managers managed actually quite a few of the CLOs.
So as we transition from Basel I to Basel III we actually reviewed the treatment of those consolidated assets.
And we determined that even though we have no economic risk to them we have no credit exposure at all that they should be included in our risk weighted assets.
We actually expect this might be a temporary item FASB has just recently discussed the possibility of adapting a new standard that could be adopted as early next year and it would lead to us probably in consolidating some or even most of these assets as early as next year.
Okay last one for me is just the 24% decline in business development cost.
Is that -- is there a business to component to that impact or is that more of a sustainable decline because it actually -- it really moved the needle? Yes there are two major components and there couple but Id say the two major components in there Glenn is our marketing expenses and our travel and entertainment expenses.
Weve been much more aggressive in managing our -- those discretionary expenses.
For example we have discouraged internal travel weve encouraged increased use of video and audio conferencing.
And so rather than pull some of our operating committee together from time-to-time we are doing it virtually much more frequently.
And we are doing that across the board we are not decreasing important revenue producing travel this is internal related travel.
Also last year we had a substantial campaign on our marketing and branding efforts and weve reduced the spend associated with that.
We are going to try to keep this discipline and sustain these levels.
Now there is some seasonality to this with conference and so forth so we would expect the third quarter is typically pretty good and the fourth quarter tends to be a little bit higher.
Okay thank you for that.
Thanks Glenn.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just one follow-up on the NII outside of the puts and takes can you also tell us whether or not you think you can actually maintain this current level of NII your comments were more focused on the offset between extending versus drags from ECB.
But whats going on underneath that surface? Yes I think we will be able to as we model this out and obviously its going to be a bit sensitive to interest rates.
But as we go through our modeling here I think in the next few quarters we will be able to maintain the level at this rate or in the ballpark of this rate maybe slightly higher.
Okay.
Two questions on investment servicing just core asset servicing ex-security lending was up only slightly sequentially but it was up 4% year-over-year.
I am just wondering if you can walk us through trends underlying the asset servicing.
You did have a seed growth and I get that you had not as much of an equity sensitive custodian.
But just only a $5 million kind of core increase in servicing can you give us some flavor for the growth or the traction of growth thats underneath that?  Yes Ken it is Gerald.
Just a couple of comments there one youd recall we did lose a couple of clients over the course of the last 12 months.
Those losses are now in the full run rate and thats why youve seen a softness in some of the asset servicing revenues thats now fully in a run rate and we think we feel good about the pipeline in a go forward.
Were attracting good clients and so its a little bit soft this quarter but we expect it to pick up in the future.
Okay.
And my last one just about issuer services and you point out the drags of both sides of the business but second quarter is typically a seasonally stronger one that leads to the bigger jump in the third.
So can you also just walk us through corporate trust and ADRs and the drivers there? Sure so the issuer services on a year-over-year basis I think it was down more than $60 million.
Part of what we saw in the second quarter was last year we saw a little more dividend action in the second quarter and due to timing were going to see some of that in the third quarter.
So we would expect the third quarter to show the typical bounce that we get in seasonality around DRs and probably even a little bit higher than typical.
So that was one of the reasons for softness there.
And the reason is we also had fewer of these kind of pass through where some of our technology investments in corporate trust paid for clients and we see that in our revenue as well as in expense line.
We had a little bit few -- a little bit less than that.
Okay great thank you.
Thank you.
Hi.
Two as you say reduced structural costs maybe you need to further reduce the structure and at the annual meeting I asked about the merits of having both assets serving along with asset management and Gerald you said that you have done the work and my thought is perhaps you need to show your work.
Because the way we look at the reported ROE has not been over the target of 10% since at least 2009.
And so if this is a superior structure should there at least be an ROE in the double-digits?  Well Mike we -- just as I said at the shareholder meeting its a business we like a lot.
We think there is a lot of good benefits with the two businesses together.
Investment management is a great contributor to our earnings its capital light its fee-based.
Were getting collaboration across the businesses we learn from each other we are collaborating our new products new services new capabilities.
When we have done math as I said at the annual meeting we dont take the math works there is a lot of tax challenges a lot of regulatory challenges associated with it.
We are in fact improving the margins both in investment services and in investment management and that was evidence this quarter in investment management you saw a 2% improvement year-over-year in the margins in the business why were still investing in it? So we think we can improve the returns and the margins and drive a great business together.
We like the diversity of the earnings we like the fact that they mutually service the same client I think its a great combination.
I have three follow-up questions should I ask one and then re-queue or ask all three now? Ideally one now and then re-queue Mike.
Okay.
Well so what is the dollar amount of synergies and to repeat what I said before again this is such a good combination why is the ROE been below the cost of capital for the last five years? So Curtis maybe you want to touch base a little bit on some of the synergies.
Yes.
So Mike I think that when you think about investment management were serving the same clients.
In so many cases that our clients run investment services business youve asked for a very specific number.
Truthful what is happening is these clients become clients with both parts of our organization but with this continuous ability to connect to the investment services clients that's such powerful part of investment management.
Let me give you a -- just in this quarter a couple of examples.
We had a foundation a line of the investment servicing business that is expressing interest and expanding their portfolio in a direction of direct lending investment vehicles.
The team that covers them for investment services are well aware of our capabilities in this space introduced us to that client and it became a win for us in terms of getting an investment management mandate.
The other part of the investment services business thats been a real winner for us from past several months has been offering our private banking services for the clients approaching.
So the financial advisors that approach and serves many of them dont have access to their own private banking activity so weve linked those two actually invested in having a team in our private bank make lending available to them and have seen nearly $0.5 billion of loan volume over a pretty short time and actually on really what we call the pilot effort that were now actually planning to make it a much bigger part of the business.
If you look at our cash business today because were at a low interest environment the overall economics of the cash business are not really what we think the contingent opportunity is in a more normalized rate environment but just think of all the changes that occurred in the money market fund world with the question was asked earlier about the basic change in market structure.
We think were well positioned to provide services around cash products into the higher rate environment that will be very valuable to the shareholders of BNY Mellon.
So those are some examples of the places where there is real synergy.
Okay.
Ill re-queue.
Thanks.
Thanks Mike.
Good morning.
So I guess Im just Im a little bit confused about why you would want to be give up your asset sensitivity or lose some of the asset sensitivity here.
I mean the NIM currently at like roughly 100 basis points is just far from heroic you have got Yellen in making comments that rates might be moving higher.
So can you help us understand what drove that decision a little bit with a little bit greater clarity? So youre talking about moving a little bit of the cash that we have in the form of placements into high quality liquid assets.
Part of that is compliance with LCR so we are sitting on a massive amount of cash placements are not LCR compliant.
So this is a fairly easy way for us to comply and we will generate a little bit of additional NIR.
We dont want to give up much of our interest rate sensitivity so youre not going to see a significant move there.
We do think that there is growth in opportunity cost and the capital cost to join that Brennan.
But you will see a modest adjustment.
Yes.
And Brennan some of the other activities were working on youve seen the loan book and our wealth management business grow we like that sort of that asset.
Youve seen some of our secured financing for some of our collateral management clients increase.
We are looking at other area within our asset capabilities to generate better returns on those assets and still keep the interest rate sensitivity available to us for our win rates to improve.
Okay.
Thanks for that color.
And then if we think about your asset management business and the sort of adjusted pre-tax margin there if we look at what happened last year in that business it contracted about 100 basis points versus 12 and I understand the majority of that was investment in distribution.
But if we look at other asset management firms they saw a rather significant expansion in margins last year.
So I guess what's holding back the asset management business given how constructive the market is? Is there a structural impediment there does it have something to do with how the agreements with the affiliates are structured.
If you can maybe help us understand that a little bit that be great? Yes Brennan it is Curtis.
So first of all I would say that last year in addition to the investments that we made to grow our wealth management to expand our reach to financially expand our budgets through primarily in the U.S.
to drive us and also to grow geographically.
Those investments they sort of dampen margin but I would also would call out the fact that we had a pretty some meaningful fee waiver environment so we have a big part of our business is absolutely impacted by low or short rates.
When you compare our overall enterprise to other peers that are sort of over the $1 trillion mark we have a substantially smaller percentage of assets that are any equity asset class and so the -- and I would also point out that our equity AUM is also pretty diversified lot less as a percent is U.S.
equities which have -- and especially did here last year.
So we dont -- well it was certainly a tailwind for us.
It was not nearly the tailwind that it would have been for investment firms that are less diversified and more similarly exposed to equity AUM.
I dont think that the boutique structure certainly is one of our investment firms is very focused on their client base their asset classes.
They have a wider array of their own activities both institutional and through retail distribution channels.
But I actually think that they would benefit from the scale.
We have firms that are 30 40 50 people highly focused on a very specific asset class and we give them geographic reach in terms of clients and have a firm on the East Coast of United States thats raising money all over Asia and throughout the Sovereign Wealth Fund World without having to actually build their own infrastructure to do that.
So I think it is a -- were pretty excited about what we do.
We are investing in it and youre absolutely focused on improving margins.
Thats why we are investing with where we are.
If you look at the peers who have higher margins than us they generally have substantially larger percentage of their assets in the retail space and they have a larger share currently they are benefiting from the equity tailwind.
Of course that creates more profit volatility and margin volatility if you look at it through time.
But we are investing to improve our margins and are pretty excited about our opportunities there.
Yes just one final bit of color I think you are seeing evidence of it in the 200 basis points improvement in margin year-over-year.
This year and early next year are sort of the high watermarks in terms of the level of investment and we showed you in April.
We expect an improvement in margin as those investments start to pay off.
And also I might add the investments we are making are not high risk investments.
It is investing in wholesalers and distribution.
Its investing in wealth managers.
We are bringing in clients.
Thats starting to show up in numbers now.
These are investments we have very-very conference on the returns.
Okay thanks for the color.
Thank you.
Hi.
Great thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Brian.
Yes good morning.
On the just back to the corporate trust on the expense side of this can you just talk a little bit about to what degree some of the consolidation of this platforms were involved in the prior cost reduction program and whether the dynamic changed upon your decision.
And then so should we be thinking about any other further backdrop of consolidations as the potential expenses on the corporate trust now that you are keeping in?   Yes the primary operating platform for corporate trust is the trust accounting system.
Its really dedicated to corporate trust.
They are the last user above it and actually we were in a migration mode to our end-stage platform called GSP for those of you who are interested in acronyms.
Were in the process of doing the conversion and we are going to continue the process and it should be completed next year.
And so there is no change in that going forward.
And we will realize better operating metrics as a result of it.
Okay.
So thats yes its interchanged through sort of expense -- based on you keeping that.
Brian youre breaking up if you could Im sorry so there is no change in the expense fee based on you are keeping that its the takeaway there?  No not at all.
And then on the revenue side maybe question for Curtis and Brian -- and congrats on your extended role by the way.
On the clearing business you know the revenue hope that well given charges definitely declined in the quarter.
So I was just wondering if that was due to the component thats related to licensing and asset management or are you gaining new clients and is the run rate better there? And then similarly for Curtis you know the organic growth has been very strong in asset management recently this quarter little bit weaker maybe if you could just address the LDI outflow and your view of the organic growth coming in the next one to two quarter overall? Brian it is Brian Shea.
I will start with the clearing question and then I will turn it over to Curtis.
The clearing business has been pretty strong with core fee growth driven by significant growth in mutual fund assets and asset-based fees offset by higher cash earnings receivers and lower DARTS as you recognized.
I think the underlying metrics behind the clearing business are all really pretty strong.
In this quarter we have a record level of client assets in custody.
We have a record number of total individual investments on our platforms globally.
We have a record levels of mutual fund assets on our platform overall.
And growing margin balances as you can see in the metrics year-over-year and you know the slight -- lots of low rates and discussions about money market industry pretty solid cash management balances.
And I would not actually to reinforce Curtis point that the market share urging clients choosing because they decide which cash management alternatives they use.
But the clients have chosen Dreyfus more than ever before and so we have a record level of market share of Dreyfus cash management on the purging platform.
Again when an interest rate environment changes that will be a much more valuable linkage in synergies between the investment management and investment services business.
So thats my perspective on clearing I am going to turn it over to Curtis.
Yes and on the organic side first of all we will tell you that we had a long-term out flows this quarter of 13 billion.
Its a pretty unique situation actually and that one of our large LDI clients actually decided to take their LDI activities in-house.
So it was not any way related to our investment performance or service we always hate losing any business but completing our standard decisions that they may -- to do that.
I will tell you that our pipelines around LDI specifically continue to be robust pension de-risking is still very much alive and well and I would actually say its expanding geographically.
So our largest business is Insight which has a large book of UK LDI business and I can tell you that the global interest in LDI is definitely not shrinking.
One of the nice things about just -- since we are talking about the Insight I will tell you the Insight the tools that youve to be able to perfectly model the liabilities especially UK liabilities are having inflation sensitivity component.
You have to be very good at understanding market dynamics and what drives risk and return and in the quarter Insight specifically actually had a very significant amount of inflow into alternative strategies absolute return strategies where they are taking a lot of their capabilities and creating absolute return products if their clients who have been very satisfied with them in the LDI space are allocating to them and also getting broader interest.
We like the short term side like the rest of the industry did experience outflows our outflows we think are roughly in inline with that the industry saw in the second quarter both some of it being tax payment some of this being that clients were certainly in the beginning of the quarter reallocating short-term cash into some of the higher yielding on assets and actually thats the story in fixed income as well.
Our product outflow there is related to mostly short duration fixed income where clients are reallocating.
In equities the dynamic there has really been three things.
The equity rebalancing so the increase in equity markets has caused clients to move money.
But weve also seen clients move assets around into past strategies.
So in this quarter you actually will see our increase of 7 billion was almost entirely equity index.
So its nice thing you have a diverse range of products to be able to -- its leaving one place its going another money in motion is big part of our advantage here.
Great great thanks very much for the thorough answer.
Wendy I think we have one more question.
Hi thanks a lot.
So just getting back to the expense management you and others have been mentioning for a while that the pressure of compliance cost and I am just wondering looking ahead do you see those leveling off? Is that a pressure that you feel is abating so that to the extent you do streamlining more of it will fall to the bottom line and same question and I guess the combining of your platforms is there upfront IT for that? Great question Cynthia so first on the regulatory side the rate of increase is slowing down it is creating greater clarity around the rules and the regulations and what we need to do to be in compliance with them.
But importantly we cannot sacrifice having a well-controlled well risk-managed firm we are absolutely committed to that and were not going to sacrifice having a great firm in those categories.
But we do in fact see the rate of growth moderating and our expense management is taking into consideration continuing to fund those activities and so thats why we are very diligent around all the other things that we can control so that we can fund new investments we can fund having a well controlled environment and continue to grow our businesses and serve our clients well.
So its all factored into the expense control programs that we put in place.
And the platform consolidations again the technology investments that were making are factored in the expense base and were realizing the synergies out of the platform consolidations and its in the run rate.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Everyone thank you very much for dialing in today.
I know you had a lot of interest in our results and so follow up questions to Izzy Dawood or Andy Clark they are available to answer your questions and thank you for your interest in us.
Have a great.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct the question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference call and webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I would now turn the call over to Mr.
Izzy Dawood.
Mr.
Dawood you may begin.
Thanks Wendy and welcome everyone.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO as well as our executive management team.
Let me take a moment to remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement in the earnings release and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our Web site bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today October 17 2014 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
Before we begin I would like to note two changes in our earnings materials.
Firstly I have introduced a financial highlights presentation which is a summary review of our revenue expense and business segment trends along with related commentary.
We will use the financial highlights presentation to discuss our results.
In addition we have consolidated our earnings press release and earnings review documents into one earnings release document.
The earnings release and financial highlights presentation are available on our Web site.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Gerald.
Gerald? Thanks Izzy and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us this morning.
Let me highlight some of the key takeaways for the quarter.
We achieved continued momentum in investment management and investment services as we saw strong fee growth in these businesses reflecting our focus on developing and delivering the very best capabilities in the marketplace.
We drive continued progress on the expense control front.
As our expense growth rate was well below the growth rate of our fee revenues.
We maintained a strong capital position which prepared us well to comply with all the regulatory requirement while allowing us to continue to invest in our businesses and maintain a high capital payout ratio.
And as you can see on Page 3 of our highlight deck we had earnings per share of $0.93 and that included $0.29 per share for previously disclosed gains net of litigation and restructuring charges.
Investment management had another excellent quarter with investment management and performance fees up 7% year-over-year.
Asset center management increased 7% to a new record 1.65 trillion driven by net new business.
And also during the quarter we had 13 billion of net long-term flows reflecting the strength of our liability driven investment strategy and interesting as we also had $19 billion of short-term inflows.
Turning to investment services fees grew at 5% year-over-year driven by strong growth in asset servicing clearing and treasury services which more than compensated for a decline in the issuer services.
So in spite of the continued runoff at high value securitizations in corporate trusts investment services overall had a very healthy revenue increase.
Assets under custody or administration were up 3% to $28.3 trillion.
In foreign exchange our continuing enhancements are helping us gain new clients on our FX platform and that contributed to the sharp volume gains that helped mitigate the significant decline year-over-year in industry-wide volatility.
Now of course recently market conditions have increased that volatility which is generally good for market participants.
Now we also saw an increasing contribution from our collateral services which helped our growth as clients are increasing their use of our optimization and segregation solutions.
On the expense front our aggressive commitment to reducing expenses and improving productivity is showing up in our numbers particularly when you look at the trend and staff expense.
Our normalized expenses were flat year-over-year and up only 1% sequentially very strong results when given against the revenue growth that we experienced in investment management and investment services.
Our capital position remains strong even after giving effect to the repurchasing of 11 million shares during the quarter for $431 million.
Interestingly we have repurchased about 3% of our shares outstanding this year.
Now we also delivered an outstanding return on tangible common equity of 18% for the quarter.
So all-in-all good fee momentum good progress in reducing the growth rate of expenses and an enviable capital position.
Now at our Investor Day Conference on October 28th well discuss in more detail how we plan to enhance our revenue growth continue to control expenses manage to the new liquidity and capital standards and how we intend to deploy the significant level of excess capital that we generate.
And much of the focus will be on the work underway to maximize returns and create value for our shareholders above and beyond what were delivering today.
And importantly well also share the key performance targets that you could hold us accountable too.
And before I turn it over to Todd I want to highlight two recent actions that weve taken as we continue to optimize our business mix.
First we repositioned our market group exiting derivative sales and trading.
This will improve our operating margins and return on capital.
We simply were not large enough player to get an adequate return on capital and bare the increasing risk management and over say cost.
Second last week we announced an acquisition that we will add new specialized fixed income solutions to our diverse portfolio of capabilities.
We agreed to acquire Cutwater Asset Management which is a U.S.
based fixed income and solution specialist.
They have a 20 year track-record and approximately $23 billion of assets under management.
Cutwater will operate as part of our investment management unit and were closely with Insight our highly successful LDI specialty boutiques.
It will allow us to extend our LDI and fixed income specialist strategy into the U.S.
marketplace so were very excited about that acquisition and also the repositioning of our markets group.
So with that let me turn it over to Todd.
Thanks Gerald and Page 5 of the financial highlights document details of our reported results.
As Gerald mentioned we had EPS of $0.93 that included $0.29 per share for those previously disclosed gains net of litigation and restructuring charges.
As you look at our numbers you will note that we had a $0.01 benefit related to our loan loss provision credit so we see it as a $0.63 quarter.
Now given the significant asset gains in the quarter I think its best that we start with the summary of our adjusted results which are on Page 6.
Revenue was down year-over-year as strong growth in investment management and investment services fees was offset by lower investment and other income and lower net interest revenue.
However if you look at our revenues excluding the volatile investment line it was up about 2%.
I will provide more color on the revenue drivers shortly.
Expenses were flat year-over-year and up slightly sequentially representing the continued progress on expense control.
Our operating leverage was up 245 basis points year-over-year if you exclude the impact of the investment and other income.
Our pre-tax margin was 29% and our return on tangible common equity was a strong 18%.
On Pages 7 and 8 we will call out some business metrics and I think help explain our underlying performance.
In terms of our investment management business on Page 7 you can see that record AUM of 1.65 trillion was up 7% year-over-year driven by higher equity market values as well as net new business.
During the quarter we had net long-term inflows of 13 billion and short-term inflows of 19 billion.
On Page 8 you can see that assets under custody and administration at quarter end were 20.3 trillion thats up 3% year-over-year primarily reflecting higher market values.
Linked quarter AUC/A was down 1% due to lower market values as the Footsie MSCI and the Barclays bond index were all down in the quarter.
We had an estimated 115 billion in new AUC/A wins during the quarter.
Now many of our key metrics showed growth on a year-over-year basis as well.
The market value of securities on loan at period end showed strong growth.
Average loans and deposits in wealth management and as well as in investment services continued their trend upward.
Our key broker deal and metric of average tri-party repo balances was also up.
Our clearing metrics were also good although DARTS volumes were off slightly as we typically see in the third quarter active clearing accounts were up and long-term mutual fund assets showed especially strong growth.
The number of DR programs declined in the quarter reflecting an increase in the number of terminations that exceeded the number of new issuers.
In addition to that we continue to maintain our pricing discipline in this business.
Looking at fee and other revenue on Page 9 asset servicing fees were up 6% year-over-year and up slightly sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects organic growth higher market values net new business and higher collateral management fees.
Sequentially organic growth was partially offset by seasonally lower securities lending revenue.
Clearing fees were up 7% year-over-year and 3% sequentially.
Both increases were driven by growth in clearing accounts and mutual fund positions and by overall higher asset levels.
The sequential increase also reflects higher DART volumes.
Issuer service fees were down 2% year-over-year and up 36% sequentially.
The year-over-year decrease reflects lower Corporate Trust fees partially offset by new business and DRs.
The sequential increase is primarily due to seasonally higher dividend fees partially offset by lower Corporate Trust fees.
When you look at our investment services you will see that our investment services fees as a percentage of non-interest expense what we call the coverage ratio was 100% in the third quarter.
Thats up approximately 300 basis points from the year ago quarter primarily reflecting strong fee growth with little changes in our expenses.
The impact of the currencies for the full quarter had a neutral impact to our pre-tax income but it's worth noting that it caused a slight revenue increase that was offset by an equal expense increase most of that impact in investment management.
Investment management and performance fees were up 7% year-over-year and down slightly sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily resulted from higher equity markets the currency impact and higher performance fees.
The sequential decrease was driven by seasonally lower performance fees.
FX and other trading revenue was down 4% year-over-year and up 18% sequentially.
FX revenue of 154 million was unchanged year-over-year and up 19% sequentially.
Year-over-year higher volumes offset lower volatility.
As Gerald mentioned the enhancements weve made to our FX platform helped us capture more client activity.
The sequential increase reflects higher volumes.
Turning to Page 10 of the financial highlights youll see that net interest revenue on a fully taxable equivalent basis was down 6% versus the year ago quarter and essentially flat to the second quarter.
The year-over-year decrease primarily resulted from lower asset yields and lower accretion that was partially offset by higher average interest earning assets and of course those assets were driven by higher deposits.
The net interest margin for the quarter was 94 basis points it is down 22 from the year ago quarter and 4 from the prior quarter.
Now we also point out here that euro-denominated for deposits now make up approximately 15% of our average deposit liabilities.
During the quarter as youre probably aware the European Central Bank lowered the rate it pays on funds left at the bank to minus 20 basis points.
To mitigate the impact of that move weve taken a number of actions.
As of October 1st we began charging for deposits.
Were also continuing to reduce our interbank placements and as we mentioned before we are increasing high quality liquid assets with the cash related to that.
For the quarter our securities portfolio increased by $10 billion thats about 10%.
We added agencies treasuries and severance so thats increasing our high quality liquid asset portfolio.
Turning to Page 11 youll see that non-interest expense decreased slightly year-over-year and was up 1% sequentially.
We have reduced staff expense year-over-year as lower pension expense and the impact of technology in-sourcing and streamlining actions offset higher professional legal and other purchase services the currency impact and the annual employee merit increase.
The sequential increase primarily reflects the incentive reduction recorded in the second quarter that was related to an administrative air as well as the impact of the factors that I just noted.
You will notice that headcount increased by 100 year-over-year it was down by 200 sequentially.
I want to remind you of our technology talent strategy of in-sourcing developers to reduce our application development cost.
Year-over-year we have eliminated more than 700 contractor related roles in technology and replaced them with permanent staff.
Despite this our employee count is only up 100 position and compensation expense is lower clear evidence that the strategy is working.
As we indicated last quarter we continue to believe that our operating expenses for the full year should be about flat.
Turning to the capital ratios on Page 12 they were unchanged despite the growth in capital.
This was largely driven by an increase in risk weighted assets thats associated with the calculation for operational risk.
Our estimated supplemental leverage ratio was down 10 basis points to 4.6% due to the increase in our balance sheet in the third quarter.
A few points to factor into your thinking about the fourth quarter we would expect a reduction in depositary receipt fees and there will be a limited offset in expenses on that.
Seasonally higher performance fees in the fourth quarter will somewhat mitigate the DR drop-off but will cause the related expense increase.
Net interest revenue is expected to be approximately flat to the third quarter.
Expenses should be up sequentially driven by seasonally higher business development legal and consulting expense as well as the higher staff expense reflecting to rise in performance fees.
The effective tax rate should be around 25%-27%.
And finally we intend to continue to execute on our CCAR capital plan of course subject to market conditions.
All-in-all a strong quarter good fee growth in our two segments good expenses control and we continue to execute on our capital plan.
With that let me hand it back to Gerald.
Alright great thanks.
And Wendy I think we can open it up for questions now.
Hi Glenn?   How are you?  Good.
So I guess the question has is its not a big move but capital ratio is down a little bit SLR down a little bit.
I wondered if you could just get a little color on that?  Sure Glenn this is Todd.
In terms of the risk weighted asset ratios you did see a little pop in our capital.
It was somewhat offset.
It would have been larger but there was an OCI adjustment related to the accumulated transaction account largely driven by the change in the dollar value over the quarter.
And if you look in the denominator on the risk weighted assets there was a pretty significant increase related to operational risk.
And what happened to those models are informed by external losses and there have been quite a few external losses even though they are not losses that we have incurred when others take large provisions it can inform those models and drive higher operational risk calculation.
And thats what we have seen.
And what is ops RWA as a percentage of total?  I dont think we disclose that but it is a substantial percentage of the total for the advanced approach it doesnt apply to the standardized approach.
Okay.
If you notice Glenn thats why you will see the standardized approach actually increase.
Yes yes I got it.
Okay you said limit it to one.
I appreciate it.
Thanks Glenn.
Thanks.
Hi good morning.
Todd I was wondering if you could expand a little bit upon the pushes and pulls within NII as it relates to LCR the final rules.
You addressed the commentary about extending placements and charging for the deposits.
But just on LCR and just how much more you need to go.
And then how you will be adjusting to the final rules? Thanks.
Sure.
As you know we got the final rules earlier in the September.
And they were a little more favorable for the treatment of operational deposits.
And they are below top on Muni assets for example.
So we look well positioned our estimates right now on these our estimates and obviously we -- it is easy to compute the high quality liquid assets its still fairly difficult to compute the actual denominator.
But our estimates are that we are well in excess of the 80% that we need to be on January 1st.
Given that we still are looking to do a little restructuring and some of that you might know in what we did this quarter the municipal was down a little bit.
Thats still open for discussion.
There is a possibility that that position on municipals could change.
And agencies treasuries and some severance we increased as we brought down some of our placements.
We are actually kind of -- we are going to give a lot of detail on this on the Investor Day.
But I think the good news is we are meeting the standard.
We are well positioned to meet the future standard.
And its not having a dramatic change in our portfolio or in our estimates around our net interest income.
Okay thank you Todd.
Thanks Ken.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
So I just wanted to understand the methodology and process for charging for deposits over there in Europe.
Just wanted to make sure I understood how you were doing that is it a one side thats all is it how youre dealing with how people paying you via soft dollars if you could just give us a little color there? Betsy why dont I and Brian Shea address that so Brian? Hi Betsy generally what were doing is essentially passing through the 20 basis point fee that were absorbing from the European Central Bank clients understand that we are actually not initiating this but actually passing through the fee that were absorbing.
Were working collaboratively with our clients to help them manage their cash in a way that reduces their exposure to that and to the extent we can find other short-term investment vehicles or off balance sheet cash management vehicles were helping them do that to reduce their exposure to that cost.
So if you have had people leaving excess deposits as a form of paying you for services.
Does that then drive some higher hard dollar fees if theyre moving off of soft dollar pay?  Well generally with rates being so low there has really been no earnings credit on the deposits to start with.
So there really isnt that issue and that hasnt been for some period of time.
Were really just trying to work with the clients to make sure that they have there is limited amount of deposits on our balance sheet that they are subjected to that cost.
And so in some ways were seeing some of our euro deposits come down not surprisingly which is good because we dont have to hold capital against that item.
So were really trying to work very collaboratively with our clients to mitigate that cost and there really hasnt been any earnings credit on the deposits to start with.
And typically thats not something that takes place much in Europe its nowhere near like in the U.S.
Got it so in your two weeks into it I mean I guess the question is how much impact do you think this is likely to have on being able to shrink the balance sheet? I think the -- not a whole lot Betsy because were seeing everybody else do it.
So this is becoming a fairly common practice.
We have seen and weve indicated that we had about 15% of our total deposit base is in the euro its denominated in euro.
Weve probably seen that come down a little bit.
Alright thank you.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Just another follow-up I guess on the balance sheet.
Weve seen the deposits kind of continuing to balloon across the system for some time.
Are you guys in particular do you guys have a slightly better sense the source of these deposits is essentially the same clients are you starting to see different mix shift within that? And I guess Todd just as a follow-up to your point on moving some of the cash and securities portfolio.
Can you give us a sense of the pace at which you guys are willing to do that and does the current moving rates change that strategy for you at all? Sure Alex.
Why dont we start with where the deposit growth has come I think there were some dislocations in the third quarter.
And Id say there are a couple of drivers to that.
I mean one of the things that you saw is that the Fed put a limitation on its total amount of reversed repo that is intended to do at quarter end so it reduced it from really no cap to 300 billion.
That meant that towards the end of the quarter that there were substantial money market funds that had nowhere to place the fund.
So the likely recipient of that is going to be the custodian for those money market funds.
So I think thats a little bit of a temporary distraction if you will or disruption.
I think also youve seen the large dealers take down their matchbooks which had a similar impact.
And there was a particularly important period and this is I think this is a permanent reduction but right now the impact of the reduction is ending up in the banking system and it kind of needs to I think work its way through.
So we do think well probably see a little bit more of this before we see this cash kind of find a permanent home.
In terms of your other question I think weve made substantial.
We did increased the duration of the securities portfolio in the third quarter a little bit.
I think now the repositioning is going to be what we wanted to do within the H2 ally.
We do have a fair amount of Central Bank deposits theyre low risk theyre low yield.
And really the only action that you could take would be to extend duration within that portfolio if you wanted to increase the NIM.
And I think wed be a little bit defensive about that.
There is potential capital risk to it and I think the opportunity cost to taking on very low yielding securities at this point is pretty high.
Got you make sense.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
So a quick one could you do you see -- it just may be helpful to try to think about how much of these restructuring and litigation is environmental and how much is management action? Is it possible to break those two out or at least give us some color on how those break down? And then also why the litigation and restructuring drove up the tax rate like was there an accrual for fines are something in there.
Just maybe help us understand some of that? There is about $60 million of restructuring expenses and $160 million of litigation expenses.
When we look at the restructuring thats largely around the actions that Gerald mentioned around the markets group and we think thats going to have some long-term positives on us for us.
I would say that when we think there is appropriate actions like that to take in the future we will taken them.
In terms of the litigation we apply a tax rate thats reflective of the jurisdiction related to the matter.
And thats why that tax rate was relatively low and the after tax impact relatively high.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then thinking about volatility here weve seen not only last quarter the reflected results but quarter to-date.
A lot of the investment banks had walked through how the volatility weve seen here this current quarter is not really as helpful to drive revenues.
Is that well also what youre seeing or is volatility volatility and youre going to benefit on either side.
In other words are the trends that weve seen so far sustainable here into the fourth quarter from your perspective? Yes just a quick comment on that some level volatility is generally as we said it is helpful to most market participants.
That being said with more and more going to electronic trading and more and more within time spreads and more and more within a very very very narrow range the volatility benefits that weve all experienced in the past are less but volatility generally helps more important for us since most of our foreign exchange trading is really on the backs of our servicing businesses.
Its more important for us to capture volumes.
And so were a volume driven shop and thats why we feel pretty good about the level of volumes increases on our FX electronic platforms associated with our investment services businesses.
So generally it helps but its not nearly as impactful as it once was.
And I would add to that the volatility we look for primarily since were not a big fixed income or equity trading shop its really around the FX our FX business is related to FX.
And we do print a volatility index number that I wouldnt say it is perfectly correlated but its correlated to what were looking at and you can see in the third quarter versus the second quarter its basically flat down substantially from last year but basically flat so recent events have tended to move that a little bit.
Okay thanks for the color.
First just a clarification the new asset manager that you bought Cutwater Asset Management you said theyll be working with Insight.
Will that be a new investment management boutique or it will be folded in to an existing one? Mike its going to be a new boutique as part of our own enterprise.
Its Cutwater.
Okay thanks okay.
And then just my main question for the Investor Day on October 28th which Ill ask now but I am guessing well get a bigger answer.
If you look at investment -- in the servicing fee for this year relative to assets under custody when you look at that ratio overtime its one of the lowest levels that its been if you go back 10 15 even 20 years.
And thats despite additional market share by BNY Mellon especially but by all the largest players.
So why dont you have better pricing given increases in market share overtime and given all the scale benefits that you guys talk about? Mike I think this quarter is a good example where we actually saw the fees rise faster than the assets under custody.
So some of our other services our so called value-added services like collateral and some of the other things are starting to kick in.
So this is a good example this quarter and I cant promise that every quarter but this is a good quarter where we actually are seeing this fee increase and some other pricing discipline were putting in place around the transactions and clients that we do business with are starting to pay off.
So assets under custody were up 3% asset servicing fees were up 6% for the quarter so were trying to accomplish exactly what youre suggesting.
And looking ahead I guess this is a preview of October 28th the main reasons you think that might continue would be what? Well again some of the collateral services some of the value-added propositions were offering our clients are fee-based irrespective of assets under custody and thats what were trying to drive.
Okay alright.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I had a two part question on interest rates as far as how youre thinking about the current reinvestment environment and what your reinvestment yields look like and I was hoping you could contrast U.S.
versus Europe given the very different rate dynamics and the second given the recent move down into 10 years and long-term rates how should we be thinking about pension costs next year?  Sure Ashley a couple of things.
In terms of reinvestment typically what we model is we look at the market and the forward rate curve and we estimate around that well also model whether rates are just flat that they dont change.
Given they are extraordinary low levels we dont typically model them going down a lot more but we obviously do sensitize to that as well.
So when we look forward we are assuming that we will reinvest and when we show our sensitivity in our Q we will assume that were reinvesting at the existing market levels.
In terms of the discount rate and the lower interest rates and the lower tenure the discount rate is a corporate credit discount rate so it's not quite as severe as the drop that should speak to in the tenure.
But it is down a bit from where we saw it last year and obviously that means retention obligation would increase in the costs associated with the pension expense would also increase.
We give estimates in our Annual Report and what those numbers might look like depending what that discount rate is.
So you need to get a good handle around the discount rate.
Thanks for taking the question.
Thanks Ashley.
Thank you and good morning.
Just one question what is your thoughts are around trends in LDI I know there were some new outflows last quarter inflows this quarter given some of that recent market volatility has there been anything about a rush to the exit on behalf of some clients who may have hesitated for one reason or another how do you see it tracking versus pension plan funded status and maybe any quick color on the strategic role on the capabilities of Cutwater versus what Insight already has? Thanks.
Sure Adam it is a great question.
The LDI business still has very robust pipelines as mentioned broadly are looking to derisk.
In fact if you remember last quarter we actually had one sizeable outflow net of that we had pretty meaningful inflows.
So the business is robust the pipelines are strong and I would tell you that it has obviously been a very big business for us in the UK specifically and around the world generally but we see the U.S.
opportunity to really continuing to expand.
Your question about how are pensions thinking about in the current environment when we saw that the tenure approached 3% yield here in the U.S.
last time and the stock market was doing really well funded status levels actually got to a point where more people were interested in it and I think the general view was rates were going to continue to move higher.
There were obviously two sides to every market but I think there was a view that maybe rates would continue to move up and the funded status would even be better in the LDI move in our pension plan might become even more attractive.
This last move down I think has made people more thoughtful about looking at the opportunity to derisk their plan and to take advantage of it when it make sense to them to do it and to we do think that people will people who have made the decision pension planners who have made the decision to derisk their plan will be more active in doing so as the opportunity to the exists.
So and another thing I would you just to extend that point the skills involved in doing LDI and every plan is different.
And in the UK you have an inflation component and that can be more complicated than some of the plans in the U.S.
But the skills involved really are about being able to create a solution around a liability.
So buying assets against a match liability that looks a lot like and is actually absolute return investing generating risk adjusted returns for clients and I would tell you that the skills there really can be to other large growth opportunities for us.
One is around the retirement space for individual so a lot of the techniques and capabilities are quite similar for creating retirement solutions for individual investors.
And then also there continues to be a lot of interest both on the institutional end broader investor front four absolute return strategies that look like these strategies.
So absolute return real return investing that you hear a lot about is going to leverage those same capabilities.
And so Cutwater brings a much deeper capability in U.S.
fixed income markets.
Again we have the LDI businesses in Spanish and Mellon Capital as well.
But Insight as now largest LDI driver in the world continuously winning awards for the great capabilities they have being able to have the intellectual capital sharing from our Insight team with our Cutwater extended capabilities in that new boutique it really is going to position us quite well we think to continue to benefit from pension derisking trends.
Appreciate the detail.
Thank you.
Hi.
Good morning folks.
Could you talk a little bit maybe expand a little bit on the collateral management business.
You say youre obviously getting some traction there now if you can opine a little bit about some of the discussions on tri-party repo in the marketplace including potential centralized clearing of that? And then if -- I dont know if there is any way to frame that contribution as we model that and that growth for you overtime.
Is that something youre thinking about maybe starting to disclose in terms of the actual revenue as opposed to just the balances? I dont know Ill stop there and Ill ask the other one if you let.
Sure.
So I will start with part of that the collateral services I think we said in our commentary that the traction were seeing is really on the optimization and the segregation side of it.
Were beginning to see the early signs as equal to transformation where someone has the wrong collateral in the wrong place and also as more and more transactions are required to be collateralized all around the world there is more increasing activity.
It has been slower over the last eight years than we thought it but its now picking up pace and it is showing up in our numbers and some of our growth rates.
And thats one of the contributors to solid investment services fees growth for the quarter.
Tri-party repo and tri-party repo reform certainly the technology expense that we have put into that is largely behind us.
We have a couple of more waves to complete but theyre really very-very technical in nature.
And generally as you can see our tri-party balances are going up theyre probably shrinking in the U.S.
and growing outside the U.S.
with the others in the U.S.
are getting smaller in their positions but its being taken up by the secondary the others and the non-U.S.
players.
So its a global business for us not only in tri-party but collateral services broadly.
So we are actually quite encouraged with the potential growth rates of the business.
Your last point or question should we give more clarity around it thats something were thinking about.
But we will to be continued as they say Todd I dont know if you want to add? Or Curt you want to add anything to? No I just maybe Brian a little color of whats maybe some of the activity that are really driving the growth and its really the equity securities financing that is going on around the globe its one piece of that puzzle.
The other is is that the collateralization of things like ETFs that need collateral underneath them and third is really the OTC market having to be now collateralized and segregated and we are a natural place for that to happen between two parties.
And lastly were helping the CCPs around the globe in segregation capabilities whether it be providing our technology our knowhow or being a custodian on behalf of those of those segregation activities.
So really those are the underlying drivers to the growth that weve seen over the last year and even a little longer.
Brian probably also worth noting that the FSB put out a proposal this week around required minimum margins for transactions done with the banking system.
At this point I dont know Curt if you want to comment on that we dont really see that having a tremendous effect.
It will take a little bit of leverage out of the market but we dont see it either as a positive or a negative at this point.
Well the one thing it will drive is people have got to be smarter about their collateral and how to optimize it and make sure its in the right place to reduce the capital cost associated with the margin cost associated with it.
Thats where I think our technology and algorithms are great vehicle for being able to do that.
And weve always said that our benefits in the marketplace is really our technology not the margining that we do.
So if its a standard margin across the world we dont see any impact to us in terms of strength of our business model.
We believe in technology and algorithms and solutions.
And Brian in response to the disclosure and we have components of this is in net interest income and the securities finance some portions of its in our securities lending activities some of its in our asset servicing fees and the tri-party itself the custodial function that we show there its not a huge number.
So this is hard for us to break out something like that.
And then just maybe talk about Investor Day a little bit more deeply would help since it is a good growth area but thats helpful.
And then two tiny clarifications I think Todd did you say that tax rate was 25 to 27 or did you say 27? No I meant to say 27 and I slipped 20 some and I would like it to be 25.
And then just if you could confirm the corporate trust run off is it still an 18 months drag on the fee revenues? And then I just want to squeeze in one there on the money in motion on the fixed -- on the active income side Blackrock said they thought they can gain about something in the 10s billions of over about a year or so in terms of market share.
Maybe Curtis if you could opine on that.
Well let you know with all of those follow-ups were trying to restrict it to one follow-up.
I am sorry yes okay.
I think the first question was related to corporate trust I would say that thats consistent.
We still -- we feel pretty confident that thats starting to slow and well turn over that time period.
And then I will turn the other one over to Curtis.
So that there clearly money in motion as you pointed out weve already seen it.
We have both funded wins and to be funded wins as well as verbal commitments that were seeing both in the U.S.
and beginning to happen globally as well.
We do think this is something that is going to play out overtime.
A lot of commotion right now but we actually think it will be sustained and do think that money in motion is always on to our benefit.
I will tell you that we feel very well positioned here both because we have strong performance an array of vey deep capabilities and very importantly a tremendous amount of capacity.
A lot of people who are thinking about whether they should put their own in motion are evaluating just how large any centralized investment thing can be.
And so because our multi-boutique model is perfectly suited for those people who are looking for deep capabilities but not too big so thats a big part of our focus.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Brian.
You mentioned the decline in large brokers matchbook what do you think is behind that? Is it this daily reporting of the Form SLR 2052 to the Fed do you think that what has prompted them to bring down the matchbooks or do you think its growth of assets? I think its very simple.
And you have said supplemental leverage ratio and cost-to-capital being applied against this and the cost of financing has significantly increased so the cost of them to carry that matchbook is much greater than what it once was.
And Jeff the other thing I would add to that is.
The leverage ratio even before you get into the SLR the leverage ratio could be a constraining factor in somebodys CCAR analysis.
So that the very low yield and very low return treasury type of repo really doesnt make sense for them to continue to hold in a matchbook if its going to put pressure on their CCAR performance.
And then just one quick bit of clarification you mentioned flat expenses for the full year.
Whats the base we should be looking at for that should we be taking out any of the one offs in year-to-date 2014? Yes.
The way we disclosed operating expenses it excludes M&amp;I litigation and restructuring.
So thats what I mean by flat operating expenses on a year-over-year basis.
We would expect those to be flat.
Great thank you very much.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you Jeff.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Todd you mentioned that you extended out the duration of the securities portfolio with the change in strategy.
How far out is that duration and how far out are you willing to go with the rate environment the way it is? Yes not much Gerard.
We are bold and we are buying two and three year types of securities.
So the duration of that portfolio would have just inched up a little bit.
The contraction and interest rates that we have seen on the securities that have negative convexity has probably brought that duration back to flat over the past few days actually.
But where there is a huge opportunity cost for us to do that.
And we dont think that getting a little bit of current income at that that kind of an opportunity cost makes a heck of a lot of a sense right now.
Okay thank you.
And then on the operating expense side the quarter expenses you guys have done an amenable job in keeping that down.
Can you share with us from a regulatory cost standpoint I dont know if you want to give us the dollar amount but what percentage of your operating costs would you define as regulatory related today versus three or four years ago.
How much has it -- obviously its gone up and we are just trying to frame out how much has it gone up?  Gerard its a substantial number.
Its hard to tease out with any real procession.
Because you might have some areas for example that have got more efficient but they have had take on a lot more regulatory.
So we can certainly look at projects and the costs associated with executing projects whether its compliance with the LCR the new BASAL standards the resolution recovery back and so forth.
When we look at some of our key functions we are seeing substantial rises.
We also had indicated that specifically in our tri-party reform efforts that our cost in operating that business went up as much as $80 million for all of the broker dealer and tri-party clearance business.
So we have not reported anything more specific than that but I would say it is substantial.
That $80 million is just one example for one narrow business.
So you can project that across all of our businesses.
And put a multiplier factor on that.
And its a big number.
Would you guys say that regulatory costs are cresting? Obviously there has been a big ramp over the last five years.
But are we near peak where they will just stabilize I know this is still just an onward and upward number? Gerard the statement that we have made is we dont think that the rate of increase is increasing.
So I wouldnt say that is necessarily cresting.
We are still seeing we have new items coming on.
You have the NSFR that we are going to eventually have to report.
There is going to be more work around resolution and recovery planning so you have a number of new items that we face.
Were putting some things behind us some things are still in the developmental and so there are some things that well probably see in the future and it is hard to project if there might be additions.
So thats what we know.
So it seems like our spend rate is stabilizing the growth rates not nearly as significant as it was but it is on a bigger base.
Thank you I appreciate the color.
Hey.
Good morning.
Just a quick question on the asset management business I mean LDI have seem some good flows.
But if you look at the equity side of the equation youve had net outflows for the last four quarters is that a performance thing or can you just kind of help us think through the flows on the equity side?  Yes absolutely.
I think there are a couple of things going on in there.
One is we absolutely saw re-bouncing as you saw at the end of last year markets have done well a lot of the activity there was from clients who had come to us and invested when the equity markets were at lower valuations and were taking money off the table.
Through this year has been a continuation of that there had not been any significant outflow from any one place.
Again we have an array of equity investment firms and each of them had experienced some level of outflow across some of their product offerings.
Where performance is always going to be differentiated across our entire platform and where performance had been on the softer side close have absolutely been more in those areas.
So there is absolutely some linkage when a client is taking money out of the equity market that they think about what performance has been.
So there is some linkage but it is nothing that I would say is systemic in any one place.
I will tell you that where we one of the things that a number of our firms do is focus a lot on generating returns against the risk that they are taking so very focused on TARP ratio and also in managing against downside scenarios.
And the last month some of the strategies that might have lagged a bit during the past year or so have actually done exceedingly well so you have the broad story.
And has it been mostly concentrated in institutional or across both retail and institutional? Better to the size of institutional it's much more institutional.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Sorry for a follow-up here it is a quick numbers question.
But Todd I just did double check on the expense comment you made I mean it looks like if you take your core number last year and youre seeing kind of the same and back into the fourth quarter you got a pretty meaningful step up closer to like a $2.9 billion run rate which is like a two six and change youve been doing it is a lot or what kind of over the course of the year.
Is that the right way to think about it and then if so like what essentially would cause the step up in the fourth quarter? That sounds a little bit high Alex take a little sharper look at it and we are excluding M&amp;I restructuring and litigation.
Okay.
So you are saying like 267 is still the number essentially for the next quarter?  I would expect again we had indicated that we would expect it to increase from the third quarter for all the seasonal factors that I mentioned.
Important for example DR revenue doesnt have a lot of expense with it it can be likely but not all of that will be replaced with lower margin business that will be one of the drivers that you have to take into consideration.
The other driver is that we have quite a few of our business development conferences and so forth in the fourth quarter that will step up and also our consulting and legal expenses we would expect to be higher in the fourth quarter.
So making adjustments for those you will see them up but in aggregate for the full year I think youll see it flat maybe for maybe a little bit down.
And Alex just adding I think we have a line item in the statements for you where the third quarter of last year was 2.682 versus the third quarter of this year 2.673 and thats why and thats the way we look at it in terms of the core operating expense to the company was actually down slightly year-over-year and we want to try to hold expenses flat for the entire year.
Got it.
Alright.
Thanks we can follow-up offline.
Okay.
Thanks Alex.
Hi guys.
I just wanted to get back in and just ask your broader bigger picture question.
Just given that your influence in the fixed income markets I was just hoping to share some color on any of the portfolio the liquidity challenges or investment options youre seeing out there today?  There is not a whole lot of investment opportunities in a very-very low interest rate environment and they are negative interest rate environment in Europe.
So we can let the equity challenges are Todd sited in earlier you look at money market funds trying to find places to invest when the dealer book is shrinking you have got to reverse repo market that has a demand much greater than the $300 billion cap.
The demand was 407 billion.
At the end of the third quarter I suspect the demand is going to be even higher than that in the fourth quarter so if that sort of photonic plates working against each other the dealers the dealer books their balance sheets are shrinking by design for capital and cost purposes.
And the liquidity thats in the system is even higher.
So there is a lot of search going on for some plates to put the liquidity and get some yield.
And its a really hard equation right now.
And actually its Curtis.
I would add it has been a lot of chatter about market liquidity has resulted in change in regulation change in repo markets.
And I do think that there is nervousness among market participants about the idea that if there were a rush out of asset classes that we would see limited liquidity.
We saw a little bit of that I think over the past couple of weeks where markets were more volatile and there were some balances on the liquidity.
One of the things thats interesting about that period is it was while interest rates were falling.
And so generally the valuations and fixed income markets in aggregate we are not as stressed.
I think that periods of that liquidity in a rising rate environment are the ones where a lot of scenarios get drawn out and thats actually if you sit here at BNY Mellon and you watch the entire evolution of market structure from both investment services and investment management perspective.
We really do believe that the electronic platforms are being put in place and that the all the work around collateral for all our transactions are going to occur critical.
And we thing it is actually a pretty big opportunity for us to help recreate the tools of liquidity that the markets are going to need with whatever market environment we are in so Kurt I dont know if you want to.
Okay.
Well thank you everybody for dialing in.
Just again to summarize we are encouraged by our results in the third quarter.
However we strongly believe we can in fact improve our financial performance even greater than whats reflected in this quarter and we will be discussing more of that in the -- and our upside at our Investor Day later this month.
So look forward to talking to you all and seeing in person at the end of the month.
And just as a reminder if you have additional questions please follow-up with Izzy Dawood.
So thank you very much for joining us today.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference call and webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Valerie Haertel.
Ms.
Haertel you may begin.
Thank you Wendy.
Good morning and welcome everyone to the BNY Mellon fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO; as well as our executive management team.
The fourth quarter earnings materials include a financial highlights presentation that will be referred to in our discussion of results and can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Before Gerald and Todd begin their remarks let me take a moment to remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement in the earnings press release the financial highlights presentation and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only of today January 23 2015 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Gerald Hassell.
Gerald? Thanks Valerie and good morning everybody and thanks for joining us today.
Our performance in the quarter caps a solid year of delivering for our shareholders.
Throughout 2014 we demonstrated our focus on and commitment to controlling expenses to create positive operating leverage.
We were disciplined in our efforts to continue to drive profitable revenue growth.
We maintained our strong capital position and executed on our capital plan.
And we created value added solutions for our clients and good returns for our shareholders.
So looking at the full year earnings per share were up 5% on an adjusted basis.
We generated significant positive operating leverage even while absorbing elevated regulatory compliance costs and investing in our business to support future growth.
Approximately 79% of our earnings were returned to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
If you exclude a couple of the sizable gains that we had our payout ratio was 94% which is in line with our targeted payout ratio objective of 80% to 100%.
And from a total shareholder return perspective we outperformed the trust banks the S&amp;P 500 financials and a median of our 11 member peer group in 2014.
We also achieved that same feat over a three-year period which is really nice to see.
So all in all a good year.
We got a lot done.
Now focusing on the fourth quarter in comparison to the same quarter a year ago I'll provide you with some high-level overview and Todd will take you through the financial details.
Earnings per share were $0.70 which included $0.12 per share primarily for a previously disclosed tax benefit net of litigation and restructuring charges.
Importantly on an adjusted EPS basis we were up 7% year-over-year.
We believe we did an excellent job in demonstrating our expense discipline and we are confident that it is sustainable.
Now just as a reminder some of the actions that we've taken include rationalizing staffing levels insourcing application development reducing our real estate portfolio simplifying our operating environment and focusing on all of those little items and big items in the discretionary expense category.
Now these actions are paying off as total adjusted expenses were down 5% year-over-year and 1% sequentially.
Now as we pointed out at our Investor Day conference we are committed to EPS growth in all environments as we work through the challenges of low interest rates and increased regulatory compliance requirements which are impacting the industry at large.
Now looking at investment services during the quarter we delivered solid growth in asset servicing which was up 4% clearing services was up 7% and treasury services was up 6%.
Now those areas of strength more than offset the decline in issuer services which was down 19% due to seasonality in depositary receipts and the episodic nature of that business as well as the ongoing maturation of high-value securitizations in corporate trusts.
Now the good news is we are increasingly confident that we are near the inflection point for the improved revenue growth in corporate trusts.
Now I should add that assets under custody or administration were up 3% to $28.5 trillion and we had $130 billion in new assets under custody and administration wins in asset servicing.
Now turning to investment management and performance fees they actually declined 2%.
However investment management was most impacted by the strength of the U.S.
dollar.
If adjusted for currency swings these would have been up 2%.
Now also impacting our business results were lower performance fees versus a strong quarter a year ago.
Now assets under management increased 8% to a new record $1.71 trillion benefiting from improved equity market values and net new business.
During the quarter we had a long-term inflow of $27 billion reflecting continued strength in our liability driven investment strategies and we also had short-term inflows of $5 billion.
Wealth management fees were also up 5%.
As you know we've been investing and expanding our wealth management sales force and entering new markets.
Those efforts are starting to generate revenue which we are very pleased to see.
And we've also been working to position investment services and investment management for long-term success by focusing on several areas for growth.
Within investment services collateral services is a great example.
Usage of our optimization segregation and securities financing solutions have been increasing and as a result the revenue contributions from these services have been growing very nicely.
Now another example is foreign exchange where we have enhanced our platform.
We are now capturing more volume as clients are increasingly utilizing our electronic trading capabilities.
In investment management some of the strategic initiatives we've discussed are coming through in the results.
I have already mentioned wealth management growth initiatives and now how that's beginning to generate revenues.
But we've also focused on expanding distribution of our investment solutions through the intermediary channels and further accessing our Pershing platform that services broker-dealers and financial advisors.
Now these are just a few examples of where we're investing in growth to leverage our strength and business synergies to further extend our competitive advantages.
Turning to capital it remains very strong even after investing in our businesses to fuel future growth.
And also importantly we repurchased 11 million shares during the quarter for $432 million.
And we also delivered a strong return on tangible common equity of 16% on an adjusted basis for the quarter and 18% on the same basis for the full year.
So turning to 2015 we remain confident in our ability to execute on the strategic priorities we shared with you back in October.
They include driving further improvement in productivity and service quality while reducing cost and risk throughout the organization investing in opportunities that will help us deliver innovative solutions and differentiate our service offering achieving profitable revenue growth and maintaining a strong capital position while returning significant levels of excess capital to our shareholders.
And we continue to look for ways to deliver even greater value to clients and shareholders.
And we've implemented processes capabilities and organizational enhancements that are making us more efficient and effective.
And we've added new executive talent to our leadership team and to our Board to complement our existing expertise that will help drive the execution of our plan.
So with that I'll turn it over to Todd.
Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
My commentary will follow the financial highlights document starting with Page 6 that details our non-GAAP results for the quarter.
As Gerald noted reported EPS was $0.70.
That includes the $0.12 benefit related to the tax carry-back claim.
And it is also netted of litigation restructuring charges in the quarter.
We had a number of items impacting our fourth quarter and our full-year results the larger of which we've listed on Page 21.
So as I go through this report I will focus on the numbers adjusted for those items.
Revenue in the fourth quarter was down approximately 3% year-over-year as strong growth in asset servicing clearing services and treasury services was offset by lower issuer services fees and performance fees.
Expenses were significantly lower year-over-year and down slightly sequentially representing our continued expense discipline and the progress on driving efficiency and transformation.
Our strong commitment to expense control resulted in us generating 232 basis points of positive operating leverage year-over-year on an adjusted basis.
Income before taxes was up year-over-year.
On a year-over-year basis our pretax margin increased approximately 200 basis points to 28% from 26% in the fourth quarter of '13.
Return on tangible common equity remained strong at 16%.
We had a modest negative impact to pretax income from a stronger U.S.
dollar that's for the whole company.
It reduced and this is in the fourth quarter it reduced our revenue and expense each by approximately 1%.
At the business unit level the currency impact was unfavorable to investment management and slightly favorable to investment services.
Our capital ratios were not affected by the currency moves.
For the full year shown on Page 9 revenue declined slightly and expenses were down even more enabling us to generate 87 basis points of positive operating leverage or 190 basis points if you exclude investment in other income and securities gains.
Income before taxes was up slightly and our operating margin remained unchanged from the prior year at 28%.
EPS for the full year was up 5%.
Return on tangible common equity for the full year was approximately 18%.
Page 10 shows the drivers of our investment management business that help explain the underlying performance.
In the fourth quarter we achieved record AUM of $1.71 trillion that's up 8% year-over-year driven by the equity market values new business and it was partially offset by the dollar impact.
During the quarter we had long-term net inflows of $27 billion and that reflected the continued strength in the liability driven fixed income and alternative investments.
Short-term net inflows were also positive.
They were up $5 billion.
For the full year we experienced net long-term inflows of $48 billion.
We had net outflows in equities in the fourth quarter and we also had them on a full-year basis.
And that has been consistent with what we've seen elsewhere in the industry.
Our wealth management business continues to perform well.
Average loans and deposits continue to trend up nicely.
Turning to Page 11 you can see our financial results for investment management.
I will touch on just a few points before I move on to investment services.
Performance fees were $882 million which include -- excuse me investment management and performance fees which includes the performance fees of $44 million.
Investment management fees reflect the dollar impact also benefited however by higher equity market values.
Compared to the third quarter of 2014 our performance fees doubled from $22 million.
That is a seasonal event for us.
And as Gerald noted performance fees were lower versus a much stronger than average year-ago quarter.
Other revenue was $7 million in the fourth quarter compared with $43 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 and $16 million in the third quarter.
The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects lower other revenue related to hedging activity within a boutique and then also lower seed capital gains.
The hedge is designed to mitigate the impact of market movements in future fee revenues.
Given the substantial growth in related AUM we would expect future revenues to more than offset the loss on the hedge.
Income before taxes excluding amortization of intangible assets and the charge related to investment management funds net of incentives was 8% lower year-over-year and essentially unchanged sequentially.
If you adjust for the other revenue and currency impact the earnings would have been up 7%.
Turning to our investment services metrics on Page 12 you can see that assets under custody and administration at quarter end were $28.5 trillion.
That's up 3% year-over-year primarily reflecting higher market values and net new business partially offset by the unfavorable impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar.
Linked quarter AUC/A was also higher.
Many of our other key investment services metrics show growth on a year-over-year basis.
The market value of securities on loan at period end again showed strong growth especially as compared to the fourth quarter of '13.
Securities on loan were up 23% to $289 billion largely due to higher levels of equity collateral as well as higher value of fixed income and equity securities.
Average loans and deposits were both up.
Our key broker-dealer metric of average tri-party repo balances also grew.
All of our clearing metrics recorded solid gains with DARTS volume and average long-term mutual fund assets each showing double-digit growth.
Looking at the DR program metrics you will see that we had a focus on exiting low activity programs and programs that did not meet profitability criteria.
This combined with routine disclosures due to corporate actions has resulted in a net decline in the number of DR programs in our portfolio.
On Page 13 you can see detailed segment reporting for investment services.
The key variances are reflected in fee and other revenue in our consolidated results on page 14.
Moving to that page you will see that asset servicing fees were up 4% year-over-year and down 1% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects organic growth and net new business partially offset by the unfavorable impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar.
The sequential decrease primarily reflects the impact of the dollar.
It was also offset a little bit by new business.
Clearing services fees were up 7% year-over-year and up 3% sequentially.
Both increases were driven by higher clearance revenue reflecting higher DARTS volume.
The year-over-year increase also reflects higher mutual fund and asset-based fees.
Issuer service fees were down 19% year-over-year and 39% sequentially.
The year-over-year decrease reflects lower corporate actions and dividend fees and depositary receipts.
The sequential decrease is primarily related to seasonality in depositary receipts but that was partially offset by slightly higher corporate trust fees.
We are pleased to see signs that corporate trust revenue is stabilizing as expected.
Treasury services fees were up 6% year-over-year and 2% sequentially as we saw higher payment volumes.
FX and other trading was up 3% year-over-year and down slightly sequentially.
For this line item you can also refer to the table at the top of Page 8 in the earnings press release to see the details I'm going to go through right now.
FX revenue of $165 million was up 31% year-over-year and up 7% sequentially and that reflected higher volumes and volatility in both periods.
In the fourth quarter we did see a seasonal drop in DR-related activity that offset some of the effect of the higher volatility.
In other trading we had a loss of $14 million which compared with revenue of $20 million in the year-ago quarter and a loss of $1 million sequentially.
Both period comparison decreases and other trading revenue primarily reflect lower fixed income derivatives trading since we are exiting our derivative sales and trading businesses as well as losses on hedging activities within one of the investment management boutiques that I discussed earlier.
Partially offsetting this was the favorable impact of interest-rate hedging activity which was offset elsewhere in net interest revenue.
Turning to the net interest revenue on Page 15 of the financial highlights you will see that NIR on a fully taxable equivalent basis was down 7% versus the year-ago quarter and down slightly from Q3.
The year-over-year decrease primarily resulted from lower asset yields and higher premium amortization on agency mortgage-backed securities.
As you may recall in the fourth quarter last year a sharp rise in interest rates temporarily slowed the amortization of premium mortgage-backed securities.
The year-over-year decrease also reflects lower accretion and the impact of interest-rate hedging which is primarily offset in other trading.
The decrease was partially offset by a change in the mix of assets and the higher average interest earning assets driven by higher deposits so we did see a little bit of growth in deposits.
The sequential decrease in NIR was driven by the impact of the interest-rate hedging of approximately $13 million and that is offset in the other trading revenue.
In the fourth quarter we completed our plan to reduce interbank placements and increase our high-quality liquid assets in the securities portfolio to better and more efficiently comply with the evolving liquidity requirements.
On page 16 you will see that non-interest expense decreased by 5% year-over-year and 1% sequentially.
Both comparisons reflect lower staff expense lower asset-based taxes and the favorable impact of a stronger dollar.
That was partially offset by higher professional legal and other purchase service expenses.
The increase in that line item was primarily related to the implementation of strategic platforms to support future revenue growth.
Both comparisons also reflect the fluctuations in business development expenses which was higher quarter over quarter and lower year-over-year.
Turning to capital on Page 17 capital ratios were flat.
That is largely driven by an adjustment in the other comprehensive income related to pension liabilities reflected changes in the discount rate as well as the mortality assumptions there.
Our estimated supplemental leverage ratio declined by 10 basis points to 450 and that was driven by a modest increase in quarterly average total assets.
One final note about the quarter as you will see in our release our effective tax rate was 9.4% which includes the 16.5% benefit related to the previously disclosed approval of a tax carry-back claim and the impact of a consolidated investment management fund.
Now a few points to factor into your thinking about the first quarter.
We would expect total staff expense to increase sequentially by approximately $100 million from the fourth quarter and that's driven primarily by the acceleration of long-term incentive compensation expense.
As you recall that typically takes place in the first quarter of each year.
Occupancy costs should rise by about $7.5 million related to the sale of One Wall Street as we are planning to move into our new headquarters.
That will result in double rent in 2015.
That will more than reverse itself in 2016 when we begin to see the quarterly benefit from consolidating our New York space.
We also need to note that we are subject to the European resolution fund in 2015 although we are not certain of the actual expense that might create.
We believe the impact of all of these items offset somewhat by our expense management efforts should result in expenses up around 1% to 2% in the first quarter of 2015 versus the first quarter of 2014.
This is as expected and well within our Investor Day guidelines.
Net interest revenue should be about at the level we saw in the third quarter.
The effective tax rate should be around 26% to 27%.
So to summarize we had a good quarter.
Overall we are pleased to see the results of the expense control efforts falling to the bottom line and creating significant positive operating leverage.
As we look ahead we are focused on creating value for our clients and shareholders by driving organic revenue growth and by continuing to be relentless in the pursuit of additional efficiencies and the savings as we execute on the strategic plan that we discussed at Investor Day.
We are also focused on maintaining our expense discipline to reduce costs and maintaining our strong capital position.
With that let me hand it back to Gerald.
Great Todd.
Thanks a lot.
And Wendy I think we can open it up for questions.
Thank you.
At this time we're ready to begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Glenn Schorr with Evercore.
Hi thanks very much.
So looking through all the disclosure I'm not sure I missed it yet but have you disclosed what you think your TLAC ratio is and where you need to be? Yes we've not Glenn.
We would estimate that we're probably around 20%.
We do have a fair amount of debt at the holding company as you can see.
I think the talk out there -- the ranges are 16% to 20%.
At this time there is a proposal but I don't think it's adequately defined to really go much beyond that.
And just making sure the 20% does not exclude the buffers which for you guys isn't as big as most but that's another 3.5 off? Okay the bottom line is you are in a reasonably comfortable range is the bottom line? From what we can tell at this point.
Okay.
And then I apologize I missed all the commentary on the $14 million loss and other trading related to the fixed income trading.
So one if you could just repeat what was it specifically related to and then two am I reading too much into -- exiting the business that should not repeat.
Is the balance sheet related to that business all closed out? Just curious on where we are at in that process.
Okay well there are really three unusual items in there Glenn.
One is that the exit did and certainly on a year-over-year basis had an impact because we had pretty decent revenues there in the fourth quarter of last year but we did incur some losses in the exit process.
We could see some little impact on a go-forward basis.
We wouldn't expect it to be much one way or the other.
Obviously we're not going to see an increase in revenues as we exit.
To answer the second question there it has had some modest reduction in our trading assets at this point and we will continue to see that reduce going forward.
So A it was the derivatives exit.
The second thing that went on in there is we had a hedge in one of our boutiques against fee revenues.
That hedge actually had a loss.
And those two things were partially offset by gains on our interest-rate hedging which actually was a negative to interest rates but a positive to other trading.
That's where the minus $14 million came from.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
That's my one and one.
Okay thanks Glenn.
Thanks Glenn.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
I was wondering if you could just give us a little bit more detail in terms of magnitude when we try to separate what the impact on investment management fees and servicing fees is from the FX translation and then the underlying growth that we don't quite see on the surface because of it.
Yes so if you look at it Ken it's about probably a little bit over 1% on the overall revenue growth rate and a little bit over that on the expense rate.
So that puts you you're talking around $40 million or so in the quarter.
On total revenues? Yes.
And so if you really look at the drivers of the revenues in the quarter it is a combination of that and what we saw in issuer services.
So issuer services was down substantially both sequentially on a year-over-year basis.
That's almost all DRs.
That tends to be episodic.
And so last year we saw quite a few transactions that fell -- or we saw some transactions that fell into the fourth quarter.
We didn't see any of that in this fourth quarter.
So that is our most capital markets transactions-like business that is a little bit less predictable.
Okay got it.
And then my second question is just you guys did a really good job certainly relative to how you had talked about expenses at the third-quarter conference call and adjusting to the revenue environment here but Gerald I was wondering if you can just take us a step further? I know expenses will be up 1% to 2% year-over-year.
Are there other things that you are contemplating now from an expense control perspective that we might not have heard at Analyst Day in terms of your view of the overall revenue environment and any incremental need to just tighten things up even more? Well Ken it's a great question.
I think that the continuous process improvement program if you want to call it that that we have all throughout the Company in every expense category it is really taking hold.
And it is an operations it's in technology it's in business partners it's in every single line item in the Company and we see further opportunities to continue to ratchet those expenses down as we get more efficient and more productive.
And so that's why we are very confident that our expense control environment is very sustainable going into the future.
A lot of the regulatory costs that continue to rise the rate of rise is flowing down so we've gotten a lot of that in the run rate.
So I think we feel very good about the ability to continue to control and manage expenses into the future certainly within the guidelines that we gave you at Investor Day.
That being said we are very cognizant that it is a very tough revenue environment.
And so we are going to be even more diligent on the expense side to offset any potential slowness in the revenue side.
Understood.
Thanks Gerald.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Good morning.
Couple quick questions on the revenue side just a follow-up on one of Glenn's questions and thinking about the derivatives the bond derivatives trading.
That $34 million year-over-year revenue delta is that the sort of run rate we should be looking for a headwind for the next three quarters as that rolls off or was that comp particularly difficult? Can you give us an idea about what kind of run rate we should look to reduce? Yes Brennan I think that comp was a particularly difficult one.
We weren't making a whole lot of money in the derivatives business.
As we went through the course of the year there was probably one good quarter and it was a little bit of softness and some of the unwinding in the fourth quarter.
So I think that is not something that I would factor into your model.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And then what do you think drove -- FX was certainly good versus history but when we look at what State Street and Northern printed this quarter you came in comparably a little weaker.
Is there something that happened in FX that prevented you from capitalizing on the environment to the same extent that competitors appear to or can you help us maybe understand the delta there? Sure.
I think we outperformed a bit in the third quarter.
That's not unusual for us because we have a lot of ADR activity in the third quarter that we don't see in the fourth quarter.
And in fact we saw almost zero ADR activity in the fourth quarter so that is probably the differentiator for us.
If you look at us on a year-over-year basis we are up strongly.
Terrific thanks very much.
Thanks Brennan Thank you.
The next question is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning.
I don't know if I missed it but I know you went through the SLR ratio at yearend at 4.5%.
Could you just give us the plan to get to 5% and can you get there without a rate rise meaning does getting to 5% require some of the excess deposits to come out? Yes.
It would certainly be easier to get us Betsy if the excess deposits ran off.
We think that could generate as much as 100 basis points on its own.
We will have to be a little more aggressive so the downside is if we don't see any rate movement we will probably have to generate 20 or 25 basis points or so on the way we manage deposits.
We mentioned on Investor Day that one of the things that we would be doing is if we are in the 90% to 100% on our payout ratio we still get pretty significant capital retention as you saw this year.
That generates about 70 to 80 basis points by the time this gets implemented.
We have a matched book that is run out of treasury that is consuming about 25 basis points or so that we could unwind.
That would come with a little bit of expense not much we do earn a little bit on that matchbook.
But that would be something that we might be able to take down.
We do think that we're going to be able to deconsolidate our variable interest entities.
That is another 10 basis points or so.
The trading book that we have talked about that is coming down.
That is probably going to create another 10 basis points.
So there is a lot of things that are underlying this that will slowly grind its way up to the 6% to 7% where we think we will be.
We also have the ability to issue preferred which would be a lower cost of capital.
We haven't made a decision around that but those are the steps.
We printed them in the Investor Day and we are going to move along that course.
Okay.
And then just on the managed deposits point there can you give us some color on how you are thinking about that especially given what is going on in Europe recently with the Swissies going to negative 75% etcetera? Sure.
With the negative interest rates as you know not only in Europe but Swiss and Denmark we are passing that impact on through charging for those deposits and we will adjust as the markets adjust.
We saw a little bit of a decline in euro deposits over the course of the quarter not much but a little.
So there was -- and I'm not sure that's directly in reaction to that.
But we can get more aggressive as we feel -- as we might need to be in order to charge for the use of the balance sheet.
Right.
And even with you charging for the use of the balance sheet directly like that you really haven't seen that much movement in deposit as a result? We did see some.
Some.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brian Bedell with Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Good morning folks.
Hi Brian.
Just a little bit more on the balance sheet.
Can you talk about what you view as your excess deposits -- I'm sorry if I missed this -- the excess deposits level and trends coming into 2015 I guess in conjunction Todd with being able to pass through the lower central bank rates and just how you think that might play out as we move through the year? We probably see it if we look at what happened to us mostly in dollars from the quantitative easing in the U.S.
most of that came through institutional depositors so the trust banks were big recipients of that.
Our estimate that that is probably in the $50 billion to $70 billion range Brian so if we were to see a normal drain that we would see that money go away.
Consistent with what you have outlined on Investor Day still? Yes.
I don't think that has changed.
Now the mechanism for the monetary policy change is still a bit uncertain so it might have to be done through pricing.
Right.
Okay.
As we move through 2015 you are expecting only part of that to move through this is more of a two-to-three-year evolution is that correct? Well it would actually depend on the course of monetary policy.
If nothing happens we wouldn't expect any of it to move.
And eventually we will start to like I had mentioned earlier we will just start to charge more and more and drive some of the deposits away based on the cost.
Brian it's Gerald we're managing the company assuming that there is no rate rise and therefore both on the revenue and the expense side and the balance sheet we are really trying to make sure the expenses are in line with a slow revenue growth environment.
And if we need to be more aggressive on the deposit side to make sure we achieved the capital ratios that are expected of us we will be more aggressive there too.
Okay.
That's great color.
And then just on a couple of revenue items maybe just the outlook into 2015 within issuer services the DR side it looks like the corporate trust like you said is beginning to inflect.
So maybe what your view is on depository receipts coming into 2015 on a year-over-year basis versus 2014.
And then also on the collateral service side it sounds like you are gaining good traction in there any kind of color on revenue growth in collateral services? Brian why don't I ask Brian Shea to take that one? Okay hi Brian.
Look the depository receipts business as Todd mentioned tends to be volatile high-margin revenue for us.
And what you saw in the year-over-year comparison is we had a large corporate action activity last year and not this year.
So it didn't repeat itself in the fourth quarter this year and the rest of it in the sequential quarter is really the seasonality.
The third quarter tends to be a high dividend quarter.
And the fourth quarter in falls off so that is pretty typical.
But overall we are still winning more than our fair share of new depository receipts assignments.
I think we had a significant increase in new programs year-over-year and the net issuance in the fourth quarter was up.
So I would say that while it is seasonal/cyclical we don't have any structural concerns about the DR business and we feel like the year-over-year comparison will be solid in 2015.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi.
I'm looking at third quarter to fourth quarter and the expenses didn't decline quite as much as the revenue declined.
So on the expense side you had a $67 million increase in professional fees and I am guessing that is somehow related to retiring one of your platforms and if so shouldn't a retiring of a platform help to reduce expenses? And on the revenue side I hear what you are saying corporate trust is at an inflection point you are winning more than your fair share in the DR business but the issuer services line the revenues look like the worst since 2007 so what can you say? It seems like you are confident yet the results are down so can you talk about the backlog? What do you think about the first quarter for that business so just I think those two items would help with this expense to revenue relationship? Okay Mike.
It's Todd.
I'll take that question.
You asked two questions so I am not sure we will give you a follow-up here.
But the first question on the quarter to quarter so from the third quarter to the fourth quarter we typically see exactly that because there is a very sharp decline in DR revenue.
And DR revenue is the cost of basically fixed associated with that.
It gets offset somewhat by the increase in performance fees that we -- the seasonal increase that we see in performance fees but that comes with quite a bit of compensation expense attached to it.
So that's not unexpected.
Your point around us being at the lowest level since 2007 I haven't looked that up but it sounds accurate.
As we have been pointed out since the crisis corporate trust has been contracting but it has been contracting at a slower rate.
It has been painful and it has been a differentiator for us.
We now see and actually saw it flat to slightly up from Q3 to Q4.
We actually now see corporate trust turning the tide.
So rather than contracting at a 5% to 10% type of level it is actually going to be flat to showing some growth.
DRs I think Brian just gave you -- DRs tends to be a cyclical business.
As you see flight to risk that is a good thing.
If you see a flight to quality it is typically not a good thing but we have been through that cycle and I don't think there is anything structurally different in that business.
I think your other question was related to the increase and where did the increase in consulting and professional services and legal.
We did see a sharp increase -- we do typically see a seasonal increase in the fourth quarter in that line.
Some of that is in the business partner.
Some of that is investment in our risk and finance systems.
Most of it is related to the buildout of our platforms that we have discussed at Investor Day and then some of that is related to higher legal costs.
We would expect that run rate to decline somewhat in the first quarter.
Actually it should decline substantially in the first quarter but all within the rates -- the growth rates -- that I had mentioned to you in my comments that is that I think we will be up 1% or 2% primarily because of the acceleration we have.
We are going to have a little more cost to do the acceleration of long-term incentives in the first quarter of this year than we did last year.
And just the last point was the custody platform did you actually retire a custody platform and when do you see the benefits from that and can you talk about headcount reductions in the recent quarter? Mike as you know we had three -- it's Brian Shea we had three custody platforms.
We have consolidated that down to two.
We completed that over the summer by the end of the third quarter of 2014.
And we're now working on consolidating the remaining two to one and we are deep into that process and that will carry us into early 2016.
And as we've mentioned at Investor Day we are in the process of simplifying our technology infrastructure overall so we have other platform consolidations under way.
Overall we have retired a couple of hundred applications in the last couple of years and we have a roadmap to do more.
And that is why I think Todd and Gerald have said we are not only managing discretionary expenses carefully which are kind of short-term things the transformation process that we laid out at our Investor Day includes technology simplification insourcing real estate and facilities actions and other actions which are long-term contributors to the structural costs  reductions which is why we have confidence that we can sustain good expense discipline over the long term.
And Mike I'll take the -- in terms of headcount we were able to manage headcount down for the year.
As you know we took some actions in the second quarter and that helped us to do that.
I think you'll see the headcount is down about 800 for the full year.
That also includes the fact that we were insourcing into our technology our application development team.
So that insourcing process is now over or pretty much completed and so on a sequential basis you also saw a decline in headcount.
Part of that is because we are no longer insourcing the other heads that were offsetting some of the benefit from reductions we had made elsewhere as we make ourselves a bit more efficient.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks Mike.
Thank you.
The next question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Hey good morning everyone.
Hey Alex.
So a couple of quick follow-ups here.
So I guess on NIR as we kind of take a look at in 2015 the moves and rates we are obviously seeing this year are pretty onerous.
I was just curious how you guys think about the prospects for NII into 2015 and if we do not see much move in rate until kind of the end of the year maybe an update on where you guys are in terms of remixing the composition of the balance sheet out of cash into securities to help sustain the same level of net interest income.
Yes our estimate for that is that we will see a little bit of growth in net interest income for the year even with this difficult backdrop.
It is not great in Europe and it is not great in the US either.
We have moved a fair amount of cash into the securities portfolio so it has grown by about $20 billion over the past six months or so and we expect to see some additional growth over the next few months in that as well so we are putting more cash to work.
We discussed at Investor Day how we are going to work through the HQLA so you are seeing a continued growth in our HQLA assets.
And that will I think be able to offset some of the lower rate environment.
So we think the fourth quarter was a bit of an anomaly because of the way the hedging worked itself out.
But we think that we are running at about 725 730 and we should be able to see a little bit of growth to that.
Got you.
That's very helpful.
Thanks.
And then just another follow-up I guess on the DR business and understanding the seasonality and the choppiness of it but if we take a step back can you guys help us understand the impact of just maybe a structurally stronger dollar and maybe a little bit of weaker emerging markets on that business over the course of the cycle? So if U.S.
dollar continues to strengthen does that matter for the issuance? Yes I think for all of our businesses if we see continued flight to quality less transaction less cross-border transactions that is not good for us Alex.
It reduces volumes.
It moves things into treasuries and banks rather than in the capital markets.
We went to see capital market activity.
Where that is displayed somewhat is in the ADR business.
The ADR business has a fairly large energy component to it and there's a lot of action there and that is somewhat helpful.
It has actually been kind of interesting we've seen interest in it and some growth in issuance rather than contraction.
So with prices and the dollar down it is actually brought -- in some ways it has made it more attractive.
And again Alex DRs in some ways a luck of the revenue growth is around corporate actions and episodic events.
So if you see or believe there is going to be increasing either merger and acquisition activity particularly in the energy sector that could actually be beneficial to the business.
Yes understood.
Thank you so much for the color.
Thanks Alex.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Adam Beatty with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Question on wealth management.
You're good enough to give the overall flows for the asset management business just wondering if what you are seeing in wealth management is similar suggestive of maybe a risk off and how your clients are reacting? Are they spooked by volatility or encouraged by what is still at least domestically a rising market year-over-year? Thanks.
Hi it's Curtis.
Adam how are you doing? Hi Curtis.
Our wealth management experience has been that low rates have had an impact on the amount of income that clients are getting from their portfolios.
And some clients are absolutely looking for ways to increase the overall return on their portfolios but within the framework of definitely aware of the risk environment being challenging.
I would tell you that we -- I think our wealth clients have generally had a view of the equity markets being reasonably positive and have not been afraid of risk in the U.S.
equity markets generally.
But as you think about expanding portfolios and making them were global some of the things that they are reading and hearing about they have definitely taken a bent to be biased away from it.
So again it's hard to describe an entire client base all in one answer but generally I would say that there definitely is still sensitivity about volatility in markets in those portfolios overall.
But a search for income too yes? The search for income is real and it's one of the great things about the business we have is the breadth of clients that we are dealing with.
As rates are falling there continues to be -- income continues to be the thing that people are increasing their search for whether they are sovereign wealth funds or wealth clients or any other array of our client base.
And Adam just as a reminder as a business it's a business -- it's a terrific business.
We like it a lot.
The fees are growing nicely.
Loans are up.
Deposits are up.
We are utilizing the Pershing platform and the advisory network to source business.
It's a terrific business and that's why we're investing in it.
So it's very good margins very good growth rates on a relative basis and while the clients may have different investment strategies and concerns as a business overall it is very attractive.
Agreed.
Thanks for a much.
And then just a quick follow-up on collateral management and where that stands; is it living up to your expectations so far? As regulations get layered on are clients kind of holding off to a steady-state or are they trying to get out in front of it? Just where you see that and what inning you are in right now? Thanks.
I think I will have Kurt Woetzel answer that who is running our markets group now.
Hey Adam.
So great question.
The business still is performing as we outlined in the Investor Day.
We are actually at all-time highs in our balances in our program.
It is really being driven by three factors.
One is equity financing is still a strong business in the sell side; secondly as you pointed out a little about regulation regulation continues to drive the fact that synthetic structures need to be collateralized; and the third component of that really is that the OTC derivatives market is now a market that you need to segregate if you will the initial margin and we're the likely place for that to occur.
So those factors really continue to drive the business.
And I would say a fourth component -- again this goes back to regulation -- is that there is a shifting of the sell side's books around to places that may be more efficient from a capital structure standpoint.
That shifting is also playing well into our global program as we have a program that's very much global in nature and allows us to take advantage of where that shifting may happen.
So not just collateral but capital efficiency? That is correct.
Excellent.
Thank you very much.
I really appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ashley Serrao with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Sorry to come back to DR activity but I thought in your prepared remarks you said that you were proactively exiting certain portfolios that didn't meet your profitability thresholds.
I was wondering if you could size that and if both on the revenue side and also the expense benefit? Yes Ashley that's why we point out to the number of programs.
It's really not very material on either the revenue or the expense side.
It is just the fact that we are having to carry the positions and actually have some staff or people looking at them.
It's really not material to the overall business.
We are generally just focused on the profitable business and making sure we are applying the best resources to the prophet end of it.
So I wouldn't look at it as a material event for DRs.
Okay.
And Ashley this is Todd.
Just one other comment.
We've struggled to find a metric that is helpful to project where you might be able to expect performance to be because it just is so episodic.
But ultimately if you look at issuance and cancellations and you kind of look at the number of programs you've got that is some basis but it's not greatly correlated to revenue.
Okay.
I think just one quick one on expenses.
So what is your outlook for pension expense next year -- this year I mean? We do expect pension expenses.
We had talked about on Investor Day to increase could be by as much as $60 million or so.
And in directions that I give you around the expense increased for the first quarter that would reflect that as well.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.
Thank you.
Good morning Gerald and Todd.
Hi Gerard.
Question on the strength of the U.S.
dollar.
Is it right to assume obviously it's a negative drag on revenue but you get the positive benefit on expenses so the net of it is it is not a negative for the bottom line? And if that assumption is accurate is there any environment of the dollar going forward by strengthening even further as it has since the first of the year that concerns you? Well your first statement is pretty accurate.
Net net it really didn't have a tremendous bottom-line impact because as you suggest the strengthening of the dollar had negative impact on revenues and positive impact on expense.
So the net net was pretty marginal for the Company broadly but the further strengthening Todd that's you.
So almost all of the impact from the dollar took place in the fourth quarter.
When we talk about the impact on revenues and expenses so when you look at the full year it is about the same -- not exactly -- but it is about the same number.
So we talked about a 1% move and for the fourth quarter so you can figure it is not too meaningful for the full year.
I guess there is a correlation to the strengthening of the dollar as a flight to quality and less transactions something I had mentioned on one of the earlier questions.
That would be my concern.
My concern is that there is less issuance less cross-border transactions other than flight to something like U.S.
treasuries.
That's not great for our business model if that were to persist.
And in this strengthening is it primarily against the euro that you are referring to or is it a basket of currencies? I would say it's a basket of currencies.
One offset to that Gerard is this is coming with quite a bit of volatility and volatility has always been healthy for us.
So we are seeing the benefits of that in the first quarter.
Great.
And then as a follow-up Gerald you mentioned in your opening remarks about the inflection point for improved revenues in the corporate services area can you share with us some of the improvement -- what type of products are doing better now? What are some of the actual numbers that you are seeing that gives you that comfort to say that it's working? Yes sure.
In corporate trust as you know we've suffered the last few years from the high-value securitization has been rolling off that is coming closer to an end so that is one step in the process.
Secondly we are seeing new issuance.
With low interest rates you are seeing traditional new issues on the debt side.
We have seen growth in the CLO marketplace again.
We are not seeing as much traditional securitizations although some asset-backed securitizations are starting to reemerge plain vanilla ones.
So we are starting to see that we are getting our fair share.
I will say that for a good part of 2014 with the rumored sale of corporate trust in the marketplace we were not getting as much revenue as we would like.
Now that that is over and done with I think people realize that corporate trust is a key component of our business and we are back in the growth mode.
So I feel pretty good about both the new issuance market the decline in the old business and us being able to get back into business is giving us the feeling that we are at that inflection point.
And I would say Europe continues to see more debt issuance and as bank balance sheets can't support whatever development occurs and bank balance sheets have to come down the securitization market is the place to go.
So all of those factors are giving us a lot more confidence that we are reaching that inflection point sooner than we perhaps said to you earlier in the year -- earlier last year.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein.
Good morning.
Thanks.
So just a quick question on the money market fee waivers.
I think you said the impact is roughly $0.06 to $0.07 per quarter split 50-50 between asset management and clearing? So maybe an update on those estimates.
And then do you calculate that against the contractual rate or some effective rate before you start weighting fees? And along with that has there been any change to your thinking about possible competitive pressures as rates rise and you try to recapture those fees? Why don't I take some of this and then I'll ask Curtis to fill in some of the other color.
So the net relationship it is not quite 50-50 between investment services and investment management.
It's a little bit more in investment services Luke.
In the year-over-year and the sequential it really hasn't changed.
We have been running at about the same rate so we have indicated the net income hit to us is about $0.06 to $0.07.
What's going to happen competitively from here I think Curtis maybe you can answer? Yes I will make a couple of comments and then I know Brian Shea also has the view from all the business at Pershing and across investment services as well.
We have talked about this a lot.
There is no question that there are actually are now lower fee money market funds in the market and they are typically delinked from the intermediaries and the sources of a lot of the cash.
So remember a lot of money market fund assets actually are connected to client accounts where there are significant other services being provided and distribution fees are a component of the overall fees that are earned in the money market fund business.
So a lot of these products that exist now with lower fees actually don't gather assets in any significant way as a percentage of market share.
So I completely understand your question.
We are in a world where passive products and lower fee products and asset management across many asset classes are growing in more the norm so the question makes sense.
But I do think that understanding the distribution and the relationships with distribution partners to gather assets is a really important component of this.
Brian I don't know if you would add anything to that? I would add we still see significant cash balances in money market funds and FDIC in short sweeps-type products.
So I think particularly in the fourth quarter there was a little increase in cash management balances on the Pershing platform for example.
Having said that as Gerald mentioned we are running the business as if the rates aren't going to rise.
But we do think eventually there will be some increase in short-term rates which will help restore yield and fees in the money market fund business.
So I guess my one comment -- summary is the fundamental agreements and structures of the arrangements have not really changed between the money market providers and the distribution platforms.
And so my expectation which is not 100% necessarily right but it's my expectation is that since the fundamental structure hasn't changed and everyone has shared in the fee waivers on the way down that I think you'll see a sharing of the restoration of fees and yields on the way up.
And so we feel pretty good about -- that we will have some improvement as rates rise.
Great thanks.
Very helpful.
I think I'm going to leave it there.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous Research.
Hi.
Good morning.
The shift within the investment management business towards liability driven investment continues for another quarter.
So could you discuss as that mix shift takes place how it impacts profitability how the profitability of LDI compares with the other major elements of AUM on the investment management side? Yes hi Geoff it's Curtis Arledge.
So first of all let me tell you that one of the things that is happening -- one of the most significant trends that is happening in the investment landscape is the de-risking of pension plans globally.
And so the growth of our LDI business has a lot to do with the fact that pensions -- changes in accounting substantially lower tolerance for pension surplus volatility has caused pension plans again on a global basis to look to de-risk and there are cases where they are hedging that through LDI strategies.
And actually as you may have seen there have been an increasing number of pension risk transfer transactions where pension plans have actually purchased risk insurance and effectively eliminated their pension risk from a market perspective.
And that is a major trend that BNY Mellon was very early on playing a pretty important role in Insight specifically an investment firm that was acquired several years ago is a market leader there.
We have other LDI products at Standish and Mellon Capital and really work closely with pensions globally on this.
I like the way you asked the question about the profitability.
It's a very profitable business.
Sometimes in the marketplace people use the fee and the word fee and the word margin interchangeably.
The fees are generally lower but the margins are attractive.
It's a great business.
Also in the fact that you are not just providing a product to a client you are actually evaluating their entire asset liability framework and truly the word solution that gets used too much I think in the marketplace.
You do help them with the overall portfolio solution.
So for the portion of their portfolio that they don't hedge you still have to help them think about how that should be invested and that has actually led to follow-on capabilities that we have being used by those clients.
And so it has been a great springboard into other businesses with those clients.
So it's a very large trend.
As you are seeing with falling rates pensions are once again experiencing falling funding ratios.
Funding ratios had gotten into the mid-90s.
They are kind of back into the high 80s sort of on average.
And it is just continuing to be one of the things that private corporate plans are very focused on and increasingly public plans also.
So if we think about it as basis point fees then it is lower than some of the other products.
But if you kind of look at the overall profitability of the relationship it's something you think is very attractive? Yes it's very attractive.
Again the fees per AUM are lower.
The AUM is quite large generally.
We are talking about some clients will actually hedge the majority of their plan and then again it also leads to a broader relationship.
I will tell you that some of the -- some clients will pay a slightly higher fee and others want to pay a lower fee and have a performance element to it and some of our performance fees actually come from that.
So the management fee is not always the entire fee.
You have to look at the total fee dynamic.
And it is a scale business so therefore as a business it is a very nice one and it's growing very healthy.
And so we like it a lot and the team does a fantastic job in servicing our clients.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Well thank you very much everyone for dialing in to our call.
If you have any further questions please give Valerie Haertel a call and we look forward to catching up with you real soon.
Take care everybody.
Thank you.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Ms.
Valerie Haertel at 212-635-8529.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference call and webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Valerie Haertel.
Ms.
Haertel you may begin.
Thank you Wendy.
Good morning.
And welcome everyone to the BNY Mellon first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO; as well as our executive management team.
Our first quarter earnings materials include a financial highlights presentation that will be referred to in a discussion of our results and can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Before Gerald and Todd begin let me take a moment to remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement in the earnings press release the financial highlights presentation and those identified in the documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements on this call speak only as of today April 22 2015 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Gerald Hassell.
Gerald? Thanks Valerie and welcome everyone and thanks for joining us this morning.
As you can see we are achieving the results consistent with the goals that we shared on Investor Day.
For the first quarter earnings per share were $0.67 which was up 18% year-over-year.
Now focusing on our year-over-year comparisons on an adjusted basis total revenue was up 4% total expenses were down 2% so we generated more than 500 basis points of positive operating leverage.
Now the stronger U.S.
dollar reduced both our revenue and expenses but had a limited effect on net income and Todd will cover that more in a moment.
Our return on tangible common equity in the quarter was 20%.
Now we also returned significant value to our shareholder in the form of dividends and share repurchases during the quarter.
Simply put we are executing against our strategic priorities and its showing up in our numbers.
Let me remind you of what those priorities are and how we are doing against them.
Now our first priority is driving revenue growth.
During the quarter revenue in Investment Services benefited from continued growth in both clearing and Global Collateral Services.
As we have been saying we are investing in both of these areas to deliver enhanced capabilities to our clients.
Across Investment Services and in Asset Servicing in particular we have been quite targeted about the business we are taking on we are just going aftermarket shares.
We are focusing on deepening our client relationships delivering the highest value to our clients and growing profitably and I think our results are showing just that.
And you also recall that late last year we created the Markets Group to bring together existing capabilities from a number of different areas.
We have been repositioning the business by exiting various activities that no longer fit our strategy while investing in foreign securities lending collateral management solutions for our clients.
Now these initiatives are already improving our performance and reducing our costs.
Now for example our enhanced electronic foreign exchange platforms are capturing more client driven volumes and when volatility increases as we saw in the first quarter we clearly benefit.
But the Markets Group had stronger foreign exchange results stronger collateral management and securities financing activity while simultaneously existing derivatives divisions and reducing the capital and costs associated with it.
Good overall results that helped improve the companys operating margin.
Turning to Investment Management to further diversify our assets under management we are building out our retail distribution capabilities and investing and expanding our Wealth Management platform.
The inflows from these retail distribution initiatives are in fact improving but not yet at the point of being able to offset the active institutional equity outflows that we and the entire industry have been experiencing.
Now after quarter end we reached an agreement to sell our Meriten boutique which is our German based boutique.
This is part of our business portfolio review process to identify opportunities to better redevelop our capital.
The sale will allow us to focus on those boutiques with global scale that most benefit from being part of BNY Mellon and where we see the greatest growth opportunities.
And we expect the sale will close at the end of the second quarter and our Investment Management operating margin should improve with this divestiture.
On the Investment performance front during the quarter we strengthen our capabilities and they were recognized through two rankings.
In the first quarter as a testament with continued growth and success the Dreyfus/Standish Global Fixed Income Fund hit the number 1 ranking in the World Bond category for long-term investors and has been consistently a top performer.
Our Wealth Management business was named the 2015 top National Private Asset Manager and top Private Bank Offering for Family Offices by the Family Wealth Report.
Now our second priority is executing on our business improvement processes where we have been taking actions from top to bottom transforming our company through our continues improvement process it is reducing structural costs and risks and improving client productivity and service quality.
Now let me share some examples.
We are simplifying and automating our global processes.
We are continuing to optimize and streamline our technology infrastructure particularly in Asset Servicing leveraging a common architecture to reduce our costs and increase agility so we are delivering new solutions to our clients even faster.
We mentioned last week that we are succeeding and reducing our annual infrastructure spending and that share on trend continued in the first quarter.
Now we are also shrinking our real estate portfolio in consolidating locations.
Now we have been able to accelerate some of our efforts which allowed us to come in better than expected in our net occupancy expense line.
Now also as part of our business improvement process we are improving our return on technology investment.
Today we have best-of-breed applications in most of our important business activities such as tri-party clearing payments settlements and collateral management.
Our technology is well-regarded by industry professionals and we are particularly proud for our most recent acknowledge.
Now one of which was the Anita Borg Institute recently named us as a top company for women technologists for achieving the highest overall score for all companies evaluated.
Now this recognition helps us attract and retain top talent in the industry.
Our third priority centers on being a strong safe trusted counterparty.
The results of the 2015 CCAR demonstrated that under severally adverse scenario our projected minimum Tier 1 common ratio and our common equity Tier 1 ratio under stress were the most resilient among all the 14 advanced approached bank holding companies.
So we are well-positioned for all stress scenarios and feel confident that we can continue to execute on our capital plans going forward.
Now we also fully recognize the importance of our organization to the financial marketplace and that our reputation is in assets that we must uphold everyday.
To further protect and enhance our safety and soundness we are investing and focusing on compliance risk management and control functions.
We have recently resolved some very important issues on that front and the actions we have taken will significantly reduce the probability of future issues.
Our fourth priority involves generating excess capital and deploying our capital effectively.
So during the quarter we repurchased 10.3 million shares for $400 million.
And our capital plan calls for the repurchase of up to $3.1 billion of common stock over five-quarter period.
And finally our fifth priority is to attract and retain top talent.
We have been executing against an integrated talent management strategy across the entire company and have been focused on developing talent from within as well as infusing expertise with key strategic hires in areas where we benefit from new prospectus and capabilities.
We recently promoted several individuals identified through our talent management process.
The greater responsibility including our newly formed BNY Mellon Technology Solutions Group Global Fund Accounting Middle Office Solutions and our European bank.
Additionally we added key external talents including our new Chief Auditor and a new Board member was our fourth new director in less than year.
Fresh perspectives ideas and the right team composition make us stronger.
So in summary we are executing against our priorities and firmly believer we are on track to achieve the earnings expense and operating leverage goals we outlined for you on Investor Day.
So with that let me turn it over to Todd.
Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
My commentary will follow the financial highlights document and start with page six that details our non-GAAP operating results for the quarter.
As Gerald noted EPS was $0.67 thats up 18% versus the year ago.
Revenue in the first quarter was up approximately 4% year-over-year and 3% sequentially reflecting growth across all of our key businesses.
Weve particularly strengthened asset servicing clearing services and foreign exchange.
Expenses were down 2% year-over-year and 1% sequentially as the business improvement process is helping to increase efficiency and reduce our cost.
Our ability to drive revenue growth and control expenses resulted in a little more than 500 basis points of positive operating leverage year-over-year.
Now let me point out that weve estimated that the stronger U.S.
dollar reduced our revenue by approximately 200 basis points and reduced our expenses by approximately 300 basis points and had a slightly negative impact on total net income.
Business most impacted was Investment Management while currency had lesser impact on our investment services businesses net results.
Weve added new foreign exchange metrics on page six of the new release thats kind of help you capture the impact of the two currencies.
If you look at that you will see that the pound was down approximately 9% year-over-year and euro was down 18%.
So Ill discuss briefly the estimated impact to each of our business unit as I cover the segment results.
Income before taxes was up 16% year-over-year and 11% sequentially.
On a year-over-year basis our pre-tax margin increased approximately 300 basis points to 30% thats up from 27% in the first quarter of 2014.
Return on tangible common equity was 20%.
Page seven shows the drivers of our Investment Management business that help explain our underlying performance.
We had 7% year-over-year AUM growth and $17 billion of new net inflows during the quarter.
Youll also note that we experienced net outflows in equities in the quarter while our LDI business continued its rapid growth.
Our Wealth Management business also is performing well benefiting from our investments and promoting our brand in the expansion of our sales for us.
Average loans and deposits continue to trend up.
Turning to page eight you can see our financial results for Investment Management.
As I previously noted Investment Management was most impacted by currency translation since we have a large number of our boutiques outside of U.S.
and results in about 42% of our revenue actually being non-U.S.
First quarter Investment Management performance fees were $850 million.
Investment Management fees were up 1% year-over-year or 7% on constant currency basis reflecting the higher equity market values the impact of the Cutwater acquisition and strategic initiatives.
We had a performance fees of $15 million that compares to $20 million in the year ago quarter.
Other revenue was $47 million in the first quarter up from $16 million in the first quarter of last year and $7 million in the fourth quarter.
Both increases primarily reflect higher seed capital gains.
The sequential increase also reflects reduced losses on hedging activities within one of the boutiques.
Net interest revenue increased 6% year-over-year and 7% sequentially reflecting the higher loan and deposit levels mostly at the private bank.
Revenue growth on a year-over-year basis was up 4% in Investment Management but adjusted for the currency translation we estimated it would have been up about 9%.
Earnings were also negatively impacted.
Income before taxes excluding amortization and tangible assets was up 6% year-over-year and 7% sequentially.
Turning to our Investment Services metrics on page nine you can see that assets under custody and administration at quarter end were $28.5 trillion thats up 2% year-over-year and thats really driven by higher market values net new business and partially offset by the stronger U.S.
dollar.
Linked quarter AUC/A was flat adjusted for currency effects year-over-year growth would have been roughly 5%.
The market value of securities on loan at period end showed strong growth on a year-over-year basis.
Securities on loan were up 10% they are now at $291 billion and thats due to the expansion of the receipt of securities potential collateral as well as the impact of new clients joining our lending program and existing clients increasing their lending activity.
Our average loans and deposits were both up significantly here as well.
The key broker-dealer metric of tri-party repo balances grew 9% all of our clearing metrics recorded pretty good gains with DARTS volumes and average long-term mutual fund assets each showing double-digit growth.
Moving onto Depository Receipt metric weve had a focus on exiting some low activity programs the ones that are at the low end of our client base as well as programs that do not meet our profitability criteria.
This continued with the routine closure of programs due to corporate actions has resulted in a net decline in the number of sponsored DR programs in the portfolio.
On page 10 you can see detailed segment reporting for Investment Services.
The key variances are reflected in fee and other revenue on our consolidated results on page 11.
So lets move to that page.
We will see that asset seed servicing fees were up 3% year-over-year and 2% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects net new business largely driven by global collateral services and securities lending as well as the increase in market values.
The sequential increase primarily reflects higher client expense reimbursements and higher securities lending revenue and global collateral services fees both increases were partially offset by the stronger dollar.
Clearing fees were up 6% year-over-year and down 1% sequentially.
The increase from the first quarter 14 was primarily driven by higher mutual fund and asset based fees and higher clearance revenue driven by higher DARTS volume.
The sequential decrease primarily reflects fewer trading days in the first quarter.
Issuer service fees were up 1% year-over-year and 20% sequentially.
Both increases reflect higher corporate actions in DRs.
Additionally Corporate Trust fees seem to stabilize.
Treasury services fees were up 1% year-over-year and down 6% sequentially.
The sequential decrease primarily reflects seasonally lower payment volumes.
FX and other trading revenue on a consolidated basis was up 68% year-over-year thats up 52% sequentially.
For this line item you can also refer to the table at the top of page eight in the news release.
See the details Im discussing.
FX revenue of $217 million was up 67% year-over-year thats 32% sequentially reflecting higher volumes and volatility as well as DR related activity.
Other trading revenue was $12 million.
That compares with revenue of $6 million in the year ago quarter and the loss of $14 million in the fourth quarter.
Both increases reflect higher fixed income trading revenues.
The sequential increase also reflects reduced losses from the hedging activity by one of our investment boutiques.
Investment and other income were $63 million with $39 million lower year-over-year and that was driven by lower leasing gains.
One final impact on the currency impact on our Investment Services business while less impact than we see at Investment Management.
We estimate that both revenues and expenses would have been up roughly 2% on a constant currency basis would have been up by an additional 2% on a constant currency basis.
Pre-tax income was not meaningfully impacted.
Turning to net interest revenue on page 12 of the financial highlights you will see that NIR on a fully tax equivalent basis was unchanged versus the year ago quarter and up 2% from the fourth quarter.
Year-over-year the increase in deposits drove growth in our securities portfolio and offset the impact of lower yields.
The sequential improvement reflects the benefit of putting more cash to work as you can see in loans and securities which also increased our margin for the first time in years.
The net interest margin for the quarter was 97 basis points 8 lower than the year ago and 6 from the sequential quarter.
On page 13 you will see that non-interest expense decreased by 2% year-over-year and 1% sequentially.
The year-over-year decrease reflects lower expenses in all categories except the sub-custodian expense which is volume related and other expense.
And I should point out that other expense include the impact of the new European Union Single Resolution Fund as were accruing our estimated annual contribution requirement.
The lower expenses primarily reflect the favorable impact of the stronger dollar and were seeing the impact of our business improvement process here as well.
Our total staff expense decreased 2% year-over-year.
As you might have seen in our annual report we elected to freeze the defined benefit plan and we replace it with a defined contribution plan.
In the first quarter we recognized thats $30 million benefit related to the curtailment of the defined benefit plan.
For the full year we expect to have a positive benefit to the DD plan itself resulting in a $10 million net credit that include the curtailment gain we just received.
In addition we expect to have about $12 million of additional expense in the back half of the year for the participants that were formally in the defined benefit plan.
As a result you can see that you can expect benefits to increase about $30 million in the second quarter.
Our headcount was 900 lower year-over-year.
There was a sequential increase of 200.
That reflects the onboarding of employees related to the January Cutwater acquisition the liftout of the Deutsche Bank private equity and real estate administration business and new hires to support several largest client onboarding initiatives.
The decrease in total staff expense was partially offset by higher incentives reflecting better performance as well as a lower adjustment related to the finalization of the annual incentive awards and the impact of long-term stock award vesting for retirement eligible employees.
Both of these last two items typically occur in the first quarter.
As a reminder the first quarter usually has a spike related to long-term awards and we will expect incentives to decline in the second quarter by somewhere in the vicinity of $65 million based on performance.
On our last earnings call I told you that occupancy costs should rise related to the sale of One Wall Street as we move into our new facility which will result in double rent in 2015.
This increase was not reflected in the first quarter because it was offset by the outsourcing of maintenance costs a stronger dollar and the subletting of some vacant space.
For the full year we still expect occupancy costs to increase as we previously indicated as we take further actions in our real estate portfolio.
Turning to capital on page 14.
With respect to our capital ratios this quarter the fully phased-in common equity Tier I ratio under the Advanced Approach declined from 9.8% to 9.1% and that was driven by an increase in risk-weighted assets primarily related to operational risk.
Now as weve highlighted in previous periods our operational rigorous model was impacted by external losses incurred by other financial institutions.
This quarter one notable external loss in the payments space go through our model and added approximately $11 billion of risk-weighted assets and therefore negatively impacted our ratio.
I might want to add -- I want to add here and let you know that in the second quarter we expect to have a benefit to our risk-weighted assets as we believe we will be deconsolidating many of our Investment Management funds as we intend to be an early adopter of the reason we issued consolidated accounting standard.
So we effectively expect to reverse the impact of what we saw in the first quarter.
Our estimated supplemental leverage ratio increased to 4.5% as we generated capital and reduced the average balance sheet size slightly.
Our estimated LCR is already over 100% and compliant with the fully phased-in requirements which is 80% and will step up to over 100% over the next couple of years.
Now a few final notes about the quarter.
As you will see in our release our effective tax rate was 24.5% but that includes 2% benefit related to income versus variable interest entities which if you included in line -- excuse me if you included that in our numbers our tax rate would be in line with the guidance of about 26%.
So I think thats the appropriate way to look at it.
I will also point out that weve increased our tax-advantaged investments including energy credits which are now having the effect of reducing our tax rate but also reducing our pre-tax income and therefore our operating margin.
So if we were to gross up the revenue from the tax credits and report the impact on the tax equivalent basis our pre-tax income would have been higher by about $64 million and our operating margin would have increased by approximately 120 basis points.
We have elected to disclose this impact on footnote on page 25 of our news release rather than included in our financials.
But we think its important as we make these investments and you see a reduction in some of the pre-tax.
Also in the earnings release on page 11 on some investment securities portfolio highlights.
You will see that the net unrealized gain in our portfolio was $1.7 billion at quarter end thats up from $1.3 billion at the end of December.
During the quarter we transferred $11.6 billion of available-for-sale securities to held-to-maturity securities and we also purchased additional held-to-maturity securities during the quarter.
Our strategy is designed to reduce the volatility of our capital account from interest rate fluctuations.
Now Id like to discuss a few points to factor into your thinking about the second quarter and the years we look ahead.
Net interest revenue was expected to be slightly higher in the second quarter as compared to the first quarter of 15 as we benefit from the change in the asset mix and day count.
We would expect incentives to decline in the second quarter from the first quarter as we did last year.
We expect Investment Management continue to be impacted by the strength of the U.S.
dollar due to its non-U.S.
presence while the impact in the overall company is expected to be nominal.
The effective tax rate is expected to be in a range of 25% to 26% and we anticipate proceeding with our capital plans subject to market conditions and the other factors.
To summarize we are achieving results consistent with the goals we shared on our Investor Day executing against our strategic priorities and on track to continue to hit our Investor Day targets.
With that let me hand it back to Gerald.
Thanks Todd.
And Wendy I think we can open it up for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ashley Serrao with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Good morning Ashley.
Gerald a two-part question on headcount.
One I was hoping you could help me just reconcile your commentary from the shareholder meeting where you noted that the company look good on a revenue per employee metric but then at the same time you reduced headcount by over a 1 000 positions over the course of last year.
And two as we think about the potential if we do leverage technology across the franchise why shouldnt decline in headcount continue? Well as you know last year we took an increasingly aggressive action on the headcount side and were able to get some structural changes to our headcounts.
We saw actually a continued positive trend in the first quarter of this year except for the fact weve acquired a couple pieces of business.
And weve been building out some capabilities for some new clients in certain key areas.
Clearly our goal as part of our business improvement process is to drive down the labor component of our company and use technology as the strategic asset.
So one of our goals is to get to revenue per employee up the employee expense down and use technology as a strategic asset to get there.
So clearly part of our plan is to reduce that employee headcount per revenue.
Great.
And my follow-up is for Todd.
On the balance sheet and reinvestment of cash how much more run rate you have there and then can you give us a sense of the duration and reinvestment yields here? Thank you.
Sure Ashley.
Why dont we start with duration? So what weve effectively done is weve got about half of the duration of the portfolio or we call half of the sensitivities of portfolio in held-to-maturity about half in the available-for-sale accounts.
And the duration of the total portfolio is probably around 2.5.
So we softened the volatility dampen the volatility pretty substantially to our OCI for movements in interest rates.
We still are structured to see a pretty significant benefit from a rise in interest rates.
So if we wanted to in our net interest income as well as in fee waivers and other parts of our portfolio.
So if we wanted to we could probably continue to increase the portfolio a bit.
LCR is not necessarily a limiting factor here because we can increase the duration of our HQLA assets which is effectively what weve done here.
So I would say there is a little bit of room there actually but not a lot.
All right.
Thanks for taking my questions and congrats on the strong quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Luke Montgomery with Bernstein Research.
Morning guys.
Just another stab at the headcount question.
Investor claiming that your firm has too many employees relative to comparable peers and the difference isnt explained by business mix.
I think though if you adjust for the sale gains you had last year it looks like the comp to revenue ratio has been tracking just a couple percentage points higher than your closest peers.
So maybe there is a little work to do there.
Youve acknowledged the plan but I think the sensible question is whether there are underlying explanations like lower cost offshore support or outsourcing by others that you dont do maybe labor intensity of the businesses you had that they dont.
So I just want to give you an opportunity to speak to that.
Sure Luke.
Thanks.
There is a couple of things that you should factor into your thinking on a comparable basis.
One weve been in-sourcing our application developers where others have been either outsourcing it or moderating it.
They were actually getting more capacity or less dollars in our technology application volume sourcing those capabilities.
And weve laid out some of those numbers for you last week and in prior weeks.
The second issue is we do internally transfer agency businesses both in the U.S.
and in Europe whereas our principal competitor actually does it through a joint venture or outsources it.
Transfer agency services are very labor intensive and therefore if you were to combined the outsourcing or joint venture arrangement with a competitor youd probably find a larger headcount on a percentage basis than we may experience.
Last but not least we do have things like corporate trust and clearing services treasury services that some of our competitors do not have.
They do have a labor component associated with it.
But they are also good operating margin businesses.
So I think thats where the comparable basis starts to bring in a question that headcount versus revenues.
Thats why we are focused on a revenue per employee.
And I think we compare very favorably to other institutions.
Our goal is still to improve in that category and our goal is to still improve the operating leverage of our company.
Thats what we laid out in Investor Day thats what we are committed to delivering.
Great.
Thanks for that.
And then as a follow-up I wonder if you might take a stab at breaking out employees by business or maybe consider adding some disclosures to that and in the future? Okay.
We will give it some thought.
Thanks.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Good morning.
Quick question on FX pretty solid this quarter nice bounce back from last quarter.
Was DR switching to a tailwind here this quarter or was that neutral? And did some of the adjustments that you made to that business that you referenced in your prepared remarks make -- help to make that -- help to impact that revenue line here this quarter? Yes Todd.
Yes.
You had a couple of questions there Brennan.
In terms of DRs DRs were a little stronger in the first quarter and some of that was timing from things that weve seen in the fourth quarter.
So we did get a benefit of that and there is some FX related to corporate actions in DRs.
And so we dig at a pickup there.
And then some of the FX was substantial increases in volumes which is somewhat market related as well as just trying to capture on the systems more of the volumes.
And then the remainder of the pickup was market driven with some of the events in the Swiss and the higher volatility that we saw in the first quarter.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then I know you referenced that you expect the asset management margins to improve on the German divestiture but is it possible to quantify the impact to the margins there? Yes.
Curtis do you want to? Yes.
The marine business was not a huge contributor to our overall pretax and was a large contributor to both revenues and expenses.
But the strategy around our divestiture being that we really do have strong fixed income capabilities in Europe and other boutiques and the business didnt drive a significant amount of pretax such that it made sense to continue to have as much of an offering in Germany as we had there.
So its not going to be a dramatic impact on margins but absolutely positive.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Al.
Todd question for you on the balance sheet actually couple of questions there.
So your comment earlier around putting some of the excess cash to work I was wondering if you guys could quantify that.
We obviously see the mix of the balance sheet kind of moving out of the cash and cash sitting at the fed and to securities portfolio.
How much I guess of the actual deposits you guys could consider moving over time? And should we I guess take that maybe the sign of confidence that you guys are starting to see some of that nonoperational cash becoming operational year-over-year and thats why youre doing that? Yes.
I think A there is greater clarity or there is perfect clarity now around the -- I shouldnt call perfect.
There is better clarity around the LCR Alex which gives us some confidence.
And now the HCM account would be traded under the LCR.
So we have put prudency limits around how far we would go with that.
So if you can see in the quarter I think cash declined by about the size of the increase in the securities portfolio.
We do have a very stable core deposit base well in excess of the amount of cash that we -- or securities that we have in the high quality liquid assets in HTM account.
There is probably a little bit more room for that.
I think most of what you will see us do now is work on both the assets in the non-HQLA to see if we can bump up the yields a little bit in the assets in the HQLA with the same push.
But we are kind of sticking -- we are at 97 basis points in NIM.
Our guidance is 95 to 102 rate environment that we try to stick with that out.
So I think thats probably the best estimate of where we are going to be there.
Got you.
And then a follow-up on just the overall size of the balance sheet so this is the first decline in average earning assets of the size we see from you guys in a while.
I was just curious I guess where is the decline in deposits coming from what kind of decline base is that where is it going just to get some better sense of the moving pieces there? It is not.
As you look at into the details out you will see its not in our deposit base and deposit base is about flat to up slightly where you see it is in other borrowed funds.
And occasionally we do put securities out in repo and we will take advantage of some interest earning opportunities.
There were less of them so we bought down the balance sheet by $10 billion.
That was self-induced by our treasury team.
Got you.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Betsy.
A couple of questions.
One on just an SLR you made a little bit of progress this quarter just wanted to understand how much of the benefit the deconsolidation of those investments you mentioned earlier were going to have if you could refresh our memory on that as well as opportunity to improve maybe sooner rather than later with pref issuance? In terms of the deconsolidation we think its probably in the ballpark of about 2% of the assets.
So if its 2% weve got a 4.5% ratio you can kind of do the arithmetic about 9 or 10 more basis points there Betsy.
Its not a huge mover but every little bit helps and there is -- obviously there is no cost to doing that.
As we disclosed in our CCAR we are giving some consideration to doing a preferred and preferred could be an additional its a cheaper source of capital obviously than common.
And it maybe something that we could do on our path to compliance if we felt it was appropriate based on what we see happening to deposit base.
The deposit base is relatively stable.
It might be up a little bit what was since the end of quantitative easing.
But I think there is going to be some shifting around and the future of the deposit base is going to be a function of how the fed actually conducts its monetary policy.
Great.
Okay.
And then just separately on clearing we heard from JP that things get tougher there is possibility they might fade the clearing business.
I mean how do you think about that how do you think about the future of clearing? Is there any efforts to potentially put clearing into a shared entity -- industry shared entity? I will take part of it and then I will turn it over to Brian Shea.
So Betsy as you know we have sort of two forms of clearing businesses.
One is the institutional side who brought the dealer clearance business where we have a very significant market share.
Its always been a basis for some of our tri-party collateral management capabilities thats allowed us to build our collateral management and enhance in on a global basis.
So its been a core business for us and to differentiate it for us in the marketplace.
As you may know the Federal Reserve is our client in that space is well on the reverse repo program.
So we see it as an important activity.
We are mindful of the fact that central clearing houses and other market participants want to utilize some of those activities but today its a good earner for us.
We are investing in it and its allowing us to bring to market new capabilities.
And our other clearing business which is really a financial advisory solutions platform i.e.
Pershing now we see that as a credibly strategic asset for the company growing very very nicely wealth managers private banks advisories around the world want to utilize that platform to serve the end investor.
Thats a strategic growth asset of our company.
And Brian you may want to add some to it? I think youve done a terrific job.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
I was wondering if you could talk about weve gotten to the point there it seems like we may have seen that turn in professional legal and other services you guys are taking care of a bunch of the litigation.
And I am just wondering if you can give us a line of sight there thats been the second biggest category thats been a pressure on earnings for quite a while.
Are we at an inflection point there? Are you at the point where you can at least feel confident that weve kind of peaked there or starting to turn down? Yes.
I think Ken there are couple of items there.
I mean we -- a lot of our purchase services are things like data sources and information that we used to our business.
Our procurement activities are actually helping us drive some of those services.
We think actually its a little bit more room there.
In terms of the management consulting and some of the consulting expenses that were incurring related to some of our major platform initiatives those will probably be running at the rate that were seeing now or in the ballpark there was quite a spike in the fourth quarter.
We wouldnt expect that to recur but they could be in the same level that they are at today.
Legal is a little bit early to call.
It should be a piece driven with our settlement so we might see some benefit out of that through some of our litigation defenses which also fall on that line.
So I think in the short term I look for it to stay down at this level that we saw come from -- down from in the fourth quarter.
There might be some room going out but I am not going to -- at this point I dont think I really give guidance to a big number yet.
Okay.
And my second question maybe one for Curtis just on the -- in the investment management business Todd hearing your points on the effect of FX but the growth rates even adjusted for the three individual investment management lines are somewhat subdued meaning implies that the fee capture rates look like they are still under some pressure with your mixing still into LDI and out of act of equity.
Just wondering if you can kind of shed some additional light on just continued optimization there and what should we expect thus far is the outlook for fee capture.
Yes.
So fee capture when you blend assets we have fees that are very different in each asset class.
And so what we have seen is the fee capture declines really have been result of the success of our rapidly LDI business.
So LDI again the U.S.
LDI and European UK specifically LDI businesses are somewhat different.
The biggest part of our LDI business is in the U.K.
and Europe through Insight and they have continued to garner assets as pension plans are derisking.
The business -- that business is actually quite active business as youre trying not just to manage against an interest rate liability but also an inflation liability.
They earn both base fees and performance fees.
So when they perform well their fee realization is actually meaningfully higher.
But again whats happening on the total fee capture is that the declines -- we cover this at Investor Day you may remember Ken that it really had a lot to do with the fact our LDI business is growing so rapidly.
But again its not a passive business its very much an active business and much of our performance fees over the past many quarters have been from our LDI business.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Ken.
Thank you.
The next question is from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi.
I have one question with three parts.
At the annual meeting new director Ed Garden said that Bank of New York is focused on being best-in-class in everything we do.
So first are you benchmarking versus best-in-class? Second what is the best-in-class number for ROTCE and the margins for investment management and investment services? And third when you look at best-in-class wouldnt it be more appropriate instead of looking at revenue per employee to look at net income per employee and on that measure it seems like you rank below peer? Thanks.
Thanks Mike.
We certainly aspire to be best-in-class in everything we do.
And to be recognized as the industry leader in the areas we operate in.
We do metric ourselves against the variety of different institutions and a variety of different metrics to try to achieve those goals.
We challenge our teams across the company to aspire to those metrics.
For the public consumption we give you broad metrics.
Its tough to give you every single metric that we operate in the company within.
And so things like fee to expense ratio across investment services you see continuous improvement there.
The revenue per employee is admittedly a broad metric but its an indicative metric of one other things were trying to work towards.
We look at client survey and client satisfaction surveys.
We measure those that we shared with you at the shareholder meeting last week are extremely high scores.
We want to get to 100% Im not sure we will ever get there but those are some of the things were trying to work towards things like straight through processing rates accuracy rates are all things that we measure in investment services.
Investment management side we look at the investment performance of the boutiques and the asset classes versus their fee realization.
So we have a lot of metrics across the company where were aspiring to be the best to everything we do.
Will we always get there? It will be a challenge to get there in every single category but thats certainly our aspiration.
All right.
One follow-up then because last week you did mention the revenue per employee and after getting back to my desk Im looking at net income per employee.
It didnt look quite as good or like underperform peer.
So why is revenue per employee the right metric to look at instead of net income per employee? And also when you sell your German boutique will that help that metric? And can you elaborate on that sale because that seems new? Okay.
Mike whether its revenue per employee or net income per employee I think they are a metric.
But I think the metric ultimately that you need to follow is what is happening to our operating margin and how are we performing because if we in-source or outsource whichever way you go is there is good reason for one company do one way versus another doing it another way.
Ultimately its got to drop to the bottomline.
And I think what youve seen in our performance this quarter a 300 basis point increase in our operating margin is pretty substantial.
And we continue to focus on driving the margin.
We think the strategies ultimately will pay off.
We think the in-sourcing of our application developers not only do we have the intellectual property close to our clients which can make us the best-in-class in terms of providing technology solutions we also have it at a lower cost because we own it.
And thats being reflecting in our technology costs which are declining.
So I think that thats how ultimately you have to measure us because its just too hard to tell exactly whats going on with headcount and how people compute it and whether theyve got contractor in versus full time employees and so forth.
In terms of Meriten Ill turn it over to Curtis.
Yes.
Thanks.
One thing I would want to make sure that we highlighted that we in addition to selling Meriten we also acquired Cutwater.
There is actually a net reduction in staff as a result of that but its not going to meaningfully change any of the metrics that youre looking at Mike.
So that really was a strategic repositioning of our portfolio.
Again we had more fixed income capability in Europe than we felt like we needed.
And we also want to grow Insights terrific LDI capabilities in the U.S.
So partnering them with an excellent firm at Cutwater really was we thought fantastic move.
So I just want to make sure we capture both of those.
And I think Meriten is part in by itself its not going to move the needle a lot.
But as we pour over the portfolio as we change our derivatives businesses we streamlined our capital markets activities as we exited the futures clearing margin as we exited two corporate trusts activities in Japan and Mexico now throw Meriten into that.
As we continue to pore over what makes sense in aggregate theyre starting to move the needle.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brian Bedell with Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Good morning folks.
Hi.
Maybe just following along that path on the actual cost saves from strategic actions.
And maybe if you can just update us on the aggregate level of cost saves on a year-over-year basis that you expect from consolidating some of the back-office platforms in asset servicing like moving to the one platform in custody? Yes.
So Brian this is Brian Shea.
We continue to drive forward with our business improvement process which is transforming for success.
And as Gerald mentioned earlier were going across the board.
So from a business excellence perspective cant just talk about the business portfolio review actions Meriten was the latest in a series.
We continue to drive more leverage across the franchise in terms of enterprise team work.
Were executing on a global location strategy to reposition people to lower cost locations.
Lets talk about the in-sourcing of technology development which not only improves our speeds to market and intellectual capital leverage but it also reduces our costs and reduces our dependency on contractors and consultants.
We are moving forward with the platform consolidations in the latest quarter or in the last month we completed the final stage of our corporate trust replatforming to a new -- to our target platform and that will enable us to retire another large historical legacy platform of the company.
So theres a lots going on.
But the key message Id say is one we gave you a target at Investor Day.
Were going to meet that target and were on track to meet that target.
And the work that were doing is not one-time cost driven its sustainable continuous improvement and so we believe we can continue to drive improvement in this process so over the long-term.
And Brian I would just add that weve learned the lesson of announcing a big program and then delivering on the program and unless it shows up in the operating margin and the operating leverage it doesnt count and its showing up in the operating leverage and the operating margins.
So our margin went up by 300 basis points in the first quarter of last year.
Our fee-to-expense ratio has improved in Investment Services and we produced over 500 basis points of operating leverage.
Those are the facts.
And I would add to that Brian all the actions that were taking to streamline the organization and transformation that Brian just talked about make us a little simpler a little less risky but there are also continue to be significant regulatory requirements for us the resolution planning meeting some of the data requirements that are substantial.
So the regulators continue to increase the bar and we need to be prepared to be able to fund those investments and some of this will drop to the bottomline and some of it will enable us to fund the increasing demands from the regulators.
Great.
Right.
So that remains the wildcard on the regulatory front from the expense perspective its sounds like.
Yes.
And then just to follow up this might be too early to try to figure but you talked a little bit about the NEXEN platform at the shareholder meeting.
Maybe if you could -- is there a way to quantify the competitive advantage if you think you will be able to get from that from new product rollout some of the internal sourcing that you just mentioned say over a two or three-year period from a revenue perspective? Yeah.
I would -- I dont want to give you a specific revenue target but I can say that were committed to be the investment industry technology leader partly in-sourcing strategy that we mentioned is not just around being more cost effective its about transferring domain business knowledge into the technology development team in a way they create the competitive advantage.
NEXEN will be a visible manifestation of that to our clients.
Its a sort of the next-generation technology platform thats going to allow us to connect the various applications across the various businesses and deliver more seamless and state-of-the-art intuitive platform to BNY Mellons clients.
Its going to be -- it is based on the secure cloud-based -- private cloud-based platform which accelerates our speed to market for new capabilities and actually reduces our cost of infrastructure.
It has an EPI marketplace essentially allowing seamless integration with our clients in much so will be an easier firm to do business with and integrate with from a technology perspective.
It will be completely mobile in a way that we deliver.
So any mobile device anywhere anytime people will be able to connect through NEXEN.
It has the equivalent of an app store which means that we are going to be able to easily integrate third-party providers of choice into the platform.
So that we reduce our clients vendor management and integration costs and ultimately it will be the delivery vehicle for our big data solutions which we are already developing delivering to clients in the area of liquidity management collateral management but will allow us to deliver insights to our clients.
So well -- we are rolling this out internally in the beginning this quarter and well start rolling out to customers in the second half of the year for selected businesses and over the course of 2016 we will rollout more broadly to the broader client base.
Hope that helps? Yeah.
Thats pretty color.
Thank you.
Thanks Brian.
Thank you.
The next question is from Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
Hi.
Thanks very much.
Hi Glenn.
A quick question in money market land I'm curious if you feel like you have the product offering set where you wanted to be as we transition next year and what kind of sensitivities you think you are looking at in terms of client bounce migration prime funds the treasury funds and what kind of fee give up and fee waiver give up that might be -- may -- that we are thinking gets recaptured that might not be based on how clients migrate? Hey Glenn.
This is Curtis.
Let me give you the view from the Investor Management perspective and then maybe Todd or Brian talk about it on the other side.
So first of all you are seeing people reposition their money market offerings as we get closer to next years floating rate NAV for institutional prime funds and weve actually been spending a lot of time on that as well.
And so not ready to announce anything just yet but I think it's fair to say that the industry will position itself for what we do believe will be a shift in asset there are a lot of people who currently -- institutional clients that use fixed NAV prime funds that will not be able to have them be in floating in status.
So we know assets are likely to move.
We continuously survey our clients and not just across investment management but the whole company.
We are obviously a very large player here.
And we do believe that -- between the third and 50% of the clients will shift to treasury funds.
And so to answer your questions about what that means from a fee waiver perspective I actually has -- its very significant where interest rates are when that occurs fee waivers are more challenging in treasury funds.
And so if in October of 2016 interest rates havent moved there will be a negative impact from fee waivers from that activity.
One of the other thing it is somewhat offsetting that though and youve seen some banks begin SLR is having an impact changing their views on deposits and so we have absolutely seen hedge funds and other clients who would have left the deposits on bank balance sheets move those two money market funds.
And so we are actually in the first quarter across our platform and within investment management we saw balances remained relatively stable the seasonality would have suggested that they would have been down somewhat.
So there is a growth in money market funds occurring as a result of regulation so there are some countervailing at play here.
Yeah.
So I think going for the company as a whole that if interest rates were to stay at zero and you did see a movement for prime again lets talk with what Curtis just indicated is the movement you are seeing into treasury funds not necessarily coming from prime right now its coming from bank deposits.
But if in the event as we -- as we move forward money market would fund reform we would expect prime to go to more toward treasury.
And that -- if interest rates stayed at zero that would be a negative for us because there is lower yield in treasury and therefore they are going to be a modest increase in fee waivers as a result of that.
If interest rates normalize than the recovery track of fee waivers would be as weve described.
Got it.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
And then just one little catch up on occupancy cost.
You mentioned that we couldn't see the double occupancy cost in first quarter.
I just want to make sure they were there but they were offsetting items because I would just want to make sure we are modeling second third and fourth quarter correctly for the...? Id love to -- let me clarify that and make it absolutely clear.
So yes we do -- we are paying the double rent.
We had a little benefit from currency translation.
We also had a little benefit from our outsourcing of maintenance which falls through that occupancy expense line.
And in addition some of the costs associated with the move have not been reflected in that line.
So I think the best guidance I could give we had indicated that we thought the line would be up about $30 million for the full year its probably best to think of it at about that amount.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Maybe just a quick follow-up on the deposit discussion obviously given leverage constraints across the industry its sort of a difficult problem for everybody.
How do we think about it long-term up -- is it more that hey we cant really tell our clients what to do because we don't want to lose relationships and push deposits down like a JPMorgan and longer term the economics with higher rates you kind of get to a crossover point where you actually earn your cost of capital on those deposits? Is that sort of the strategy that -- or is there something more proactive you can do to push down leverage and move into money markets.
So just wondering if there's any kind of constraints on money markets for a lot of corporate treasures if they have a risk of being locked up for 30 days and things like that? Well why dont I start and Ill turn it over to Todd.
Well its a very dynamic situation.
Supplemental leverage phases in and we work our way towards it.
Obviously the level of the balance sheet becomes increasingly more important.
Wed like to earn some money on those deposits in the short run.
We are watching our deposit base and our client activity.
We clearly want to try to drive the deposit base towards operational deposits which are having more favorable treatment.
We are educating all of our teams around the company around client activity and whether it's operational deposits or not and therefore the value associated with that.
That helps us engage with our clients better and really drive better outcomes for our clients and ourselves.
So its a very dynamic situation.
We are very engaged with our clients on it where we think its appropriate as weve done in Europe where we are charging for deposits we are but we are modeling this and watching it very carefully.
Yeah.
Jim I would just add to that that its hard to predict how deposits are going to move until you are clear about what the Fed monetary policy is going to be.
So if they are drained in a traditional way which would be through reverse repo then we would think deposits would be -- would run off and it would be price based.
Another alternative is literally just to price them.
So there are going to be non-operational deposits which mean they arent very attractive under the LCR.
And I think banks will be not willing to pay a lot for them especially if they are somewhat constrained by the SLR ratio.
In the event net interest rates rise and those deposits want to stick with institutions that are very strong institutions there will be a cross over at 60 or 70 basis points that looks pretty attractive as a return on capital even just leaving it at the Fed.
So there might be a point where you probably race in for further capital just to keep the balance sheet -- keep them on the balance sheet to make it very -- actually a zero risk return but a decent return on regulatory capital.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
That's very helpful.
And then may be a quickie on the net share count.
I think you -- last year's buyback I think net of employee stock issue was about I guess at 35% 40% dilution.
Is that the way to think about it going forward or should we think about the employee issuance is more of a fixed cost and as the buyback increases the net share count reduction improves? Its relatively stable.
So youll see a little bit of a higher one as the buyback increases but not a lot.
So you should still I think think in the same terms that you just mentioned that there will be share issuance with the employees.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thats kind of a ballpark.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from Adam Beatty with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you and good morning.
A couple of questions on Investment Management specifically on the multi-affiliate model.
I appreciate your comments so far on Meriten and Cutwater and Insight.
Just more broadly across the affiliate portfolio is there additional streamlining that you're thinking about? Are there capabilities that you're looking to add or maybe some affiliates that are subscale? Just more broadly how are you thinking about the affiliate portfolio? Thanks.
Yes.
So one of the things that we announce recently was the formation of a actually a new investment boutique from start with the state of Texas as a cornerstone investor.
We actually launched a firm called Amherst Capital and its designed in many ways to benefit from a lot of regulatory change that we are talking about where banks are having to hold more capital much of the changes in real estate finance have been impacted by that.
And so that boutique will actually manage funds in real estate finance as result of this change.
And so thats an example of the kind of thing where we are continuously looking for places where we believe our clients can earn some very attractive returns relative to their liabilities and also to their needs.
And so we -- one way that we manage our portfolio was by starting new things launching new things.
And it was a great thing to have a very well-known sizable institutional client launch that with us.
On the other hand the Meriten sale very much was looking at our portfolio and seeing the great growth that weve seen from other investment firms in our mix and so both Insight Standish Alcentra Newton even had some very good European fixed income capabilities.
So when we feel like our capabilities get to the point that there is more attractive owner of the firm we have sold it.
And in the past we closed firms that become subscale and didnt deliver the investment performance were always looking to find those investment capabilities that we think are excellent that fit meets that we think our clients have and that are in line with market trends such as I described around the Amherst.
It is a continuous process.
I will tell you that we are not traders of our investment boutiques.
I want to make sure that we dont send that message because the truth of the matter is we are trying to have investment lineup that satisfies the complete solutions for our vast global client base.
And again the Meriten enterprise by itself is not our core strategy of ours to sell firms but really just made more sense to do something different.
The Cutwater acquisition again expanding pension derisking capabilities into the U.S.
is a major market trend and thats why we made that acquisition.
Makes sense.
Thank you for the color.
And then just turning to the equity capability which stands out a little bit from an otherwise strong franchise on those terms are there product gaps that maybe you're looking to fill? Is it a question of current products maybe being out-of-favor or mainly a performance issue? I know you've done some work on distribution and how is that coming to fruition? Yes.
Thanks for that question.
Its a good one.
Again most of the assets under management that we have are with institutional clients who are very disciplined around rebalancing.
And so as equity markets have performed well the client base that we have is very thoughtful about managing their overall asset allocation.
And so rebalancing has absolutely been a big part of the trend weve seen not just this quarter but in previous quarter.
If we look across the industry and some of what we see in retirement channels and in retail channels that have been -- there has been less volatility.
There are actually inflows into some equity products and a lot of the investment weve been making in our wealth management business and in our U.S.
retail intermediary business have been around being able to capture those flows.
And just year-over-year I can tell U.S.
retail across all products had a very nice uptick about 60% increase in sales.
And our wealth management business is also showing some very nice growth.
In active equity weve seen some impact at the institutional level where clients have moved from active to passive.
Id tell you that about a third of what weve seen in our business in this quarter was a move from active to passive.
So thats a dynamic at play as well.
Thats very helpful.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Our final question today is from Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous Research.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the question.
At the Investor Day you talked about 11% to 12% range for the Basel III Tier 1 common ratio.
Clearly even with the reversal of the operational risk here you're going to be a bit below that.
Are you still thinking about that 11% to 12% range as the right number or do you think its kind of shifted down? No Geoff.
I think as I mentioned in my prepared remarks the impact of the increase in the operational risk capital will be offset by the deconsolidation of certain assets as we believe we are going to be an early adopter of the consolidation standards.
So that will bring us back closer to the 10% range and then there will be some natural accretion of capital as we both increase our SLR requirements.
And we like to be about it.
I think being optimal is being about 2x.
So if we have 5.5% of the SLR based capital leverage capital that would probably put us in about at 11% or so for a common equity Tier 1.
So Id still keep it pretty close to the range of 11% to 12%.
And then just a quick question on the numbers.
There was a big increase in non-controlling interest to $90 million and there was also a big step up in the income from consolidated investment management funds.
It sounded like you were saying there was some sort of hedging effect that drove that but I just wanted to make sure I understood what was going on.
Yeah.
This refers back to the consolidation of the variable interest entities that we are just talking about in the balance sheet.
So effectively what happens when we have a small interest in our fund we have to consolidate the entire fund.
And as we consolidate that we recognized the revenue not only from our own small interest but of our clients.
And then we take that revenue -- so in the first quarter it did very well.
So it went up substantially and our clients saw much more in the form of revenue that we typically see.
And if we go through the balance sheet youll see there is deduction on an after-tax basis of that minority interest.
And so what it looks like is we have a large pre-tax income and therefore have a very low tax rates and thats not our income doesnt get included in the tax rate but in effect its best just to take the way we report our numbers on an adjusted basis.
Thats why we didnt say our revenue grew 6% which is what the GAAP number was.
It actually grew 4% because we took the client revenue out of the revenue line.
As we adopt the new standard well get a lot less noise from that because it will eliminate most of what you see coming through there.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Thank you very much everyone.
And we really appreciated you dialing in.
If you have further questions please give Valerie Haertel a call and we look forward to catching up with you soon.
Thank you.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Ms.
Valerie Haertel at 212-635-8529.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the second quarter 2015 earnings conference call hosted by BNY Mellon.
(Operator Instructions) Please note that this conference call and webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellon's consent.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Valerie Haertel.
Ms.
Haertel you may begin.
Thank you Joey.
Good morning and welcome everyone to the BNY Mellon second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO; as well as other members our executive management team.
Our second quarter earnings materials include a financial highlights presentation that will be referred to in a discussion of our results and can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Before Gerald and Todd begin let me take a moment to remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement in the earnings press release the financial highlights presentation and those identified in the documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements on this call speak only as of today July 21 2015 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Gerald.
Thanks Valerie and welcome everyone.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
Our results reflect the successful execution of our strategic priorities to achieve the three year target we shared on Investor Day.
We are growing our earnings investing in next generation operating platforms and risk management controls attracting new clients and improving the long term value of our firm for the benefit of our clients and shareholders.
Now turning to earnings earnings per share were $0.73 or $0.77 per share after adjusting for the previously announced litigation expense and restructuring charges.
On an adjusted basis earnings per share were up 24% year-over-year.
Now focusing on our year-over-year comparisons on an adjusted basis.
Total revenue was up 3% as we saw strength in Asset Servicing Global Collateral Services and Clearing and improvement in our market sensitive businesses.
Our markets group in particular had another excellent quarter helping to drive growth in investment services and the improvement in our return on tangible common equity.
Net interest revenue was also a strong contributor to results this quarter.
Total expenses were down 1% and we delivered more than 460 basis points of positive operating leverage and improved our pre-tax operating margin to 33% by executing on our revenue growth initiatives and through continued expense control.
Our return on tangible common equity in the quarter increased to 22% and we continued to deliver significant value to our shareholders by returning more than $1 billon in dividends and share repurchases during the quarter.
Now looking at our progress against certain strategic priorities.
Our first priority is driving profitable revenue growth.
We are laser focused on leveraging our firms capabilities to strengthen and expand our existing client relationships and selectively building new ones.
Investment Services revenues benefited from the areas where weve been investing that is Asset Servicing Global Collateral Services and clearing.
Now the investments we are making in strategic technology platforms and applications are clearly paying off and our solutions are resonating with clients.
We won a significant middle office contract to service $770 billion in assets for a prominent investment manager.
That win was part of a strong new business quarter for Investment Services.
Now while our costs will increase in the short run as we prepare to onboard this new business our platforms are designed to be leveraged by a broader client base and to take advantage of our economies of scale.
Foreign exchange revenue was also up strongly year-over-year as we continue to benefit from both higher volatility and volumes captured through the expansion of our services.
Now we also strive to deliver a great client experience which is critical to driving revenues.
Third party recognition of our capabilities continued.
We took the top spot in this years Global Investor ISF Global Custody Survey in EMEA and single custody weighted categories.
We also topped the weighted rankings for clients with assets under management greater than $3 billion in the Global EMEA and Asia Pacific categories.
We were named the best ETF service provider in the Americas for the ninth year in a row by Exchangetradedfunds.com.
And we were named custodian of the year for Latin America in the Custody Risk Americas Award which recognized the growth in quality of the custody service we launched in Brazil less than three years ago.
Now turning to Investment Management we continue to make progress on several key initiatives.
We are already seeing positive results from expanding our reach to the US retail investors as our investment strategies to becoming more visible on third party platforms.
In addition we are connecting with our Pershing financial advisory clients.
In fact the private banking growth weve seen in Wealth Management with Pershing clients is a powerful example of our ability to leverage the synergy between investment services and Investment Management for the benefit of our clients.
Our initiative to grow our Wealth Management presence in attractive new locations is beginning to add to our revenue growth there as well.
Now switching to Asset Management our LDI strategies continue to see strong inflows as do inflows into alternative assets continuing the trend of the last few quarters.
Both are areas where we are working to expand our presence.
Now while weve made significant progress on those fronts it was not enough to offset the industry-wide impact of active institutional equity outflows.
In fact while we had a total net long-term outflows of $15 billion two non-US institutional clients drove $20 billion of the outflows as they liquidated holdings to address cash needs and changes in in their investment strategies.
On the investment performance front during the quarter the strength of our capabilities was recognized through a number of awards.
Insight Investment was named LDI Manager of the Year and Fixed Income Manager of the Year and Newton the SRI Provider of the Year by the European Pension Awards.
Insight was also named LDI manager of the year for the third consecutive year by the CIO European Innovation Awards.
And ARX was named Top Brazilian Managers by the Standard &amp; Poors for the fifth consecutive year.
Now our second broad priority is executing on our business improvement process.
Our success on this front is reflected in lower expenses in nearly all categories.
We are making continued headway on reducing structural costs and risks while improving the productivity and quality and its clearly showing up in our results.
From a structural standpoint we continue to optimize our business mix.
We shut down our central securities depository and began to reposition our UK transfer agency business because they simply did not meet our return criteria.
We made progress in streamlining our Investment Management operations in APAC and also made a tough decision to shut down our separately managed account offering for now.
Its a solution that we were really excited about and we are not ruling out the possibility of re-establishing it down the road.
But when we didnt gain the traction on the market that we expected we held to our discipline.
During the quarter we renegotiated certain vendor contracts and made progress in reducing data storage costs in our real estate footprint as we continue to improve the profitability of our business.
Now our third priority centers on being a strong safe and trusted counterparty.
Weve reduced and simplified our counterparty exposure by exiting the derivatives business.
We practically eliminated the intra-day credit risk within the US tri-party repo market and we submitted our fourth annual global resolution plan to the FDIC and the Fed.
Now we are one of the few banks that propose a tried and proven resolution strategy involving the use of a bridge bank run by the FDIC something we can do because of our inherently smaller and more liquid balance sheet versus other G-SIBs.
Now to be able to deliver on this plan we have made commitments to fund more than 30 initiatives over the next two years.
Its expensive but it will make us even more resilient company in the future.
Our fourth priority involves generating excess capital and deploying it effectively.
We are focused on ensuring our capital ratios are compliant with evolving regulatory requirements.
During the quarter we successfully issued $1 billion in preferred stock which further strengthened our capital position and enabled us to repurchase more than 800 million in shares and distribute almost $200 million in dividends.
Our fifth priority is to attract and retain and develop top talent.
During the quarter we had a talent and corporate trust to position us to capitalize on the increased debt issuance market and regain some momentum there.
We added staff to support our strategic growth initiatives and we also continued to insource the people who power our technology productivity cost and speed to market initiatives.
As we look ahead we are confident in our ability to achieve our three year investor day goals and to deliver even more value to our clients.
With that let me turn it over to Todd.
Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
As in the past my commentary will follow the financial highlights document so if we start with page seven that details our non-GAAP or what we call our operating results for the quarter.
As Gerald noted EPS was $0.77 up 24% from the year ago quarter.
Revenue in the second quarter was approximately 3% year-over-year and 2% sequentially and that reflected growth across most of our business with particular strength in asset servicing especially global collateral services as well as in clearing services foreign exchange and our financing related activities.
Expenses were down 1% year-over-year and 1% sequentially as our business improvement process and the stronger US dollar are driving lower expenses in almost every category.
Our ability to grow revenue and control expenses resulted in more than 460 basis points of positive operating leverage year-over-year.
As you can see on page six of the earnings release the pound was down 9% and thats on a year-over-year basis versus the dollar and the euro was down 19%.
Weve estimated that the stronger US dollar reduced both our revenue and expenses by approximately 300 basis points and had a slightly negative impact on net income.
Now the business that was most impacted was Investment Management while currency had less of an impact on Investment Services.
We expect the strength of the US dollar to continue to impact Investment Management more than Investment Services since about 43% of Investment Management revenue comes from outside the US and its non-dollar while the impact to the overall company is expected to be nominal.
Income before income taxes was up 14% year-over-year and 12% sequentially.
On a year-over-year basis our pretax margin increased approximately 300 basis points to 33% and thats from 30% in the second quarter of last year.
Return on tangible common equity was over 22%.
Now page eight shows consolidated fee and other revenue.
Asset servicing fees were up 4% year-over-year and 2% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects organic growth especially in Global Collateral Services and net new business partially offset by a stronger US dollar.
The sequential increase primarily reflects organic growth and seasonally higher securities lending revenue.
Clearing services fees were up 6% year-over-year and 1% sequentially.
The increase from the second quarter of 2014 was driven by higher mutual fund and asset based fees clearance revenue and custody fees.
Issuer service fees were up 1% year-over-year and also 1% sequentially.
Both increases reflect higher depository receipt results partially offset by lower Corporate Trust fees.
As weve noted previously the Corporate Trust revenue decline has stabilized and we actually are encouraged by the current pipeline.
Treasury services fees were up 2% year-over-year and 5% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase reflects higher payment volumes while the sequential increase reflects the fact that there were three additional business days in the quarter.
Second quarter Investment Management performance fees were down 1% year-over-year but on a constant currency basis they were up 5%.
And that was reflecting higher equity market values the impact of the first quarter Cutwater acquisition which was partially offset by lower performance fees.
We had performance fees of $20 million compared to our very strong $29 million last year.
FX and other trading revenue on a consolidated basis was up 44% year-over-year and down 18% sequentially.
FX revenue of $181 million was up 40% year-over-year 17% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase reflects the higher volatility higher volumes and higher DR related activity.
The sequential decrease primarily reflects the benefits of unusually high market volatility in the first quarter of this year.
Financing related fees were $58 million compared to$ 44 million in the year ago quarter and $40 million in Q1.
Both increases reflect higher fees related to secured intra-day credit provided to dealers in connection with their tri-party repo activity.
Now these fees probably wont grow beyond Q3 as we expect clients to moderate their usage or possibly find alternative sources for this financing.
Investment and other income of $104 million was $38 million lower year-over-year and $44 million higher sequentially.
The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects lower other revenue equity investment revenue and asset related gains and that was partially offset by higher leasing gains.
The sequential increase reflects the higher lease residual gains offset by lower seed capital.
Looking ahead to future quarters given the sale of Wing Hang and some other actions that weve taken we expect investment in Other Income on average to be in the range of $60 million to $80 million.
However we would expect there to be some volatility in this particular line item.
Page nine shows the drivers around Investment Management business that will help explain our underlying performance.
You can see the 5% year-over-year AUM increase and the $15 billion of long-term outflows in the quarter.
As Gerald noted well we in the industry have been experiencing outflows in active equities over the last few quarters.
We have seen a few very large non-US institutional clients both rebalancing and liquidating parts of their portfolio which has magnified the impact this quarter.
Partially offsetting the activity the active equity outflows were flows into higher fee alternative assets and LDI a trend weve seen for the last few quarters and has been a continued focus for our business -- will be for our business going forward.
At this time the higher proportion of active equity outflows versus the alternative in LDI inflows has resulted in a lower fee mix.
Our Wealth Management business continues to grow benefitting from our expansion initiative.
Weve now completed the investment phase of this initiative and are beginning to see revenue growth as well as an associated increase in loans and deposits.
Turning to our Investment Services metrics on page 10 you can see that assets under custody and administration at quarter end were $28.6 trillion.
Thats up $100 billion year-over-year and thats reflecting higher market values organic growth and it was partially offset by the stronger US dollar.
On a linked quarter AUC/A was in line with last quarter.
Adjusted for currency year-over-year growth would have been roughly 3%.
We had estimated total new assets under custody and administration business wins in the second quarter of $1 trillion.
Now that does not include a recently announced expansion of services to an existing client that has about $140 billion in assets a deal which closed after the quarter end.
We were pleased to see that our investments in our services to clients have been paying off and is being recognized in the marketplace.
The market value of securities on loans at period end was up slightly year-over-year.
Average loans and deposits were both up significantly.
Our key broker-dealer metric of average tri-party repo balances grew 8%.
All of our clearing metrics recorded nice gains DARTS volumes in particular and the net decline in sponsored DR program reflects our focus on exiting low activity programs.
If you turn to net interest revenue on page 11 youll see that NIR on a fully taxable equivalent basis was up 8% versus the year ago quarter and 7% from Q1.
We benefited year-over-year from a shift out of cash and into loans and securities and increase in deposits nice to see a lower interest expense incurred on those deposits and also the positive impact of interest hedging activities.
The yield on interest earning assets decreased to two basis points year-over-year while the yield on interest bearing deposits decreased four basis points.
The decline in the deposit yield was driven by our efforts to charge clients on Euro denominated deposits primarily.
The net interest margin for the quarter was 100 basis points two basis points higher than the year ago quarter and three basis points higher than the prior quarter driven by the reduction in rates paid on interest earning deposits.
On page 12 youll see that non-interest expense on an adjusted basis decreased by 1% year-over-year and 1% sequentially.
The year-over-year decrease reflects lower expenses in all categories except business development.
The lower expense primarily reflects a favorable impact of the strong dollar and the benefit of our business improvement process.
Total staff expenses essentially flat year-over-year reflecting the impact of the dollar lower headcount and the impact of curtailing our US defined benefit plan partially offset by higher performance driven incentives.
The year-over-year decline in headcount reflects the progress of our business improvement process.
The sequential increase of 200 employees reflects insourcing and revenue initiatives as well as new hires to support new business and asset servicing and Corporate Trust and strategic platform investments in asset manager alternative asset manager and Global Wealth Programs.
Our occupancy costs have not risen as we expected.
The additional costs such as paying double rent for our move out of One Wall Street have been offset by a number of factors including the strength of the dollar lower utility costs we sublet more vacant space and the reduction of maintenance cost.
Were on target to vacate One Wall Street before the end of the third quarter and expect an improvement in the occupancy line beginning in the first quarter of 2016.
Now turning to capital on page 13.
With respect to our capital ratios as we highlighted in our last earnings call we adopted the new consolidations accounting standard during the second quarter which require retrospective adoption to January 1 thus requiring us to revise our Q1 reported numbers.
The adoption resulted in a benefit to Q1 of about 75 basis points increasing it to 9.9%.
The Q2 2015 ratio is flat at 9.9.
A few notes about the quarter.
As youll see in our release our effective tax rate was 23.7% 1.4% lower than the income statement presentation of Investment Management funds.
On an adjusted basis our tax rate was 25%.
Also in the earnings release on page 11 are some investment securities portfolio highlights.
You will see that -- I'm sorry I'm losing my voice here.
You will see net unrealized pre-tax gain on portfolio of $752 million ending up with a hit to our capital of about $300 million.
Now I'd like to factor in a few points about the second half of the year.
Third quarter earnings are generally impacted by seasonal -- I'm going to turn it over to Izzy.
Following on our third quarter earnings.
As you are aware third quarter earnings are generally impacted by a seasonal slowdown in transaction volumes and market related revenues particularly foreign exchange Global Collateral Services and securities lending offset by seasonally higher activities in DR.
We see expenses coming in flat to slightly down to 2014 for the full year which will entail an increase in the run rate in the remaining quarters reflecting the investment in our strategic platforms increased regulatory compliant costs and the annual merit increase with respect to July 1.
Net interest revenue is expected to be slightly down to Q2 assuming no change in monetary policy.
The full year effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 26%.
We anticipate proceeding with our capital plan enabling us to return up to $3.1 billion to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends subject to market conditions and other factors.
In summary we are executing against our strategic priorities.
Were continuing to improve our bottom line and generate significant positive operating leverage and we remain confident in our ability to hit our three year investor day target.
With that on behalf of Todd let me hand it back to Gerald.
Great.
Thanks Izzy for finishing up.
Todd is alive and well trust me.
With that -- well hes certainly alive.
With that why dont we open it up to questions? [Operator Instructions] The first question is coming from the line of Luke Montgomery from Bernstein Research.
Your line is open sir.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
So broadly I'm just wondering how you're feeling about the sustainability of the progress youve made on expenses in operating margin.
I think clearly some of that is driven by FX translation but you've now exceeded the high end of the range of your 30% to 32% longer-term operating margin target and that was in a normalized environment.
I'd say the same for your 20% to 22% target and we have yet to see rates increase.
At this point would you feel comfortable revising these targets a bit higher? Have you considered that at all? Let me start with that.
We do feel good about the progress we are making on our business improvement process and pulling it through into the income statement to the bottom line.
We are onboarding some new clients and theres some upfront cost associated with that.
We do have increased regulatory costs that we are facing in the second half of this year.
I think we are going to stick with our guidance of having expenses essentially flat versus last year.
And we are going to work to continue to improve upon that but we do have some opportunities to bring on some clients that have some upfront costs associated with it.
We feel good about hitting the targets that we laid out for investor day.
We are within the ranges and we are going to keep driving forward on meeting those targets.
Okay thanks.
Hey Luke I would add one thing.
Weve had the benefit of a good revenue mix here.
So some higher margin businesses improved faster than we had anticipated at investor day.
Okay.
And then maybe if you could give us a rough indication of the additional expenses for the T.
Rowe outsourcing mandate you won and then when do you expect that business to convert and be reflected in revenue? Also maybe talk about whether that deal reflects any change in the trends in the marketplace for fund accounting or was it more of a one-off opportunistic deal? A couple of questions in there.
We will start to -- weve already started to incur some of the expenses associated with T.
Rowe as we speak.
We are talking on board some of their staff which we are delighted to do.
Youre seeing some of the upfront costs associated with the onboarding of that business now and youll see it through the course of this year.
And then youll start to see the revenues kick in towards the end of this year first part of next year as we convert over the assets.
We do actually see it as a long term trend where investment managers in general are really trying to focus on their investment management process and less focused on providing -- doing the mid-office and back office services internally.
We do see it as a long term trend.
We want to be very thoughtful about which clients we take on and make sure were leveraging our platforms and driving profitable revenue growth for ourselves rather than just taking on any one at any time.
T.
Rowe is a fantastic client.
Its a great partnership.
We worked on this together for well over a year and we think we have a good rapport with them and a very similar culture.
We feel good about this one.
Okay thanks a lot.
The next question is coming from the line of Glenn Schorr from Evercare ISI.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
I'm just curious if you can give some sort of summary comment on what happened to asset sensitivity during the quarter.
It's great to see all the growth on balance sheets both deposits and loans.
I think you were in the process over the last two quarters of extending duration a little bit but if you could just tie that all together that would be super.
Sure Glenn.
Ill try to take it.
Its Todd.
The sensitivity NIR sensitivity is going to be about flat from where we were in the first quarter.
We had put a fair amount of securities on late in the first quarter and we got the benefit of the NIR mostly in the second quarter and actually securities at the end of the period were down slightly.
I think youll see the asset sensitivity to be basically unchanged where we were in the first quarter.
Theres a lot of things that went on with NIR.
Actually the duration of our available for sale accounts declined slightly and weve used the held to maturity account.
Thats where most of the duration of the assets now is.
About half the risk is in each so that we can protect the capital account.
But we saw a lot of things go on in the quarter.
We saw higher balances.
We did see the loan growth that you talked about.
We saw a sharp drop in the interest that we paid on deposits.
We also had the benefit that accretion on the non-agency securities did not decline as the performance of those securities increased so we would have expected that.
We had some hedging gains.
So we dont anticipate that NIR is bumped up to this level.
We dont expect to grow.
In fact we expect it to contract a little bit unless interest rates change.
Okay that's great.
Thanks.
And then curious on even after the restatement of the capital ratios let's call it a function of 10% your buffer is now officially 100 basis points.
Even with a very wide 200 basis point AOCI buffer on buffer that brings you to right about where you're at now.
Do you still feel the 11% to 12% is the right range or could we see that work down over time? Yeah.
The binding constraint for us Glenn is not the risk weighted assets.
It is the SLR.
So as we build the SLR; we would expect the CET1 to grow.
We will stick with the previous guidance.
Got it.
Okay thanks very much.
The next question is coming from the line of Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead sir.
I'll try to keep this quick Todd to save your voice.
A couple of follow-ups on NII.
A could you just define the hedging gains to get us a cleaner run rate for NII for the quarter to think for the third quarter? And then just kind of bigger picture question when you continue to see growth in your deposits maybe a couple of comments on where do you guys think it's coming from and again do you still think that there's not a ton of room to reinvest them into securities alone.
So this has a positive mix shift in the balance sheet that we've seen from you guys over the last couple of quarters is probably a full in run rate.
Is that a fair way to summarize the NII picture? Yeah.
I think the answer to your last question is yes.
I think thats a fair way to summarize it.
In terms of the hedging gains accretion had been contracting at about $3 million to $5 million a quarter so it didnt.
So the combination of accretion and hedging gains is probably in the $10 million ballpark and we expect the balance sheet to be about flat.
Got you.
And then just my follow-up on expenses just to step back again when you guys talked about expenses being flat on a year-over-year basis given the amount of new business you picked up this quarter and the timing of the onboarding is it still fair to think that 2015 expenses are going to be in that $11 billion run rate? Alex the guidance weve given I would say its going to be flat to slightly down from our operating expenses in 2014.
That does mean the run rate will pick up in the second half for all the items that we discussed whether its the merit increase the onboarding.
We are taking on a couple of hundred people soon to the regulatory costs that weve been talking about.
All and all we would still for the full year expect to be flat.
Previously guidance was made flat to slightly up.
We are a little more optimistic it might be flat to slightly down.
Great.
Thanks very much.
The next question is coming from the line of Ashley Serrao from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
First question just on Investment Management I appreciate all the color you gave on the positive attraction of your various growth initiatives.
But wanted to get a sense of where you are versus your plan as far as the investment curve goes.
And then how should we be thinking about the payoff to the plan laid out at Investor Day? Ashley its Curtis Arledge.
Can I just ask you what you mean by investment curve? I want to make sure I understand the question.
That would be the investment of the margins that you outlined.
Yeah okay.
At investor day we described [indiscernible] our Wealth Management business in our US intermediary distribution platform and some other initiatives.
And as Gerald mentioned those are actually going quite well.
Our Wealth Management expansion is now complete.
Weve added about a 50% increase in our sales force and weve seen revenues that have actually come in above our original plans.
On the US retail side weve made a number of investments and changes and our sales there are actually pretty attractive.
Weve seen a boost north of 50% in growth sales in our US retail intermediary platforms which includes the real exciting part about being connected to Pershing because Pershing obviously their relationships with financial advisors is important to that effort as well.
The private banking piece of our initiative as Gerald also mentioned is really starting to work.
We feel pretty good about getting the revenues that came with the investments that we were making that we talked about at investor day.
Okay appreciate the color there.
And then during the quarter JPMorgan exited its third-party broker-dealer clearing business.
I just wanted to get your sense on how are you thinking about the business.
Should we expect Pershing to pick up share? And then in a similar vein how are you thinking about your stake in ConvergEx? Brian why dont you take the JPMorgan Pershing Question? Okay sure.
You can see from Pershings metrics overall that we have pretty good momentum in revenue.
In terms of our new business pipeline we are certainly benefiting from JPMorgans decision to exit and we are attracting quite a number of those clients to our platform some of which well be converting quite a few of which well be converting to our platform in the third quarter.
If you look at the overall metrics the fundamental asset gathering statistics mutual fund positions total client assets in custody prime brokerage lending and margin balances are a custody all the way through.
We have solid growth in the Pershing business unit so we feel good about that business.
Regarding ConvergEx we just have a small equity piece in that firm and its something weve had for a long period of time and we just continue to track it.
Okay thanks for taking my questions and congrats on the quarter.
The question is coming from the line of Ken Usdin from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead sir.
Hi good morning.
Todd I was wondering on the capital front now that SLR is pushed out of CCAR for another year and given the potential for rates to go up I was wondering can you talk to us about how much excess deposits you had on hand and then your trade-off of considering your more preferred issuance in the capital structure.
Yeah.
We would estimate Ken that theres probably about $50 billion to $70 billion of excess deposits but what ultimately will happen with those deposits is going to depend on the course of monetary policy.
So we are poring through our balance sheet to prioritize where we are most efficient with it and actions that we might take against the balance sheet.
If those deposits -- if rates were to rise and those deposits were not to lead we think we would be a heavier issue of preferred and would get a pretty reasonable return on that preferred.
We may be in a preferred market as we were this past quarter where we issued $1 billion.
We have a fair amount of space to do more.
It really will depend on how things play out.
It just means that for 2016 the CCAR will not have to consider the SLR but we still have to prove to ourselves the path to compliance because we are still 40 basis points below the 5% target.
We need a cushion above that.
And so where's the fine line between go no go on that? Is it a rate of Fed funds so like the earnings capacity on that excess deposit if they stay around? Like where's your break even decision tree on that? Yeah its a fairly low yield.
Fed funds go to six year 70 basis points and youve got that kind of a margin its a very attractive return on your equity.
Okay got it.
And then second follow-up issuer services.
You mentioned just the stability that you've started to see.
Can you just give us some underlying trends inside those businesses? And I know we do see the typical seasonality but the last few years have been anything but typical.
So just help us understand what kind of lift we should expect to see in the back half.
Yeah this is Brian Shea.
The issuer services business includes both corporate trust and DR.
As Todd mentioned and weve been signaling for some time that we thought we see a moderation in the run off of high value securitizations and corporate trust and that the revenue decline that weve experienced over the past few years would moderate and flatten out and thats exactly what we are seeing happen at this point.
On the DR side that business is obviously a capital markets driven business and it has volatility associated with it but its had good year to date performance and we expect a similar seasonality possibly in the third quarter this year.
So far so good.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Brian Bedell from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Good morning folks.
Maybe just to start on the T.
Rowe deal.
In looking at that I guess more strategically as you think about the longer-term operating margins on either that deal or that business in general youre obviously starting to bring it revenues by year-end.
When do you expect that that particular investment to be or that deal to be operating margin positive? And then how do you think about that deal and/or that business from an operating margin perspective longer term versus your overall Asset Servicing business? This is Brian Shea.
The transition of the T.
Rowe Price team about 225 people to BNY Mellon we expect to take place in August so starting next month.
That will be followed by a fund accounting conversion nine to 12 months out and then a middle office platform conversion roughly a year after that.
Its a long term arrangement and its the largest middle office client asset manager client thats committed to us.
But you should know that we are driving a shared economy to scale model and a much more standardized leverageable platform.
We have about 40 middle office clients today.
This is the single biggest one we have and we think its a real validation of our strategy in the platform that we are putting in place to serve more.
Fundamentally we feel that there is a way to create shared economies of scale in this model that havent historically been created by custodians and we are executing a strategy to bring technology strategy to create that leverage.
But there is a fundamental trend where asset managers just like other financial institutions in a high regulatory change lower growth environment are getting back to basics and fundamentally focusing on the investment process as their value proposition and relying more on firms like us to verbalize their middle office costs and actually their front office technology cost.
We are going to be driving a strategy to drive more end to end solutions for investment managers and alternative investment managers and I think it will be a positive driver of our long-term results and we have a very significant pipeline of middle office clients and were being careful and selective about which assignments we take on.
The other thing I would add Brian is that were not relying on foreign exchange securities lending other quote high margin business to make this transaction profitable.
We have priced it and were building the operating platforms such that it is profitable on its own.
Great thats really helpful color.
I appreciate that.
And then maybe just on the  just to verify the expense outlook again making sure I have the base right it is $11 billion for the guidance for 2015 for flat expenses? What weve guided is that our operating expenses last year were about $10.7 billion $10.65 billion.
And Brian what weve guided is that well be relatively flat to that number.
Okay great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey thanks good morning.
A couple of questions one on the Investment Management metrics page.
Youve got your AUM outflows as well as inflows listed on the page and net currency market and acquisition impact.
I noticed liability driven investments have continue to be positive but maybe a little bit slower paced.
Can you just speak to what's going on there? And then your market impact was actually better than what I've seen at other shops and maybe could help us understand how much of that was acquisitions versus market.
Betsy its Curtis.
I would say our LDI business still has a very healthy pipeline.
Quarter to quarter there are dynamics around the funded ratio for our clients.
So if interest rates rise and equity markets remain stable then the funding ratio improves and clients are generally compelled to move forward with launching a de-risking of their plan and vice versa.
And so there is some dynamics of how markets are moving in a quarter.
We do have clients occasionally who add to their existing strategies.
Maybe they de-risk some portion of portfolio when they add.
It makes some quarters stronger than others and when that doesnt happen its a bit weaker and then clients -- weve also had clients who have unhedged portions of their portfolio in the past as well.
So quarter-to-quarter fluctuations are somewhat related to whats happening in the marketplace.
But I can tell you that the pipeline is still very healthy where as funding ratios improve there is continued interest in removing that volatility or that risk from pension plans overall exposure.
So generally the business is very healthy.
In terms of marketing I think one of the things that its important to appreciate is that various assets we have across different markets and LDI is actually a really good one.
Its a very long duration asset and it links not only to interest rates but also to inflation rates.
So as inflation rates and interest rates fall the value of the liability and therefore the value of the assets we manage rises.
And so thats contributing to some of what youre seeing.
We have a very diversified portfolio of assets that we manage when we look at it versus many peers our US and non-US mixes is very diversified.
If you look at equity markets you also need to appreciate that we have assets.
We are showing AUM on a spot basis and because of what happens in some currency markets our spot rates move right at the end of the quarter based on currency movements and we saw a little bit of that in the year-over-year dynamics.
So I would say its both currency and duration of some of the assets we manage.
Got it.
Okay that's helpful color.
Thanks very much.
Just Todd just an overall question for you on the FX impact on revenues and expenses and I'm sorry if I missed it.
I noticed throughout the presentation you talked about the impact there but do you have an FX adjusted revenue and expense overall for total BK or how it impacted the growth rates in revenue and expenses? Yeah.
I had indicated that its about 3% negative on revenues and its about 3% positive on expenses meaning lower expenses.
Net-net it was very slightly negative to us so theres some rounding in those calculations and thats about what we would expect going forward Betsey.
There could be -- were pretty well hedged in Euro and Sterling.
There could be  we are short one or two other currencies.
So if the movements change it could be a little bit different but we would expect if the dollar were to get stronger or weaker from here it shouldnt have a meaningful impact to our pre-tax.
It just might change the geography a bit.
Okay.
The currency you're not hedged to the biggest is the yen is that right or? No its going to be Rupee.
No with Indian Rupee.
Indian Rupee.
Got it.
Okay got it.
Okay that's helpful.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Mike Mayo from CLSA.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead sir.
Hi just a clarification of what you've said so far.
The results in the first half of the year have exceeded expectations and you're in your target ranges but it doesn't seem like you're changing your guidance for the full year.
So should we think of these results as simply frontloading some of the benefits in the second half of the year or if you can just give us some more color on this? Generally Mike we put out three-year investment targets during Investor Day.
Were sticking to those and were executing against them.
The first half of the year weve done some level of outperformance.
We want to continue that and not let the targets restrain us but we certainly want to keep performing well.
The targets werent meant to be annual targets.
They were compounded growth rates over the three-year period Mike.
And so weve certainly gotten off to a good start.
Weve gotten much more market benefit than we would have anticipated at that point in time.
But thats not to say thats going to continue.
Okay.
Perhaps as a follow-up to that Gerald you mentioned your three-year targets and your five priorities and I think you guys had a board meeting in June where you talk about strategy and topics like that.
Can you highlight what was talked about at that Board meeting or any perhaps nuanced changes that you have in the strategy or other areas for additional emphasis that came out from that meeting? Mike we have a Board meeting every other month so thats just part of the standard fare.
We share with our Board obviously not only what we share publicly but the ups and downs and the positives and negatives throughout all our businesses.
So were sticking by our strategy.
Were sticking by our business model and were sticking by the Investor Day targets we laid out there and I would say were executing against them and well continue to drive value for shareholders and clients.
Last follow-up.
We've had a few months since Investor Day.
Now that you've had this period and you've gone back a little bit more aggressively which areas would you say you're more confident about or perhaps less confident about? From a financial perspective I think there are a couple of positives.
As youve seen weve seen probably a little stronger revenue growth especially when you take into consideration currency.
I think our business improvement process continues to work well.
I think the balance sheet grows and the need to retain additional capital may be higher than we had anticipated.
And net-net I think were still comfortable with the ranges that we had established.
The course to get there will never be the direction that we initially anticipated but I think were still pretty comfortable with the direction were going.
All right thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Brennan Hawken from UBS.
Your line is open sir please go ahead.
Good morning.
So one follow-up on the onboarding expense for the back half of the year.
How much of that should we consider ongoing and how much of that would be one-time charges? Its Brian.
We signaled at Investor Day that we have over year-over-year growth in expense as we build out these strategic platforms for asset managers alternative managers and the Global Wealth platform and that is going to be the case as we suggested obviously.
And then over time the revenue comes on as the clients start to leverage the platform.
And so ultimately we think these are really strategic -- good strategic investments that are going to create long term client shareholder value but theres obviously a drag year-over-year on expense this year and then it moderates next year and in 2018 these investments are significantly positive for the shareholder.
I would add it's in our running rate expenses today those investments.
Okay.
I guess what you're saying is they are ongoing but we see the revenue pickup which enhances the returns.
Is that a fair way to paraphrase it? Yeah.
Thats the right way to think about it.
Great thank you.
Then a quick one on the excess deposits.
So can you help us maybe understand why you would if we get higher rates and we don't see the behavior anticipating why you wouldn't explore pricing changes as opposed to raising preferred in order to just provide motivation for those $50 billion to $70 billion to move off the balance sheet? First of all it's not one or the other.
As you can see in this particular quarter the second quarter we just finished we actually did manage our deposit rates down.
You can see that we are in fact charging for deposit particularly in Europe or in Europe I should say.
And so the cost of our deposits is actually declining.
We are proactivity managing the cost of our deposit base.
But as Todd said earlier if the return on those deposits in a rising interest rate environment are such with little or no risk associated with them then we should think about whether additional capital is warranted and making sure we get good return on that capital.
Theres also as you know as our businesses grow we tend to get more deposits frictional deposits associated with our businesses.
It's going to be interesting to see when rate rises what happens to those excess deposits not only here but in the industry at large.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Gerard Cassidy from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open sir.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
As a follow-up on the deposit commentary that you guys have made what percentage of your European depositors now are paying you interest for you to hold those deposits? The second how many have decided to leave or take some of the deposits out because they didn't want to pay the fee? Most of them where we can pass through the fees are paying them.
We did see some behavior when we initially started charging for deposits where there were some out flows and those have come back so we are about flat through the beginning to where we are now in the actual volume of European deposits.
Would you say the experience has been a pleasant one for what you had to do to convince folks to pay for you to hold their deposits? I look around at my relationship people I'm not sure they feel exactly that way.
Yeah I would say -- its Karen Peetz.
I would say clients understood it that we werent going to pay them to keep the money with us but it was a series of difficult conversations.
Many of our peer followed suit so we werent alone.
Good.
And then a technical question.
On the buyback you guys were quite successful this quarter in buying back just over 19 million shares.
I see the average share count dropped only about I think 4 million shares from 1.126 billion to 1.22 billion.
Could you give us some color why it didn't fall further? Average share count is -- so you start this period and at the end of the period so it's -- it would be the timing of it Gerard.
Okay just a timing issue then? Yeah.
Great okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Brian Kleinhanzl from KBW.
Your line is open so please go ahead.
Great good morning.
I just had a quick question on the new business wins.
Even if you back out the T.
Rowe it still was $254 billion in the quarter.
Can you give us some color on the geography or service that's driving that and that compares to $131 billion last quarter? Yeah I would say thats an asset -- thats a servicing metric and we are getting -- again we are getting a solid pipeline and some solid new business commitments.
I think its indicative of the secular trend of asset managers refocusing on the investment process and their core value proposition and leveraging us for more of those core back office middle office and eventually front office services.
As weve said in the past quarter to quarter we can have a couple of sizeable new pieces of business.
And so it could be $150 billion $200 billion one quarter $250 billion another quarter but the pipeline is good and this was a good quarter for our new business wins.
Then just a second question on the Wealth Management business.
You said that the Wealth Management growth was improving but if you look at the revenues year-over-year they are only up 3%.
Can you give us a little bit more color maybe on an AUM or some other metric that shows the improvement and also when you expect those revenues to inflect in the future? Yes so it's a little -- Wealth Management also uses some of our mutual funds and when we look at our Wealth Management business it also includes our private banking activities.
The lines thats Wealth Management fees doesnt describe the entirety of our Wealth Management business.
If you look at our loans and deposit growth on the investment management page you can see that we are additionally having real success growing our balance sheet.
The NIR here is up 18% and it's really helping the overall.
Wealth Management is growing not just within our current footprint.
Weve opened new offices and so being able to go into those offices with both investment offerings and a private banking offerings is really where our revenue growth is coming from.
Good.
Thanks.
Thank you and the last question on queue is coming from Adam Beatty from Bank of America.
Your line is open so please go ahead.
Good morning.
A question on asset servicing specifically collateral management which you mentioned a couple of times.
I was wondering if you could maybe size out of the contribution to growth or the growth rate of that service line and also let us know how far along you are in terms of penetrating your existing client base? What inning are you at with that opportunity? Thanks.
Curtis you want to take it? Yes so on the active servicing line probably quarter over quarter growth we probably approached 50% of the cloud services benefiting that after servicing lines.
As far as where we are in we are probably in still the early innings and I mean by the early innings is that the buy side really hasnt yet benefited fully from shifting some of their business to enjoy collateral as a means to help finance some of what theyre trying to take and leverage or fully embrace or fully put in place the collateralization of margins especially in Europe.
We think we are in early innings still when it comes to collateral business and as far as the growth opportunities that exist around it.
And so and our product set really fits well with those needs that those buy side clients have as collateral continues to be needed to pledge against obligation.
Excellent.
It sounds like more to come.
Thank you.
Then on Investment Management you mentioned some perhaps more acute funding needs from some international clients driving some of the outflows.
How much risk do you see of maybe some additional drawdown across your client base? Thanks.
Weve seen through the course of the past several months some clients re-balancing their portfolios.
Equity markets over the past couple years obviously did quite well especially in the US.
I think understanding the US non-US equity performance important to this when you think about what people are doing with re-balancing.
Weve seen huge growth in our AUM and LDI as clients have reduced their exposure to equities.
And Im drawing an inference that sometimes we actually see clients sell equities and move into fixed income or de-risk their pension plans.
I think its been overall a drawdown in assets is not what we are seeing at the moment.
We are seeing a re-balancing from equity to fixed income.
Again theres a lot being talked about of the re-positioning of investor portfolios towards more risk and what I would say we see really instead is really focusing on getting returns while being thoughtful about risk and thats why our alternatives growth  weve had eight straight quarters of growth in alternatives and those have been strategies where clients are either getting uncorrelated exposures or they are getting absolute returns on asset allocations strategies that give them better diversified portfolios exposure.
I dont think its an overall drawdown.
Its more of a mix shift.
Okay.
So it sounds like you're not seeing anything material in terms of funding needs that may be sovereigns or what have you driving those outflows? Weve seen  I think to Geralds opening comments weve absolutely seen -- the thing about our client base is very significantly global institutions who from time to time do manage their liquidity needs across their portfolio.
And again quarter to quarter we do see that happen.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate you taking the questions.
Gerald Hassell Okay.
Thank you very much everyone for dialing in.
If you have additional questions which Im sure you will please give Valerie Haertel a call.
Wed be happy to engage with you and thank you very much for your attention today.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Ms.
Valerie Haertel at 212-635-8529.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference call and webcast will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellons consent.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Valerie Haertel.
Ms.
Haertel you may begin.
Thank you Anna and good morning everyone.
Welcome to the BNY Mellon third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman and CEO Todd Gibbons our CFO as well as members of our executive management team.
Our third quarter earnings materials include a financial highlights presentation that will be referred to in the discussion of our results and can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Before Gerald and Todd begin let me take a moment to remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement in the earnings press release the financial highlights presentation and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website at bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements in this call speak only as of today October 20 2015 and we will not update the forward-looking statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Gerald Hassell.
Gerald? Thanks Valerie.
Welcome everyone and thank you for joining us this morning.
Our results demonstrate our focus on delivering significant value for our clients and shareholders in all market environments.
Given the global market instability and continued low interest rates it has been an exceedingly challenging revenue environment.
So we remain laser focused on the key priorities we discussed with you at our Investor Day a year ago.
We are executing our strategic plan which is enabling us to deliver solid results in line with our 3-year financial goals.
For the quarter we again controlled our expenses while continuing to make strategic investments to enhance client service delivery as well as improving our technology platforms and capabilities to drive future revenue growth.
In addition we are making ongoing investments in risk management and regulatory compliance practices.
So turning to earnings earnings per share were $0.74 up 16% on an adjusted basis which excludes the third quarter 2014 sale of our equity investment in Wing Hang Bank and our 1 Wall Street headquarters.
Its also net of litigation and restructuring charges.
Now focusing on the year-over-year comparisons on an adjusted basis we generated more than 370 basis points of positive operating leverage and improved our pre-tax operating margin to 31%.
Total revenue was up 1% as growth in Investment Services including contributions from our volume and volatility sensitive businesses was largely offset by softness in investment management which was negatively impacted by the strong dollar as well as declines in equity market values globally.
Net interest revenue was up 5% and total expenses were down 3% and our return on tangible common equity in the quarter was 21%.
So looking at our progress against our strategic priorities our first priority is driving profitable revenue growth.
We are working to deepen our client relationships and grow revenues but we are also maintaining our pricing discipline when competing in the marketplace.
Now during the quarter revenue in Investment Services again benefited from growth in Global Collateral Services and Asset Servicing.
We also on-boarded nearly 230 new staff during the quarter in association with the mid office services of T.
Rowe Price that we are taking on.
This strategic relationship further endorses the market demand for our expertise and platform capabilities.
Foreign exchange revenue was also up strongly year-over-year as we continue to benefit from both higher volumes captured through the expansion of our services and higher volatility.
Investment management revenue reflected the reset in the equity markets and the impact of the strong dollar.
That said the diversity of our investment management business combined with our growth initiatives in business improvement efforts helped mitigate the market impact on our financial results.
On a constant currency basis investment management fees were flat year-over-year.
Our LDI strategies continue to see strong inflows reflecting continued client demand.
And we also saw some good momentum in fixed income and our alternative strategy.
Our initiatives to align our investment management portfolio to the largest growth pools are delivering results.
Our U.S.
retail initiative which is focused on third-party intermediary advisors and expanding the Dreyfus distribution platform is contributing to our results.
As is our wealth management sales force expansion which has built a strong pipeline and is benefiting from the growing synergies with our Pershing business.
Our second priority is executing on our business improvement process that leverage our scale and expertise to deliver efficiency benefits to clients while reducing our structural costs.
Our success on this approach is reflected not only in lower expenses in nearly all categories but in our industry leading market positions across all of our businesses.
Now some highlights of our business improvement program include the sale of Meriten our German-based boutique where we had a marginally profitable business and identified the opportunity to better redeploy our capital.
That closed in the third quarter.
We have realigned our UK transfer agency operating model to improve its profitability.
We have created a new client pricing strategy group to develop analyze and measure service delivery costs to better align our cost with our client pricing.
We have implemented an automated process to measure market data usage to identify opportunities to reduce the number of pricing feeds and terminals.
And we have created what we call MyDashboard which improves employee productivity as part of our digitization strategy.
And MyDashboard provides our managers with a convenient snapshot of key data on their employees such as expenses performance measurement status training and other key metrics.
The capability was recently named best new digital project for financial services as part of the Gartner Financial Services Cool Business Awards.
And we have also been analyzing our current real estate portfolio to reduce cost.
And we are selecting locations and workplace standards that enable collaboration and innovation.
During the quarter we completed our exit from 1 Wall Street ahead of schedule and we now occupy our new more cost efficient headquarters at 225 Liberty Street and we are taking a very similar approach across many of our locations globally which will help reduce our real estate footprint.
Given the more difficult-than-expected equity markets it will be critical for us to keep driving efficiencies to meet our Investor Day goals.
To that end we continue to identify additional opportunities to reduce corporate overheads and to leverage scale and operations technology and distribution in both Investment Services and investment management while continuing to deliver a high level of service to our clients.
Many of our efforts are singles and doubles but they have been adding up helping us fund some of our revenue growth initiatives and increasing regulatory compliance costs.
Our third priority centers on being a strong safe trusted counterparty.
We continue to have among the highest credit ratings in the industry.
This quarter our credit ratings were affirmed by the rating agencies including our A1 rating from Moodys.
Now during the quarter we implemented a new system to meet the bulk of reporting requirements and completed a program to measure and monitor intraday credit risk exposure.
We also established a more granular and rigorous CCAR approach that strengthens our capital adequacy process.
Our business improvement process has helped us fund some of these investments.
Our fourth priority involves generating excess capital and deploying it effectively.
We remain focused on maintaining a strong balance sheet and capital and liquidity position.
With respect to our capital ratio we are pleased to report progress towards achieving compliance with the supplementary leverage ratio which increased to 4.8% this quarter.
Now as a reminder SLR is expected to be effective its the beginning of 2018 and we are on a good path to meet the requirement by then.
Now in accordance with our 2015 capital plan which authorized us to return up to $3.1 billion to our shareholders we repurchased 690 million in shares and distributed $190 million in dividends during the quarter.
Year-to-date we have repurchased more than 1.9 billion in shares and distributed nearly $575 million in dividends.
Our fifth priority is to attract develop and retain top talent.
Across our organization we have been enhancing our talent strategies and culture to ensure we have the right people in the right jobs.
Great talent enhances our ability to win.
This quarter we named a new President of our markets group Michelle Neal who starts next month.
She exemplifies the kind of talent we have been attracting and developing in our organization.
Michelle has a special combination of experience in electronic trading and settlement and she is well equipped to continue to drive the markets groups strong performance.
And we are very pleased to welcome her to our team.
Now as we look ahead we remain confident in our ability to achieve the 3-year financial targets we shared with you on Investor Day a year ago.
With that let me turn it over to Todd.
Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
My commentary will follow the financial highlights document starting with Page 7 which details our non-GAAP or what we call our operating results for the quarter.
As Gerald noted EPS was $0.74 thats up 16% year-over-year on an adjusted basis.
Now adjusted it excludes the sale of our equity investment in Wing Hang and the sale of 1 Wall Street and is also net of litigation and restructuring charges.
Revenue in the third quarter was up 1% year-over-year reflecting strength in asset servicing especially global collateral services as well as in clearing foreign exchange and financing related activities.
It was offset by the impact of the stronger dollar and lower equity markets especially on our investment management business.
Expenses were down 3% year-over-year.
Our success in lowering legal and consulting expenses and in bringing savings from our Business Improvement Process as well as the stronger dollar are driving lower expenses in almost every category.
Combination of our revenue mix and ability to control expenses through the business improvement process resulted in more than 370 basis points of positive operating leverage year-over-year.
On Page 6 of our earnings release you can see the key currencies that impacts our business the strength of the U.S.
dollar against the pound and the euro which were down 7% and 17% respectively continue to impact investment management more than our other businesses since 42% of the revenue is from outside the U.S.
As we have noted in prior quarters the overall company impact from currency translation is nominal.
Adjusted for the stronger U.S.
dollar revenue would have been up approximately 4% and expenses up approximately 1%.
Income before taxes was 8% year-over-year on an adjusted basis and is up 10.5% if you exclude the provision for credit losses.
On a year-over-year basis our pretax margin increased approximately 200 basis points to 31% in the third quarter of 2015.
And finally return on tangible common equity was 21%.
Page 8 shows our consolidated fee and other revenue.
Asset servicing fees were up 3% year-over-year and flat sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects organic growth in global collateral services our broker dealer activities and asset servicing and net new business partially offset by the unfavorable impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
Sequentially organic growth and net new business was offset by the typical seasonal step down in securities lending revenue as well as lower market values.
Clearing services fees were up 2% year-over-year down 1% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by higher mutual fund and asset based fees.
Issuer services fees were down 1% year-over-year and up 34% sequentially.
The year-over-year decrease reflects lower fees in depositary receipts and the unfavorable impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar in Corporate Trust now is partially offset by net new business in Corporate Trust.
The sequential increase primarily reflects seasonal higher fees and depositary receipts versus the second quarter.
Treasury service fees were down 4% year-over-year and 5% sequentially both decreases reflect lower payment volumes as we continue to be highly selective exiting client relationships that dont meet our risk criteria.
Third quarter investment management and performance fees were down 6% year-over-year and sequentially.
On a constant currency basis investment management and performance fees were down 2% primarily driven by lower performance fees lower equity market values and net outflows partially offset by the impact of the first quarter Cutwater acquisition and strategic initiatives.
The sequential decline primarily reflects lower equity market values net outflows and seasonally lower performance fees.
Both decreases also reflect the sale of Meriten Investment Management in July.
Performance fees were $7 million compared to $22 million a year ago.
FX and other trading revenue on a consolidated basis was up 17% year-over-year and down 4% sequentially.
FX revenue of $180 million was up 17% year-over-year and down 1% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects higher volatility and volumes.
Financing related fees were $71 million compared to $44 million in the year ago quarter and $58 million in Q2.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects higher fees related to secured intraday credit provided to dealers in connection with their tri-party repo activity.
As we noted last quarter some of our clients may moderate their usage or possibly find alternatives of sources with this financing.
Importantly both increases also reflect higher underwriting fees.
Investment and other income of $59 million compared with $890 million in the year ago quarter and $104 million in the second quarter.
The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects the gains on the sales of our equity investment in Wing Hang and the 1 Wall Street building.
Those are both recorded in the third quarter of 14.
There is also a $17 million loss on seed capital investments thats recorded in consolidated investment management funds versus the $16 million gain last year that is not reflected in these numbers given the required separate gross presentation for consolidated funds.
The sequential decrease in investment and other income primarily reflects lower leasing gains and the loss associated with the sale of Meriten Investment Management.
Page 9 shows the drivers of our investment management business that help explain our underlying performance.
You can see AUM was $1.63 trillion unchanged from last year.
Note that assets under management for the current and prior periods have been restated to exclude Meriten.
We had $5 billion of long-term net outflows during the quarter.
Those were primarily in index strategies active equities and fixed income offset by continued strength in LDI where we retain a leadership position.
Our wealth management business expansion initiative is helping to drive an increase in loans and deposits.
Year-over-year we saw a 19% increase in loans and 11% increase in deposits.
Turning to the investment services metrics on Page 10 you can see that assets under custody and administration at quarter end were $28.5 trillion.
Thats up $200 billion year-over-year reflecting net new business partially offset by the unfavorable impact of the stronger dollar and the lower equity market values.
Adjusted for currency year-over-year growth would have been roughly 3%.
Linked quarter AUC/A was essentially flat.
We had estimated new  total new assets under custody and/or administration business wins of $84 billion in the third quarter.
Now while this is relatively low its mainly due to the timing of new business wins this year.
In the second quarter we announced the significant new strategic relationship which resulted in an upside win for that quarter.
We continue to see strong demand for our services and we have a solid pipeline of opportunities.
It is important to note that this quarter we changed our methodology for reporting our estimated new business wins.
Moving from reporting based on the day the mandate was granted to the date that it was actually contracted.
Although its not a significant we have restated our historical new business wins beginning in 2014 through this quarter for better comparative purposes.
Additionally year-to-date new business wins totaled $1.42 trillion so we are still trending above our historical average.
Now to  turning to a review of other metrics the market value of securities on loan at year end again was up year-over-year increasing by 2%.
Average loans and deposits continue the strong year-over-year growth trend.
Our broker-dealer metric of average tri-party repo balances grew 4%.
All of our clearing metrics were up with global DARTS volumes up 18%.
The net decline in sponsored DR programs primarily reflects our continued focus on exiting low activity programs.
Turning to net interest revenue on Page 11 you will see that NIR on a fully taxable equivalent basis was up 5% versus the year ago quarter and down 3% from Q2.
The overall balance sheet was stable this quarter.
We benefited year-over-year from higher average deposits and a better asset mix.
The yield on interest earning assets increased 3 basis points year-over-year and the yield on interest bearing deposits decreased 4 basis points.
The decline in deposit yield was driven by our efforts to charge for deposits in non-U.S.
locations to cover our cost where negative interest rates exist.
Sequentially NIR was lower reflecting lower average securities and the impact of interest rate hedging activities.
The net interest margin for the quarter was 98 basis points 4 basis points higher than the year ago quarter and 2 basis points lower than the prior year and in line with our expectations and remained in the range of 95 to 100 basis points as we noted on our Investor Day last year.
The year-over-year increase reflects the shift out of cash and into investments in securities and loans.
The benefit of which was mainly realized in the second quarter.
Turning to Page 12 you will see that non-interest expense on an adjusted basis declined 3% year-over-year and was flat sequentially.
The year-over-year decrease in non-interest expense reflects lower expenses on all categories except other expense.
Other expense includes concessions we gave to clients impacted by the system  the SunGard systems outage to cover out-of-pocket and other incidental expenses they incurred.
Lower expenses compared to a year ago reflect the favorable impact of a stronger dollar lower legal and consulting expenses and the benefit of our business improvement process.
The third quarter decrease was partially offset by higher consulting expenses associated with regulatory requirements.
Total staff expense declined 3% year-over-year reflecting the favorable impact of a stronger dollar the impact of curtailing our U.S.
defined benefit plan and lower incentive expense partially offset by our annual employee merit increase effective on July 1 and higher severance expense.
The sequential increase in headcount of 600 employees primarily reflects the on-boarding of staff related to two strategic relationships as well as our continued in-sourcing of technology talent to both reduce cost and retain institutional knowledge in-house.
Sequentially the annual employee merit increase and higher severance and other expenses were almost completely offset by lower incentive business development and sub-custodian expenses.
Turning to capital on Page 13 our fully phased-in advanced approach common equity Tier 1 ratio decreased by 60 basis points to 9.3 that was driven by increases in risk-weighted assets primarily related to credit risk and operational risk.
In addition we are also no longer assuming use of a methodology that is subject to regulatory approval which reduced the ratio by approximately 25 basis points.
As Gerald noted we made good progress on our supplemental leverage ratio and we are at 4.8% this quarter due to higher capital and a lower average balance sheet.
While our ratio is now 20 basis points below the required 5% minimum we do plan to maintain a cushion above that.
As we have noted previously this ratio was expected to be our binding constraint and we are confident that we will be in compliance when the regulation becomes effective.
To the extent that excess deposits did not run off as we anticipate with an increase in rates we have many levers to pull including the issuance of additional preferred if necessary to achieve compliance.
Few final notes about the quarter.
As you will see in our release our effective tax rate was 25.4%.
Also on Page 11 of the earnings release you will see some investment security portfolio highlights.
At quarter end our net unrealized pre-tax gain in our portfolio was $1.05 billion.
That compares to $752 million at the end of June with the difference owing principally to a decline in interest rates.
Now I would like to discuss a few points to factor into your thinking about the fourth quarter.
We expect to see the typical seasonal decline in depositary receipt fees with the limited offset in expenses.
We estimate the decline of the fourth quarter from the third quarter to be approximately $120 million in revenues.
We expect to generate seasonally higher performance fees in our investment management business in the fourth quarter approximately in line with last year.
Net interest revenue is expected to be flat.
We expect to see seasonally higher business development expenses.
Additionally we expect an increase in consulting expenses related to our investments in regulatory compliance initiatives.
I would also like to note that the fourth quarter of last year was when we began to see the U.S.
dollar strengthened.
So you should keep that dynamic in mind as you model us.
We expect total expenses to be relatively flat in the fourth quarter versus the year ago period adjusted for litigation and lower for the full year 2015 as compared to the full year 2014.
We continue to expect our tax rate to be approximately 25%.
I will also remind you that we are going to pay a dividend on the preferred that we issued in the second quarter.
And finally we continue to expect to execute on share buybacks in accordance with our planned authorization.
So in summary we are executing on our strategic priorities and we are pleased with the progress we are making even with the relatively challenging market headwinds.
We are continuing to generate significant positive operating leverage even while we invest in initiatives to drive further growth and absorb higher regulatory compliance cost.
We are focusing on managing our balance sheet generating capital and deploying it effectively to deliver value to our shareholders and we remain on track to achieve the 3-year targets we shared at Investor Day this time last year.
With that let me hand it back to Gerald.
Thanks Todd.
And operator I think we are ready to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ashley Serrao from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I was just curious what portion of the $500 million in savings that you outlined at Investor Day have been achieved so far? And also what portion of that has been reinvested in the business? Ultimately I am just trying to get a sense of the net savings that have dropped to your bottom line.
And I may have misheard this but it sounds like you have also identified incremental opportunities that you think would be additive.
Any color there would be appreciated? Yes Ashley let me say that  this is Todd let me just say first of all that the $500 million was a number that we put out last year and we have been working hard to add to that total figure and this is a continuous process improvement.
These are structural changes and not one-time events.
And we do continue to see increasing opportunities and the number continues to get bigger.
In terms of how much is adding to the bottom line versus whats being reinvested into regulatory or other strategic platforms.
I think the best way to look at that is to look at the increase in the operating margin.
Some of that is that  the 377 basis points this quarter some of that on a year-over-year basis some of that is related to the dollar probably about 77 or so so even on a constant currency basis were 300 basis points better.
So thats what you are seeing dropped to the bottom line.
Okay thanks for the color there.
And then I guess the other question was I noticed cash into bank placements ticked up sequentially for what looks like the first time in the year.
I know you have proactively been trying to shift away from cash.
So I was curious how we should be interpreting the increase? Yes I think if you look at the average period its probably a better way to look at it.
You will see its relatively flat and actually cash at the Central Banks is down a little bit.
So we do get spikes from time to time on quarter ends.
In fact the period ends have been spiking by about $15 billion or $20 billion but you could guess get noise there but general cash at other banks should be flat and Central Bank deposits is going to be down on a year-over-year basis as we put more in loans as well as in securities.
Okay thanks for taking my questions.
Alright thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Ms.
Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley.
And your line is open.
Hi thank you.
Todd I wondered if you could give us an update on how you are dealing with negative rates over in Europe the degree to which deposit pricing strategy is done and why with an expectation to reduce deposits there? Yes there is a slight decline Betsy in deposits since we initiated that strategy but not much.
We did up the charge for some of those deposits in the third quarter late in the third quarter.
And I would say just seeing a modest decline if any.
And so as you think about the size of the balance sheet and this lower for longer rate environment could you talk through thoughts on the SLR and whether or not that includes issuing incremental preferreds? Sure.
So we did get to 4.80 on the quarter.
We do accumulate even at 100% payout ratio we accumulate somewhere between $600 million and $800 million a year in incremental capital from the amortization of intangibles as well as equity thats issued for compensation plans.
So if you take that into consideration that moves us up a bit over the next couple of years.
We have also gone through  if we kind of look at our balance sheet through two lenses one is in a zero rate environment and one is on normalizing rate environment thats reflected in the forward curve.
In the normalizing rate environment as you know we would expect quite a bit of deposits to run off and we could probably comply in the normal course with the SLR with a pretty decent cushion.
If it stays in a zero rate environment we have got a team working together with investment services in the treasury group.
And we have prioritized all of our balance sheet consumption and where we might either look at interest rates going even negative on interest rates to discourage deposits or in other words pushing off other SLR related activities.
And we would hold as a kind of a last resort if it makes sense economically to issue preferreds.
Okay.
And I am sorry if I missed it but have you given your bank SLR I know you talked about the hold co level? Yes.
The bank SLR is about 20 basis points below the hold co level right now.
Alright.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Luke Montgomery of Bernstein Research.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning I would like to know what your thoughts are on the application of block chain technology to securities settlement in tri-party repo I think you know that there is a number of start-ups out there that are looking at this.
Do you think that technology would be more likely to disintermediate the settlement infrastructure which would be maybe the central securities depositories or could it also be some of the services that global custodians like you provide.
And then do you see any limitations in the technology or maybe vested interest that would prevent it from being adopted by this the securities markets and just how closely have you been examining it? Thats a mouthful of questions.
We are studying block chain technology quite intensely.
It has some very very positive attributes.
Clearly the whole idea of two sides showing up on a public ledger and being able to swap values instantaneously is very appealing.
So we are looking at it and whether it can be deployed in some pilot programs we have internally.
And therefore see how the technology can be used to improve our core operations both on the clearance and settlement side.
We have been trying to engineer our company for same day or real time settlement regardless.
And so whether its through block chain or through other means its something that we think about a whole lot.
We do have some pilot programs going on in the payment space I mean our treasury services area where thats the area most impacted at the moment by third-party technology companies are going after the payments.
Typically its the small payments consumer payments but anything that happens at the consumer level we assume is going to happen at the institutional level.
As it relates to clearance and tri-party directly that is an extraordinarily complex operating platform with incredibly complex algorithms built into it.
So we are not nave to think that technology cant disrupt even that but I think we feel pretty comfortable at the moment there.
The last but not least for a block chain to work you need to have everybody on both sides the buy side and the sell side to show up simultaneously in volume to have it make sense.
And so we are looking at some technologies on how it can be applied.
So a lot of  there is a lot of room ahead of us before its fully implemented but we are studying it very carefully.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thats really helpful.
And then I was just hoping you could sketch out in a little more detail what you are attempting to achieve with Dreyfus and retail distributional I think I recall one of the possible explanations for the low to mid-30% range operating margins in the asset management business is that the retail platform is expensive but maybe not up to scale.
So as you execute against that plan do you expect to see operating margins in the asset management business improve? Yes this is Curtis.
Absolutely what I would point you to is that while we are the sixth largest asset management in the world in terms of U.S.
mutual fund families we are currently 37th.
So we have all of the investment capabilities or a large majority of the investment capabilities in-house that is used by investors that use mutual funds financial advisors and individuals ultimately as the end users.
But our platform to reach advisors is below where we think it should be or where it could be to really improve our distribution of our investment capabilities through that channel.
Its very important to appreciate the large scale shift of assets from defined benefit plans ultimately into what we will refer 1K after they go through retirement plans.
And so a major industry shift to these assets that have been managed by CIOs pension plans are now even managed again by individual advisors.
So we want to obviously be in sync with that shift.
The investment that weve began over a year ago we are actually pretty excited about U.S.
retail despite a pretty challenging environment for the industry.
We have done quite well.
And so recent statistics around flows actually have come out and we were 18th in terms of the third quarter in terms of net flows.
So the 37th largest family is 18th and net flows over an extended period of time we should see our market share grow and its a very important part of our initiative that we outlined at Investor Day.
I would also highlight that we do reach clients directly through our wealth management business.
Our wealth management business tends to focus on individuals and family offices with higher net worth.
And we have seen through our expansion fantastic growth there.
Todd mentioned the 19% increase we have seen in loans and deposits.
I would share with you that our partnership with Pershing has been a really important contributor to that nearly a quarter of our growth in loans and deposits came from connecting to the financial advisory clients of Pershing.
So both U.S.
retail coverage of advisors and wealth management are important parts of our future investment management.
Alright thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Glenn Schorr of Evercore ISI.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks very much.
So everybody likes the positive operating leverage even without the currency impact a quick question on the delta in the legal and consulting expense year-on-year.
I dont know if you can give us the dollar amount for each quarter or just the delta just curious how much that was a contributor? Yes.
The consulting and legal expense did decline on a year-over-year basis a little.
We are seeing some of the dividends from the lower litigation defense charges as well as lower consulting expenses related to a number of our strategic platforms.
That was offset somewhat by higher consulting expenses related to some of the regulatory compliance efforts especially around improving the qualitative process in our CCAR as well as the resolution recovery planning.
So on a year-over-year basis I think it was down about $20 million.
That means the bulk of the 300 basis points on your operating leverage is the structural improvements stuff? That is correct.
Yes its beyond that.
A lot of its coming  obviously the biggest expense is in the staff expense and so thats where most of its coming.
Alright.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Alex Blostein of Goldman Sachs.
Sir your line is open.
Great.
Good morning everybody.
Todd it might be a little premature but as we think about 2016 you guys obviously had a great job this year controlling expenses and some of thats FX related but as you noted and a lot of it is just kind of core improvement.
Given the fact that it sounds like you made a lot of progress on the regulatory front and getting those systems in place where are we I guess in the pace of growth of regulatory-related expenses and as we think out into next year is there still enough you guys can do in the core business to keep expenses kind of flattish to down? Yes I think Alex its a little early in our planning process.
We continue to identify through the business improvement process additional actions that we can take.
We do anticipate as I had indicated in the fourth quarter a bit of a pop on some of the regulatory cost as we further build out some of the compliance and risk functions.
I would say its a little early to call it for next year but we do see a number of continued opportunities and our goal is as you will even see in this quarter as the guidance that we gave for the fourth quarter is to keep things flat on a year-over-year basis.
Depending on the revenue growth and where the revenue comes from that could be more challenging.
Got it.
And then just around balance sheet management so you guys have been charging forward deposits in Europe for the last couple of quarters I guess.
Any thoughts in doing the same in the U.S.
given the fact that the balance sheet came down a little bit quarter-over-quarter but overall still pretty elevated? So any thoughts around charging for deposits here? Yes.
Alex I will take that.
We do have a team working with our Treasury group and our Investment Services group at the U.S.
client base.
And making sure whatever deposits we do have from them are ideal operational deposits versus non-valuable deposits and experimenting with certain types of clients and client segments whether they can be priced differently than what they are today and either they pay for it or pay for the use of the balance sheet or they move the deposits somewhere else.
And so we are doing it on a selected basis.
We havent put through any charges yet but we are having conversations with certain clients in certain client segments.
I think we also benefit from having the ability in the portal to be able to help our clients sweep cash into money market mutual funds both our own and other providers.
So we can at least retain some of the distribution fees associated with it.
Alright thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
On the asset servicing side you are able to keep fees flat quarter-to-quarter even with sec lending and equity market declines.
I am just wondering did you always start to recognize revenue from the T.
Rowe contract? And how do we start to understand how that builds forth over time? It seems like the underlying core servicing and new business was quite good relative to the market conditions.
So I was just wondering if you could flush that out for us? Yes the asset servicing  its Brian Shea speaking.
The asset servicing fees were up 3% year-over-year.
Its driven by a combination of global collateral services broker dealer services and the core asset servicing fees so pretty good performance overall.
I think from a T.
Rowe Price perspective we on-boarded the T.
Rowe Price middle office team in August and we began to receive some revenue from middle office operational services from T.
Rowe Price in August.
We will be then  we will be moving towards a fund accounting conversion from their existing fund accounting platform to ours and then a new middle office platform in stages.
And as we implement each stage we expect to have additional revenue growth from each stage through the execution process.
And importantly we see this as a secular trend among investment managers who are looking for much more variable cost by share economies of scale services both from middle office services and technology platforms as well.
Very little revenues in the third quarter from T.
Rowe.
Okay.
So then what was the  what drove the sequential growth ex-T.
Rowe then across the businesses aside from sec lending decline? Organic growth global collateral services growth broker dealer services growth all contributed to asset servicing year-over-year improvement.
Sequential improvement yes.
And sequential improvement yes sure.
Alright thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Mr.
Brian Bedell of Deutsche Bank.
Sir your line is open.
Great thanks for taking my questions.
Just to maybe zero in on the short-term rate environment a couple of things I guess.
Whats your outlook for money market fee waivers into fourth quarter given just the recent pullback in some of the treasury and repo yields? And then also on the balance sheet for the quarter we saw an uptick in securities portfolio yields maybe you just talk about the driver of that.
It looks like the rate on the MMDAs went to zero on the liabilities side.
So maybe if you can talk about those dynamics? Okay I will  good morning Brian its Todd.
In terms of fee waivers there is not a heck of a lot of noise there.
We have given a $0.06 to $0.08 impact overall per quarter.
And I would expect its going to be well within that range.
It was kind of in the middle of that range in the third quarter.
And so we are seeing some noise on yields with the potential government shutdown.
And your second  what was your second question Brian? On the results in the third quarter on the drivers of  there was an uptick in the government and other securities lines in the securities portfolio and then also on the in fact the MMDA went from 13 basis points to 0 I just wonder if thats sustainable? Yes.
In terms of the  and you are talking about the securities portfolio our proprietary portfolio it is up from last year at this time fairly substantially and we did get some yields out of it.
Basically we repositioned cash once we had a full understanding of the LCR and it was acknowledged that we could use to help the maturity account and still have an asset considered as a high-quality liquid asset.
So at that point in time we took down inter-bank placements and we increased our securities increased our duration for a little bit in the portfolio and also increased the yield.
Thats been a little bit of change over the past couple of quarters but we think thats relatively stable and thats why we are forecasting into the fourth quarter flat NIR relative to the third quarter.
In terms of the MMDAs going down I dont know of course  I dont see any impact to that degree at this point in time.
Okay.
And the interest deposits are still in that 50 to 70 billion camp? Thats where we would estimate them.
Yes Brian.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up on asset management it is really benefiting in the LDI side from the flows coming out of defined benefit pension plans.
As you think about the revenue capture that you get in the LDI versus the stuff that you will be losing in the index and in the active is that an accretive swap? It sounds like that could obviously a longer term trend if you just want to comment on that? Yes.
So index fees as you know are very low and the large majority of our index assets are institutional so they are truly on the low end of the fee range.
LDI has single-digit management fees many of those mandates also have performance fees so a lot of the performance fees that we are in actually come from LDI mandates.
So its  so we have to think about it from a blended management and performance fee perspective.
The only thing I would tell you is that when we take on an LDI mandate we are frequently taking on a large majority of a clients total portfolio.
So they maybe reducing their equity and other exposures that are managed by others and moving their portfolio sometimes their whole portfolio to us in LDI.
So a lot of the LDI growth we have seen have been  where pension plans have either taken a portion or again in some cases the large majority of their plan and moved it to us.
Index assets are a pretty interesting flow dynamic to watch.
They have a lot to do with just the overall exposure some very large clients will have the used index products to get data exposure to equity markets and fixed income markets.
And given the volatility you have seen the outflows we have had in equity index strategies that we have mentioned in the last quarter and I will say again this quarter some of the flows in index are very large flows from single clients and so not really as connected to what we are seeing in LDI.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Mr.
Brennan Hawken of UBS.
Sir your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
I understand that what you can say on this might be limited at this point but is there anyway you can help us think about any potential liabilities and other headwinds from the SunGard outage at this point? And how you feel about your ability to pass those liabilities on to SunGard? Okay.
Brian this is Todd.
I will take some of that maybe I can turn it over to my colleagues as well.
In terms of the financial impact we did incur some incidentals as you might expect in the quarter and those ran through the numbers.
And we did cover the related charges that are  some of our clients would have experienced and we did take that as a charge in the third quarter as well.
In terms of any differences in making investors whole we dont see as we have gone through the reconciling process we dont see much in the way and there certainly could be some of that.
And we have of course have reserved our right to include SunGard any recoveries that we will be looking to make.
Thats about where we are financially.
And just broadly Brennan we have been very proactive with our clients making sure that they were  they have been covered in terms of their out of pockets or when they have went through a challenging week so we wanted to make sure we were proactive in covering their costs and taking care of them.
Investors at the end of they day between the machine generated NAVs and the process the protocol we followed at the time was miniscule.
So we felt good about the process that was employed.
And so we are actively working with the clients working with their fund boards making sure that they fully understand what happened and how we recovered and why the system is stable and safe.
So we are moving forward.
Okay great.
And then certainly we have talked actually to some of your clients and they have described as good partners for this so heard that on the other side as well.
So thanks for that.
And then just a quick one on capital can you quantify or give us a sense about how much of your advanced RWAs are in up risk at this point? Yes.
So Brennan this is Todd again.
Its a very big number.
And that may change as the regulators reconsider the standardized approach.
But as there have been  the methodology is informed by external losses or losses at third parties and as there have been bigger and bigger losses that gets filtered into our model and as a result keeps driving up the risk weighted assets.
So the number is about a  really probably a little over a third or right around a third of our total risk weighted assets in the advanced approach.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Mr.
Mike Mayo of CLSA.
Sir your line is open.
Hi Mike.
Can you hear me? Now we can hear you better.
Thank you.
Sorry about that.
Can I just get a clarification your assets under custody are flat in a down market second quarter to third quarter is that explained by the global collateral services and broker dealer services or is there something else going on? Its organic growth.
Yes.
So Mike assets  its Brian Shea assets under custody most recently are up 1% year-over-year flat sequentially as you mentioned.
Currency and market values had a negative effect.
If you had a constant currency and constant market you would seem more like a 3% growth rate in our AUC/A which is pretty solid.
And as you know our focus is not exclusively on AUC/A growth or pure revenue growth or pure market share growth but we have shifted our focus towards better profitability and creating more value for clients and shareholders.
I guess the best example of that which Gerald mentioned earlier is that we are repositioning our UK TA business and we are actively repositioning as a global institutional bundled service and reducing the focus on local UK retail TA.
So we are actually pushing AUC/A out in that environment but we are going to improve our profitability in the process and thats the goal.
And it was in the quarter that we on-boarded T.
Rowe Mike.
So that was a substantial reason for the sequential  not having any material sequential impact.
Okay that makes sense.
We have heard a lot about pricing for better profitability for 3 years 4 years not just from you but for the whole sub-segment.
I mean are you raising your hurdle rates are you instructing your relationship managers to do something differently.
I know you have mentioned that you have had these sorts of pricing conversations with the kind of lower tier accounts but can you provide anything else more tangible more than just the UK example? Sure Mike.
Its Brian again.
So I think you have heard us talking in the past about up pricing small accounts raising minimums enforcing minimums and etcetera.
And we have done quite a bit of that over the past few years and made some progress for sure.
But now whats happening is a slightly different thing which is we formed a client pricing strategy group and the focus of it is to align the drivers of our costs and our client pricing to drive more rational behavior and to end with the clients.
We believe there is a real opportunity to lower costs end to end with our clients in partnership and we are using pricing strategies and data to inform the clients in a way and to incent the clients to actually implement low cost behavior.
So for example we have online systems that clients can use which are more efficient and to provide better service and yet clients are still faxing us things.
So we are putting incentives in place to move towards the online systems and use the more rational service delivery that actually lowers the clients costs and make them more efficient as well.
And so there is a series of things like that that we are working on and we will be consulting with our clients and trying to drive lower end to end cost with them in a rational way.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Mr.
Jim Mitchell of Buckingham Research.
Sir your line is open.
Okay thanks.
Good morning.
Maybe just a quick follow-up on capital with the bank SLR at 4.6 needing to get to 6 is there anything you could in terms of shifting around assets from the holding company to the bank to kind of shore that up because thats obviously more of a constraint than the firm wide SLR how do we think about that if we are in a lower for longer and higher deposit type environment? Yes.
Jim thats exactly what we intend to do.
So I think you hit the point.
We think we can probably downstream capital in a way that pumps up the capital at the bank over the capital at the holding company.
There will be a little bit of cost of that but it wont be huge.
So we dont need to execute that right now.
Okay.
And do we have to think about  do you have to incorporate I mean maybe we dont know yet but just thinking about next years CCAR it will capture 2018 do you need to build a glide path into next years CCAR for SLR in any way or do you have time to get there? Yes.
The CCAR next years CCAR specifically excludes the SLR so that will go into effect in 2017.
But I think any prudent analysis so this kind of get into the qualitative side of it.
I think that we are going to have to demonstrate that we have a reasonable glide path and we have a way to get there.
So I think that will be from a qualitative side but its excluded from the actual quantitative side of next years CCAR.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Mr.
Adam Beatty of Bank of America.
Sir your line is open.
Thank you and good morning.
Just a couple of follow-ups on asset servicing firstly on SunGard I want to close the loop on that.
Have you seen any kind of extended duration of the contracting process any impact on your discussions with perspective clients due to that? And then on the cost side is there any run rate cost that you would expect from maybe additional safeguards or what have you? Thanks.
Yes its Brian Shea.
So we have been in constant communication with our clients throughout  especially the affected clients during the period of time that there was an impact.
But actually we have extended our outreach to clients to put this in context and to help them understand the details of  and had meetings and dialogues of well over a thousand clients to make sure that they understand whats going on.
I would say our clients have been working with us very closely and been very supportive and understanding during the incident and are getting tremendous amount of transparency from us and from SunGard around the actual incident.
And what we are doing about it going forward in terms of ensuring our ability to deliver service on critical activities and have systems in place that are more reliable and more resilient both from a vendor management perspective and our own internal system.
So we are using every opportunity here that we  to learn from this experience and to actually make us a more resilient reliable partner.
And I think our clients appreciate that and are getting very good insight from us about that.
In terms of the financial perspective I will let Todd...
Yes.
At this point we have not identified any material increase in costs as a result of this.
We did incur pretty meaningful cost in the third quarter which we ran through the numbers.
But we  there could be some to your point but we dont  at least we havent identified any that would be material.
I appreciate that.
Thanks.
And then on the T.
Rowe relationship it sounds like there is going to be some layering on of costs and revenues whats your expected timing given your implementation plan of number one achieving kind of a net profit contribution from that and also in terms of just getting to steady state in terms of revenues and costs? Yes.
We are still in the investment stage of the strategic relationship.
And as you know we have on-boarded a couple hundred plus people in August and we began to receive some revenue although as Gerald mentioned its on the modest end.
We will do the fund accounting conversion in 2016 and that will have the additional  providing more services and we will get some more revenue associated with it.
And the final stage will be the middle office platform conversion which I dont have the timing directly in front of me but lets just say 17.
And at the end of which we expect to have a good strategic relationship thats profitable and beneficial to both parties.
Thank you.
Our final question will be coming from the line of Mr.
Gerard Cassidy of RBC.
Sir your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Todd can you share with us on the deposits that you are assessing a fee on what percentage of your total deposits are actually in the environments that actually have negative rates and of that amount what percentage are you charging a fee and one non-interest bearing deposits included in that as well? Non-interest bearing deposits could be included in that typically overseas.
You can go either way.
So about a third of our deposits are non-dollar and so of that the majority are euro and so that would be the number that would be at this point in time exposed to a fee.
I mean any other currencies like Swiss franc and the Danish currency its a pretty small number that doesnt even move the needle.
So its really basically the euro where we are assessing anything of any size.
Great.
And then just as a follow-up I may have missed it.
You mentioned about the other operating expenses including the one-time costs associated with the SunGard issue what was the dollar amount of that those one-time costs? We didnt disclose the dollar amount Gerard.
But if you look at that number and you can see the sequential increase in other most of that was related to  or a substantial part of that was related to SunGard matter.
Great thank you.
Okay.
Well thank you very much everyone for dialing in.
We really appreciate it and your questions.
If you have additional follow-up questions please give Valerie Haertel a call.
And again we thank you for your participation and support.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Ms.
Valerie Haertel at 212-635-8529.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes todays conference call.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call hosted by BNY Mellon.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference call will be recorded and will consist of copyrighted material.
You may not record or rebroadcast these materials without BNY Mellons consent.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Valerie Haertel.
Ms.
Haertel you may begin.
Thank you Nicole and thank you everyone for joining us.
As Nicole mentioned we are reporting our fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings.
With us today are Gerald Hassell our Chairman and CEO; Todd Gibbons our CFO as well as members of our executive leadership team.
Our fourth quarter earnings materials include a financial highlights presentation that will be referred to in the discussion of our results and can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Before Gerald and Todd begin let me take a moment to remind you that our remarks today may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
These factors include those identified in the cautionary statement in the earnings press release the financial highlights presentation and those identified in our documents filed with the SEC that are available on our website bnymellon.com.
Forward-looking statements made on this call today speak only as of today January 21 2015 and we will not update forward-looking statements.
As a final note we plan to file our 2015 10-K on February 26th.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Gerald Hassell.
Gerald? Great.
Thanks Valerie and welcome everyone.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
Our fourth quarter results capped off what I think was a very good year.
We demonstrated that our strategic plan has positioned us well to perform in all operating environments.
Even with geopolitical instability emerging market weakness higher regulatory compliance requirements and low interest rates we executed on our strategic priorities and focused on what was within our control.
For the full year EPS was up 19% total revenue was up 2% while total expenses were down 2% resulting in more than 400 basis points of positive operating leverage.
Net interest revenue was up 5% and we improved our pre-tax operating margin to 31%.
And finally our return on tangible common equity was a very healthy 21%.
So we are on track to achieve our three-year goals targets which call for healthy earnings growth not reliant on improved market conditions.
So turning to the fourth quarter itself adjusted earnings per share was $0.68 and that excludes $0.11 per share for the impact of the previously disclosed impairment charge related to a recent court decision which Todd will discuss in more detail in a moment and litigation and restructuring charges.
That puts earnings per share up 17% year-over-year on an adjusted basis.
For the quarter again on an adjusted basis total revenue was up 2% total expense was down 2% and we generated over 300 basis points of positive operating leverage mainly driven by our business improvement process.
Net interest revenue was up 7% year-over-year and our return on tangible common equity was 19% for the quarter.
Now looking at our progress against our strategic priorities as I said in the past our first priority is driving profitable revenue growth.
We have heightened focus on disciplined revenue growth which means paying particular attention to our clients profitability and shareholder value versus gross revenues and market share.
During 2015 we made progress in a number of different fronts.
We are focused on deepening our client relationships by leveraging our expertise and determining how we can add further value to them and increase the acceptance rates of our services.
At the same time were also examining each business and service that we offer to ensure that we are receiving value for what we deliver.
The strategic platform investments weve been making continue to pay off.
Weve been able to create efficiencies and savings for us and in many cases for our clients as well.
We are now in the early stages of rolling out our new platform NEXEN which will deliver additional functionality and capabilities to all of our clients.
On investment management we extended our liability driven investment strategy into the U.S.
market through our Cutwater acquisition.
Our U.S.
retail and wealth management initiatives continue to add to our new business platform.
This week we announced plan to acquire Silicon Valley wealth manager Atherton Lane Advisers which have $2.7 billion of assets under management.
This investment further strengthens our footprint in one of the fastest growing U.S.
wealth markets.
And were also pleased to welcome them to the BNY Mellon team.
And in the U.S.
retail space we had success with the Spanish global fixed income strategy which was the highest growth product in Morningstars world bond category in 2015.
And in the markets group we continued to enhance our collateral management systems and foreign exchange trading platforms all to drive efficiencies capture more volume and improve the opportunities for future revenue growth.
And our second priority is executing on our business improvement process.
Weve been meeting or exceeding our business process goals and are on target to achieve the structural cost reductions that we shared at Investor Day in October of 2014.
During 2015 we simplified and automated global processes optimized and streamlined our technology infrastructure and shrank our real estate portfolio.
During the fourth quarter we took a number of additional actions to improve the Companys business and financial performance.
Let me give you couple of examples.
We are implementing robotics and machine learning to eliminate repetitive non-value added work enabling a quicker automated process while reducing wasting costs.
We completed three proofs of concept all demonstrating a high degree of accuracy and processing reducing transactional processing time and eliminating manual steps all of which enables us to redeploy resources to activities that create greater value for our clients.
Last quarter I mentioned the new client pricing strategy group that we created to analyze and measure service delivery costs to better align our costs with client pricing.
This group is now reviewing balance sheet related business practices such as overdraft as well as manual transaction activities a new strategy around physical securities as well as standardizing pricing across our business units.
Were also continuing to build out our global delivery centers in lower cost locations to allow for further expansion and position migration.
And we moved over 230 full time staff positions to global delivery centers during the quarter and more than a 1 000 full time positions in 2015.
And weve also begun to implement bring-your-own-device strategy reducing number of data terminals across the Company and have cut back redundant price increase.
These efforts large and small are part of our continuous comprehensive and sustainable process to create efficiencies and savings consistent with our continuous improvement culture.
Our third priority centers on being a strong safe trusted counterparty.
During 2015 we reduced and simplified our counterparty exposures invested in and focused on compliance risk management and control function examined and enhanced our vendor management practices following the SunGard incident incorporating license learned and sharing those with our clients and made significant investments in our resolution and recovery plans.
We also introduced a more robust data governance framework that will strengthen our data collection and analytical capabilities which is important in meeting all of our regulatory requirements globally.
And lastly we demonstrated our strong business recovery capability in response to the historic flooding in Chennai India where we have thousands of employees.
Our fourth priority involves generating excess capital and deploying it effectively and wisely.
We remain focused on maintaining a strong balance sheet as well as capital and liquidity positions while returning value to our shareholders.
So in accordance with our 2015 capital plan which authorized us to repurchase up to $3.1 billion of our stock we repurchased $431 million in share and we distributed a $188 million in dividends during the quarter.
For the full year we repurchased approximately $2.4 billion in shares and distributed more than $760 million in dividends.
Over the last four years we have reduced our shares outstanding by 13% which is among the best in the industry.
And from a regulatory ratio standpoint all of our key capital ratios improved as we move toward full compliance.
This quarter our CET1 ratio under the fully phased-in advanced approach improved to 9.5% and we increased our supplementary leverage ratio to 4.9%.
We also remain in full compliance with the liquidity coverage ratio which became effective in 2015 for the full phase-in period that extends through and 2017.
We remain very confident that we will be in full compliance with all of the regulatory ratio requirements at the time of or ahead of the required dates.
And our fifth priority is to attract develop and retain top talent.
We have continued to focus on investing in our people; we have refreshed the tools and processes we use to manage grow and get the most of our talent.
And we are seeing the benefits of prioritizing talent as reflected in our financial performance.
So as we look ahead given the rocky start to the year in the financial markets we expect our business improvement process to be increasingly critical to our results going forward.
We remain confident that our strategy and relentless focus on the execution of our priorities will enable us to achieve the three year financial targets we shared on Investor Day and importantly deliver value-added services and solutions to our clients.
So with that let me turn it over to Todd.
Thanks Gerald and good morning everyone.
My commentary will follow the financial highlights document will start with slide seven.
Before I walk you through the details of the financial results let me provide you with an overview of the court decision that Gerald noted which resulted in a fourth quarter after tax impairment charge of $0.10.
The charge resulted from the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals decision related to $312 million secured loan we had to Sentinel Management Group which filed for bankruptcy in 2007.
Following a favorable December 2014 decision favorable for us by Federal Court finding that our lien against Sentinel was valid we received payment of the outstanding principal and interest on the loan.
Subsequently the bankruptcy trustee appealed the decision and the appellate court invalidated our lien on the collateral that supported the loan.
The impact of this decision is that we will have an unsecured claim in Sentinel bankruptcy.
As a result we took an impairment charge in the fourth quarter of $170 million on the pretax basis or a $106 million after tax representing our estimate of the probable losses.
Turning now to our fourth quarter results and the financial highlights document we will start with slide seven.
Ill focus on our non-GAAP or operating results for the quarter and the year-over-year comparisons.
On an operating basis our fourth quarter EPS was $0.68 thats up 17% versus year ago.
On a year-over-year basis fourth quarter revenue was up 2% expenses down 2% and we had 308 basis points of positive operating leverage.
As weve noted in prior quarters the strength of U.S.
dollar continues to impact results negatively for revenue and positively for expense.
Net impact from currency translation is minimal however to our overall consolidated financial results.
Adjusted for the dollar revenue would have been up approximately 3% and expenses a little less than 1%.
However our investment management business is impacted more significantly from the strength of the dollar as significant component of investment management revenue is from non U.S.
dollar sources.
If you reference page six of our earnings release you will see the two currencies that impact investment management the most its the pound and the euro and they were down 4% and 12% respectively against the U.S.
dollar.
Income before taxes was up 10% year-over-year on an adjusted basis.
On a year-over-year basis our pretax margin increased approximately 200 basis points to 30% in the fourth quarter.
Return on tangible common equity was 19% for the quarter.
Now moving to slide 10 that details our operating results for the full year; you can see the 2% revenue growth and 2% decline year-over-year in expenses as Gerald mentioned that resulted in 420 basis points of positive operating leverage.
Income before taxes grew 12% EPS up 19%.
On a constant currency basis revenue was up 5% expenses were up 1%.
Slide 11 illustrates key metrics of our performance that demonstrate solid execution of our strategic priorities in 2015.
You can see the four quadrants here.
EPS up 19%; non-interest expense down; pre-tax operating margin expanded nearly 300 basis points; and return on tangible common equity is also up 300 basis points to 21%.
Slide 12 shows our consolidated fee and other revenue.
Asset servicing fees were up 1% year-over-year down 2% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects growth in global collateral services broker-dealer services and higher securities lending revenue which is partially offset by the unfavorable impact of the stronger dollar.
The sequential decrease primarily reflects lower client activity.
Clearing services fees were down 2% year-over-year and sequentially.
Both decreases were primarily driven by industry consolidation as three large clients had transitioned to self clearing firms.
Partially mitigating this impact is the new businesses we are on-boarding from a competitor who exited the business and through a combination of net new business and expense control.
We expect clearing to be pre-tax income neutral in 2016.
Issuer service fees were up 3% year-over-year and down 36% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects net new business and lower money market fee waivers in Corporate Trust that was offset a bit by the stronger dollar.
The sequential decrease primarily reflects seasonality in DRs.
As weve noted in prior quarters our Corporate Trust performance has been improving; this quarter it was a positive contributor to our growth.
Treasury services fees were down 6% year-over-year and flat sequentially.
The year-over-year decrease primarily reflects higher compensating balance credits and lower volumes.
Fourth quarter investment management and performance fees were down 2% year-over-year that would have been up 1% on a constant currency basis.
And that was driven by higher performance fees and a slight reduction in money market fee waivers partially offset by lower equity markets.
Sequentially investment management and performance fees increased 4% and thats primarily due to the normal performance fees seasonality.
Performance fees were $55 million and that compares to $40 million a year ago driven by stronger performance across a wide breadth of strategies including a sharp increase in equity long-only fees.
FX and other trading revenue on a consolidated basis was up 15% year-over-year and it was down 3% sequentially.
FX revenue of $165 million was flat year-over-year down 8% sequentially.
Year-over-year we saw lower standing instruction volumes and lower volatility which were offset by higher volumes in other trading programs.
Also included is the impact of hedging activities of foreign currency placements.
The sequential decrease primarily reflects lower volumes and volatility and seasonally lower deposit receipts related activity and that was partially offset by the hedging activity for foreign currency placements.
Other trading revenue increased to $8 million compared with the trading loss of $14 million in a year ago quarter and a loss of $1 million in Q3.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects the losses on hedging activities within one of the investment management boutiques that we recorded in fourth quarter of last year.
Financing-related fees increased 19% to $51 million and thats compared to the year ago quarter and decreased 28% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects higher fees related to tri-party repo activity.
In the second quarter we noted that some of our clients could moderate their usage or possibly find alternative sources for this financing in the future; we actually did end to see this take place during the fourth quarter.
The sequential decrease primarily reflects lower underwriting fees and the impact of lower fees related to the superior secured intraday credit I just mentioned.
Investment and other income of $93 million compared with $78 million in the year ago quarter and $59 million in the third quarter.
The year-over-year increase primarily reflects higher other income related to termination fees in our clearing business and that was associated with the client transitions that we mentioned as well as seed capital gains and thats partially offset by lower asset-related gains and lease gains.
The sequential increase in investment and other income primarily reflects higher asset-related gains income from corporate and bank owned life insurance and other income related to clearing termination fees partially offset by lease residual losses.
Slide 13 shows the drivers of our investment management performance that should help explain the underlying business.
Assets under management of $1.6 3 trillion were down 4% year-over-year driven by stronger dollar and lower equity markets and they were flat sequentially.
We had long-term outflows of $11 billion $16 billion out of index funds and $5 billion into active funds.
Additionally we had $2 billion of short-term cash flows.
For the full year we had long-term outflows of $17 billion mainly in the equity and index investments partially offset by flows into LDIs and alternatives.
Our wealth management and U.S.
intermediary expansion initiatives continues to show some progress.
Wealth management loans were up 21% deposits were up 6%.
In addition we announced the acquisition of the Silicon Valley wealth manager there is AUM of 2.7 billion and 700 high net worth clients an investment that expands our presence in this fast growing market.
In U.S.
intermediary we had strong performance in a number of investment strategies bringing to organic growth rates that exceeded their Morningstar categories.
Turning to our investment services metrics on slide 14 assets under custody and administration at quarter end were $28.9 trillion up 1% or $400 billion year-over-year reflecting net new business partially offset by the unfavorable impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar and lower market values.
On a constant currency basis year-over-year growth would have been up approximately 3%.
Linked quarter AUC/A was also up $400 billion.
We estimate total new assets under custody and administration business wins are $49 billion in the fourth quarter.
And that gives us a total of $1.2 trillion of new business wins during the year.
Fourth quarter net new business was below average.
Just as a reminder AUC/A wins are episodic and they can vary from quarter to quarter.
Our pipelines continue to look healthy.
And as weve discussed our strategy has been to prioritize organic growth by deepening our existing client relationships and selectively adding new businesses -- a new business versus simply growing market share.
Now looking at some other metrics for investments services the market value of securities on loan at period end was down 4%; average loans grew 4% while average deposits were down slightly.
Our broker-dealer metric of average tri-party repo balances grew 2%; the clearing metrics were mix; DARTS volume in large long-term mutual fund asset were down while active accounts were up modestly.
The net decline in sponsored DR program reflects our continued focus in exiting low activity programs.
Turning to net interest revenue on slide 15 you will see that NIR on a fully taxable equivalent basis was up 7% versus the year ago quarter and it was flat from the third quarter.
The year-over-year increase in NIR reflects higher yields due to a shift out of cash into securities and loans as well as lower interest expense on deposits.
While the volume of earning assets declined 2% their yield increased 6 basis points year-over-year and the yield on interest bearing deposits decreased to 2 basis points.
Sequentially NIR was flat.
Our net interest margin for the quarter was 99 basis points 8 basis points higher than year ago quarter and 1 basis-point higher than prior quarter.
Deposits were down 9 billion sequentially on average that was the expected response to the Feds a first rate move.
Our models continue to estimate some additional loss of deposits as the fed continues to raise rates as implied by the forward curve at year end and then increasing in line with our Investor Day goals.
Turning to slide 16 you will see that non-interest expense on an adjusted basis declined 2% year-over-year and was flat sequentially.
Year-over-year increase in non-interest expense reflects lower expenses in all categories except staff expense.
Now there are few expense items that were both positive and negative to earnings that Id like to call out and I think it will help give you a bit of context.
Staff expenses grew by 4% year-over-year and thats reflecting severance cost of approximately $55 million in ongoing support of our business improvement process and an adjustment of roughly $30 million related to updated information received from an administrator of health care benefits all that was partially offset by the impact of curtailing U.S.
pension plan earlier in the year.
Decrease in other expense primarily reflects adjustments of approximately $35 million to our estimate for bank assessment charges.
And that estimate included the European single resolution fund and it was partially offset by higher asset based taxes.
Factoring in these items we once again showed strong expense control.
Turning to capital on slide 17 fully phased-in and common equity tier 1 ratio increased by 20 basis points to 9.50 that was driven by lower risk-weighted assets as capital was about flat.
Our supplementary leverage ratio increased to 4.9% this quarter principally due to a reduction in our balance sheet as well as reduction in off balance sheet exposures.
A couple of other notes about the quarter from our press release as you will see in the release on page three the effective tax rate was 20.1% which is approximately 5% lower than our previous guidance.
The rate is lower approximately 3% due to the impact of the impairment charge that I mentioned at the beginning of my comments and approximately 2% lower driven by the benefit of a more favorable geographic mix of earnings and a little higher tax-exempt income.
On page 11 you will see some investment securities portfolio highlights.
At quarter-end our net unrealized pre-tax gain on our portfolio was $357 million that compared to $1.05 billion at the end of September the difference in value is principally due to the increase interest rates.
Before I wrap up let me summarize several items that Ive discussed in this quarter.
As wed indicated the impairment and litigation charges resulted as $0.11 charge and were negatively impacted by increased compensation cost driven by severance and health care cost adjustments that I just spoke out that amounted to be about 5%.
On the benefit side we benefited by reduced bank assessment charges lower tax rate and termination fees related to our clearing businesses which added about $0.06 to earnings.
These items in aggregate had a negative impact of about $0.10 in the fourth quarter to our reported earnings.
Now Id like to provide you with a few points to factor into your thinking about 2016.
As you know weve been planning and managing to the flat rate scenario as outlined at our Investor Day in late 2014.
Now that the Fed has increased rates were using the forward rate curve assumptions.
The rate increases obviously are positive for us but we are still facing global economic and geopolitical challenge as evidenced by the markets sharp decline year-to-date.
As a result we are cautious about how this set of challenges will impact the Fed thinking about future rate increases.
Additionally we are concerned about the equity market performance impact to our organization.
With that said let me provide you with our current thinking as we look ahead to the first quarter and the full year.
We expect the modest increase in NIR and NIM in the first quarter.
With respect to the recapture of money market fee waivers we continue to expect to recover 70% with the 50 basis-point increase in rates 25 of that increase has already occurred.
On expenses our goal is to keep expense growth flat in 2016.
However higher rates will eliminate fee waivers and that will drive the higher distribution expenses.
Largely as a result of the higher distribution expense we expect the total expense growth to be in the range 1% to 2% next year.
In the first quarter we expect to see a $15 million increase in the bank assessment charges and it should run at that for the full year.
And we would expect staff expense to be impacted in the first quarter by the acceleration of long-term incentive compensation expense for retiree eligible employees that typically takes place in the first quarter.
We expect our tax rate for the full year to be approximately 25% to 26%.
We expect to continue to repurchase shares under our current authorization both in Q1 and Q2.
Our repurchase for the second half of the year will be contingent upon the Federal Reserve not objecting to our CCAR request later this year.
We think our performance both in the quarter and throughout 2015 underscores that our strategic plan has positioned us well to perform in some tough operating environments.
We are focused on our strategic priorities; were executing on them; and we remain on track to achieve our three-year goals.
With that let me hand it back to Gerald.
Thanks Todd.
And Nicole I think we can now open it up for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Brennan Hawken from UBS.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
So on the expense front thanks Todd for walking through some of the onetimers that impacted the results.
How should we think about the go forward or the direct [ph] jumping off point based on some of that noise that we saw here in the fourth quarter? Yes I would -- so as I walked you through each one of those I would take the category run rates down by about the amount that I mentioned.
Okay.
The specific numbers you gave offsets and upward pressure were the right numbers to rebase and then come up with the baseline starting off point right? I think thats a fair start Brennan.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
And then thinking about the clearing headwind how should we think about that rolling into next quarter; whats the right way to think about the revenue? Because I know that I think you had said at a conference that there might be some further headwind here in 1Q maybe their timing of when the clients came off in 4Q might not have been fully reflected in the 4Q run rate.
So how should we think about that coming into 1Q from here? Yes I think thats right.
Maybe Brian Shea can take it on Brain? Yes sure.
I mean the clearing revenue fee pressure is really driven by few large client exists primarily driven by the exit of Barclays and Credit Suisse from the U.S.
wealth management market entirely which were two large clients.
And those -- Barclays exited in the middle of the fourth quarter and Credit Suisse began their exit in the fourth quarter so they are partially out.
I think you will see continued pressure on the fee revenue line in clearing services for the next few quarters.
I think it will be partially offset by a couple of things.
We actually had a really strong new business year in clearing services in 2015.
We were benefiting by the exit of a large clearing competitor from the market and picked up quite a few high quality clients.
Those clients tend to be less fee revenue driven and they tend to be a little bit more balance sheet and lending driven so that the growth they drive will partially offset the fee decline but you will see some other growth in the NII instead of the fee line.
And we also have pretty strong growth in the RIA custody and the prime business and Pershing is also going to benefit immensely from the fee waiver restoration as rates rise which will help the fee line win as the Fed continues to move over whatever period of time they act on.
So in the meantime were focused on strong expense discipline in the clearing business.
And as Todd mentioned we think we can keep the PTI flat in 2016 despite pressure on the fee line.
Okay Brain.
Thanks for that.
So basically are you saying that the revenue headwind that we saw axing out the new business wins right just focusing on that first should sustain for another couple of quarters and then youve got the offsets that you highlighted picking up from there? Yes partially offsetting that with NII growth and some of the fees from the JP Morgan [ph] more clients offsetting.
But I think there will be pressure on the fee line specifically for the next couple of quarters and well work hard to manage the expense to make sure the PTI impact is neutralized.
Well take our next question from Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
So just picking up on the clearing question just want to make sure that we kind of put that question a bit.
Are all the clients or all the transaction in the wealth management space as sort of been announced over the second half of 2015 or any kind of like reflected in the guidance because I think some of them are closing later in 2016? Yes.
So should we expect another kind of step down in fees in the second half of 16 or everything is already reflected from the clients that exited in 4Q? No.
So its a good point.
There has been another large U.S.
wealth manager thats announced the exit; its another global SIFI thats announced their exit from the U.S.
wealth management business.
That transition out will probably take place in the fourth quarter of 16.
So thats not positive.
On the other side of that though we continue to have a strong pipeline of new business in clearing services.
And frankly we have a number of self clearing firms that are considering outsourcing their clearing.
So I hope that we are able to attract some significant new business that offsets that potential loss or the likely loss in the fourth quarter.
And then Todd shifting gears a little bit on to the balance sheet.
It looks like if you kind of move across the buckets on the yield side doesnt seem like many have them moved I guess just as obviously the Fed hiked later in the quarter.
Help us understand maybe just kind of the run rate of what the NIM we should look for starting 2016 assuming no further rate hikes and kind of your expectation for the balance sheet just kind of trying to rightsize NII outlook for 2016 versus 2015? Yes.
We would expect Alex modest growth.
I think one of the frustrating things that youve seen the 25 basis-point increase in the short rates and long rates have actually come down.
So the reinvestment activity is not going to benefit what we would have modeled or some percentage of the reinvestment.
So we would expect balances to come down a little bit NIM to widen and overall net interest revenue to show a little bit of growth.
Our next question comes from Luke Montgomery from Bernstein Research.
I just wanted to ask about the energy exposure in your C&amp;I loan book.
I think outstanding is $500 million but there is another $5 billion unfunded commitments.
So I was wondering maybe if you could characterize the customers youre lending to speak to covenants or other protections against those lenders drawing down lines of credit if they get stressed and then just generally your sense of whether this exposure is something to be concerned about? Most of -- almost all of the exposure in the energy sector is to investment grade names.
So a lot of integrated firms we do have some pipeline and refiners and there is a little bit of E&amp;P but that is to very high quality names.
So at this point we think its a pretty solid growth.
We might see some transitions in credits but I do not expect to see any losses.
And then at your Investor Day a little over a year ago I think you laid out the path to SLR compliance that youre targeting year-end 2017.
Since then youve added 30 basis points; I think the total youre hoping for is 250 to 350 basis points of improvement.
So I wonder how youre thinking about accelerating the path there as we get closer phase-in date.
And I think the biggest piece of the plan was deposit reduction.
So whats the contingency plan given that rates I mean you said yourself that you might not expect anymore rate hikes.
So there is no help there.
So what weve seen to-date so if you look at the -- we cant really look at the spot balance sheet youve got to look at the average balance sheet because we do see some noise on your end on our balance sheet but its average that drives the ratio.
So if you look in the quarter we did see a $9 billion reduction in balances in the quarter.
And thats a pretty quick response to the rate move that we had seen.
In addition so far this year its probably down an additional $8 billion.
So we would have estimated that wed see about a $20 billion reduction in the first move.
And if we see more weve indicated that would be in the 40 to 70 basis-point-- excuse me $40 billion to 70 billion type of range as we get to a more normal range.
If that doesnt happen what we have done is we prioritized the entire balance sheet.
We might have to take some actions against that for some of the less value deposits.
At this point in time we dont think we need to rush into compliance.
We are building capital; we build about 800 million in a year even with 800 maybe a 100% payout ratio.
And if the balance sheet does come down but -- and we can do some other things actually to track the balance sheet a little bit.
We think we will grow ourselves pretty well into a reasonable rate without going anything exceptional to our clients.
We will take our next question from Brian Bedell from Deutsche Bank.
Just one more on clearing just to be clear on that.
So I think Brian or Todd you were saying you expect pre-tax profit for the clearing business in total to be flat from 2015 to 2016 do I have that right? Thats correct Brian.
Okay great.
And then I can add something there for you.
The clearing fees are about 12% of our total revenues so thats what were talking about.
And it has been a decent grower in the 5% to 6% range.
So its going -- I think the team has done a great job managing our expenses and responding to the consolidation in industry that weve seen here little bit.
So for a year it might pause on its growth.
It was good color from Brian on the fee dynamics there but maybe if I can just dovetail into the money market fee waivers obviously 70% coming off of two hikes.
What percentage do you think you will get at a full run rate on just the one hike and do you really need to wait to like get through 1Q and into 2Q to see that? I think its just the beginning here; its fairly linear.
So we right now the behaviors are seeing are consistent with what we had projected.
So were seeing it now.
Okay.
And it didnt show up very much in the fourth quarter yes we saw a little bit in the asset management side and little bit in the corporate trust side.
Pershing tends to lag in the fee waiver abatement.
So we do think that there is always some acceleration into the first quarter.
And then maybe just to -- I know you gave out the EPS drag from fee waivers if you can give that number for 4Q and what you think it might be for 1Q? Well weve indicated its in the $0.06 to $0.08 range.
And so our file lets you do the math but weve indicated the 50 basis-point move and I just indicated it was linear would reduce it be 1%.
So I dont have to mess it up on the call here; you can figure that out.
Fair enough.
And maybe just then switching to the asset management business maybe if Curtis is there if he can comment on the acquisition.
I guess more broadly on the potential from making more acquisitions for the business given the recent declines in valuations and just comment on sovereign wealth spending exposure across the franchise? First of all were very excited about the acquisition that we announced yesterday afternoon of Atherton Lane.
And its consistent with the strategy that weve had in wealth management which is to go into a market.
We actually have a team in San Francisco and in Palo Alto who are BNY Mellon employees and have been there for some time in San Francisco and then about a year ago in Palo Alto.
But then to find a firm that fits culturally who has a great client base as Todd said 700 clients very fast growing economy and have that firm fit culturally with what were doing meaning that they think about the entire -- the holistic client need everything from financial plans to how they think about generational wealth transfer using trust insurance and then obviously investments.
So were going to bring them the sixth largest asset management firm in the world and all of the banking capabilities of BNY Mellon.
And they are eager -- a big part of what makes this work is that they are eager to transition a firm that theyve grown very nicely since 2005 really to the next level and become part of a global franchise.
So we did this in Chicago with Talon in 2011 with I(3) in Toronto in 2010 and acquisitions that precede that.
Its pretty much our strategy to get a toehold and then bring the full power of our institution to the clients in that region.
And we love that strategy.
And to the extent that we can -- in other MSAs other markets where there is -- we think there is real opportunity for what we can do for clients to grow our capabilities we love to continue to look at those acquisitions.
Ill tell you that were extremely thoughtful about not just the terms and conditions of the acquisition but also that cultural fit is there.
And it takes some time to identify and ensure that we have that in place.
So its a pretty methodical process.
Do you see more opportunities given the valuation to clients; I guess I would say is there pipeline significant? Yes.
So I think that were certainly spending time looking for other opportunities like Atherton Lane.
So I want to balance this so yes we would love to find other opportunities like that in other markets.
And we look at them all the time.
Its one of the great things is were connected Brian talked about Pershing and the rest of our Company has a lot of insight into high quality RI firms around the country.
So were always monitoring it like scouting report as to who would be a good fit who culturally is positioned and yes we absolutely would love it.
We also want to make sure that we execute because we want to make sure every time we do one of these that it works for both acquiring party and their clients.
And just the sovereign wealth fund exposure in the institutional segment? Its been an interesting year.
Youve read Im sure many articles about sovereign wealth funds.
At our Investor Day we described that we were the second largest manager of sovereign wealth fund assets.
So we obviously have a lot of clients in this client channel -- clients and assets.
And I will tell you -- and I think we highlighted this at Investor Day a significant portion of that is indexed assets.
Todd and Gerald both referenced our flows.
And a big portion of our outflows both for this quarter and this year have been indexed related assets where the fees are quite small.
So we have absolutely -- you can see our outflows and index for the year.
And without -- may not be appropriate to talk about any specific clients or client activity but in line with what youve seen from the industry.
Well take our next question from Ken Usdin from Jefferies.
Todd on the core businesses can you just talk about -- I know ex market impacts the servicing business ex securities lending was a little soft.
You cited in the press release activity.
The wins this quarter across the assets were pretty low also.
Can you just talk us to what do you think again ex the market impact; whats your outlook for servicing fee core ex securities lending growth and how much of a weight was the lower activity on the line this quarter? And you also need to factor in the impact of the currency a bit of the stronger dollar because there are a fair amount of non-dollar revenues.
So thats costing us somewhere between 200 basis points and 300 basis points in revenues.
Sequentially Todd? Not sequentially sequentially its almost neutral.
So its not a big impact sequentially.
Ken I think one way to look at it is revenue growth is a challenge.
I mean look at everyone across the marketplace trying to generate significant revenue growth is a challenge for everybody.
We are winning in the places that we want to.
We would certainly like to deepen our client relationships and provide more services to many of our existing clients.
And I think we have a great solution set to offer.
And so thats one of our key priorities is doing more within existing client base with great set of value-added services and solutions.
But revenue growth is tough and thats why weve said and remain incredibly diligent on the expense side.
And that remains a focus and we still think we have more opportunities there.
And thats what really propelled our earnings growth this year.
And its going to be one of the reasons for our success in 2016.
So yes its a bit soft we acknowledge that.
We are redoubling our efforts on our client relationships but weve got to pay a lot of attention to the expense base to deliver the earnings that you all are looking for and that we are looking for.
Yes.
And just on that point about operating leverage again the market environment is going to make this a tough one to answer.
But how much additional flexibility do you have on the expense base if the environment doesnt quite pan out; can you commit to getting operating leverage? I know its tough given where the start of the year is but how much flexibility do you think you have on top of the actions taken to continue to ratchet down expenses further? Why dont I start that one and Brain then you might add.
Brian has really been leading a significant component of our business improvement process.
We still see a number of additional things that can generate some additional cost benefits.
I must admit that fruits probably a little higher on the three but there is still a fair amount of fruit.
Were seeing our infrastructure cost continue to come down we are using more automation tools weve got things like bringing our own device that Gerald alluded to some of these are smaller dollars versus others and our real estate strategy I think is paying off.
Weve got ahead of where we thought we would be this year as we moved out of one lawsuit faster than we could and that brought our guidance for expenses in the occupancy space down and we reviewed our guidance because of that.
We also see other real estate strategies that could add a bit.
We see opportunity in some of our market data actually probably find cheaper sources of market data and more appropriate so we got better tools in place to determine who is using what and how we can deliver better services that are less costly.
I dont Brain you have anything to add to that.
I would add Todd I think you and Gerald covered many of them already but our mentality on this is it is continuous improvement.
So we are going to keep driving this business improvement process regardless of the market environment whether its worse or better.
Even if rates rose 100 basis points wed still be driving this because we think we can create sustainable shareholder value.
So all of the things that Todd mentioned we are excited about the potential from these three pilots in robotics and the ability to start to scale that impact in 2016.
The real estate portfolio you know what weve done in New York but thats actually a global process so we will be getting more yields from that over time.
Weve in-sourced a lot of application development our cost per unit for development is better and our capacity has actually increased.
So we see the opportunity to continue to do more on that.
Weve talked about executing the private cloud; we have moved to significant amount of our legacy servers to a private cloud environment but we have more to do still and that will create ongoing structure of cost savings.
We continue to reduce our dependency on contract developers and temporary services and lower our people related expenses.
And as you can see even from the severance charge Todd took were executing global location strategy.
We moved a 1 000 people to global delivery centers last year and I expect well do a similar amount in 2016.
So we continue to execute every component of this process.
And I think we have more value to leverage from this franchise.
One other part of this which is enterprise team work which is they were really collaborating more effectively between investment management and investment service a great example is the private banking partnership between Pershings broker-dealer and RIA clients and our own wealth management group.
We are now -- have established now something like $2.3 billion in credit facilities for the clients of independent RIAs and broker-dealers who are trying to compete in the wealth management market.
And thats creating some real lift for the wealth management business and some real leverage to our clients.
And its another example of working differently.
Our next question comes from Mike Mayo from CLSA.
Hi.
I wasnt sure about the answer to the last question.
So Gerald or Todd do you expect to grow revenues faster than expenses in 2016? I understand youre doing a lot of different things but when you add it all together when you look out can you commit to having that or can you not commit to it? I think Mike we do expect to grow expenses -- excuse me revenues faster than expenses.
But with this market disruption we have to keep that in mind.
The equity markets do have an impact on our business.
Weve indicated in the past a 100 basis-point move -- 100-point move in the S&amp;P 500 is worth about $0.02 to $0.04 for us.
And that assumes if it moves on average from the beginning of the year so on average its down 50.
So that would be -- if the market continues to sell off that could be a headwind.
We will still target trying to generate positive operating leverage but there are market conditions where that would be impossible.
So flat markets flat rates; youd expect to have positive operating leverage.
Thats correct.
Yes Mike.
And then just some of the ins and outs on the expense side I still dont understand why the combination of custody platform wouldnt provide you with some expense savings and is that simply delayed or that Im thinking about that the wrong way and on the negative side the regulatory cost thats the expenses and then the revenue side still with the asset servicing linked quarter it was -- third to fourth quarter it was down and why is that down I guess that some of the headwinds that probably thinking about here? So Mike if you look at the expenses almost every single category with the exception of total compensation which Todd explained was largely affected by the severance costs in the fourth quarter every single category our expenses are down.
So all of the things that weve talked about whether its custody platform transformation or conversions whether its simplifying our operating structure whether its taking advantage of technology and robotics its showing up in our numbers its showing up in every single line item.
So I would dispute to your claim that its not showing up in the numbers it is.
So I think youve got to look at it across every single line item look at the positive operating leverage the improvement in the operating margin its there Mike.
And then as far as the regulatory headwinds which I guess youre managing and then on the revenue side.
Regulatory headwinds are included in our expense base.
Were offsetting those regulatory headwind costs with aggressive reductions in the operating expenses in all the other categories.
So yes were funding investments in resolution and recovery plans better analytics better CCAR process better controls across the Company improve risk management capabilities.
All of that is being funded and were still reducing the operating expenses year-over-year and improving the operating margin of the Company.
Now on your question on investment services fees and asset servicing in particular yes its a tough revenue environment and we have to up our game [ph] engage with our own client clients even stronger than we have in the past and really try to put our best solutions and best services in front of them to gain more traction there.
So that is one of our objectives and priorities for 2016 is enhancing our client experience and gaining revenue growth.
And then last follow-up.
Can you remind us how much asset servicing relates to fixed income versus equities because shouldnt you be impacted a little bit less than some of your peers? Yes we believe that we will be less impacted than most of our peers.
Were probably the reciprocal of what theyre somewhere between 35% and 40% equity and that would mean [ph] fixed income in many markets.
Our next question comes from Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley.
Thanks very much.
Im good.
Those are all my questions.
Thanks Betsy.
Thanks for dialing in.
[Operator Instructions] We will now move along to Adam Beatty from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Maybe just one more on expenses I know that outside services came down pretty nicely year-over-year.
If you could give some color on that in terms of how much of that is sort of core services like outsourcing basically headcount replacement versus more traditional pro-services like legal and technology and the trends and the outlook there.
Thanks Yes we are definitely trying to trend away from relying on outside services typically across substantially more than what we can do internally.
Weve even seen that on the legal side as well as temporary services that are provided in various functions.
We follow it very closely.
Anytime somebody has been -- outside service has been around for a while supervising that service gets a notification questioning why its still around and why we havent internalized it.
I dont know Brian you might want to comment; youve done a lot of things there.
Yes I think were just -- in general on our major strategic projects and investments were relying more on our team and developing our own team whenever we think its a sustainable need and a capability we need rather than rely as much on contractors consultants.
Part of thats also the ongoing IT application development in-sourcing which is reducing contract consultant cost and actually we think improving our speed to market and our actual development productivity at the same time.
So its a variety of things not one single thing but were really focused on every part of these expenses.
So it sounds like ex maybe some episodic things there is room for further reduction there? Probably a little bit.
Yes.
And then turning to investment management and the flows specifically wealth management the outflows came a lot from indexing I assume thats somewhat institutional.
In wealth management youve mentioned 5 billion of active inflows not sure how much of that was wealth management but what are you seeing amongst your clients now and how theyre reacting to the market? Thanks.
I think its exactly what youd expect it to be which is a mix of the uncertainty; the volatility has been very significant.
And I think August really shocked people and then you got a little bit of recovery and the first part of this year has been challenging.
People are trying to understand that this is a beginning of something greater.
Were talking with them a lot about the differences between now and the financial crisis.
Banks have substantially more capital and are a lot less averaged.
Obviously the China impact is something were really trying to understand with everyone struggling for the data and really be insightful.
So trying to help our clients understand whats happening is something that theyre all interested in.
Ill tell you that there are also many who have been since the financial crisis underinvested; theres been a lot of people who have been more in cash and we stressed them that having a solid investment plan and overall financial plan is critical.
Being too conservative is not a good thing and many of them have been so.
So were seeing some people who are beginning to put money to work theyre scaling in.
I wouldnt say its a -- until volatility settles down I dont think well see the dramatic shifts.
I will tell you that flows in the industry and we see -- as were in both investment management and investment services see so much whats happening a lot of clients rebalanced when the equity markets did well.
And I do think that we will see people who reduced their equity exposure earlier they are absolutely going to rebalance see it in the other direction; as markets decline they may wait from a timing perspective for things to settle down a bit and just make sure they understand whats really happening with the economy the impact of lower energy prices.
I still think there is a pretty significant lag effect on what itll mean for the real economy which would ultimately be positive.
So I think our clients are uncertain but also interested in figure out whether this is an opportunity to add investment risk to their portfolio.
Well take our final question from Gerard Cassidy of RBC Capital Markets.
Can you guys share with us the -- youve touched on this in past calls I believe the blockchain technology how you are pursuing that and what the implications are for it longer term; should it ever become a reality one of the opportunities for you with it and one of the negatives that it could cause to your Company? We are spending a lot of time and energy in different parts of the Company on the block chain technology and where it can be applied.
I think last quarter we commented we have two pilot programs actively engaged internally.
Were participant in a couple of consortiums on blockchain technology.
Interestingly were hosting a blockchain technology day next Monday with our own technologists and outsiders exploring all the different opportunities that we see and others see.
So were very actively engaged in the dialogs and the concept of where it can be applied.
I think here are some real opportunities for us to be a disruptor to the existing infrastructure.
I think its going to take quite a bit of time to get there.
But we are not sitting back waiting; we are actively engaged in the dialogs.
And when you say quite a bit of time to get there are we thinking three years out five years out or is it just too hard to say when it becomes -- it inevitably becomes fully functional? Yes its too hard to say.
We are all very intrigued with it we are very intrigued with the concept of it and how it could structurally change a lot of the processes we do.
And by the structural change i.e.
reduce costs for us and our clients.
And its going to take some time to get there to become fully functional.
And then just coming back to the sovereign wealth funds two questions on that or two part -- one question two parts.
One the drop in the deposits in the foreign offices was that attributed to the sovereign wealth funds pulling money out? And second whats the total dollar amount under management in the quant funds with the sovereign wealth business? The drop in the deposits I dont think anything to do with the sovereign wealth funds.
The drop in deposits is consistent with what we saw what happen when rates moved and there were better alternatives than staying on our balance sheet for low yield.
We dont comment on the size of the assets under management for sovereign wealth funds specifically.
But given that were a significant player were seeing what the rest of the industry is seeing and that is certain sovereign wealth funds are liquidating their assets and continuing to follow their social agendas and using money within their own country.
So were no different than the rest of the industry in that regard.
Well thank you very much everyone for dialing in.
We really appreciate it.
If you have further questions Valerie and her team look forward to hearing from you.
And Im sure well run into all of you pretty soon.
So thank you very much again everyone.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude todays conference.
If there are any additional questions or comments you may contact Ms.
Valerie Haertel at 212-635-8529.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes the conference.
Thank you for participating.