Good morning.
My name is Kerry and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Inc.
First Quarter 2011 Earnings Teleconference.
Our hosts for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Ann Marie Petach; Vice Chairman Susan L.
Wagner; and General Counsel Robert P.
Connolly.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Connolly you may begin your conference.
Good morning.
This is Bob Connolly I'm General Counsel of BlackRock.
Before Larry and Marie and Sue make their remarks I want to point out that during the course of this conference call we may make a number of forward-looking statements.
We call to your attention the fact that BlackRock's actual results may differ from these statements.
As you know BlackRock has filed with the SEC reports which lists some of the factors which may cause our results to differ materially from these statements.
And finally BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Ann Marie our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Bob.
Good morning everyone.
This morning as we report first quarter earnings we're delivering a top line revenue story.
Today we announced earnings of $2.96.
This is up 23% compared to a year ago and those earnings are being driven by top line revenue growth of 14%.
Our revenue growth is a combination of both market but importantly strong organic growth.
And we are seeing that organic growth consistent with a number of the themes we've been discussing.
We saw strong revenue growth related to retail close that both U.S.
and internationally and reflects the strength of those markets as well as our relative share of those markets improving.
We saw good close in our EPS business iShares.
And just a reminder that that business in the first quarter is usually seasonally the weakest quarter of the year.
We see good revenues in multi-asset products as clients are seeking people to solve their problems and help them manage risk not just managed assets.
And we are seeing good revenues from alternatives both slated to the performance in alternatives and forward into alternative.
And that's a trend that investors continue to separate alpha from beta.
The first quarter was also a quarter of a number of important milestones.
We increased our dividend by 37.5%.
We increased our credit facility by $1 billion to $3.5 billion and extended the maturities for five years.
While we have no plans to use the credit facility we think it's an important source of long-term flexibility.
Our merger-related concentration flows are at this point largely behind us.
The first quarter is the lowest quarter since the merger.
We have only one $9 billion outflow that's relatively low revenue from a single client remaining in the pipeline and we've got no other known concentration confirmed.
With respect to our long-only quant [quantitative] product the near-term performance is going to take time to work its way into the medium and longer term track record.
With that in mind we did budget for outflows in 2011 and we are seeing outflows in our U.S.
and global products.
At the same time we're beginning to see inflows into regional quant products where we have had good performance.
And so we do believe quant is an opportunity going forward.
And I wanted to see what our quant hedge funds which are performing well and attracting assets from our long-only quant.
The pipeline is strong with a high-quality of revenue and Larry is going to talk much more about that.
And finally of note that on April 1 we were added to the S&amp;P 500 index.
And on the date of inclusion we were the 75th largest company in the index.
I'm going to walk through a number of the slides starting with Slide 1.
Our operating income which is shown in the left-hand side of the chart of $819 million was up 13% compared to a year ago with net income and EPS both up 23%.
With respect to margins shown on Slide 2 on the far right-hand side.
Our margin came in 39.1%.
That was up from the first quarter a year ago.
And just the fourth quarter margin as a reminder reflected a peak period of performance fee loss.
Our comp to revenue ratio for the quarter was 35.4% consistent with where we've been running for a very long time.
We do remain confident in both top line growth combined with a good margin as we continue to seek efficiencies and realize the benefits of scale.
Just a couple of examples from the quarter late in the first quarter we migrated a number of our data centers in Snohomish facility in Washington state.
We're going to benefit from doing this by lower cost power.
Another example is we have been consolidating our operating functions into Centers of Excellence which will benefit from scale and following the sun.
At the same time we're investing in the firm bringing in some great new talents and capability something Larry is going to spend time talking about.
On Slide 3 with strong markets and all in all we continue to benefit from improving markets.
On Slide 4 on the far right-hand side it was laid out the key components of our earnings per share.
Earnings per share of $2.96 included operating earnings of $2.93.
That's $2.79.
That $2.79 included $0.06 associated with the successful launch of a $1 billion closed-end funds investing in commodities and energy.
We have a tax adjustment of $0.12 that was related to resolution of certain tax matters and $0.05 of nonoperating earnings.
If you take the $2.96 and you exclude the closed end as well as the tax adjustment we still had earnings of $2.90 in the quarter.
Compared to the fourth quarter -- compared to the first quarter a year ago you can see the business grew across all dimensions.
And compared to the fourth quarter we had growth in the base business fewer onetime costs offset by a period with fewer performance fee loss.
The first quarter as adjusted tax rate was 33% before considering the $24 million tax adjustment.
That brought the quarterly rate down to 30.1%.
Speaking of revenues now as shown on Page 6.
Year-over-year revenues were 14%.
I'm going to talk about base fees in a minute by really starting with performance fees.
Performance fees in the quarter came in strong at $83 million.
That reflected both strong relative performance on a number of equity accounts as well as the strength of our alternative platforms.
We have good performance across our single strategy hedge funds.
And also of note at this point over 2/3 of our hedge fund of funds are above the high watermark that compares to about 20% a year ago.
We had strong BRS revenues of $128 million.
We continue to grow the base Aladdin business.
We continue to win and implement new advisory assignments.
We're beginning to see the run-off of some of our long-term liquidation assignments.
This reflects the opportunity for holders to benefit from improved valuations and liquidity on the underlying assets and it's a trend we expect to continue.
Included in the AUM price line is $15 billion in new long-term disposition assignment.
And there is active interest across-the-board on Aladdin so we feel great about the BRS opportunity going forward.
Moving on to base fees.
And as shown on Slide 8 really base fees improved 13% year-over-year across all long dated asset classes.
Compared to fourth quarter as shown on Slide 9 we had a $33 million or 2% increase in base fees and that is despite the drag of two fewer days in the quarter worth about $40 million.
When I talk about retail and U.S.
and international strength that comes through in the $27 million of revenue associated with active equity product.
You can also see the growth in alternatives and multi-asset that I mentioned.
With respect to EPS we are seeing trends inflows which reflects the rotation into equity.
Rotation into yield products.
We are seeing strong global growth.
And that reflects international clients both coming into U.S.
products as well as domestic products.
Just for transparency's sake and thinking about our institutional index assets those assets can be high-velocity assets.
Clients sometimes just parks their money in an index while they decide what they're doing longer-term.
That can result in high-volume inflows as well as high-volume outflows which have relatively low revenue impact.
So beginning in the fourth quarter we've separated this out clearly in the press release so you can really see the impact of those revenues and flows.
Moving on to expenses which are shown on Slide 10 and 11.
Compared to a year ago expenses are up $195 million about 15% up consistent with the growth in the Base business.
G&amp;A is up $85 million really three key drivers from one cost of $19 million that I talked about earlier $20 million of asset-free measurement and $28 million of marketing and travel expense.
Compared to the fourth quarter expenses are down $68 million or about 4%.
Compensation costs were relatively stable at about $800 million where we had lower direct incentives and bonus offset by the fact that we hired more people.
First quarter was at peak payroll taxes associated with our bonus payout and we are beginning to reflect the new stock awards into our expense.
G&amp;A was down $69 million.
Despite the $19 million closed-end one cost we didn't repeat a number of the unique cost that we experienced in the fourth quarter.
A couple of what you'll recall which was really the establishment of a charitable fund and the onetime regulatory fee to the asset management you pay in the industry both of which were about $20 million.
Nonoperating income which is shown on Slide 12 was $14 million that which $43 million of investment gain across all asset classes partially offset by net interest expense of $29 million.
The value of our investment portfolio is stable at about $1 billion or $940 million excluding headwind-related items.
Really the gains in the portfolio were offset by net distribution down to the portfolios to the values of the investment are about stable.
And these investments as you know were a pro-investments alongside our clients or seeding of new products to everything we're doing here is aligned with our clients interest.
With respect to cash flow we're generating substantial cash flow and returning a meaningful portion of that cash to shareholders.
As shown on Slide 13 we did increase the dividend from $4 annualized to $5.50 to 37.5% I mentioned earlier.
And in the quarter that resulted in a 48% payout.
We still have repurchase authority of 4.2 million shares.
We didn't do any repurchases in the first quarter but we have given notice to redeem our convertible debt which is likely to result in those investors converting those shares in common and increasing our flows by a small amount.
We are still very conscious about flows since we've been included in the S&amp;P 500.
We want to continue to meet the criteria which got us included.
And at the same time we would like to begin repurchasing shares at a minimum of our anti-dilutive and we're going to seek the opportunity to buyback shares in ways that won't materially disturb our flows.
We don't have any plans for material M&amp;A or investments that would be dragged.
And believe me we don't want to have idle assets on our balance sheet over extended periods of time.
So wrapping up the first quarter is indeed the growth story.
We entered 2011 delivering double-digit earnings growth fueled by top line revenue growth.
We delivered a healthy margin generated substantial cash flow and returned a large portion of that cash flow to shareholders.
We feel great about our business model.
We feel very strongly that we are well-positioned strategically relative to the global plan and that is already reflected in our pipeline and gives us great confidence in our future growth opportunity.
With that I'll turn it over to Larry.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you Ann Marie.
As we reflect on our first quarter it became very evident to me that BlackRock has come together as one firm.
Cultural and business integration from our BGI merger is totally behind us and our success this past quarter and in the beginning of the second quarter demonstrates that our business momentum is accelerating.
BlackRock's broad range of products our worldwide business footprint our solutions in risk management approach to our clients' needs have allowed BlackRock to serve our clients with more opportunities enlarge and enhance our client relationships.
As BlackRock feels more comprehensive relationships with our clients we are expanding our product offerings both in Beta and Alpha and more investment solutions.
Our relationships are becoming larger and more substantial with many many of our clients worldwide.
As Ann Marie stated our earnings were $2.96 up 24% year-to-year strictly driven by organic long-dated asset growth beta obviously.
But more importantly by our expanding product mix.
And also as we said at the end of last year by what we are seeing more frequently re-risking by our clients moving into equities and moving into alternatives.
And BlackRock is playing a larger role in that than we've ever done before.
And this is leading to revenue growth of 14% year-to-year.
And I should note unlike so many other financial institutions who are recording our earnings growth is fueled by revenue growth.
A 100% of our revenues is driven by client business Ann Marie spoke about that.
Our business model is not going to change.
We'll use our balance sheet only to co-investment with our clients and seed products.
We are not using our balance sheet to compete.
And importantly we intend to use all excess cash flows in the form of dividends and as Ann-Marie spoke about to buyback shares when it's -- especially the shares that are being created for employee plan.
And as Ann Marie spoke about we didn't raise our standby credit facility.
If there's any events that need us to take advantage of opportunities and repurchasing shares.
Let me review our quarter.
Our headline at AUM is $3 648 000 000 000.
This has been led principally by our multi-asset class product growth which grew by about $22.4 billion.
Which $6.8 billion of it is in our fiduciary assignments and $16.8 billion of growth in our Defined Contribution business principally through our LifePath products.
And we continue to have more and more opportunities working with our clients in these products whether it is LDI and/or just more complex relationships and having beta and alpha.
And as I said it is increasing product mix that isn't global -- that is global allows us to have a much more comprehensive relationship in terms of asset allocation mixes of products how does one look at the risk and how should one design a portfolio run-on liabilities.
One of our most important jobs for the future is going to be a continuation of building our brand.
We need to continue to build our brand recognition worldwide.
This is going to be a big and aggressive campaign over the next five years.
We believe this will demonstrate the growth of the platform and it will allow us to continue to grow worldwide.
I have to emphasize worldwide growth although we are still seeing tremendous growth in the United States but as the world continues to grow faster outside the United States in parts of Asia and South America we continue to build up that platform.
It has to be away from dollar-based assets so there has to be more in local currencies.
And in doing so we need to continue to build out that brand and the brand recognition as we expand our footprint worldwide.
A good indication of how our brand recognition is being enhanced and also a good indication of the ability to grow in multiple channels I'd like to highlight our retail channels in the first quarter.
In terms of long-term asset growth our U.S.
retail platform and long-term assets grew by $7.4 billion.
Our international retail channels and long-dated assets grew by $6.3 billion so a total of close to $14 billion in terms of assets in the first quarter.
I should also note fixed income long-term assets grew $8.5 billion and equities getting back to the  re-risking grew by $10.5 billion in the first quarter.
In our iShares products we continue to see very good momentum.
And if you look at a year-over-year type of growth to the fourth quarter generally is a sometimes low to no growth after expanding growth in the fourth quarter.
And if you add our growth in April and our growth April to date and our growth in the first quarter it's over $12 billion.
And it includes the iPath products.
We are growing in every product in our iShares platform except our emerging equity markets ETF.
This is where we actually had bad tracking error last year.
I am pleased to say that it has been fixed.
We put a lot of emphasis on it.
And in the last few weeks we have begun to see a reversal from outflows to a multibillion-dollar inflows in that product.
So the first quarter for our iShares product was strong and we continue to believe there's going to be more and more opportunity.
What's interesting to note and we said this in the fourth quarter but we're seeing it even more so in the first quarter I do believe ETF flows is a good forward indicator of where asset allocation is going.
And we began to see a shift out of fixed income into equities at the beginning -- in the third quarter last year but that's accelerating.
And we are seeing actually more growth now in equity ETF than we did in fixed income.
So this is another example to us that clients are re-risking and why I think I've been probably talking about why we believe equities will continue to rally.
Long-term flows as Ann Marie stated grew by close to $35 billion.
This has been offset by an outflow of $24 billion in our Cash Management business.
Our flows are representative of the industry.
With the shortage of short-term treasuries we see rates below five basis points.
This is a business that will continue to flounder during these low rate environments.
We are constructive about it.
We actually in the first quarter of those soft flows -- positive flows in the institutional side and we saw very large negative flows more in the retail side.
And so we are building our market share in terms of institutional and it's not representative with our growth of $24 billion in our outflows in cash.
But we are building market share institutionally and we are certainly seeing some substantial line downs in the retail side.
And much of this is because in many cases the retail platforms are migrating from money market funds to bank deposits.
Bank deposits are higher in yield in money market funds even at a time when banks are having a little success in terms of C&amp;I loans they're may be using the deposit for buying short-term treasuries or mortgage securities but they're willing to pay more than money markets can afford.
So that trend is not going to change anytime soon.
And so this is going to be an area that will have a drag on our flows albeit this is low-fee business and what I'm trying to stress is the revenue from the very very high-fee businesses that we are demonstrating.
In addition as Ann Marie suggested in our BlackRock Advisory business BlackRock Solutions we are paying to our clients the principal paybacks in interest.
And so as you witnessed now in the last few quarters a decay in the Advisory business this is a little over $4.5  billion a quarter.
And once again this is what we expect will continue.
And yet in our pipeline which I'll talk about in a minute where there is a big win in the Advisory business.
I should talk about merger-related outflows as Ann Marie suggested it slowed a little more than $18 billion.
We are not going to report merger-related activity again.
We believe this is principally over.
We are forecasting and telling you that there is in our pipeline another $9 billion.
But this reporting is over.
It will all be net.
We believe we can look forward to growth now and we don't see any of the concentration issues that we had before.
Let me just talk about our pipeline.
$82.4 billion of pipeline winds.
This represents also the netting of the $9 billion of outflows in it.
So this is a net number in our pipeline.
I'd like to really emphasize one important characteristic about our pipeline $60.7 billion of that pipeline is long dated.
I'm also pretty pleased to say 55% is in beta products and 45% is in active alpha products.
So a very strong pipeline of wind in the long-dated products.
$6.2 billion was money that left last quarter in the last few days in our money market funds then it went back into money market funds.
And then we did win a $15.5 billion advisory assignment in our BlackRock Solutions business.
Over the last few quarters we said we're going to be expanding our product mix especially in alternatives.
We have been very active in the first quarter.
We brought in a team from NTR for alternative energy.
We are adding more single-strategy alternative products.
And importantly we saw over $2 billion of flows in the first quarter in the first week of April.
And now I'm pleased to say our total assets in alternative is $115 billion.
We are witnessing even more and more demand for alternative products as clients are looking to continue to re-risk.
Some clients are re-risking through bar billing using some beta products.
And in some cases using less maybe standard active equity strategy and are moving towards more what we would call a more evolved more higher return active alternative products.
So we -- growth continues in that space and we're continuing to make large investments in teams and in our platform in the alternative space.
Ann Marie spoke about the scientific active equity team.
I am pleased to say in almost 80% of our products we are witnessing positive returns.
We still have some negative returns in our U.S.
platform but we are working tirelessly to rebuild the entire platform.
We are seeing flows in our SAE business outside the U.S.
and we believe this is going to be a much stronger product in the future as so much money has run away in this product not just from us from other firms and we believe the opportunity in that product continues.
We are going to continue to build out our investment teams.
That's a big characteristic for the future.
We have many -- we've talked to many people in terms of building out fundamental equity teams and our fundamental fixed income teams.
We continue to believe that global credit will become a very large component and we are very active in terms of rebuilding those teams.
So despite our success we are aggressively believing that we need to continue to build out our global footprint not just in distribution not just working with clients but our entire manufacturing platform.
BlackRock Solutions had a very very strong first quarter.
The momentum continues in the second quarter.
12 new assignments.
Revenues were strong a $128 million.
We have a large pipeline of opportunities.
I should note that we received a lot of attention and I do believe we did an exceptional job in working with the Central Bank of Ireland in helping them understand the significance of their banking system and the team who worked tirelessly in working with many -- with our client the Central Bank of Ireland.
But importantly with many other regulatory regimes that are involved.
So we are building a stronger future.
We are very constructive on the platform of Blackrock.
I believe the first quarter was a very strong one that helped us validate our business model of multiproduct strategies.
Our continued and relentless approach to making sure that alpha is the most prominent issue that were faced everyday and the production of alpha that does not change with growth.
That does not change with our scale.
But importantly as we build that alpha we are going to continue to build out our manufacturing teams.
We do believe worldwide clients are in need of more solution-based answers.
We believe the political and economic issues around the world are only raising more questions as to how the clients should think about their portfolio.
And we believe we are the best-suited firm in the world in asset management to work with our clients in terms of solving these complex issues.
Let me just add a few more things as an indicator of the strength and conviction that we have on our platform.
We were very aggressive in building out our leadership team in the first quarter.
We hired a new head of institutional client service in the U.S.
We are aggressively building out our Blackrock Institute.
This is a very important issue for us because as we grow our global footprint as we grow our products worldwide we need to make sure that we are connecting all this information and then redistributing this information to our portfolio teams and importantly to our clients.
And so we believe this is going to be one of the core cornerstones of BlackRock in the future.
Having the Blackrock Institute become the area in which we bring all those information together.
Understand what all the information that we are seeing means it should lead to better alpha production.
But importantly it should lead us to have more complex relationships with our client and helping our clients in terms of understanding the dynamics of the world.
We announced this week a new head of our real estate platform.
We are very excited about this.
This is an area that we were embarrassed in 2008 where we actually add this performance in 2010 and we continue to add this performance in 2011.
And we are going to build this out as we believe it is a great asset class and we are very proud of the changes we're making there.
We're adding many more people in our alternatives teams I mentioned NTR.
And I mentioned earlier we are going to be aggressive and continue to build out our equity fundamental equity and fundamental fixed income teams.
So in closing BlackRock is building a stronger global footprint.
We're adding products.
We see more opportunities.
We're very pleased with the position we have with our clients worldwide now.
And we're very excited about the future for BlackRock.
I just want to thank all the employees for a really good quarter.
And especially in terms of -- with all the noise in the world economies and the world political themes.
We do believe that regulatory issues are going to be -- will still be with us for many months and years ahead of us and global uncertainty and global volatility is going to be probably more prevalent than we've seen in many years ahead.
And having a global footprint a global platform will allow us to navigate probably a little better than many other people.
And I would like to just thank all our new shareholders who came on board with their offering in November.
And I believe your first two quarters of ownership have proven to be successful.
And with that thank you.
let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from Michael Carrier with Deutsche Bank.
Sue your first question I think a lot of the investments it looks like given where the pipeline is it's just starting to pay off.
And when you look at whether it's the international distribution you guys announced relationship with Mizuho you mentioned the DC opportunity and you see more and more DB plan shifting.
I guess when you look in some of those opportunities and where you are today versus what's still out there? Is there any way you can gauge or size that up in terms of whether it's market share or -- just how you can continue to sustain the growth? It looks like that you're producing it but just so you can size any of those markets up? You're just as aware as everyone else of the global instability that we're seeing.
We believe on the retail side on the defined contribution side to name two areas we have enormous opportunities in the future.
I would say only a few years ago we did not have a brand that was well understood or recognized in the retail channels.
Each year we're expanding.
And as I said earlier we need to really invest in that brand to continue to build out those channels to make it easier.
We are seeing worldwide a distribution platforms limiting the amount of manufacturers that they have.
There are one or two big events that is going to happen with some international distributors are going to reduce the amount of fee.
Manufacturers they're going to be working with we believe we'll be a part of that in those cases.
So we see actually somewhat of a crowding out effect that's going to be happening in the manufacturing space.
And what I'm trying to suggest is the large multiproduct platforms are going to grow probably significantly faster than a single-strategy platforms.
And so for me to give you a size Mike I believe we have just enormous opportunities in those areas.
As you said money is moving out of DB into DC.
I think I said this at the end of the first quarter we believe that trend will accelerate as the public funds are struggling with their defined benefit plans and they're going to probably shift new employees into defined contribution plans away from the defined benefit plans.
So that trend will continue and I do believe we will be a big beneficiary of all that.
And the whole impact of re-risking as I said publicly many times in the last two quarters investors are overweighted in fixed income because of fears.
Underweighted in equities.
And we believe having our beta products and our expanding alpha products in equities we'll allow us to have more opportunities with more clients.
Sue do you want to add anything? No.
I'm just going to say Mike on the institutional side I really don't think we think about it as a market share problem [indiscernible].
I think it's about the value-added services and the way we work our clients.
So I think there -- while it may well be the case that our overall AUM continues to grow and we certainly would expect that.
In addition we think that over time the revenue mix moves as we work with clients strictly around our bar belling and longer-term investment strategies like multi F class solutions that Larry has already talked about.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just one follow-up on the -- just when thinking about the margin.
I think one of the things that everyone always focuses on and this isn't just for you guys but any type of passive products you tend to do to have lower fees so you have a down or turning fee rate over time if the passive industry is growing faster than active.
But if you can give any sense of what the incremental cost structure is on the passive in reverse to the active side or the incremental margin just so we can kind of say "All right we can see the fee trend in that product area." But I guess some type of a cost base or the incremental just so we can try to gauge the margin over time that even though the fees can -- declined the margin can still...
Fair question.
Ann Marie? Yes when we think about that inside of any in-depth investment it is a little bit like the cash business in that we really don't have to have a lot of resources as you have billions of dollars of assets of coming in.
So when you think of new business coming in you can think of that coming in at an accretive margin that is very positive despite low fees.
But we don't segment or report on.
I mean I think off-line Ann Marie can give you more color.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Just first here on capital management.
Just want to make sure we did the math right.
So kind of in the second quarter we should think about really some debt conversion maybe some comp-based stock issuance.
But you also have a cushion related to the passive constraint the flow constraint.
Should we expect though a net increase in stock in the second quarter? No.
No I don't think there's going to be a material change.
Okay.
Well it is our objective.
I would say we clearly hope that we will be reducing that the outstanding.
That we are going to start -- so we are purchasing some of the employee plan.
What Ann Marie has said in her speech is we have to be conscious of the hurdles that we have with S&amp;P.
We do not want to break any of those issues and we will be very mindful of that but we do have room.
Got it.
I just had a second question...
So there's much necessity.
So just the second question here.
When we think of the advisory AUM's and the solutions business how should we think of the medium lineage in your business here.
Specifically in terms of kind of scheduled redemptions and also the economics of this business.
Should we see a step-up in revenue as we help dispose some of these assets? And then what's the economics in terms of the fee rate? Anything I do with the Federal Reserve I can't even talk about.
And that's a requirement with our relationship there.
As I said in a macro way about BlackRock Solutions our business is very strong.
The opportunities are large.
We had a very strong first quarter and we expect the second quarter to continue to be strong.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Okay in terms of capital management how much capital do you think you need to actually run the business against the north of $3 billion free cash flow number that you're generating per year? Well we're not going to answer that question specifically but we do.
And I think this is a positive for us in the business if we do have a certain amount set aside and the close will risk the regulatory purposes and that's certainly the core foundation.
As you know Bill we have -- we will have opportunities to continue to raise our dividends aggressively and/or if when we have those opportunities that will prevail in repurchasing shares subject to paying attention to the S&amp;P hurdles.
Got you.
Okay.
And second question just in terms of the broad discussion on margins.
I certainly appreciate the accretive nature of the passive business.
But when you sort of think through the AUM build against your discussion here about in terms of branding over the next five years and the decision to boost focus on alpha and then the headcount additions associated with that any sort of thoughts sort of the baseline view on the adjusted margin and those 39% just probably held up a lot better than people anticipated? But as you look forward to more normalized or sustainable basis what's the reason? I think I said at the end of the first -- at the end of the fourth quarter our objective to have a margin of over 40%.
And that has not changed.
And so as we continue to invest in people in brand and product we are mindful of where we believe our margins should go.
But if we see a massive opportunity I will invest in that.
I'm not here to tell you there's anything that is unusual that we're going to be investing in right now that is going to change my views of margins.
But I will not foresake what I could say accelerated growth for up to 1/4  margins if that was the case.
But I know what my target is.
We are mindful of it everyday as leaders.
And we are managing our investments accordingly.
Okay.
And just one last one I know this is probably to be determined but any incremental cost and sort of systematic risk? Your company continues to be sort of a primary focus as given the growth of the AUM but any thoughts there in terms of what it might mean to the business if any -- at this point? I think that Financial Times had a really good story on designation.
And it basically alluded to and I'm citing the article not my opinion but I think it has merit.
It cited that in most cases most of the members of this committee believes specific designation should remain with leveraged companies.
It should be small and if that criteria carries the day we would not be designated as one.
There was another competing view that there should be 50 firms in that article.
And it kind of alluded to that was a very minor minority position.
But the article is already two weeks old so it is dated.
But from my indications and our conversations with Belgium and Washington and London I don't think at this time we would be a systemically important institution under that definition that is prevailing at the moment.
Of course the definition may change.
I'm trying to dance around it Bill as you can see.
Good job.
All right thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Just curious I met with a private equity firm recently they're called Basel III the private equity and asset manager Christmas tree alluding towards certain banks not being able to hold certain assets and that just the regulatory arbitrage.
I think you have spoken about them in the past.
Just curious if you are seeing asset movement.
I do see some options out there for some assets and how BlackRock might play a role on that? Yes.
And there's no question.
I actually had a conversation with a leader of a large institution and they're looking at capital management and our solution team is going to be visiting them next week on things of that nature of helping them in asset sales and how to look at their capital base.
I mean don't give them advice in terms of when and what to raise in terms of equity because we're not an underwriter but we are working with institutions.
As we think about Basel III in terms of how should they be looking at their assets.
So that's a -- no question the big opportunities that we see for our Advisory business.
And in addition this is one of the reasons why we are a little more aggressive than I thought we would have been in terms of building on our alternative spaces.
There's other firms that we're in areas that are not considered proper under Dodd-Frank.
We are re-looking at different types of alternative activities including private equity.
And so we do believe it is an opportunity.
I would call it Christmas tree because you still have to perform.
But I would call it added opportunities for asset managers and certainly for Blackrock.
Okay fair enough.
And apologies if I missed this but do you disclose the remaining size of the scientific equity book both either total or U.S.
just so we can understand what potential headwinds might still be there in the short term? No we don't.
We don't do that at segment reporting.
But I don't believe there's not much headwind left.
I mean there are some in the U.S.
area but as I said we are seeing growth in the non-US.
Okay cool.
And final one any directional comment I know it's tough to get too specific but anything regarding what seems to be an ongoing discussion with the banks on reps and warranties and potentials settlement there? Well it's an active dialogue that we're having and my General Counsel is looking at me because there are active dialogues right now.
I'm going to have my General Counsel smile now than I can't talk about it.
All right.
Thanks very much.
But I can tell you it's active right now.
And so let's leave it at that.
Okay appreciate it.
Your next question comes from Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Quick question.
I know Larry you talked at length about the goal to expand the business globally.
When I -- one thing that will be helpful for me at least will be to get a little bit more color on kind of how you think of your global footprint at this point in broad terms? I mean if I look at the inflows very strong in the U.S.
positive in other regions but substantially less so.
So can you maybe kind of put some color around whether it's AUM mix or client mix? How to look at the footprint maybe right now? Well one thing I can say because we're expanding our flows in retail internationally and the leader higher-fee businesses in the U.S.
Well I think some of the flows internationally were skewed by some events in Japan.
The circumstances around Japan with the tsunami nuclear problems and the earthquake we have witnessed outflows from Japan and that's skewing some of our international flows.
The Japanese have bought back money.
I think this is one of the reasons why we are seeing maybe weakness in the dollar recently.
And so I think our numbers internationally are skewed by some of that.
But we believe over the long run and this is just an investment for the future as GDP grows as savings grows opportunities will prevail.
And so you're right in asserting that we're still seeing more growth in the United States that's a fact.
We are witnessing more growth now in South America and the opportunities we have there.
And we believe we're going to have more opportunities in Europe as our brand continues to grow especially in the retail side.
But Asia flows are slower than we would like.
But we believe we need to continue to build out Asia to take advantage of future opportunities.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Maybe a follow-up question on the merger-related outflows.
Understanding that they've been thankfully starting to curtail and looks at this point a little bit pipeline there's they're pretty modest if you want to use that word.
But is it possible I'm just curious if there's any kind of color around which client-set where you saw most of the merger-related outflows from? Is there any with the certain investor profile U.S.
domestic pensions more so than sovereign wealth? I'm just trying...
Yes it was predominately pension.
It was predominately pension both U.S.
and non-U.S.
where we had both large relationships both legacy BGI legacy Blackrock had a large relationship.
And that's where the flows were.
It was not sovereign wealth.
It was not insurance.
It certainly is not retail.
It was pension funds worldwide.
And as we are trying to telegraph most of it is in index.
Some of it was related to what we knew when we did the merger scientific on the equity side.
And so that's where it is and that's the remaining block is another -- is the institutional.
So that's where we are.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
And those are all my questions.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Thanks.
Larry on the Multi-asset Class business.
It looks like the fees in that business maybe you continue to comment a little bit at least on the surface.
Can you talk a little bit about how you're sort of pricing some of the fiduciary outsourcing mandates.
And then also is there some seasonality may be in this period for the DC business or are you gaining -- is it really about share gains on the secular basis that passes making at the expense of maybe some active target day funds? Well I think we don't see any fee pressure in that area.
I think what you're seeing is a very large DC allocation and DCs lower fees in some of the fiduciary outsourcing and some of the other products.
And so as I told you we had some very large wins in DC and that's where the fees are smaller.
In terms of our growth in DC I think we have we are picking share because we have some really innovative products in our LifePath products and we just rolled out a new really strong product in our target date and LifePath products that we're starting to see some real accelerated opportunities there.
But I think it's fair to say the defined contributions there's a lot of flows in the beginning of every year.
And I think that's a seasonal component.
That's when people will generally change their defined contribution plan at the beginning of each year.
Unless there's some serious issues the first quarter generally a quarter of a lot of change from different managers in the defined contribution plans.
And I think we've picked up share in the first quarter.
Okay.
And then just on relationship to fees on some of the institutional fiduciary outsourcing mandates say you're winning in multi-asset class management.
Are you seeing more of a pickup in incentive than performance fee AUM? And I don't know if Ann Marie maybe you can give us some perspective on how much of your assets are set to sort of earn annual or quarterly performances? No.
We don't really breakout of those assets.
I don't think we've seen a material shift in the way that we are working together with clients and that's the trend we watched.
So again Mark where you have the greatest transparency is thinking about the alternatives but what we don't break out for you are those separate accounts and long-dated assets eligible.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We have reached the allotted time for questions.
Mr.
Fink Ms.
Petach are there any closing remarks? Once again I just would like to thank everybody for their commitment to the firm.
Once again as some of the employees are on the phone call I want to thank all the employees for another good quarter and a lot of hard work.
I'll talk to everybody at the end of the second quarter.
Have a good one.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sarah and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Inc.
Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Teleconference.
Our hosts for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Ann Marie Petach; Vice Chairman Susan L.
Wagner; and General Counsel Robert P.
Connolly [Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Connolly you may begin your conference.
Good morning.
This is Bob Connolly I'm the General Counsel of BlackRock.
Before Larry Sue and Ann Marie make their remarks I want to point out that during the course of this conference call we may make a number of forward-looking statements.
We call to your attention the fact that BlackRock's actual results may differ from these statements.
And as you know BlackRock has filed with the SEC reports which lists some of the factors which may cause our results to differ materially from these statements.
Finally BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Ann Marie our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Bob.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for calling in today.
This morning we announced second quarter earnings of $3 per share.
That's up 27% compared to a year ago driven by a 16% growth in revenue and by margin expansion.
Second quarter demonstrated continued execution of our revenue growth story.
With our global platform broad set of products and our risk capability we're very well positioned to work with our clients through what's proving to be very uncertain times.
During the second quarter we continue to see volatility and persistent low interest rates.
With that we have clients coming to us seeking multi-assets and produce share solutions yield-oriented products and advice on dealing with uncertainty and risk-return tradeoffs.
As a result we generated a record level of base fees in the second quarter.
Also in the second quarter we bought back the remaining 13.6 million shares that Bank of America held for $2.5 billion.
With this transaction completed we're a widely held firm nearly 60% of the shares set with a broad diverse set of shareholders.
We funded the transaction with $1.5 billion of long-term debt $0.5 billion of commercial paper and $0.5 billion of cash.
And at the same time the rating agencies affirmed our strong single A credit rating.
I'm going to refer to some of the slides in the supplement to the earnings release.
And starting on Slide 1 you can see that operating income for the quarter was $883 million.
That was up 19% from a year ago and 8% from the first quarter really driving the growth in EPS.
So the EPS story is an operating result story.
Looking at Page 2 you can see our operating margin which I think demonstrates our focus on thoughtful investments.
The operating margin came in at 39.7% that's up from the second quarter margin by almost a full percentage point.
It's also up from the full year 2010 margin of 39.3% and from the first quarter margin of 39.1%.
Our cost-to-revenue ratio for the quarter came in at 34.4% which is consistent with our long term range of 35%.
The second quarter is in the context of a market environment which adds -- really reflected in the S&amp;P 500 and shown on Page 3 is up about 16% compared to a year ago.
But 2011 has been a period of volatility and through that volatility average markets in the first quarter are actually just about equal to average markets in the second quarter which states that the earnings growth from first to second quarter is not coming from markets.
The growth in EPS compared to 2010 as well as compared to the first quarter was driven by operating results.
You can see that on Page 5 of the deck.
Earnings per share which was $3 included $3.09 of operating earnings.
The earnings did benefit in the quarter a partial quarter benefit of about $0.07 from the share repurchase.
Nonoperating results were about well $0.09 of expense.
So detracting from EPS.
If you look at Page 11 it lays out the comparison relative to the first quarter where operating growth contributed $0.30 of EPS growth and was offset partially by lower gains on investments in the first quarter and also the non-recurrence of a 1x tax adjustment in the first quarter that had contributed about $0.12.
The second quarter as adjusted tax rate was 32.4% the GAAP tax rate was 26.2% and the GAAP tax rate reflected the noncash effect of legislative changes in New Jersey on the value of our deferred tax liability.
Looking at revenues you can see total revenues on right-hand column of Page 7 at $2.3 billion.
First quarter revenues were up 16% from 2010 primarily driven by base fees.
And I'm going to talk more about base fees in a second.
Performance fees came in at $50 million were consistent with performance fees a year ago and were equally driven by strong relative performance of our equity product and by the strength of our alternative platform.
BlackRock Solutions and Advisory revenues remained strong at $116 million including growth in our Aladdin revenues the continued really unwind or runoff of the liquidation assignments and continued good work on the advisory side where the uncertain environment is bringing opportunity.
Moving on to base fees on Slide 8.
Base fees were $2.1 billion and were up 17% from 2010 and 6% from the first quarter.
When you look at the growth in base fees you can see that it was across all long dated asset classes.
It's partially offset by a decrease in revenues on cash products as clients continued to pull out of low yielding money market funds.
And if you look at the top of the page you can see that we have a well-diversified mix of revenues.
And our mix of revenues is really reflective of the breadth of our product offering where we can work with clients for Solutions whether it's equity fixed income alternatives multi-assets active or passive this diversity provides the diversity of revenues and diversity of Solutions for clients.
The second quarter compared to the first quarter is laid out on Page 14.
Second quarter base fee growth likewise was driven by AUM growth and shows growth across all long dated asset classes.
Second quarter revenues on base fees included $134 million of sec lending revenues.
Sec lending revenues are strongest in the second quarter due to the European dividends at this season.
But also sec lending revenues were up 24% compared to the second quarter a year ago reflecting it's more than just a seasonal effect.
There's also some returns risk taking because we have higher on-loan balances as well as higher lending spread.
Also our revenue story is really stronger than the AUM story due to a favorable mix of business.
The basis points earned on business won was about 2 basis points higher than the basis points on business lost.
As a result organic revenue growth is running about several organic AUM growths in the quarter.
And further if you exclude the seasonal effect of sec lending on our average basis points average basis points have improved on long dated assets every quarter since the BGI Transaction.
It's good at this point to be getting rid of some of the new noise in that difference between AUM and revenue in that our last merger-related outflow is now behind us.
It had been in the pipeline for the last several quarters and that is done.
So those are done for good and the one factor that will stay with us is that institutional indexed assets can have large flows in the AUM with relatively small revenue effect.
Moving on to expenses which you can see on Page 9 expenses were $1.464 billion that's up 13% from 2010.
Remember that's in the context of a 16% growth in revenue and they were exactly equal to the expenses in the first quarter.
So those -- that Expense Management again is what's contributing to the margin expansion.
And we mentioned previously that BlackRock had entered into a new lease for office space in the city of London.
It's about a 300 000 square-foot building and it's going to allow us to really take the people that we've got spread across 2 different buildings bring them into a single world-class asset management environment which we're going to be better able to serve our clients and really work much more effectively as a single cohesive team.
The new lending headquarters is actually going to be our largest single office and earlier this month we began occupancy of that office.
We expect to relocate the majority of the people into the office sometime during the third quarter.
And as a result of exiting our existing London location we'll be considering a 1x acceleration of the remaining lease obligation sometime in the second half of the year.
Given those are relatively short leases left we are making assumptions right now that we won't have a sublease on those.
And depending on exactly when we exit and how much space we continue to use for what period of time we're estimating a charge in the range of $75 million to $100 million.
Moving on to the nonoperating side of results and you can see those on Page 17.
We had nonoperating expenses of $27 million.
Those actually reflected a $10 million gain on the investment portfolio which included positive marks on our private equity co-investment offset partially by negative marks on distressed credit where we saw the spreads on that product widen.
Just as a reminder the portfolio still stands about where it was in the second quarter $1 billion about $930 million after considering hedges.
And all of those investments are either feed or co-investments.
So there's no proprietary activity reflected in those results.
Net interest expense came in at $37 million.
That did include one month of interest expense associated with the new debt we put on associated with the share repurchase.
Slide 18 this business model continues to generate substantial cash flow.
We're using that cash flow to award shareholders that's reflected in our 44% dividend pay out ratio as well as the share repurchase we just completed.
We still do have share repurchase authority of 4.2 million shares and we also in the second quarter completed the redemption of our convertible debt.
So just wrapping up my comment we're delivering double-digit earnings growth.
The earnings growth is being fueled by top line revenue growth combined with margin expansion.
So operating results are what's driving the business.
And we feel particularly in this time of uncertainty in external environment that we are especially well positioned to deliver our business model to our clients to help them solve their problems and to continue to drive that top line growth.
With that I'll turn it over to Larry.
Thank you Ann Marie.
Good morning everyone and welcome.
More than ever the global political and economic issues investors are facing has created confusion uncertainty and ultimate retrenchment.
Investors worldwide Retail and Institutional are seeking more advice in many cases more handholding and investment strategies and portfolio allocation.
Investors in the last quarter and I think more so going forward are seeking more BlackRock advice.
With our global platform multi-products our risk management and our thought leadership BlackRock is very well positioned to assist our clients worldwide.
However clients are actually de-risking.
I don't agree with them but some of our clients are de-risking and are slowing down their investment decisions.
Some other clients of ours are looking at this as an opportunity looking to take advantage of some capitulation from other investors.
And what is driving much of this confusion and uncertainty is politics globally.
I believe the private sector is doing a very good job evident by growth in earnings and yet what is the greatest inhibitor to the economic vitality right now of Europe and the United States is essentially politics.
We are not -- we have to face this great uncertainty as politicians determine the outcomes in the United States of our deficits of our debt ceiling which puts greater uncertainty with businesses it puts greater uncertainty about job creation and we need to move beyond this.
Nevertheless it is very impressive for me to watch how corporate earnings continue to be driven.
And importantly this is why I believe those customers who are de-risking and there are many customers who are de-risking because they're focusing on today's headlines I think it's a mistake.
And we are discussing this with all of our clients.
In Europe where I believe there is even greater problems ahead of ourselves is the fact that external forces are forcing countries to change their behavior changing their standard of living.
And they're forcing these changes of standard of living without ever discussing the possibility of bondholders getting less than par.
I don't look at that as a positive outcome.
I don't believe that external parties can force governments to devalue their standard of living devalue their countries without everyone sharing in these losses and their restructuring.
As we looked at other restructurings of other countries whether it is Argentina or Brazil or for that matter Iceland they have the ability to devalue their currencies and everyone shared including the bondholders in terms of the cost of the restructuring and many of these countries have vibrant economies today.
But when you place all of the cost of the restructuring on the backs of the populace in my opinion it's going to lead to some severe social unrest over the course of the years to come and this is one of the things that I'm most nervous about.
It is these issues these political issues that are creating such great uncertainty.
It is these issues that is creating opportunities.
And I do believe BlackRock with our platform is helping our clients try to understand the ramifications.
I do believe long term we will be able to overcome all these issues and I remain steadfastly bullish on opportunities in global equity markets.
Let me discuss BlackRock and how we performed over the quarter.
As we discussed over the last few quarters we are focused on building a stronger and broader relationship with our clients.
Despite the volatility that I spoke about and the uncertainty in the marketplaces our revenues and our product mix with our clients are increasing.
This is what we are going to be focusing on in the future.
We believe with this broad product mix that we have great opportunities to be increasing our revenues and at times which may mean reducing our AUM if that's what it takes.
And so we are looking to have a more complete relationship with our clients which will ultimately drive revenues and profitability for BlackRock and most importantly will drive a more comprehensive relationship with our client.
And that is our strategy and our strategy has shown in the second quarter that it's working.
Clients because of this uncertainty are looking for more customized strategies.
Some of our clients are barbelling.
They're adding more beta strategies to add to their portfolio and higher return office of strategies.
These strategies along with multi-asset class products we're building these relationships and revenues with our clients.
And this is how we will continue to build out our relationships going forward.
I believe more steadfastly than ever our one BlackRock business model a comprehensive platform worldwide intersecting products worldwide intersecting a one BlackRock community is a strategy that will allow us to build those relationships with BlackRock.
Clients are looking for our international focus.
Even if we are doing only business in Japan with yen-like products they are looking to BlackRock not to compete with local managers.
They're looking for BlackRock to be additive in a global perspective and that may lead us to having opportunities in investing in yen products.
But most importantly it'll allow us to have a more comprehensive dialogue.
And when our clients in Japan or China or Italy are looking for greater opportunities beyond their local community and local markets they look to BlackRock to help with them.
And I believe this one BlackRock platform is allowing this.
We just completed a leadership retreat bringing our community of our leaders together.
And I have never been more proud of our leadership in terms of building this one BlackRock community.
At the end of the second quarter AUM is $3.6 trillion.
We had growth of long dated assets about $34 billion of which $18 billion is new net assets.
We saw some extreme outflows which is industry-wide in terms of cash.
This is an industry issue related to 0 interest rates in the short end and most importantly the uncertainty about money market funds related to ownership in some European financial institutions and commercial paper.
BlackRock is very well positioned.
Our risk management team has done an incredible job in navigating this and we have been working with our clients steadfastly in terms of helping them understand the portfolios of our cash management.
Nevertheless we are still like the industry seeing outflows there.
On the advisory side where we had more than normal outflows that was related to clients returning some of the assets back into the marketplace.
I can't get into the raw details.
I think most people are aware of some of our clients who are visibly selling some of their products into the marketplace today.
And so we are part of that.
But our advisory business has never been robust.
The opportunities we have in Advisory which we'll talk about in a minute is very very strong.
One area that I'd like everyone to focus on is our growth in our multi-asset category where we had assets growing about 11% or about $23 billion.
This is what I've been talking about.
Our multi-assets now are $231 billion.
AUM in fixed income grew nicely about $27 billion 50% of it in index 50% in active some of it EPS some of it is just indexed.
In equities we still have some outflows in our scientific active equity.
However I'll talk about in a minute we see a dramatic turnaround in the future prospects of that business which we'll talk about in a minute.
And as Ann Marie discussed we had the last of our merger-related outflows and we believe this is not going to be a component of our quarterly calls ever again.
Pipeline a robust $84.3 billion.
What is impressive for me $71 billion or 84% of it is long dated products.
It highlights in my mind the strength of the platform and the opportunities ahead of us.
Let me talk about 3 areas that I think are worth noting.
The first one is iShares.
We're seeing more and more flows worldwide moving into ETFs.
Much of this in my opinion is related to the great global uncertainty clients are looking for more liquidity as they tactically allocate and ETFs are a great vehicle for liquid tactical allocation.
And so as an industry the ETF assets grew by $50 billion up $10 billion from last year.
At the same period mutual fund flows year-to-year fell dramatically from the growth rates of 2010 to 2011.
Now I don't believe those are good approximations of the dynamics of the business because so much of the ETF business is institutional and as I said tactical allocation purposes.
But I do believe we are going to continue to see large-scale growth in global ETFs and there's no other firm that is well positioned in terms of global ETFs in country funds in fixed income products and we are working on many other types of products in the ETF realm.
The one other thing that I'd like to note despite all the noise despite all the articles about active ETFs and BlackRock will be joining and building many active ETFs I should just put it -- give everyone a good indicator out of the $50 billion of net new business in ETFs as an industry only $800 million of it was active ETFs.
So as you see more and more funds go into active ETFs in the first few years that means the industry is going to lose money in it.
It'd be very hard to make much money in active ETFs until you start seeing greater growth rates.
I do believe the predominance of ETFs will always be the indexed base.
And I also do believe you're going to see clients starting to understand as regulatory rules change in the ETF space that there's going to be a great differentiation between ETFs and ETNs.
This is a big issue in Europe.
Every regulator in Europe is very very introspective as to how people look at ETFs and ETNs.
And I think there's going to have be much greater disclosure and there maybe restrictions in terms of ETNs.
That will put BlackRock's iShares in a great position although if regulatory changes occur.
On our scientific model-driven equity business.
As you know we had very poor performance for almost 3 years.
The industry had poor performance in the last 3 years.
The industry saw dramatic outflows as a result of the underperformance.
I am pleased to say not only has BlackRock model-driven team has done an extraordinary job but the industry has done a good job too.
There has been a vast reversal in the business in terms of performance.
Our domestic product which was our laggard at BlackRock is outperformed by over 140 basis points this year.
And our global and our Asian model-driven scientific equity is outperformed by hundreds and hundreds of basis points.
I believe we're going to see a change in flows that could be dramatic.
We're going at a pace of performance similar to the experiences of 2004 and that was the beginning of great inflows in that product.
And so we are very pleased with our team and Ken Kroner navigating and stabilizing performance rebuilding the team rebuilding the enthusiasm.
And now over the course of the next 6 months to a year hopefully we could rebuild flows.
Multi-asset products continue to be an area where clients both Retail and Institutional are looking for.
We believe this will continue whether it is in equities and fixed income and we believe we're very well positioned as more and more money goes into these categories.
BlackRock Solutions we won 10 net new assignments in the last quarter.
We had 3 new Aladdin assignments.
Just yesterday we won another very large Aladdin assignment.
Much of this is being driven in Europe.
The opportunities we have in Europe has never been greater.
We have some very large proposals with our clients right now in the Aladdin space and in the fiduciary advisory space.
As you know all this noise in Europe is presenting a great opportunity for BlackRock and hopefully similar to the work we did in Ireland that we could play a role in the workout of the severe issues that Europe is facing.
As Ann Marie discussed our margins grew to 39.7%.
This is something that we focus on a great deal.
And our margins grew in the last quarter and yet if you think about all the new businesses we're getting into all of the new hires we've made we're investing more for tomorrow we're investing it more today for future revenues than any time in the history of BlackRock.
In the last few quarters we hired a new Head of Real Estate; we hired a new Head of the BlackRock Institute which we'll talk about in a minute; a new Head of Communications and Branding; new Head of Private Equity; Alternative Energy; Asia's fundamental equity leader.
We are building a more robust team worldwide than we've ever done before.
This is expensive and yet our margins are increasing.
And we believe these investments are going to be very strong.
So as I always said when we look at margins we always look at margins we need to make sure our margins continue to grow as our business grows but we need to make sure that we're building for a better future.
And I think I could soundly tell you we're building for a better future with higher probabilities of greater revenues.
And yet we are increasing our margins.
And this is one of the key elements that I believe is really important for BlackRock and BlackRock shareholders this year.
As I mentioned the BlackRock Institute this is something that we believe BlackRock is becoming a leader on in terms of thought leadership.
We created a sovereign credit index that receives a lot of notoriety.
We just came out with a new piece on our views of China.
This is our investment platform working together and coming on thought-provoking pieces.
And I believe we will become more dominant in terms of trying to focus on issues and ideas related to the markets.
Just this week as a help to our clients we had over 1 200 clients on a phone call this week asking us questions related to the what if there's a default in U.S.
Treasuries and what does that mean.
And so we're seeing more and more clients looking to BlackRock to help them understand this global uncertainty.
As I said repeatedly branding is going to become a more important component of what we're about.
As I said earlier we are going to spend a great deal of money in building out our brand over the next 5 years.
I'm thrilled in the progress we've been making in terms of building a global brand.
But this is just the beginning.
And I believe our job in the future is to make sure that our end customer understands who and what BlackRock is and so we could have not just a well-known brand institutionally but a much sought-after brand in the retail space.
And the last point I would like to make before we open it up for questions is the share repurchase.
We were very happy that we were able to work it out with BofA earlier in the second quarter.
At this moment in time we see no reason for any large purchases of shares without getting any details.
I don't believe there's any large sellers of our shares at this moment and I don't believe there should be any pressure for us.
When and if there is a large seller with our shares we would look to possibly purchase those shares if that's in order.
But it's clear to tell everyone I don't see those opportunities in the short run at any time.
And so just wanted to got that and clearly off the table.
I believe our positioning into the second half of this year is very strong.
Unfortunately I do believe the uncertainty is going to be great I believe volatility could be more extreme and it does lead to greater confusion.
And at times it's going to lead to more capitulation by more clients as they still have great memories of 2008 2009.
Our only job then is to help our clients navigate those fears try to help them assess their issues.
Most importantly have them focus on their liabilities not headlines.
And if more clients focus on their liabilities and focus on the appropriate asset allocation for those liabilities instead of focusing on daily volatility daily headlines I believe in the long run our investors worldwide will be better off.
That is the positioning that we're trying to build upon at BlackRock and I believe no other firm in the business is this well positioned for that type of dialogue.
Once again thank you everyone for your support.
For all the BlackRock employees who are on the phone today thank you for a really strong quarter.
But most importantly thank you for really building the momentum of this firm.
With that I'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Crdit Suisse.
First just wanted to touch on the outflows and active equity.
And I know these flows come from many different channels and products around the world.
But I wanted to hear your thoughts on first is there any significant drivers here besides the softer macro-environment? And also is the outlook stronger for active equity in the second especially after your positive comments on scientific equity? Yes I mean the outflows was scientific equity period.
And in sum in commodities we're a very big player in commodity-like products.
Obviously you know what has happened in commodities in the latter half of the second half of the second quarter.
And so some of that was in the retail space and our retail mutual funds in the commodity-like products.
So to me that's just the ins and outs of the marketplace.
But we don't -- we see much greater stability now in the scientific equity side.
And as you suggested I think the future is much more positive than the past.
Second question here just on the adjusted operating margin.
It was up 60 bps quarter-over-quarter which is higher than most of us were really expecting.
Looks like the improvement was mostly driven by kind of lower comp and distribution relative to revenues.
And I wanted to hear your thoughts on if this improvement is repeatable or sustainable into 3Q especially if we exclude that lease charge you're referring to in the City of London space? And also is there any potential seasonal impacts? And I'm just looking back last year there were some weaker trends in the comp margin the overall adjusted operating margin in the third quarter of 2010.
Yes.
What I would say the only seasonality that really is there is on the revenue line which is the sec lending revenues which I mentioned that in my comments for some seasonality.
On the expense side what we saw in the second quarter I think the only trend items there are we hired more people in the second quarter and in the first quarter we have our highest payroll taxes.
So those 2 sort of offset each other but we will see a little bit of base comps from more people.
And then marketing we're going to continue to invest in the brand.
But overall I don't see anything where we're not going to continue to manage the expenses and the margin.
As I said my objective over the long run is have 40-plus percent margins.
And so we're not there yet and I intend to manage the firm accordingly making sure we take advantage of the opportunities in terms of hiring and all that.
This environment Craig is a great time for us to be hiring as other firms are really downsizing.
And I think the prospects of where and how we're positioned we're having a great opportunity in doing that.
At BlackRock in our leadership retreat we talked about raising the bar and that's what we intend to be doing.
And if we have great opportunities to hire really terrific people we're going to be doing that and expanding the platform.
But yet in saying all of that we are going to be very mindful in terms of managing our margins.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Carrier with Deutsche Bank.
First question.
Just on the long term flows.
You mentioned clients some pulling back some taking advantage of the opportunity.
I guess in the quarter how much of that did you see? And then in terms of the pipeline given that it's healthy at the $84 billion would you still expect sort of that I think in the past you guys have said sort of like 2 to 3 quarter in terms of when you would expect to realize what's in the current pipeline? Would that timeline still be what's at least in that space that [indiscernible]? Yes.
That's exactly how we're writing.
I would say if anything there's been a little more drag but it's still within that -- confined to 2 to 3 quarters.
You tell me what's going to happen in terms of emerging markets and commodities that will have a big determination of some of our flows.
Because as you know a great deal of retail flows has been in the emerging economies in ETF flows in mutual fund flows a great deal in mutual fund flows and institutional flows has been in commodity-based products commodity-based equities.
And we are big players in that.
And if there is a capitulation in that we will be part of that capitulation.
Nevertheless we feel very good about our product mix and the opportunities that are ahead of us.
We're in dialogues right now with some very large institutions who are looking to externalize large proponents to their balance sheet.
Let's see if we win any of them.
But our dialogues with our clients are as robust as they've ever been.
But once again nevertheless clients have capitulated.
We have seen a slowdown in May and June and much of that has been in the Retail space.
You see those in the retail flows in the U.S.
But if somebody's going to get the flows in the next 6 months I think we're one of the parties who are going to get it.
Okay.
And then I realize on the investment side meaning investment spending it's an ongoing process.
But if we look over the past year 1.5 years you made a lot of investments whether it's in distribution technology.
On the alternative side you mentioned real estate private equity.
So based on I guess some of the gaps like are a lot of those investments done? Like obviously it's going to be ongoing whether it's on the marketing the distribution.
I'm just trying to gauge like in every company there's typically like investment periods and then you're going to have kind of ongoing investment periods.
So are there any items or initiatives that have been more elevated are going to be more elevated versus what's going to be a normal ongoing kind of run rate investment? Well we're going to continue to invest in the emerging market world.
We're going to continue to invest in those products.
I still believe every firm including BlackRock has become more and more less dollar denominated over a 10-year cycle as just follow GDP in other parts of the world.
We need to follow our investment platform where GDP is growing.
That is not to say we're diminishing anything to do here in North America.
We actually have great opportunities here too in the Defined Contribution space where you're seeing total changes in that space.
So I don't see any slowdown in our investments.
I will slow down the investments if I have to if I see that we're just not producing.
We'll mitigate some of those investments and we will try to reap the benefits of our past investments.
But if we could continue to build out our Asian team and hire really high-quality people in a time when a lot of for firms are downsizing we're going to do that.
And then just last Ann Marie 2 quick things.
On the sec lending anyway to size that? I know you said if we strip that out the average management fee from a base point standpoint has gone up since the close of the transaction.
But in the quarter any size of that? And then just in comp and G&amp;A any unusual items? It didn't look like it but I just want to make sure if there were any.
Well starting with the second one there really was nothing unusual that was material as far as the expense side.
There was nothing material unusual going on.
So no trend to talk about.
The sec lending revenues I did call out and we do disclose in our Q were $144 million in total in the quarter which is up a bit from prior quarters because of seasonality as well as I mentioned up 24% compared to a year ago.
And last year because of all the reduction in prop trading by Wall Street sec lending diminished dramatically.
But as hedge funds grew in their assets sec lending increased.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Hopson with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> So Larry the institutional index business which I guess has had a fair amount of volatility in and out over the last number of quarters.
And while you would clearly say the ETF businesses is in a secular growth period how do you view the institutional index business which again has been a little bit volatile? But is that still in a secular growth mode would you say? First of all we are learning -- this is not a secular -- this is a consistent pattern.
Index equity business is more volatile than fundamental equity.
You're seeing clients going in and out.
They may go into an indexed strategy until they determine where they want to go in an active basis.
So I believe there is -- the business has higher more volatility.
I think some of the vol that we are seeing we are seeing some companies are looking to add more indexed business to their business and some are looking to in-source some of their indexation.
So one large client did a large internalization of their index business in the last quarter.
So I believe indexing will continue to become a larger component of clients' businesses until there is less volatility greater global certainty.
And so I believe it will continue to be a growth area.
I continue to believe it will be very volatile area.
It's an area that we continue to invest in with our team.
And it's an area that we have continued to have dialogue with many of our clients.
But clients use -- even institutions use index business as a short-term strategy more than we ever envisioned and they use that as a -- they're confused let me just go index until I determine where I want to go allocate.
And I think this is one thing that we're living with and I think you as the analyst are focusing on it you're witnessing it too.
And it is a more volatile business than what I would call fundamental equities.
If you have good performance generally in fundamental equities you have more consistently long periods of time with those assets.
Now our core index business is very stable as stable as any business.
But on the margin there are clients who use index as a short-term strategy.
But I do believe to answer your question it is still going to be a net growth strategy.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And a follow-up the multi-asset was stronger.
That includes I think target date in fiduciary stuff and Global Allocation.
Any sense of -- and the fee rate moved down a little bit so any sense of kind of what drove the numbers in this quarter as far as flows? Yes it's more fiduciary.
So you're just seeing we're way more fiduciary which is lower fees than Global All.
And what you're seeing also as a whole you're going to -- what it should be telling you it's becoming institutionalized too where it used to be a lot more retail.
Our next question comes from the line of Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Larry can you just talk a little bit about what happened in International Retail during the quarter? And then also as you think about your market share outside the U.S.
in retail what regions or countries do you see the sort of nearest opportunity for BlackRock? Well we continue to be in the top 3 in net new sales in Europe.
As I said in International Retail in May and June we saw more outflows in our equities.
In the first quarter we saw huge inflows in equities.
In May and June there is more inflows in fixed income and other participants participated in that.
And so I think the International equities because of our strong presence as I said earlier in gold funds and in commodity-like products we had more volatility in that category.
And we continue to see volatility in that quarter in July.
But we're very well positioned there.
We continue to see very strong growth in most of the regions in Continental Europe.
We're working on closer and more robust alliances with a few of our large distribution partners.
And so we're very positive about our positioning in our International Retail platform.
We have great opportunities in the U.K.
continued opportunities in Italy we have a growing presence in Germany and France so it continues.
We are seeing more volatility in Taiwan in Asia.
And I would say an area that we're starting see some real growth in our mutual fund platform is Japan for the first time in many many years.
I'm pleased to say that.
And that has a lot to do with our joint venture relationship with Mizuho.
We're starting to see flows there.
One of the big initiatives we have not just in our International Retail products but our global mutual fund products are income-oriented strategies.
This is going to be our real premise over the course of the next year and really pushing income-oriented strategy.
That's going to be our big push in the third and fourth quarter and going into next year.
And that's where we see probably the greatest opportunity worldwide.
Okay great.
And then just in the multi-asset class category if you will they look like some of the performance fees you had negative performance fees I think in that category.
Anything going on there in terms of performance for multi-asset class that we should be looking at? I know that those products tend to be less constrained and benchmark focused maybe you could just touch on that.
Yes.
That really is just an accounting anomaly.
We do book all of our performance fees when locked but sometimes they're on estimated results because we don't yet have the final results.
So that negative is just really reflective of an estimate in the fourth quarter which went the final number reversed a little it wasn't material to the total number that was booked.
So not indicative of present performance that really continues to have good performance.
And then just on the alternative flows I guess we're seeing a lot of demand it would seem like in the alternative space from institutions you have the flows and alternatives haven't seemed really to be taking off too much.
Larry I know you mentioned sort of barbelling and high office strategies apparent with passive as a real opportunity for you guys that seems to be working.
What's sort of weighing on the alternative flows and should we expect that to maybe pick up in the back half? When you look at look at all our alternative flows and what we see from the alternatives we've got what you think of traditionally as alternative we've also got currency and commodity.
So what you're seeing on the negative side is really -- frankly on the iShares what we saw in the second quarter was outflows out of commodities frankly out of silver in particular.
And we saw currency coming out.
So it was not reflective at all of the fundamental alternatives business which was growing but reflective of currency and commodity.
And that break out is given to you in the uncollated [ph] result.
And then Larry just now that the merger-related outflows are behind you and it seems like you're pretty optimistic about the future for scientific for sort of the scientific equity businesses.
Are you still sort of committed to longer-term organic growth in the mid-single digits when you look at the business? How should we think about the right long-term organic growth rate? I have not changed any of my views.
Obviously if the world still capitulates those will be wrong.
If the world feels ultimately -- if it stabilizes I could be too barish on the flows.
But I do believe our platform can allow us to the have that type of consistent growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Just a couple of questions myself.
If you think about -- Ann Marie this one's for you.
What's the right base fee rate entering third quarter given just sort of the ebbs and flows around new business the seasonality and the sec lending business if you will and maybe the impact of average assets given the volatility from month-to-month? Yes.
It's interesting.
I mentioned the increase on flows -- the higher base point realization on inflows and outflows.
But on the total installed book that works its way in very very slowly.
So unfortunately the mix of inflows impact on revenue comes in gradually over a long period of time.
The sec lending really I think you can work out pretty easily based on the data I can give you.
And I can help you with that offline or anyone that needs help with it because that does cause a lift up in the second quarter basis point realization.
But all that said we're seeing a gradual little bit by little bit increasing average basis points every single quarter and that's without the sec lending.
But it's a gradual migration.
Okay.
Second question let's just come back to sort of expense for a moment.
You mentioned a charge upcoming potentially some time in the second half of the year but if you look beyond that and think about the consolidation of space with all else being equal would that result in a lower occupancy run rate going forward? And if that is true would that serve to offset some of the ongoing investment spending elsewhere? What I would say is look we have with our present 2 buildings about 300 000 square feet and we're taking about 200 000 square feet.
But what we're doing today is we're paying double rent.
And the part that'll go away is actually the double rent once we accelerate those remaining lease expenses.
So would that offset the ongoing marketing spend in other investments or no? Well there's a lot going on.
And I guess we're not really thinking about that in that way.
We're really thinking about bringing in the right expenses to grow the business that are going to produce the returns and balancing that with the rate of revenue books.
Clearly as Ann Marie said Bill we're paying for the 3 buildings now we're going to be paying for 1.
But I don't look -- and as Ann Marie said we're not looking at that to offset other expenses.
We're looking at all our expenses and our margins in the totality.
This is just one of many levers.
Okay.
Just a couple more.
Larry before you mentioned sort of a little bit of a shift going on in the scientific business is that specific to BlackRock or is that more of an industry event? And then so if you could lay that into the $84 billion of the pipeline in terms of the long term side what are the allocations you're seeing at the margin in terms of where money is going? So let me just answer that question.
In terms of equities of the $84 billion about $25 billion of this is equities -- did I get it right? So yes excuse me.
Out of the $84 million It's about $16.5 million.
$16.5 million is equities and fixed income is about $43 billion.
Okay.
Just in terms of the scientific that you mentioned sort of seeing an inflection is that a BlackRock [indiscernible]? No what we're saying in scientific is we are seeing a real turnaround in performance which I believe over the course of the next 6 months to a year we'll start seeing a turnaround in the flows.
It's not going to be that immediate.
But if we continue to have this type of performance and I'm talking more U.S.
scientific.
Global scientific we're seeing flows and we have had consistently good performance.
Then just one last one.
Just it seems like anything with Barclays [ph] payable to use your terminology.
So given that and given your still robust free cash flow which seems to be accelerating given the margin improvement and the utilization moving up how do you think about the use of free cash flow from here? I'll use it when I need it.
I'm not afraid of using it.
Obviously we're going to look at -- the Board will look at dividends we'll look at stock repurchases.
Obviously those are the 2 most useful to shareholders in terms of capital management.
We continue to look at small little lift outs of teams and people.
I could tell you we're not looking at any big mergers.
So I believe it's fair to say we will look at -- as we did this past 6 months we're going to look at dividends and we're going to look at share repurchases when and if necessary.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
First quick one on the debt you took on to bring in the Bank of America shares.
It pushes the debt-to-EBITDA up to a fine range of 1.5x 1.6x.
Just curious where your comfort zone is on debt-to-EBITDA and obviously you're producing a lot of cash from growing it quickly.
I could tell you I'm very happy with those ratios today.
One should not assume that we're going to continue to leverage this institution to buy in more debt.
I think that would be a -- because we do get to drive some of earnings through beta I do not like having leverage beta debts.
I think that is a cause for a financial uncertainty.
I also believe the more leverage you have in a balance sheet the more scrutiny you're going to have by your regulators worldwide as leverage is a great component as in terms of risk when they look at institutions.
And so it's not a function of looking at my ratings as much as making sure that we are in good standing with all the regulators worldwide.
And that we are not a focus of any one regulator because of our leverage ratios.
That's a good lead into the next question.
Nevermind that I don't think either one of us thinks you should be designated CFE [ph].
If there was a nominal CFE put buffer towards you how does that even work? I have a hard time getting my arms around what they would be looking at and...
Let's open up the phone for everyone.
Maybe someone could help us.
I have no idea either.
I don't know.
Let's say we've had very good -- we're in very good dialogue with our worldwide regulators.
I think we'll all learn at the same time as to how they determine these types of characteristics and what they're looking for.
And we'll know.
But we don't know how they analyze unleveraged institutions the same way they analyze these very large leveraged institutions.
Yes I'm with that.
Okay.
Last one in money fund industry.
I heard your comments loud and clear in terms of what produced the outflows and uncertainty now.
Curious on your thoughts is it really just cyclical around recent crises like the European crisis? Or do you see given that regulators pushing a more secular shift into something like bank deposits? I think it depends on what regulator you speak to.
I think some regulators would like all of them to gain bank deposits and so having some other regulators are really believe that we need a more broad-based financial landscape so money market funds are good in the diversifications of money.
I think that's a raging debate within the regulatory regimes worldwide what will all the money markets on display.
I do believe there's more -- there's a greater view that money market funds serve a very good strong purpose as a diversification away from too big to fail institutions.
Nevertheless it is our strongest position at BlackRock and we've been a leading advocate of it that we do believe that money markets should have some capital set aside to minimize any type of exposure or run.
The SEC and the Federal Reserve has asked many questions related to capital and subordination [ph].
And this is not a part at Dodd-Frank but this is going to be part of the changes in the regulatory landscape.
And I think this is fluid dialogue going on between the mutual fund and money market industry.
We're a part of that and our regulators.
Your next question comes from the line of Allison Heffernan with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Actually it's Rob Lee.
Listen most of my questions were asked but just a question on the Solutions business.
I mean I understand that I guess the revenues at least the last couple of quarters were somewhat impacted by the run-off from some of the advisory AUM and maybe some slowdown and kind of a 1x advisory mandate at least relative to the crisis years.
But could it be possible to first get some sense of kind of the relative mix of that revenue line? I mean how much of that 118 did you kind of consider for lack of better way of putting it kind of a core recurring from kind of the Aladdin business? Well I think we've done a very good job in the last year of navigating clients who we were asked to do short term advisory assignments to navigating those into a long term Aladdin-type assignments.
We are moving more and more business into the Aladdin space.
I said earlier we just signed a very large Aladdin contract yesterday in Europe.
It's not public who it is but it's a large financial institution.
And most importantly which I did not say about these 2 contracts it is multi-asset.
So it is not just fixed income it is now equity.
And so we are now navigating -- we're now in dialogue with many of our clients of adding part of the Aladdin platform of the entire balance sheet equity and bond.
And so this is where we believe the next leg in terms of growth.
But nevertheless also Aladdin used to be a heavily oriented U.S.
business and we have won so far this year a large assignment in Japan we've won multiple assignments in Europe and we see great growth opportunities worldwide.
So the revenue line you're correct in saying it is essentially flat.
The translation -- and Ann Marie could go into detail offline Rob going from 1x win to more reoccurring revenues has really accelerated.
Yes the recurring mix of revenue is the strongest it's been since we've entered into the alternate process [ph] so it's gotten stronger each quarter.
And Ann Marie can get into the details of that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And maybe just one general question about Solutions.
I mean I guess in theory I've always thought that because you've been generally a pretty strong growth engine you've been investing a lot in that business and converting clients and infrastructure of that.
Generally that business has margins below kind of the asset management franchise for lack of a better way of putting it.
Would that be correct or is that actually in a similar higher margin business? Well as I discussed over the many years when you win an Aladdin assignment you have very low margins.
Because the first year we're not providing any service we're on-boarding all the assets.
So it's really a very low margin an almost cost-related type of business.
It is once the on-boarding is complete we are providing the business to the client where the margins improve.
And I would say because of the fact that we're winning more Aladdin assignment now as Ann Marie discussed it looks to you that we are lowering our margins.
But the reality is it's just the economy in which we win this business.
And then as the on-boarding occurs the margins go more normalized.
And one other thing I would say to that is it's almost a privilege to be talking about a margin on a business that for almost any firm is just a cost space.
So it's a good factor.
I mean remember we're getting revenues for supporting what we also use to support the core running of our own business.
At this time ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions.
Mr.
Fink and Ms.
Petach are there any closing remarks? I just want to wish everyone a very good quarter and I hope the politics of the U.S.
and the politics of Europe that they do the right thing and so we as investors we as leaders of businesses can focus on the long term and getting back to investing in the long term which then means hiring and job growth.
And until our politicians understand that the short term that they're focusing on and the uncertainty that they're creating is really inhibited a lot of what I would call long-term growth in the private sector economies worldwide.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sarah and I'll be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Inc.
Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Teleconference.
Our hosts for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Ann Marie Petach; Vice Chairman Susan L.
Wagner; and General Counsel Robert P.
Connolly.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Connolly you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone.
Before Larry Ann Marie and Sue make their remarks I want to point out that during the course of this conference call we may make a number of forward-looking statements.
We call to your attention the fact that BlackRock's actual results may differ from these statements.
And as you know BlackRock has filed with the SEC reports which lists some of the factors which may cause our results to differ materially from these statements.
Finally BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Ann Marie our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Bob.
Good morning everyone.
We're pleased to report that really despite an adverse and volatile market in recent months BlackRock delivered strong results in the quarter.
It's a confusing environment out there.
Clients more than ever are looking for advice and solutions in the face of uncertainty and BlackRock's diverse mix of business leaves us well-positioned to meet their needs.
BlackRock was able to provide pooled end products that were especially important to investors in this environment.
We experienced large index flows in both our institutional ETF products though liquidity of these products allowed clients to react rapidly to the environment and more efficiently move into or out of asset classes.
We generated inflows into multi-asset class products across each of our channels.
BlackRock is uniquely suited to meet the growing demand for these products.
We also saw clients getting into income-oriented products in the face of the sustained low interest rate environment.
Of course we're not immune to the effects of negative markets on AUM flows revenues.
And while revenue was down from the second quarter the diversity of our product set and clients allowed us to lessen the impact of the negative flow environment such that our flows were relatively flat in the quarter.
The nature of our cost space meant we were able to maintain strong margins as we balance beta-driven revenue effects with expense management.
In combination this resulted in cash flow generation of $1.7 billion year-to-date and allowed us to return a large amount of cash to shareholders.
Larry is going to be talking a lot more about the environment the flows we're seeing across our business and what we believe it means for our clients and for BlackRock.
But first I'm just going to focus on the results themselves.
As I said it's a good story.
And these for me key takeaway is that our performance in the face of really tough global headwinds illustrates the strength of BlackRock's business model: our diversified global platform our broad mix of product and client capability.
Now I'm going to be referring to the slides in the earnings supplement.
You can find those on the website.
And as I go through results I'll be discussing primarily as adjusted results.
We're going to start us out on Slide 1.
You can see on Slide 1 on the right-hand side our operating results of $849 million.
These were up 15% year-over-year and that's driven both by revenue growth and margin improvement.
Third quarter EPS which you can see on the right-hand side came in at $2.83.
Moving on to again the strong margin story which you can see on Slide 2 our operating margin came in at 41 -- 40.1% in the quarter.
That showed improvement of over 1.5 points compared to the third quarter 2010.
More importantly as margin can vary a bit from quarter-to-quarter our year-to-date margin of 39.6% also showed improvement compared to full-year 2010.
And in the face of the lower revenue environment our comped revenue ratio was 34.2% which is exactly consistent with the first and second quarters and is really well within the long-term range we've been running of about 35%.
We believe this highlights our financial discipline and the variable nature of our expense base.
Just pausing for a second on the environment and looking at Slide 3 you can see that S&amp;P declined everyone knows there's 14% in the third quarter.
But when you take a look at average markets compared to average markets in the second quarter the decline was 7%.
World markets fared even worse driven by the European uncertainties.
While recent volatility on market declines are affecting AUM investor sentiment average markets in the third quarter were still 12% better than a year ago.
And then we'll walk through a comparison of the results of this year compared to last year and then I'll move on to sequential results.
So I'm going to move ahead to Slide 5.
And on Slide 5 you can see that operating EPS was up $0.51 year-over-year and that's the green bar on the page.
The growth in operating EPS reflected the 15% or $112 million growth in operating income that I mentioned earlier.
The EPS in the quarter also benefited $0.16 from our June share repurchase.
Earnings per share which you can see on the right-hand side of $2.83 included 3/12 of operating earnings in the dark blue offset by $0.29 of non-operating expense.
Our third quarter as adjusted tax rate was 32.3%.
The GAAP tax rate was 13.7%.
The GAAP tax rate reflected changes in the value of our deferred tax liability and those changes resulted from both U.K.
tax legislative change and a U.S.
state tax selection.
These benefits totaling $129 million were noncash.
We excluded them from as adjusted results.
I'm going to move ahead to revenues which you can see on Slide 7.
In the third quarter we generated revenues of $2.2 billion.
That's up 6% from 2010 primarily driven by a 9% growth in base fees which is the large green bar on the slide and helped by a 16% growth in BRS revenue.
But before I get into base fees it's really worth noting the benefits for our business model of our diverse revenue sources.
This quarter we generated $276 million of revenue or 12% of our total revenues from sources other than base fees.
And sources other than base fees are also contributing meaningfully to our improvements in revenue.
So if you take a look at year-to-date revenue increases compared to 2010 we've improved $33 million in BRS $47 million in SEC lending which is a part of base fees and $10 million in performance fees.
And while I just mentioned that year-to-date were up in performance fees during the third quarter performance fees came in $91 million which were actually down $23 million compared to a year ago.
Our performance fees in the quarter included $51 million of fees related to alternative products and $40 million on long-dated products primarily based on relative performance.
A majority of our performance fee eligible active equity products generated healthy performance over the measurement period.
So as a result of that performance fees generated based on relative performance were actually better than a year ago.
At the same time recent market turmoil negatively affected the level of fees generated on our absolute return product with several of our large hedge funds now below high water marks.
We do expect this to affect negatively the level of fourth quarter performance fees compared to a year ago.
And then just BlackRock Solutions and advisory revenues came in at the quarter at $117 million.
That included continued growth in our core Latin [ph] business as clients are seeking tools to manage risks in the face of this crazy uncertain environment.
The growth in BRS revenues this year has come almost exclusively from ongoing core assignments which will continue to benefit the revenue base in 2012 and beyond.
So now moving on to base fees which came in at $1.9 billion and with a key driver to revenue increases up 9% from 2010 and laid out for you on Slide 8.
We had revenue growth in all long-dated asset classes.
This was offset partially by the revenue effect of the exodus from low-yielding cash products over the past year.
The diversity of long-dated offerings across active and passive products serving multiple client types is one of our core strengths that has been key to the revenue growth.
And you can really see that across all the green bars on the bottom left of Page 8.
Moving on to expenses on Slide 9 third quarter as adjusted expenses were $1.4 billion up only 2% from 2010.
And remember to put that back into perspective of the 9% growth in base fees we just talked about.
And so that disproportionate level of increases what's really contributing to the margin expansion.
As I mentioned in the last call BlackRock entered into a lease to bring new office space in the City of London.
Last week Larry was in the London office commemorating the opening.
The office brings into a single location all of our London employees and really enhances our ability to work together and serve our clients.
We're already seeing the benefits of being in a single space.
As a result of the move to this new office we reported a $63 million onetime charge related to the acceleration of the remaining lease obligations on our prior London spaces.
We have excluded this charge from as adjusted results.
The charge was below the range I had mentioned on the last call of $75 million to $100 million and that was primarily due to the opportunity to sublease a portion of this space.
Now I'm going to move on to sequential results and there's 3 primary factors I'd like to focus on as we get into sequential: market effects on base fees lower expenses and the market effects on our co-investment.
So within your slides I'm going to move ahead to Slide 11.
Our operating EPS this quarter improved $0.03 from the second quarter.
Non-operating expense increased $0.20.
Increase in non-operating expense reflected market-driven noncash marks of our co-investment.
I'll discuss that more in a minute.
I'll also point out that our share repurchase in June resulted in $0.10 incremental benefit to EPS compared to the second quarter.
On Slide 12 you can see that in the face of revenue decreases of $122 million we reduced expenses by $88 million.
And looking at Slide 13 you can see that base fees decreased compared to the prior quarter by about $150 million where the key driver to the revenue decreased.
About 1/3 of that decrease in base fees is related to SEC lending which is seasonally strong in the second quarter and the remaining related primarily to the effect of unfavorable markets on equity AUM which you can see on Slide 14 the bigger red bars are all about the markets effects on equity.
So moving ahead to Slide 15 and at the same time expenses decreased $88 million.
And that's related primarily to the effects of lower AUM and revenue on compensation on distribution and servicing and on direct fund expense.
Management action led to lower G&amp;A expense and that primarily was lower marketing in a sense.
So moving ahead now to Slide 17.
Non-operating expense for the quarter came in $79 million.
That included $42 million of negative marks.
Those were primarily on our co-investments in distressed credit.
Spreads on those products whined[ph] significantly during the quarter.
It's worth noting that despite recent market declines year-to-date market marks on the investment portfolio are still positive $11 million.
Net interest expense in the quarter was $37 million.
The value of our investment portfolio was stable at about $1 billion or $930 million when you exclude hedges or items which are hedged.
We see the 2 new retail products this quarter which offset the effect of lower markets on the value of the portfolio.
Those 2 new products are for retail investors one is hedge fund of fund in the U.S.
and the other is a European absolute bond return fund in Europe.
We believe these are both great opportunities that are strategically important for our retail clients.
And I always like to remind everyone that we do not have any proprietary investments.
Our business model is to act as fiduciaries and to manage assets on behalf of our clients.
We're not in business to make money from our balance sheet and our investments on the balance sheet are extremely small.
The relative amount of investments we have are just alongside clients who are seeding new products.
But when we think of the size of what we do for our clients of over $3 trillion again there's less than $1 billion sitting there that we are invested in.
Moving on to Slide 18 I'd like to end by discussing our free cash flow.
I started out mentioning that in the beginning we continue to generate substantial cash flow about $1 billion this quarter.
You can see on the slide $1.7 billion year-to-date.
That's up about $300 million from what we have produced year-to-date last year.
And including on the left-hand side of the slide you can see that including our recent repurchase of Bank of America's remaining stake our payout is 150% including a 43% dividend payout.
So really despite declining and volatile markets we delivered a healthy margin we generated substantial cash flow and we've returned a large amount of cash to shareholders.
Overtime our intention is to continue to return a meaningful amount of cash to shareholders while also reinvesting for future growth.
We are more confident than ever in our business model and our growth opportunities.
Our broad-based diversified platform allows us to respond to client needs especially in this uncertain challenging environment.
So with that I'd like to turn it over to Larry who's going to discuss the market environment and what we're seeing with our clients.
Thanks Ann Marie.
Welcome everybody.
I'm sitting here at The Plaza Hotel in New York City.
We are at this time having a conference with over 250 of our clients.
Our clients are confused.
Our clients are really asking quite a bit of questions right now.
This is a 2-day affair and it's going quite well.
But it's obviously very clear to all of us that the global markets have been very challenging and it's producing some real stress with many of our clients.
You're witnessing a record low yield which changes the value of their liabilities.
We are seeing declining equity markets and their gap between their assets and liability.
In some cases may be irretrievable they may not be able to ever achieve their objectives.
In most cases I think that investors will do that and they'll find ways to make it.
But they're looking for solutions.
It's going to be solutions that are heavily based on advice by BlackRock and I do believe we are probably the best positioned to provide that advice because we are agnostic-related to our clients if they are looking for passive strategies alongside alpha strategies global strategies domestic strategies with an overlay of risk management.
There's no firm in the world that could provide that and the information content that we're able to provide because of our footprint has been very helpful to our clients.
So as we reflect on the third quarter as we help our clients digest all this the third quarter was obviously very challenging.
It's exasperated by governmental policies worldwide not just here in the United States.
Politics and government are playing a major role in market performance and market volatility.
Long-term investing have become more difficult as a result of this.
When government focus on short-termism when government focuses on blogs when government is not focusing on how to best prepare an economy over a long cycle it becomes really difficult for investors to focus on long-term investing too.
And this is one of the greatest issues that we are trying to confront with our clients.
How do you manage these short-term issues the extreme volatility this enormous uncertainty but focus on long-term investing? This is not an easy answer because some clients who may have 10- 15- 20-year liabilities they may be judged by their shareholders or by their Board or by their pension fund committee by quarterly results.
They may be judged by annual VAR if you are an insurance company and that's how your regulators look at you.
And so there's an incredible mismatch and it's at in my mind severe preportions right now how accounting is forcing unbelievable short-termism.
So we have the problems of accounting and governmental policy that in my mind is causing this great disruption in our pension funds and great disruptions in our marketplace as fewer and fewer people are able to cope with the long-termism.
So with governments not focusing on our long term and with governments in many cases just doing the wrong thing we have many clients worldwide who are confused frozen and looking for answers.
But the markets are testing governments and that we see that -- we saw that all throughout the third quarter other [ph]  market has tested the European situation continually.
It's the incrementalism of the Europeans that really have tested the market and the markets have resoundingly been pretty negative with this incrementalism of trying to fix the problems in Europe.
Hopefully this weekend we will see something more than short-termism hopefully more than incrementalism but a grand solution.
A good example of what I would call government's failure is the European stress test where just 10 weeks ago the governments indicated in their stress test results that a bank like Dexia a client of BlackRock's has capital of 10%.
They're on capital at 10% only to have that bank nationalized a few weeks ago.
And it's that sort of information and problems is really unsettling to the marketplace.
I don't need to tell you that but to me this is just a glaring example of how government has really unsettled the marketplace.
We just can't understand how they could have an institution that's cited in the top 10 most capitalized banks in Europe then weeks later nationalize it.
It just doesn't feel right and as a result people are de-risking.
And if you look at our flows the most amount of de-risking and flows that we've seen in our high-fee business has been in our European mutual funds which I'll talk about where we saw the greatest amount of outflows because of fear in Europe because of things like that have been the most severe.
So worldwide clients are de-risking.
But I need to remind clients and I need to tell everyone this is not 2008 and 2009.
This is a confidence crisis not a liquidity crisis.
There's trillions and trillions of dollars sitting in the sideline as we know that's why we have such low rates.
And if we can have a sensible longer-term view beyond the next blog we can have a sensible long-term positioning in fixing these problems these structural problems in Europe.
And our budget deficit and growth issues and job issues of the United States I do believe investors would rush right back into the marketplaces and we would have a very strong markets which would then in my mind would propel the economy to higher growth rates.
During the third quarter we had substantial declines in the global equity markets as Ann Marie discussed.
S&amp;P was down 14%.
The European blue-chip index the stocks was down 23%.
The MSCI emerging market index was down 23%.
The Hang Seng was down 21%.
So if you think about that investors who diversify their portfolio thinking that was the right thing it produced even worse returns than those who stayed totally in the United States.
As a result of market instability and this lack of confidence clients worldwide have de-risked.
They are delaying investment decisions and that is what drove the negative flows across the industry and across the globe.
Clients are now asking questions about how should they be reviewing their liabilities in light of these large declines and we expect renewed activity very shortly.
And -- but we're not going to have what I would call normalized flows until we have -- our clients have better understanding of their liabilities and that will then determine how they then manage their assets and their duration.
Let me talk about BlackRock.
Ann Marie really did a great job in talking about our earnings and the texture of our earnings.
As a report noted that we did have negative flows much of it was related to -- totally unrelated to our merger.
We don't have any merger-related outflows.
One in our pipeline a significant change was related to a client who in-sourced $30-odd billion of index business basically.
And so -- but what I think the quarter really showed and which really gave the leadership team of BlackRock great encouragement is our business model has proven to be an incredible differentiator.
We have growth businesses that we have not seen in a long time.
The diversity of our business model has really produced what I would call very good revenue flows and importantly a very good operating income ratios.
So in these periods of uncertainty and volatility we are really well-positioned today to serve our clients.
And I think this is one of the great feelings we have yesterday and today with our clients here and we're seeing that repeatedly worldwide as we are working with more and more clients related to what we can bring to them.
And we are seeing as the information showed in our third quarter we're seeing a huge increase in request for BlackRock Solutions products as clients are trying to truly understand how to navigate their risk on a global basis.
But what impressed me related to our quarter and what we're really pleased with is that diversified business model.
We had growth in BlackRock Solutions a growth in SEC lending in transition management which is becoming a bigger business as clients are trying to reassert how they should position their portfolio.
There's much more transitioning being done.
And our BlackRock multi-asset class strategies where clients are looking for much more comprehensive solution-based assignments.
And so this is what's driving this 9% year-over-year increase in base fees.
Even with these really difficult market headwinds we saw continued organic growth across global iShares.
We saw actually growth at our U.S.
retail channel.
We had growth in our defined contribution channel and as I said in our multi-asset class offerings.
In multi-class offerings we had over $3 billion of inflows across almost every channel.
We are expanding the product range now into our retail products not just institutional products.
And they came across in almost every category from alternatives equities fixed income.
And clients are increasingly looking for strategies that rely on indexing or ETF products as bar belling and multi-asset class strategies are what clients are looking for.
And as I said earlier no firm has that product mix.
No one has the research in terms of how we can best position our clients for these complex multi-asset class strategies.
So the other thing about the third quarter we needed to make sure -- we needed to find ways of continuing the growth as we see some great growth opportunities.
But we needed to make sure that we are pretty disciplined.
As we did in terms of the market setbacks of '08 and '09 we were very disciplined and ahead of the curve in terms of what we had to do.
We remain to be very vigilant in terms of making sure where we spend our money we spent it well.
The areas that we continue to invest even with our margins above 40% we were investing in our retirement solutions we invested more in alternatives we invested more in ETFs and currently [ph] we have been able to invest in some very high-caliber professionals who will help fuel our future growth.
A good example is Mark McCombe who is the new Head of Asia PAC who will be joining us at the end of the fourth quarter.
Another great example of our investing to making it our better platform as Ann Marie discussed our opening of our London new office.
Since our merger we were operating in 2 different offices and we did move people around.
But it was certainly not the best of circumstances to really grow one BlackRock.
Everybody is in one common building today in London and now our London office happens to be our largest city location in the world bigger than our corporate headquarters in New York.
And so things like this are obviously a cost but we expect these costs will really generate more continuity hopefully better performance as our portfolio managers are all together but importantly a better dialogue amongst our teams which will produce better dialogues with our clients that which would produce more opportunities for our business.
As Ann Marie suggested we continue to generate a lot of cash flow $1.8 billion year-to-date.
We have a long history of returning capital to our shareholders and this year we already increased our dividends.
I need to remind everybody at 37.5% we've repurchased $2.5 billion of shares as recently as June.
And I could tell everyone today we will continue to take appropriate steps to be well-positioned to capture opportunities.
I am here to tell you I don't know many opportunities at this moment so I'm not here to suggest and I'm not trying to forewarn that I know of anything going on.
But we will be well-positioned if there are opportunities to do things and obviously when it is not until the first quarter of the new year where the Board of Directors would look at our dividend policy.
So let me go over some of the businesses in the texture of the industry and in BlackRock.
Let me start off with retail.
Our U.S.
retail business had positive flows which was unusual in our business.
And while Europe and Asia saw de-risking for a reference point U.S.
mutual funds x ETS had $48 billion as an industry in outflows in the third quarter.
BlackRock had $1.8 billion of inflows globally but we had long-term flows of $3.5 billion.
Our U.S.
retail saw positive long-term flows in the third quarter of about $2.6 billion really concentrating at some of our unique products: Global Allocation our equity dividend our high-yield funds.
And this is where we actually believe more and more growth will go.
We're seeing more and more people questioning core fixed income where fixed income is only producing 2-ish-plus percent returns and what is the future of rates going forward.
So clients are asking for solutions whether that might be in more high-yield solutions.
There could be in other types of credit solutions dividends as a solution preferreds and these are some of the things that we're trying to really position BlackRock to handle our clients' needs.
Cross-border or the European flows as an industry had $28 billion of outflows and we had as a firm about $6 billion of outflows.
And as I said that's where the great de-risking was worldwide and especially in the mutual funds arena.
Despite the $6 billion of outflows we actually picked up market share though.
So we lost less than the industry as a whole.
So the third quarter despite all this noise has told me we are picking up market share.
We continue to position ourselves and we're continuing to be innovative in terms of creating products that our clients need in this new paradigm.
Let me talk about global iShares.
We had in the quarter $10.8 billion of net new business.
We had really positive flows in Europe end flows in the U.S.
As an industry we saw about $28 billion of flows as an industry.
But I should give a little more texture.
Flows are significantly in July and the industry did see significant slowdown in flows in August and September as you're seeing that capitulation and that uncertainty even in the iShares product.
In EMEA we had $10.8 billion of global flows -- I'm sorry in total.
But EMEA was $6.5 billion of flows.
Investors are looking for safety in the region particularly in Germany.
And importantly we are as well-positioned in Europe as we ever have been in our ETF space.
There is great amount of consternation and confusion in Europe related to ETNs or exchange traded notes which are derivative-based products.
There are some regulatory review of these types of products.
There are many platforms distribution platforms that are now forbidding these sales of ETNs.
And as the largest provider of ETFs in Europe we have been a huge beneficiary.
I don't expect these market shares to persist but in the third quarter we picked up 80% of the net new business in Europe in the third quarter.
We do believe though in the United States in Europe we are going to see substantial regulatory review of these products.
We have been very assertive in our statements that clients need to understand what they're buying.
There needs to be greater transparency.
There's a big difference between a physical ETF and a derivative-based ETN.
And derivative-based ETN you have credit exposure with that issuer.
Some of these issues may be very fine credits but the disclosure of what you're buying what is the underlying product is pretty opaque.
And we are suggesting to the SEC and to other regulators as they think about ETFs in the future that we have much greater transparency much greater clarity in terms of the product.
We have always been pretty rigorous in terms of making sure that clients understand that ETFs should be physically-based.
Obviously in some cases they're going to have some hedges or some derivative based around it but we need to have -- even some of our products that we already have 80% physical and some derivative base that we need to have much more clarity.
So there's no -- as ETFs have grown no different than we saw in the mortgage market in the '80s and then in the '90s and then in this decade a simple product morphed into something that was very complex and risks were contained in these products that maybe investors did not know.
That was the failure of the mortgage market.
As one of the founders of the mortgage market in the '70s '80s and watching the failure of disclosure in that market occur we need to be very assertive as a firm and outspoken that we will not allow at BlackRock the lack of disclosure on these products.
We believe these products can have a huge future and we need to be a lot more assertive in making sure that risk and complexity is understood by all investors.
So we are trying to bring down the risk of ETFs.
There is great amount of noise about it.
There's a hearing today in Washington about ETFs and we are trying to take a very large position in terms of making sure these products grow this industry grows and I would love for some of my peers to be as assertive as BlackRock in making sure we have a great industry and a great product going forward.
In the Americas we had $4.6 billion of inflows.
We saw investors shift to fixed income in the U.S.
offset by some outflows and equity ETFs.
We're not happy with our U.S.
results and we are addressing it.
We put in place a new global leadership team under Mark Wiedman stepping up as the Global Head of iShares in September and this is consistent with the steps we took to address the performance problems we had in SAE or scientific active equity which is now paying off which is actually one of our highest performing products this year as we reinvested in that product because we believed in it.
Obviously we are building a bigger finer great team.
We're adding more teams to our ETF platform and we believe with Mark's and all our great leaders of our ETF platform we will once again reassert our market share in the United States.
We continue to innovate in the ETF platform.
We launched a few commodity and fixed income products in Europe.
A tactical allocation ETF product is garnering a lot of attention.
We believe more and more tactical allocation products are going to become larger and larger as we witnessed from our Global Allocation mutual fund as one of the fastest-growing mutual funds.
Institutional the picture is mixed.
We saw clients de-risking while others took advantage of the steep market declines and we're forced to rebalance.
It really depends on some of our clients' needs.
If a client did an LDI in 2003 and they're sitting with 6% long-dated bonds they were less stressed than those companies that were under invested in fixed income in terms of having their core interest rate that they are looking for.
And now with the reduction in interest rates they're sitting with some big gaps in terms of their income needs.
Total long-dated outflows for BlackRock was $17 billion driven by a single outflow in a passive fixed income strategy for a particularly planned liquidity needs.
It had a de minimis revenue impact for us.
And we continue to see modest outflows in our SAE but we are -- we have enormous amount of dialogue now.
And we believe because of the performance over the last year and our investment in our SAE teams we're going to start seeing new inflows.
Quite frankly many of our peers got out of this business and we're one of the few organizations that have stayed into it reinvested in it.
And as I said we stabilized it we are seeing still some modest outflows.
But the conversations we're having now with clients gives me a good feeling about the future in terms of the inflows there.
As I said earlier our institutional clients are really struggling with the low interest rate environment and the declines in the equity markets.
So we are seeing very unusual behavior by our clients.
Clients are looking for help and that's what we're trying to do.
Our performance as I said earlier in quant and multi-asset products was strong and I'm very encouraged by our equity performance in its' positions well for the future.
As I said earlier low interest rates is going to have most probably some structural changes in fixed income in the next few years as an industry.
It's very hard to see how interest rates going to continue to go lower to produce more than the 2.5% returns that we see -- as we see in the market today.
And so what we expect clients to start relooking at within fixed income this is a lot of trim business because they're going to go moving from maybe core types of fixed income strategies to credit strategies they're going to go into a go-anywhere strategy in fixed income.
Some of them may go into preferreds and other type securities.
We expect out of the European situation we hope to see a large amount of preferreds being issued by banks as a means to recapitalize and although at this moment preferred to not consider Tier 1 capital in Europe.
Hopefully that will change as banks are trying to lobby their regulators as they are going through their stress tests again as they're trying to achieve a 9% Tier 1 capital charge.
At these low equity rates it would be very powerful if the regulators would allow preferreds to be Tier 1 perpetual preferreds I must say not perpetual preferreds to be Tier 1.
I believe there will be billions and billions and billions of dollars of interest in the world for that as bond investors need coupon or in this case dividends.
The pipeline was confusing.
We had this big outflow that Ann Marie talked about.
I mentioned it earlier where a client -- a very large client of ours is internalizing a $30-plus billion mandate.
They're doing it for cost containment and so this is something that will probably happen mid next year.
But we are giving you an advanced word.
So this is not going to happen any -- in this quarter may not even happen in the first quarter but we've been told this will happen sometime mid next year.
But despite that we've seen some very good flows and what I'm also personally excited about that we are seeing good flows in what I would call long-dated products higher fee-paying products.
We are continuing to see some real opportunities in our alternative space.
We did have outflows in our currency type of products and that's related to the big swings in dollar or in euro.
But we did have to offset that.
$1 billion inflows of our commodity products would totally offset these currency types of outflows that we saw in the third quarter.
BlackRock Solutions.
I just can't say enough of how this is helping us in the positioning in the new paradigm.
During the quarter we were hired by the National Bank of Greece so we're inside working with the regulators of Europe and Greece to try to help them understand and ascertain the situation there.
This is a similar assignment that we won in Ireland earlier in the year.
We are working with more European banks than we've ever done in our platform.
We have more opportunities in the Middle East more opportunities in Asia than we've ever had before.
In the quarter as we noted we have 13 new assignments.
These are offsetting a lot of the 1 type of assignments that we had.
This is totally offsetting the consistent reduction in our outstanding of advisory business as some of our clients are bringing down some of their troubled assets.
And so this has been an extraordinary year so far for us.
And more importantly we are starting to see much more stickier revenues in our solution business as we are winning more and more Aladdin-like assignments.
We continue to have dialogue with a few substantial Aladdin assignments.
And the last thing I would say about Aladdin we did -- we are implementing our first Aladdin assignment that is not just fixed income but it is now equity and fixed income.
This what we believe will become a cornerstone of our growth as our equity modules are as industry first-class as our fixed income modules in our risk management.
And lastly as I said earlier we continue to invest in our platform.
I mentioned hiring Mark McCombes in Asia but we hired Mark Taborsky in our BlackRock multi-asset class strategy.
And we are very excited about the individuals that we are seeing who are looking to join our firm.
We have never enjoyed such a position in which we could hire industry leaders to help us build this platform.
This is across region and across product.
So in summary I know I've been talking a long time we are really uniquely positioned for this environment I think better positioned than any organization that I know of in the industry.
With the persistence of volatility in our marketplaces with low interest rates a low growth environment all our investors are reevaluating their investment strategies and asset allocation decisions.
We hope we're in that position to help our clients.
That is our #1 job.
Our job has to be an ally.
We have to be there working alongside with our clients.
We have a challenging world of demands a better and a more robust range of solutions.
We have higher demands that we provide value-added advice better risk management tools.
And so the demands on our time are growing.
And that's why we have to continue to invest.
So in summary we're pretty well-positioned here.
I just -- I would like to thank all the employees for working with our clients helping our clients and producing the results that we did in the third quarter.
I'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So obviously a brutal quarter for the markets and I can understand the outflows.
Now the markets have bounced here in October so far.
Have the clients settled down as you said? Has the outflows calmed down? Or is that just an ongoing process that takes a few quarters to run through? It really depends on the situation.
In some of our inflows and some of our pipeline we had a very large international client that actually in spring took $12 billion out of the marketplace and most recently added I think -- I know $2.6 billion is in our pipeline.
But they're starting to reinvest back into the marketplace.
And so we are seeing -- we had another big fund that did the same thing in spring that put $5 billion.
That's in our number.
So it really depends on the client so as more of the international ones.
But I would say the pension funds the insurance companies I don't think they're paying attention to the 1-week 2-week market movement there.
They're going to committees right now.
They're asking us to help.
We actually have a lot of presentations with our institutional clients for the next month or so to try to help them come up with a strategy working alongside their consultants.
So it really depends on the situation.
As I said if some of those clients who really got out of the marketplace in spring or late spring early summer we are seeing those clients coming right back in right now.
So it really depends on the situation.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then maybe I want to get your thoughts on Volcker.
I know it's a long process ahead of us but in general the way I see it is most of the implications actually have a direct impact on you and your clients just by potentially removing liquidity from the system and increasing the cost for euro interact on behalf of your clients.
I'm just curious on: a if you agree with that; and b how BlackRock responds to the regulators.
Oh we love our regulators.
A there's no question.
It's not just a Volcker Rule.
The Basel III as banks are going to be required to have much more capital the utilization of their balance sheet is going to affect everybody.
Bid-ask spreads are going to be widening because these institutions are going to need to make some form of profit for putting their balance sheet in front of you.
This is one of the reasons why we have been very rigorous in spending a lot of money building the trading platform to cross trades for our clients.
This is one of the actions that we are doing and we continue to do that.
And we're continuing to build it.
And so what we are trying to use that scale of ours to differentiate us with our clients and hopefully to reduce that friction cost that we're going to see in the marketplace and so this is something that we are quite sensitive on.
In terms of our interaction with our regulators well we are actually having some very good dialogues with our regulators.
We are trying to be above the line with them and really working with them in terms of trying to help them understand the difference between asset management and organizations that work on their own balance sheet.
We are trying to make sure that in our conversations related to ETFs they understand the difference between ETFs and ETNs.
We have been very rigorous in terms of -- and an outlier in the industry in the money market fund industry suggesting that capital should be put in place to offer NAV declines.
And we do believe regulators are going to begin to focus on the money market fund industry because I do believe from every regulator I speak to they believe money market funds do present risk in the system.
And there's going to have to be some ways of protecting the system.
And so we are trying to work with regulators in terms of understanding the type of risk that's presented and how best to effectuate and minimize that risk.
In terms of everyday business until we really get more dialogue and in terms of -- and more certainty of how they're going to implement some of these strategies it's hard for us to say how that will further impact BlackRock or how we work with our clients.
But it's a moving dialogue and I could promise you we are involved in the dialogues with the regulators.
When they want to hear our opinions we are offering them as loud as possible.
We have -- I think as you know we do have an office now in Washington working alongside with our regulators.
It happens to be one of our biggest businesses now working in Washington.
It's a core competency that we have to work with our regulators and working with our politicians to help our investors.
So one thing I said to our investors at our conference we are one of the lone sheep working with Washington in trying to protect investors' interests and investor rights.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First just to start on the margin.
I'm wondering was there any impact from performance fees and helping the margin in the third quarter may be hurting it? And then as we walk forward into the  fourth quarter if we see flattish market returns kind of through December 31 what should be our expectation for the margin going forward? Okay.
Craig on the first one of those whenever we have a quarter with performance fees we usually get a little bit of margin boost from that because other than the payout the revenue shares really there's not incremental expense associated with generating those revenues.
As far as the fourth quarter what I said in my comments I really said focus on the year-to-date margin when you're thinking about margin.
I think every quarter of the margin can move around a bit but I just sort of think in that range as far as -- that's what we've achieved year-to-date.
That's what's going to drive the full-year margin.
And all things being equal we should be delivering something.
Now we know the margin can vary widely based on changes in market and levels of performance fees and those are 2 big unknowns.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And also on the pipeline for funded -- or excuse me but one [ph]  but unfunded wins was the decline there in your view and it sounds like it is more cyclically driven by investors reacting to what has just happened in the market over the last 3 or 4 months and differences between the assets you're investing and the duration of their liabilities.
Or is this kind of more of a structural issue? No I think this is more of an environmental issue.
So as you just described it I think this is a period of time as the pipeline and flows get affected as people have to pause and reconsider what is the right action.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Staying on the regulatory front and Larry sort of in your commentary on some of the liquidity business.
So what I'm hearing is that the squabbling [ph]  proposal seems to be dead on arrival and sort of back to the drawing board.
Can you talk a little bit -- you mentioned capital buffer in your prepared remarks.
Can you talk a little bit about how you sort of see the most likely cost for reform on a go forward basis and what the impact will be in the economics of the business? Sue? I mean Bill on the money market reform I mean as you know we've been sort of going back and forth around a variety of possibilities.
So the squabbling [ph]  proposal is one that's interesting although I think the discussions most recently are focused on whether or not it's really practical given that it requires subordinate capital to be raised for each fund for each issuer.
So I think at the same time we're not really hearing the capital buffer as a favor to either.
So I think regulators are still engaged in an active discussion with industry participants and we are very much at the forefront of that.
We've been helping things through different alternatives for how we might support this business.
And as you know and as Marie Shapiro [ph] testified before the Congress an floating rate NAV is still out there as a possibility as well.
And there will be -- if that comes to pass the business will find a new level but it will still be a valuable business for investors.
So we continue to work with them.
There's not a lot of clarity out there on this.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And my second question sort of comes back to ETF business.
I think BlackRock filed with the SEC a few weeks ago maybe a month or so ago to get into sort of the active [ph]  of the fundamental side of the business.
It seems a little bit of a sea change relative to the cap weighted business.
Maybe you can talk about maybe the philosophy and the reasoning behind that.
And does that sort of pertain an embedded view about the cap weighted side of business? Again Bill I'll try to answer that.
I mean I think that we want to have the flexibility to provide investors with a wide range of products off a wide range of indices.
So we also have a view that there are opportunities both in fundamental ways and indices.
And as you know from that same filing the opportunity potentially to create our own entities to be able to offer clients products that might be more tactically used by them in asset allocation.
So it's part of a broader range of possibilities.
I think as you also know the SEC the registration processes take a long time and so part of this is just widening out our capability to offer a range of products to the market.
And I would say Bill I do -- we do not believe actively-managed ETFs will be anything close to the scale of the market based or index-based products.
But we do believe that clients are going to be looking for lower-cost solutions whether that is multi-product they're looking for liquidity.
And so we are going to explore and expand in those product areas.
But our expectations are that it's not going to be driving massive growth but it will be more incremental.
Your next question comes from the line of Cynthia Mayer with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Larry in terms of how the institutional investors are reevaluating going from core to credit you mentioned possibly or maybe to preferred looking at new products would any of this have any impact on the mix shift and the fee rate? Or do you see it more as a move amongst similar priced products? And in general do you see institutional clients still going to passive over active? It really depends.
So a I think you're going to see -- I think you're going to see huge move into indexation of bonds much lower fees.
As I said if you don't believe interest rates have that much further to go down over the next few years you're only earning a few hundred basis points of return.
And so we're going to start seeing other -- we're going to see clients looking to use beta as a bigger flow.
You saw that in the ETF flows over the last quarter.
So we continue to expect that to continue.
We are seeing more and more inquiry in high yield and more and more inquiries in the higher-yielding fixed income products whether it's in Europe or the U.S.
So once again it's more bar belling.
So indexing obviously is a lower fee higher margin result and the credit and the other types of products are going to be higher fees in many cases lower margin business.
So I think we're going to be probably be as best positioned to handle that and take that in.
I should remind everybody indexation even institutional indexation of fixed income is not like indexation of the S&amp;P.
There are thousands of bonds in the Barclays index or other fixed income type of indexes.
You have to have a lot more technology to replicate the movements of fixed income to get close to an index.
So it's much harder for institutions to internalize fixed income indexing.
So we look at that as -- even if institutions went that way we would expect to be a huge beneficiary of that.
The second thing in terms of equities we're going to continue to see more bar belling.
As you saw the flows people were de-risking in core type of products.
They were going into more specialty type of products.
They're going into more alternatives and they are using as a baseline a foundation they're going into index.
So it really depends on each client's issues where they are with their liability whether they are horizons and -- but I think it's very clear across the board investors are looking for some form of advice.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just briefly on expenses a narrow one.
It looks like excluding the U.K.
charge G&amp;A dropped or actually it was lighter than what I expected.
What are the trends there? And I think you mentioned marketing.
How sustainable would cost control be in G&amp;A? You're right.
The key driver in the decrease was marketing and I actually think it's been great.
We've had Linda Robinson coming into the firm and what she's bringing in is really looking across everything we were doing.
And really we were duplicating ourselves.
We weren't always spending our money as efficiently to get our messages across clearly.
And so we actually expect going forward to be able to do more with less.
We have reached the allotted time for our conference.
Mr.
Fink do you have any closing remarks? No.
Hopefully the markets continue to improve and stabilize in the fourth quarter.
I think we are all waiting to hear what Europe has to tell us this weekend related to this new round of stabilization in Europe by the authorities and politicians in Europe.
It's my hope that we find a stabilization.
I have to remind everybody if Europe does find a way to stabilize its future they will put all the pressure on to the United States to making sure that the United States now focuses on a long-term solution.
So I don't think volatility is going to be going away this quarter but I do believe the opportunities ahead of us and ahead of BlackRock are even larger than even before.
Thanks everyone.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is David and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Teleconference.
Our host for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Ann Marie Petach; and Head of Corporate Development and Investor Relations Patrick Olson.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Olson you may begin your conference.
Thanks operator.
And good morning everyone and thanks for joining BlackRock's Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
Before we begin I want to point out that during the course of this conference call we may make a number of forward-looking statements.
We call to your attention the fact that BlackRock's actual results may differ from these statements.
As you know BlackRock has filed with the SEC reports which lists some of the factors which may cause our results to differ materially from these statements.
Finally BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Ann Marie to discuss our financial results.
Ann Marie? Thank you Patrick.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining.
I know it's a busy earnings morning out there today.
I want to take you through the financial results for the quarter and the full year which were quite positive given the extraordinary global market volatility.
BlackRock delivered strong financial results this year with full year EPS up 8%.
This performance highlights the strength of the company the breadth of our product set and our global footprint.
Combined with our risk tools these strengths uniquely position us to meet the diverse needs of clients in this challenging environment.
While flows for the quarter were strong relative to the industry we were not immune to the impact of the current markets on our revenue.
Still we maintained strong margins by balancing beta-driven revenue effects with expense management.
We also took actions to position the business well going into 2012.
The business generated operating cash flow of $2.7 billion for the year allowing us to fund a large return of cash to shareholders.
This includes the repurchase of 618 000 shares costing about $100 million in the fourth quarter.
Larry's going to be talking more about the market environment generally and our focus areas for 2012.
The key takeaway for me is that in the turbulent markets we've been seeing BlackRock demonstrated that our product and geographic diversification is working.
We are built to help clients in markets like these and we can perform well despite global headwinds and macro uncertainties.
With that let me quickly walk you through the results.
As I make my comments I'll be referring to the supplement.
You can find it on our website.
And as usual I'll be talking about primarily as-adjusted results.
As you can see on Slide 1 of the supplement we announced full year earnings of $11.85 again reflecting a year-over-year growth in EPS of 8%.
This was driven by a 7% increase in operating earnings and supported by our share buyback activity.
Operating's earnings growth was driven by both revenue growth and margin improvement.
On Slide 2 you can see that our full year operating margin improved from 39.3% in 2010 to 39.7% in 2011 and this margin improvement despite again the market environment.
Our compensation-to-revenue ratio of 34.7% was consistent with 2010 which was 34.8% and really the range we've been running in for the last several years of 35%.
So nothing's changed there.
Slide 3 shows the extent of market volatility in the fourth quarter.
Given the majority of our equity assets priced daily and focusing on average rather than period-end markets.
U.S.
markets fared relatively well ending the year with a strong recovery.
But world markets emerging markets energy and mining fared poorly driven in part by European uncertainties.
Compared to prior periods world markets were down around 5% and emerging markets were down in the double digits.
Volatility and global market declines affected investor sentiment.
And since about half of our equity AUM is tied to non-U.S.
markets this obviously impacted our revenues.
We generated business that buffered some of these market effects as we saw net new business clients-favored index EPS and multi-asset products in the face of this uncertainty.
These products saw inflows and was otherwise generally a negative flow environment.
I'm now going to walk through a comparison of fourth quarter results compared to a year ago then discuss our results compared to the prior quarter.
On Slide 5 you can see that earnings per share of $3.06 included $3.14 of operating earnings and $0.08 of nonoperating expense.
EPS was negatively impacted by lower performance fees but benefited from our share repurchase program.
While we recorded positive marks on our investment portfolio the marks were just not as positive as a year ago.
The fourth quarter as-adjusted tax rate was 32%.
We've been running in this area for the last few quarters.
All things being equal I think this is a reasonable rate to think about as we enter 2012.
Moving to Slide 6.
Year-over-year operating earnings of $841 million reflected revenue diversity organic growth and expense controls partially offsetting the market-related effects on revenues.
Slide 7 you can see how our business model benefits from diverse revenue sources.
Fourth quarter revenues were $2.2 billion.
This includes $1.9 billion of base fees $147 million of performance fees and a record $149 million of BRS revenues.
In the fourth quarter we generated $364 million of revenue.
That's 16% of the total from sources other than base fees.
In 2011 we benefited from increases in revenue across numerous sources.
That included full year $72 million increase in sec lending revenue that's a 22% year-over-year increase and a $50 million increase in BRS revenues an 11% year-over-year increase.
So you can see we have components of revenues growing at double-digit rates.
Almost 60% of our hedge funds outperformed the relative HFRI indices over the past 12 months.
Despite that fact fourth quarter performance fees of $147 million were down $179 million compared to a year ago.
As with many hedge funds across the industry several of our own hedge funds ended the year below high watermarks.
Our performance varies by fund.
But as we begin 2012 the gap to high watermarks for the fund that had been our most material performance fee drivers are only below high watermarks in the low single digits.
So while performance was down this feels much different and much better than 2008.
At the same time we continue to benefit from strong performance under traditional products where we generated $100 million of performance fees in the quarter.
As I mentioned BlackRock Solutions and Advisory revenues reached a record high for the quarter of $149 million as well as a full year record high.
Growth continued in our core Aladdin business as clients sought out sophisticated tools to manage risk in the face of volatility.
The revenues also reflect the completion of a major advisory assignment in the fourth quarter.
On a full year basis nearly 80% of the growth in BRS revenues came from ongoing Aladdin assignments which will continue to benefit the revenue base in 2012 and beyond because these are very long-lived relationships.
Much of the growth came from international clients and that's transforming BRS from a predominantly U.S.
business to one which is truly global.
Fourth quarter base fees of $1.9 billion as you can see on Slide 8 are down $88 million from 2010.
This primarily reflects the volatile and negative world equity markets.
The decline in our equity-related revenues was offset partially by flight of new business into ETFs and other index products as well as the flows into multi-asset class products.
The diversity of our long-dated offerings across active and passive products serving multiple client types and multiple regions is one of our key strengths that helps us maintain strong revenues relative to the challenging external environment.
Compared to a year ago we also saw the revenue effect of the exit from low-yielding cash products so we did see some reversal of that trend with clients coming back into cash products in the fourth quarter.
Turning now to Slide 9.
You can see that our expense controls contributed to a 9% decrease in as-adjusted expenses which totaled $1.4 billion as well as contributed to our strong margin.
We recorded a $32 million onetime charge in the fourth quarter related to several restructuring opportunities that will benefit us beginning next year.
These opportunities were associated primarily with the continued integration of iShares on more global and integrated approach to marketing and additional efficiencies in technology and operations associated with further progress towards a single global operating platform.
We excluded this charge from as-adjusted results.
At the same time we continue to invest in our business.
We added net over 900 people to the firm in 2011.
Just last week we announced the acquisition of a Canadian ETF platform and we continue our commitment to our brand.
These are all things Larry's going to talk more about.
These are important investments for the long term.
Moving on to sequential quarter results.
Operating results were relatively stable which I know everyone really focuses on how we're doing sequentially while nonoperating results benefited from the favorable movements in markets right at the end of the year.
On Slide 11 you can see sequentially EPS improved by $0.23.
That included $0.21 associated with improved marks on our co- and seed investments and I'll talk a little bit more about nonoperating in a minute.
Stable operating income of $841 million seen on Slide 12 was supported by stability in revenues and stability in expenses.
Moving to Slide 13.
A $56 million increase in performance fees and a $32 million increase in BRS revenues were offset by market-related decreases in base fees which you can see on Slide 14.
The pressure on base fees related to the effect of unfavorable markets on equity and AUM which overwhelmed what was really a good quarter for strong net new business.
As I mentioned earlier we've continued our expense discipline.
As you can see on Slide 15 expenses were stable across most categories.
Expenses did include in the quarter $8 million of fund launch costs associated with the $300 million closed-end fund investing in utilities and infrastructure.
I think a good example of the type of income-oriented products we're trying to offer our clients.
Slide 17 shows nonoperating expense of $21 million which included $18 million of positive marks primarily on our co-investments and private equity.
On a full year basis our marks were positive $26 million and net interest expense for the quarter has been stable.
The value of the investment portfolio was up about 10% this quarter closed the year at about $1.2 billion or $1.1 billion when you exclude investments that represent hedges or which were hedged.
The growth relative to prior quarter related primarily to the seeding of several new retail alternative products all of them we think important opportunities for our clients.
And just to give you the examples there was a Long/Short Credit Fund a commodity fund and a Renminbi Bond Fund.
As a reminder we've got no proprietary investments.
We invest alongside our clients.
We see new product as required for the base business.
Our investments are aligned with the interest of our clients.
Really when you think of our whole business model our revenues and business are predicated on acting as fiduciaries on behalf of our clients and we receive a fee for providing those services.
So we're not a balance sheet company.
In fact when we look at our entire balance sheet it is really small.
We have less than $8 billion of economic tangible assets on the balance sheet.
And when you look at where these are it's cash of over $3 billion $2 billion of receivables and $1 billion portfolio we just talked about.
Moving to Slide 18.
Our operating cash flow was about $2.7 billion last year up about $100 million from 2010.
And as I mentioned previously we continued our share repurchase of 618 000 shares in the fourth quarter.
Our full year payout ratio was 48% and that included both our dividend and a core repurchase.
When you include our repurchase of Bank of America's ownership stake our payout ratio was 157%.
We still have 3.6 million shares remaining under our existing share repurchase authorization.
We continue to believe that our cash flow generation allows us ample opportunity to reward shareholders consistently.
So to sum up despite volatile markets we delivered a healthy margin generated substantial cash flow and returned a large amount of cash to shareholders.
Looking ahead we are extremely excited about the opportunities we have to work with our clients in 2012 and believe we are uniquely positioned to continue helping them navigate this challenging environment.
We've entered the year more confident than ever in our business model and are intensely focused on executing the growth opportunities we see across our business.
With that I'll turn it over to Larry who will discuss the market environment what we're seeing with our clients and the ideas and products that can help them navigate the current markets.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks Ann Marie.
Happy new year to everyone.
I'm going to have a little more exhaustive review of the world today and I'll try to put that in the context of BlackRock and try to describe from our vantage point what our clients are seeing and what type of questions they're asking us.
Let me just review really quickly 2011 which I think by any course of the imagination was a challenging market environment for a lot of people.
We have the sovereign credit crisis in Europe destabilization of the Middle East continue economic uncertainty worldwide renewed economic uncertainty in the emerging market area a lot of tragedy in Japan with the tsunami and the earthquake and the United States politically disappointing us in terms of the deficit ceilings and the persistent problems of unemployment in the United States a persistent problem in housing in the United States and by any long-term measure muted growth.
Unfortunately for 2012 it's not going to get that much better economically and yet I'm quite bullish as I was in 2011 on the direction of the global equity markets.
But 2012 will represent a continuation of volatility.
We have a very important election in France.
I don't think the market appreciates the importance of that election.
From my vantage point if Sarkozy does lose an election it would move obviously France more to the left.
And I don't -- I have a hard time understanding the union between France and Germany in that circumstance.
And so I think we have more political uncertainty in Europe than we normally do on top of all this economic uncertainty.
We obviously in our country in the United States we have another election which is going to lead to a lot of political gridlock and greater uncertainty.
We have leadership changes in the latter part of this year in China which could lead to different policy changes.
We have threats from Iran continued unrest in the Middle East and continued sovereign debt crisis in Europe.
We will persistently have a muted housing market.
I still think it's going to have another 2 years to truly stabilize housing in America.
We continue to have unsustainable level of deficits in this country and we continue to have muted growth.
So markets are going to be influenced a lot by these events driven by government and politics.
Yet at the same time balance sheets are improving worldwide.
Corporations in the United States in many cases in Europe have never been stronger.
Cash balances have never been bigger and the amount of de-risking that has been done worldwide leads me to have a -- despite all this uncertainty a more positive overview.
And one of the big challenges for all investors worldwide is to stop looking at the blogs the immediacy of news and focus on long-term challenges and how to manage your long-term liabilities over those long-term challenges.
This is not being done as much as they should be.
This is why we've seen such a de-risking.
But it is my belief for those investors who have the ability to overcome the challenges of the short-term news events and start focusing on their own internal challenges and their own internal liabilities and try to design portfolios and returns that will navigate higher returns over 5- and 10-year cycles.
Those investors are going to be benefited much more than those who are continue focusing on the immediacy of the moment.
And so I believe overall we are going to have a positive trending market over the course of 2012 and yet there's going to be a lot of volatility within that time.
It is very -- it is not surprising to me watching how Europe has stabilized at the same time that you're the ECB do their own form of quantitative easing and they could do that through a 3-year term debt repo which is giving a lot of purchasing power not unlike what happened in the United States when our Federal Reserve did the quantitative easing.
So you're starting to see aggressive auctions now in sovereign credits in Europe.
Let's hope those continue.
But this is as a result of the ECB actions.
And I don't believe the ECB has been given enough credit for their actions.
Mario Draghi also has one more major tool in his toolkit that our Federal Reserve does not have.
A short-term rates in Europe were 1% so there's a great opportunity if necessary to lower rates also in Europe to producing more steep yield curve which will invent -- ultimately create better opportunities in buying longer-term credit.
So I think we're going to have this mix and match going forward in 2012 but I have like I did in 2011 a bias towards focusing on long-term investing.
These challenges though really create real difficulties for a lot of our investors and I'm pleased to say BlackRock is well positioned to work with our clients.
And I'm not just talking about institutional clients.
And I'm not talking about just U.S.
clients but global institutional clients.
Our retail clients are all looking for advice.
Most investors -- pension funds are looking for returns of 7-plus percent.
Very hard to achieve that when you own bonds that are yielding 2%.
And so the dialogues we need to have with our investors are very different than the dialogues we had 5 and 7 and 10 years ago when you had significant opportunities in yield and bonds to make those type of returns.
Dialogues today require talking about many more aspects of investing today and no firm in the world is as well positioned to have that more complete dialogue talking to our investors' challenges.
Earlier or late last year we did have an institutional conference with our clients and the theme of the client -- of the conference was investors are no longer have the ability to find low-hanging fruit but they're going to have to spend more time in finding that high-hanging fruit.
And I think that's going to be the theme for 2012.
The other big issue and no one else has this platform clients have to spend more time focusing on their own specific solutions.
And I -- the way we are positioned -- and I'm going to talk about some of the major theme for 2012 how we're positioning to help our clients into solutions but I just need to also as I do every time we talk about it is the overlay of what our BlackRock Solutions risk management Aladdin platform allows us to do in navigating these types of solution-based conversations with our clients.
So if I had to just reflect on the fourth quarter as we think about now going into 2012 the diversity of our business model has substantially dampened the impact of volatile markets.
Ann Marie spoke about the growth of solutions the beta products versus alpha products and I'm going to go into more granular detail about the Defined Contribution about multi-asset strategies.
But it's the diversity of products that is allowing us to have more complex conversation with clients more stable earnings and a more powerful future especially in this low-rate environment that I don't believe people truly understand the impact on many asset managers the impact on our clients of this persistence low-rate environment.
So let me talk about our growth areas for 2012 in these uncertain markets that I just discussed.
Also I have to overlay not just this uncertain market as we enter 2012.
We are going to have a persistent issue related to the aging populations worldwide and the need for better retirement solutions.
It's interesting for me to watch the global dialogue of the U.S.
and the Europe about deficits.
And yet there's such a small dialogue about retirement.
It is my opinion the retirement crisis or the lack of monies necessary to meet our aging population and our -- and a population worldwide that's going to live longer the biggest crisis is not just going to be a sovereign credit crisis but the biggest crisis we're going to face in the coming years is a retirement crisis the -- having the appropriateness of money to live the lifestyle that you're accustomed to during your retirement ages.
This is not being discussed.
This is a severe issue and the persistence of low rate aggravates the problem much greater.
So with those ideas I wanted to talk about where we believe for BlackRock are 5 key opportunities for making obviously our clients in a better position but in doing so obviously making BlackRock a better stock to own.
Part one we do believe very strongly as people start looking at risk budgeting the use of indexing in ETFs becomes a larger component of your framework and we are very much a part of that dialogue.
Despite some negative flows in alpha products which was industry-wide we benefited as a firm because of our strong position in the beta products both in the index funds and the ETF products.
We believe this will carry on.
And when you think about risk budgeting we believe -- and we just started seeing a trend.
We're going to see more and more investors move out of active types of strategies and some -- in some not all fixed income strategies to go into more indexing.
We believe they're going to see as a result of it more of a barbelling a lot of investors in fixed income and go into the high-yield area maybe the bank loan area.
There's great opportunities in other product like munis.
They're obviously going to go into emerging market debt.
But in terms of treasuries and maybe mortgages you're going to see a lot more need for -- in the risk budgeting component indexation or ETFs.
And then you're going to allow these institutions to start thinking about taking greater alpha risk in other product whether it is high yield or any other types of yielding product.
And it may mean a greater allocation which really the first time in many years impacted the equities in the form of dividend stocks and other things like that.
But our first position is indexing and ETFs.
Our second area of growth for 2012 and beyond as we have been investing aggressively as Ann Marie spoke about and that is alternatives.
Where we believe clients are going to use indexing or ETFs on one side of the barbell and they're going to be more aggressive in terms of alternatives.
We expect the alternative paydays to start coming out as we build -- are building more and more teams and we will continue to build out more and more products and teams in the various alternative space.
We are in the markets right now in a -- in many types of products whether it's alternative energy private equity and other forms of alternatives space.
We are in the market of raising money right now.
But I will also say we see great opportunities in many alpha products at BlackRock.
We had outflows in our scientific active equity area last year but our performance was great.
The dialogue with our clients is beginning to have a turnaround and we think we will see by the end of 2012 inflows into this product.
As I mentioned early before we are continuing to have great dialogue about high yield.
Emerging market debt today we won a very important assignment today about $350 million in emerging market debt fund.
So we are starting to see clients start navigating and not just in alternatives but in other types of what I would call higher alpha opportunity long-holding products.
We are seeing clients focus on model-driven fixed income.
We are seeing clients saying after a lot of negative noise earlier last year the clients who entered the muni market last year had some of the great returns of anyone as we witnessed state and local governments navigating down their deficit issues and becoming a little more responsible.
And the muni market responded very very nicely on that.
So we are seeing not just opportunities in the beta product but in also the specialized alpha products which leads me to our multi-asset strategy solution.
More and more clients are looking for more of a fiduciary relationship with firms like BlackRock.
Other firms are participating very nicely in this.
But clients are coming to us for a more -- they're looking for a more complete solutions.
They're looking for a more complex more comprehensive relationship with us and most importantly they're looking for a deeper dialogue.
And in the fourth quarter when I go over some of the highlights of some of the wins this is an area that we're continuing to see growth.
We're continuing to add more employees in this area and building a broader depth of people.
The third area -- excuse me the fourth area is retirement and income.
As I said I can't think of a more important area that we all have to focus on.
This is not just a U.S.
phenomenon.
This is going to be a worldwide phenomenon.
Aging population worldwide is creating much greater need for better retirement solutions.
And I think at BlackRock we are trying to navigate products into these solutions.
We're showing up more and more of the Defined Contribution business where we added $6.3 billion in the fourth quarter net new business or -- and we added $31 billion of net new assets in our DC business for the year which represented for us about a 10% organic growth area in this area.
And as I think I said in other quarterly report -- earnings there's only less than a dozen firms that are in this area of defined contribution.
And so we're seeing seismic changes in the asset management business.
The Defined Contribution movement out of defined benefit and the Defined Contribution is a very good example of that.
Obviously the movement out of active into indexing is another good example.
The utilization of ETFs is another good example.
So fifth area that we're focusing as the theme for 2012 is income.
Investors worldwide have to rethink about income.
In this low-rate volatile environment clients are looking for more products that can provide obviously less volatility in pure equities.
But their -- but they can't afford to own bonds yielding 2%.
And so they are looking for solutions that as I discussed before that may have high-yield elements to it.
It may have preferred stock preferred bond elements to it.
And most importantly it's going to be heavily oriented towards dividend stocks that have lower beta tracking than the normal equity markets.
But once again to have a dialogue with our client about these products have -- showing how these types of products can have lowing track -- lower beta than the market but higher return than bonds requires a comprehensive dialogue with our clients.
Let me just overlay all that as I said earlier which differentiates us in that BlackRock Solutions which clearly had an exceptional year and quarter.
The momentum into 2012 continues.
As Ann Marie spoke about it this was predominantly a U.S.
business that is becoming a very global business for us.
This year we expanded as I said in Europe and Asia.
We added 2 more Aladdin clients in Japan.
We saw a huge increase in our advisory relationships and assignments in Europe to work with governments and financial institutions navigate their circumstances.
And we reached now -- in terms of the Aladdin system utilization we now have $10.2 trillion onto our risk analytic platform that we help clients in navigating risk.
Our pipeline for Aladdin implementation has never been stronger.
We are only weakened in that platform because of the utilization of people and time and I believe 2012 will be even more robust for us than 2011.
Before I go into some specific details I also have to just say our #1 responsibility is producing returns.
And that's true for tracking error in our beta products where we exhibited some very weak tracking error in one of our products in 2010.
We turned that around and we had very positive flows in our emerging market ETF product.
We have to have a very strong alpha where I would say in 2011 some of our products underperformed.
Some of our products did very well.
But overall we did well.
I am not happy with where we are.
I wanted to be even better than well in terms of the alpha products.
We know our clients are not just hiring us for advice.
They're hiring us for performance and every client and every employee understands that.
In 2011 to build this momentum we're continuing to invest in our people and our brand.
Going into 2012 we are going to build our brand awareness worldwide it'll be a major strategic effort for us.
And as Ann Marie discussed as a statement of growth we added close to 900 people worldwide as we continue to build out our platform.
One other thing I wanted to just talk about the returning of value to our shareholders.
Obviously 2011 we did quite a bit of that.
It is my expectation that we are going to continue to use an enormous large free cash flow combination of dividends stock repurchases and a little later I'll talk about some possible M&amp;A opportunities.
Let me go into the details of the different products really quickly and then we'll open up for questions because I know a lot of you are going to jump off but then get on to the other institutions who had calls today.
Overall in the ETF market our iShares product really picked up momentum from I would say a slow start in the first quarter to a very strong finish.
I am very pleased to say that our flows into 2012 continue to be quite aggressive where we already year-to-date and our ETF products have close to $4.4 billion in new flows into our products.
For the year last year we had about $53 billion of flows and it really picked up a lot of the momentum in the fourth quarter.
I am pleased to say that we recaptured the #1 share in net flows in the United States where as I said earlier in the year we really did not do as well as we expected.
I think I said in our last third quarter report that I expected much more from our team and we are starting to see that.
And we continue to have a large international dominance in our ETF platform worldwide.
We continue to try to build that dominance as Ann Marie announced -- noted that we did buy Claymore Securities an ETF platform in Canada.
And why that was important for us because we have a huge market in Canada right now and we're very happy with our position in Canada.
Our presence in Canada was predominantly institutional.
Claymore has a very strong retail presence where we did not have that type of strong presence.
They had some very strong products like the Canadian dollar gold fund very simplistic products.
And it's those simplistic products are the best so I don't mean that in any negative way.
I mean that in a very positive way.
And so it really fit very nicely into our product mix and our client profile mix.
And so we look forward to doing that.
And I do believe just as a footnote there are going to be many more opportunities for us to fill in our ETF presence worldwide if these -- if and when other companies come up for sale.
On the retail side I'm particularly pleased with our North American results in 2011 and I think we're in a very good position for 2012.
As I discussed earlier we picked up market share in U.S.
retail.
There were huge outflows in the U.S.
mutual fund business at ETFs and we had inflows.
I unfortunately believe you're going to continue to see outflows in traditional mutual funds in the United States as clients are trying to diversify and look for different products but this trend is not going to be arrested any time soon in the industry.
And I do believe BlackRock will continue to pick net market share.
As I said over the last few years this is a big priority for us to continue to build out our presence in the U.S.
mutual fund business.
When I spoke about one of our priorities in 2012 to continue to build our brand and put a big effort we believe it's really important for us as we build out our presence in U.S.
and international retail that our brand presence has to be a much stronger result.
In international retail however we had outflows like the industry and it's a function of the massive de-risking that is going on in Europe.
We're sitting here thinking about how difficult Europe is.
Imagine if you're sitting there with your pension fund sitting in some form of a long-term investment many people have capitulated and frozen and the whole industry have seen most recently outflows in the international retail.
And most of this money just sitting in cash and so it's not this -- it's not like this money is running away and permanently gone.
It's -- people are looking for greater stability to get back into the marketplace.
At the moment though I don't see a turnaround in any short period of time in international retail for an industry.
It's -- it will continue to have I want to call mediocre flows until we see a more stability in the continent.
Institutionally same idea.
As we have all this uncertainty and the persistence of low rates we're seeing more and more institutions de-risk and they de-risk in the form of moving from active to passive.
Fortunately our business model allows us to take advantage of that and I believe we are going to continue to take advantage of that.
It is our hope as we continue to build out our alternative products we will continue to benefit from that and we will see that.
So in the fourth quarter in our -- in institutional we did have positive flows in our index products.
And I must say we are continuing to see clients seeking probably more passive strategies on the institutional side.
I do believe like we've seen in many other years this reminds me of the first quarter of '09 when we discussed to all of you at the end of what happened with '08 how clients capitulated clients paused clients looked for advice.
And then starting the second and third quarter we started to see clients doing much more active strategies.
I do believe that will be the same process.
And I can't tell you the types of conversations we have with our investors now in the first quarter are much more dynamic than we had last year and clients are looking for the solution-based relationships.
So I'm very pleased about how we are being positioned but I don't want to say that we are seeing a massive turnaround in that -- in behavior from the fourth quarter into the first quarter.
But this is the time pension funds retirement funds endowments insurance company ask themselves how are they going to position themselves in the future.
They will be going to their respective boards and talking about strategies risk budgeting and that's where we're having a dialogue.
And I believe we're playing a bigger role in helping our clients play that role.
So I am looking here to be the -- I look to the same themes that we saw in '09 on the institutional side.
Let me just talk -- touch on a few things and it's getting time for open up there for questions.
As I said earlier our Defined Contribution business continues to be strong with about $6 billion -- over $6 billion of inflows in the quarter.
Our multi-asset strategy once again the solution-based stuff that I'm talking about we have $3.2 billion of net new business and clients are looking for more customized solutions.
One of the good creative products we created last year and I think I mentioned it in the third quarter and this is a product that we did a wrapper using annuity products in some of our glidepath products with Met Life.
We launched this product in May and we continue to generate strong inflows.
This is something that we budgeted about $1 billion product.
We are now at $2.4 billion in size of which $1.1 billion was raised in the fourth quarter alone.
So when you're innovative when you've designed products that fit the clients' needs we see the benefits.
In terms of alternatives we had outflows in a product that was more currency and commodity based and that -- we're going to see big inflows and outflows that was more currency-overlay type of product.
And -- but we continue to have more dialogue that -- with more investors worldwide in our alternative products.
Ann Marie talked about some of the performance stuff that we've ever had before.
And we believe we're going to see real inflows in 2012 if we use 2011 as a year to really building these products.
In cash we've seen -- in the fourth quarter we saw inflows for the first time in I think 6 quarters and we'll see where the cash management business goes in this low-rate environment.
But the one thing I could say related to the cash management that's somewhat connected that's in security lending.
That produced some very good returns for us and our clients in 2012 (sic) [2011] especially in the fourth quarter.
We're seeing more hedge funds looking to utilize stocks again especially in the fourth quarter.
And so if I could talk about cash management and sec lending that was a very big pleasant surprise for us and we continue to see utilization rates going up.
And there is a -- despite how low rates are there's a steep yield curve between 1-day and 90-day money.
And so that's been helpful.
On the BlackRock Advisory business where we are advising money for large clients some are very well-known clients we continue to be -- and I am pleased to say we're continuing to liquidate these -- some of these portfolios as our clients are achieving the objectives they needed to achieve in terms of giving us these advisory assignments as -- and now they're starting to wind these down.
So we're going to continue to see that side of our AUM going down.
As you know this is a -- just a very very low fee basis.
We were very pleased with the role that we have played in some of these large-scale public advisory assignments.
And I do believe when there's a need for us to play those roles we will be back playing those roles again.
Let me just touch on 2 other things and that's the M&amp;A environment.
I have never seen a more asymmetric market massive sellers in the asset management business.
Obviously the trends are very hostile for a lot of asset managers and two you're seeing because of Basel III and capital needs many institutions that are affiliated with financial institutions are -- that are looking to decouple their asset management businesses.
As I said in the third quarter and I'll say it again we are not looking at any large platform purchase at all worldwide.
There's rumors that we are involved in some large-scale platforms.
I will deny that now.
We are not.
But we are very active in looking at fill-in products.
We see some very unique opportunities now and we are very excited about the opportunities we will have in terms of fill-in products either in product or a fill in in country.
And we are in the presence of some active dialogues right now but they're not these large-scale platforms.
We do not believe those will be fitting for BlackRock and so I'll leave it at that related to M&amp;A.
The regulatory environment will be upon us sometime this year.
We still have -- this is very fluid.
This will impact all of us in financial institutional land.
It will have an impact on our clients.
It will have an impact on BlackRock and other things.
So we will see how all this plays out.
We are very excited about the CFTC announcement and vote last week.
This is a great example whereby a regulator did the right thing for investors and assurance that we're going to have segregation of our collateral.
So when people talk about regulation some regulation is good for all of us.
And I will be -- we will be very out-front in regulation making sure that in the regulation as it's being formulated that it's good for our investors.
And we will be vocal when it is.
And so there are regulation that everyone should be proud of that we are building a sounder safer financial community.
There is some regulation though I'm not going to get into that I'm worried about that could have an impact on cost of doing business.
And we will quietly discuss that with the regulators in how to minimize those costs to our clients.
Overall I would say 2011 was a good year.
I'm very very bullish on our positioning for 2012.
I don't believe we have ever been in a position to take advantage of our business platform in dealing with clients in navigating these troubled marketplaces to give us even a larger presence a larger opportunity and obviously great growth opportunities for earnings for all of us for all of our shareholders.
Let me open it for questions and let me wish everyone a very healthy 2012.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Alex Kramm with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I think the one thing you didn't really talk about much in your prepared remarks was the pipeline this quarter which I think now for the second quarter in a row has declined.
So hoping that you could give us a little bit more detail on the sales cycle and what else contributed to that.
Obviously there were some passive inflows this quarter.
Maybe even touch a little bit upon what the mix is in terms of the business that you're seeing that could come online.
I did not purposely talk about the pipeline not that I'm trying to hide it.
I'm trying to deemphasize it.
As our business becomes more and more -- with more and more flows in retail when we talk about pipeline it was -- A it was only institutional.
It was -- because we have no pipeline retail.
It's -- and so we're trying to deemphasize how one thinks about it.
Two in the pipeline there is a lot of noise related to indexing which confuses people.
And so we have -- we purposely did not discuss it.
We are still seeing as I said in my prepared remarks a great deal of interest in index types of products.
We are in more dialogue with more clients as I said institutionally right now for strategies but there's nothing translating into a pipeline yet.
But -- so the pipeline is about $50-odd billion and then you have this one outflow that we telegraphed in the third quarter which a client is insourcing a bunch of indexing product.
But I don't think our pipeline by the way is any different in terms of the feel in terms of the flows ins and outs than it is any other times.
It's just what we are witnessing now the pipeline is a very noisy statistic.
And so that's why I did not discuss it in my prepared remarks.
But I don't -- but we are not seeing any real massive change in the flow or the style.
But we're seeing it in the mix as you suggested.
We continue to see more interest temporarily in index-like products.
I talked about the $4.5 billion of flows in our -- in iShares year-to-date.
I talked about we just won a $350 million flow in emerging fixed income today.
So we're seeing a large breadth of inflows.
We've actually have a great pipeline in alternatives but obviously it's a sheer number that's quite small.
And so I don't think there's much tonality difference Alex than other quarters.
It's just noisier because of the ins and outs of index business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just real quick.
One of the things that you highlighted for this year was the whole defined retirement opportunity.
Now there's some regulatory changes coming up on the DC side.
I know you're not a big DC player in terms of record keeping or anything like that but are there opportunities for you to capitalize in that? Or do you think it's going to be a non-event that is really going to go...
We're not a record keeper.
So we don't do that.
We continue to pick up large -- I would say we're benefiting from the consolidation of ETF -- excuse me DC players.
And related to the regulatory issues you discussed because we're investment only it's a big advantage for us.
We're -- because we're investment only because we are -- we only manufacture and we don't compete with our distribution partners we have advantages of working with many distribution platforms and that has allowed us to continue to have what I would say double-digit growth rates for DC which we think we will continue to do this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Fannon with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess in terms of your capital if you could maybe talk about what a targeted payout ratio between the dividends and buybacks and then obviously bucketing in the talk around the fill-in products or potential acquisitions.
I'm going to let Ann Marie talk about it for a second.
But hey let me just talk about dividend policy as I think about it.
I don't -- I think a dividend policy should hover between 40% and 50% payout ratio.
I've said this for the last few years.
We are not changing that.
Depending on what we see in M&amp;A opportunities or what we design the relative ability to buy stock back we will navigate in that range.
But we will continue to be active in stock repurchases.
We continue to have growing cash flow and I will continue to say I hate having a large balance sheet.
I do not want to ever -- we will never compete with our clients.
And so the best thing for our investors is having a very active constructive process of using our free cash flow for dividend for stock repurchase.
And if we see unique opportunities on the M&amp;A side we will do it that way.
I will not buy a company if I think stock repurchase is so much more superior.
Obviously we are a revenue-growth story.
So we're going to look for opportunities and hopefully we can find opportunities in companies where it is revenue positive and accretive at the same time.
And that's what we're going to continue to do.
And so Ann Marie do you have any other commentary on this? No I think that's really covered it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess the follow-up on in terms of the headcount reductions that we're talking about for the fourth quarter and then I think there's also some commentary about ongoing focus to lower cost regions.
I mean how should we think about that with regards to 2012 expenses and potential margins? Well we have nothing -- we're -- the downsizing was done last year with the purpose of making sure we go into 2012 straight on.
We have nothing in the plans in terms of any types of headcount reduction in terms of expenses.
We are navigating our expenses very aggressively.
We are -- we still have growth opportunities.
We will still have some headcount growth in 2012.
And one should assume as I said in other quarters is our intention and this is subject to markets and opportunities we want to have margins above 40% but it's going to be a balance over -- versus all these other issues.
And maybe off-line Ann Marie could give you more color or Patrick and team in terms of how we look at that.
Yes.
I would just say one important thing is we're going to always reallocate resources where we think they're most important for our clients and where we've got the greatest growth opportunities and likewise adjust our expenses on that.
So part of 2012 was really positioning ourselves to take advantage of the right opportunities in 2012 for us and our clients.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Larry I'm sort of curious.
I mean you sort of talked about the low-rate backdrop and sort of the barbell on a couple of different businesses and sort of the trends overall both U.S.
and non-U.S.
When you --  and you mentioned earlier about sort of the share erosion for U.S.
to each of mutual fund companies.
What do you think happens with the economics of the business? I mean will there be a sort of a collective reaction at some point in time to try and stunt some of the growth in the ETF business? Or how do you sort of see the pricing element of the business? Well I would still say the majority -- 75% of ETF growth is not cannibalizing mutual funds.
I still think most of it is cannibalizing stock purchases.
It's still a very institutional product where it as I said cannibalizes stock purchases.
I think the biggest culprit of mutual fund outflows into -- in the U.S.
was underperformance and just overall de-risking.
So I'm not -- but there's no question there's going to have to be some form of reckoning with the mutual fund industry if there's a persistent underperformance to really rebuild confidence with those managers.
One should expect lower fees of some sort because unquestionably whether people believe me or not where ETF flows are being generated from there is a perception that ETF flows are cannibalizing active equity management.
And so the knee-jerk reaction for some people may be we're going to have to stop that and maybe you're going to see industry trend to lower fees.
I will tell you mutual fund boards are going to have to start asking those types of questions across all the different complexes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question is and maybe you sort of talked about it in your comments about sort of dealing with the regulators behind the scenes.
But you didn't really discuss the money market reform.
Sort of curious where your thoughts are today and what you think the most likely outcome will be for the industry given some of the dialogue between floating rate and NAV capital buffers and redemption restrictions if you will.
I think it's really fluid.
We've had conversation with different regulators and I don't think there's a consistent view from all the different regulators at the moment.
But there is a consistent view that there must be some change.
So I don't want to -- I think every regulator says we need to find ways to stabilize society from the risk of money market funds and we can't have the same risks that we exhibited in 2008.
How you implement whether as you suggested variable NAV or capital or some form of restrictions each I would say there are biases by the different regulators.
So I don't know where it's going to come out.
We have been a strong advocate of having capital put aside for it.
We believe we don't -- we believe no different than the Basel standards whereby you have multi-years to build your capital standard.
From our vantage point the regulators should have allow managers to build capital associated with the money market fund business over many years maybe reserving a component of the fees to build that capital buffer.
I think it'll make the money market fund industry a stronger one.
And so we have been for 2 3 years a strong advocate of that.
As you know at this moment FASB does not allow us to retain any of our fees for a capital buffer.
So it is -- right now under accounting standards we can't do that.
So we need changes in not only regulatory but we need changes in accounting to get that done.
And we have been fighting our -- this is one of the issues that I've always had with the accounting standard board related to why can't we have capital buffers.
But we have not been permitted.
So we'll see Bill.
I don't -- I really don't have a final view but we are advocating for change.
Your next question comes from Jeff Hopson with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So as you pointed out the iShares market share stabilized in the fourth quarter are you thinking that this is sustainable from here? And then in terms of seasonality fourth quarter stronger typically first quarter weaker obviously you're not necessarily seeing that.
But any thoughts on that potential trend? Our weakness in the latter part of 2010 and the early part of 2011 in terms of our flows in our North American ETF platform a lot of it was self-inflicted as I said.
We had -- our largest outflow product was our emerging market ETF product.
And we -- I think by the second quarter of last year we stabilized it and we actually have had very very good positive tracking.
And we saw $4 billion of positive inflows in that fund as a result of that.
Once again it validates our view that tracking is a very important component how people look at ETFs and our experience of that really validated that.
And so this is why we are so forceful in terms of making sure we perform in terms of what the indexes that we're going to perform as the index or in many cases hopefully outperform.
But I do believe we will continue to have a strong position in the industry going forward.
So I do like our position in the industry.
I continue to believe we have great opportunities there both in North America and in Europe.
So whether it's sustainable I would -- my bias would say yes.
But it's a function of the whims of the marketplace.
Clearly if there's a view that everyone's going to be re-risking you may see more flows in the QQQs or the -- or more flows into a S&amp;P product.
So you -- if you -- it really depends on where the market is.
And if we are the strongest most liquid product in those areas a positive side about how we're positioned we have more breadth than any other ETF player in the market.
I would say one last thing that I should have said.
I do believe despite my views I do -- we are still seeing great evidence that many people are putting more and more money into bond ETFs and we are benefiting from that.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Kelly with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Larry you mentioned that you have strong dialogue in the alternative space.
So just curious which clients are -- you're having the most discussions with and how diverse the strategies are looking for and when you think that could actually start to take hold.
We're having as I said more dialogue than ever before.
We actually have a lot of pipeline of small little wins.
We've had a couple of number of wins so far this year.
We are in some finals of some very large wins.
We see at the moment interest globally U.S.
and Asia and Europe.
So we are in -- I know of a number of big dialogues that we have internationally right now.
We have had -- in one of our products that we're trying to wrap up a close we have strong interest in Europe and we are just trying to wind it up.
So it's not concentrated in one region or in -- it's certainly not concentrated in one style of client.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a little bit more color on multi-asset.
So obviously you have a big stake in that space rapidly growing.
Are there any products that you're not currently offering or additional strategies that you think you can branch out into that would help you grow even faster in that space? No.
I mean look at -- we need to continue to build out our reputation in LDI in fiduciary.
These are the areas where you're seeing a lot of growth in the -- of the 2 product areas.
Those are probably the 2 biggest growth areas especially in Europe.
Our view is we're going to see more fiduciary in the United States.
That's one of our big bets.
We've had 1 or 2 wins in the fiduciary business in the United States.
We are having a lot of conversations and we believe this is where  there are going to be some changes.
It's very expensive for a lot of small pension funds to run their pension funds.
And so we are in lot of quite a bit of dialogue in the fiduciary.
The other 2 areas that I would say that we -- in my mind we have a strong presence that's the Global Allocation products where we still have a strong position and the area which interfaces not only in multi-strategy multi-asset but also intersects with the Defined Contribution business and that's the target date products that is -- that has really fueled to our growth and will continue to fuel our growth in 2012.
Your next question comes from Michael Carrier with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up on the pipeline.
It seems like from a conversation standpoint you guys have been pretty active.
So when you look at the environment and then maybe any seasonality is there anything unusual when you look at the level of the pipeline versus how active you feel meaning in terms of the conversations with clients and like the momentum going forward? I would say -- when we talk about the barbell I would say if one trend is you're seeing more barbelling you're see more indexing and more conversations on alternatives.
I think this is an industry trend and that you're seeing that in the flows whether it is flows with us or flows with every other asset manager.
Lot of people are still de-risking despite -- no one listens to me -- or not no one but I mean I really do believe people should be taking on risk and I've been saying this for months.
But our pipeline by asset class is generally the same but our alternatives we're starting to get some momentum.
A lot of it is just the investments we made in 2011 in terms of having our client team focusing more alternatives and building up the alternative manufacturing platform.
But it does feel like more barbelling is going on and so it is consistent with my themes that I discussed it.
I'm very -- I wish more investors started focusing on long-term strategies because I think some of the de-risking is -- could be long term very harmful for the institutions if they're focusing on the next new cycle.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then maybe just on the -- a little bit on the regulatory side.
So you guys I think you have the trading platform coming up sometime maybe over the next couple of months or quarters.
But just when you look at the regulation you said there's some areas that you might be concerned about.
Obviously for at least on the broker side or the sell side the Volcker Rule continues to be some uncertainty around that.
When you guys look at it in terms of what you can offer on the trading platform versus how that ultimately gets implemented are there scenarios where you're concerned in terms of liquidity in the fixed income markets and how that can impact pricing in the markets for your investors? We've been very noisy about the Volcker Rule.
We think the Volcker Rule role is not just bad for the sell side.
We think it's bad for all investors.
As you suggested it's going to reduce liquidity worldwide.
And I mean when I travel overseas I hear more and more institutions complain about the possible impact in the Volcker Rule.
Without getting into any detail let me just be very clear.
We are creating this trading platform or hope to create this trading platform because we're frightened of the Volcker Rule and the impact of liquidity and the impact of bid-ask spreads.
We are doing this only for the betterment of our clients to reduce friction cost and trading cost in doing this.
If we -- when we create this this is not meant to be a -- we're not meant to be us becoming a broker-dealer and competing with Wall Street.
It's meant for us to be a better fiduciary for our clients.
My greatest hope that we don't have to do this that the bids the liquidity in Wall Street is greater than ever before the bid-ask spread is tighter than ever before and I'm spending a lot of money for nothing.
Obviously I'm spending a lot of money because I'm more -- we're more frightened about the impact of this and the impact on all of -- all investors worldwide.
And as a result of it we're creating this as a mechanism so we could offer a better solution to our investors who invest with us.
Your next question comes from Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question maybe more for Ann Marie.
But -- I guess one of the issues unfortunately some investors have with ETFs and betas kind of the growth -- the fee structure and maybe not giving as much focus on the higher margins there.
Is there any way of getting a sense of to the extent you guys have been very successful in improving your margins over the past year is there any kind of analysis you've done or color you can give us on how much of that may be driven by this somewhat of a mix shift towards what may be lower fee but higher-margin products like index and ETFs or anything you can provide on that? I would say it's been balanced because we've had strong flows into all different types of indexed products the lower fee institutional as well as our good liquid ETFs that carry with them other benefits liquidity and tax efficiency.
So I think we don't try and digest it quite the way you've said is it the mix of business benefiting the margin.
Because we run the platform and the support to support the whole business not just one segment.
So I really feel like it's been margin improvement coming from the underlying way we're running the firm rather than the mix of business per se.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then maybe one question for Larry.
Obviously a lot of regulatory uncertainty out there and just kind of any update you can provide on your thoughts or your -- based in your conversations with the treasury about SIFI designation and if you think that's really not going to be much of an issue for  -- not going to be an overhang for you or the latest thoughts on that? My latest thoughts I know nothing more today than I did 4 months ago.
I don't believe -- I think the regulators asked for a comment -- ask to comments related to asset managers and SIFI designation.
I think that was delayed if I'm correct in terms of submitting our letter.
I don't believe regulators have come to terms as to how they should think about asset managers for SIFI designation and so I don't think there has been much movement towards that.
And so we are equating to work and have a dialogue with our regulators about how they should think about all asset managers or specifically BlackRock should be included or not included in the definition of SIFI regulation.
So without digging myself into a deep hole I'm going to conclude it with that.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions.
Mr.
Fink do you have any closing remarks? No I think I said it all.
Thank you for everyone for your time.
I know it's a busy time.
And thanks to all of BlackRock employees for working really hard and enduring difficult markets but coming through this quite successfully.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Incorporated First Quarter 2012 Earnings Teleconference.
Our hosts for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Ann Marie Petach; and General Counsel Matthew Mallow.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mallow you may begin your conference.
Thanks very much.
This is Matt Mallow.
I am the General Counsel of BlackRock.
And before Larry and Ann Marie make their remarks let me point out that during the course of this conference call we may make a number of forward-looking statements.
We call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual results may differ from these statements.
BlackRock has filed with the SEC reports which list some of the factors that may cause our results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements we make today.
And finally BlackRock assumes no duty and you should not expect that we will undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that I'll turn it over to Ann Marie.
Thanks Matt.
Good morning everyone.
Uncertain markets continue in 2012.
Markets began the year strong globally buoyed by hopes for stability in Europe and positive economic data in the U.S.
However the mood remains fragile and some of those initial gains have sold off as confidence and mood vary with each new data point.
You can see that just in the last 2 days.
The initial market improvements and investor activity supported BlackRock's strong first quarter results with EPS up 7% compared to a year ago and 3% compared to the fourth quarter.
Our financial performance highlights our strong focus on our clients' needs and our ability to work with them supported by the breadth of our product set our global presence and our unmatched risk tools.
These strengths uniquely position us to meet the diverse needs of clients in this complex and ever-evolving market.
As seen in our branding campaign BlackRock is focusing on products and solutions that are especially important to investors in this environment and this alignment with client needs is supporting our flows and our revenues.
Our 5 client focus areas drove our net new revenue for the quarter.
We expect them to be substantial contributors to organic revenue growth throughout 2012.
At the same time we saw the outflow of the previously identified $36 billion low-fee fixed income index mandate related to a single client who insourced the asset.
The revenues associated with this mandate was about $4 million.
Despite starting the year behind on high-water marks strong performance in the first quarter allowed us to maintain stable performance fees compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Our cost base is benefiting from actions we took in 2011 and supporting our margin.
Supported by strong cash flow the board approved the 9% increase in our first quarter dividend and increased our share repurchase authorization back up to 5 million shares.
In the first quarter we repurchased 648 000 shares for about $125 million.
The key takeaway for me is that our breadth and diversity have positioned us well for organic growth and the ability to perform well in various market environments.
With that let me quickly walk you through the results.
As I make my comments I'll be referring to the slides in the supplement which you can get from our website.
And as usual I'm going to be talking primarily about as-adjusted results.
I've already talked about the trends so I'm going to move us right ahead to Slide 3.
Our first quarter operating margin was 38.6%.
The margin improved sequentially when you adjust for 2 items.
First of all we had seasonally high performance fees in the fourth quarter of 2011.
And second of all the first quarter had seasonally high employment taxes.
Sequentially the margin reflected the benefits of the lower base comp resulting from the restructuring we did last year though this is partially offset by a sequential increase in marketing associated with our commitment to the brand.
Our comp-to-revenue ratio of 36.2% was consistent with the long-term range of 35% when you normalize for the seasonal payroll taxes.
Taking a look at markets as shown on Slide 4.
The strong recovery in all global markets benefited every -- all asset classes since the fourth quarter and you can see that on the right-hand column of the page.
I'm focusing on average markets since the majority of our equity piece is priced daily.
Then if you look at the second column in although markets are up compared to the fourth quarter compared to a year ago the story is quite different.
U.S.
markets are up on average 3% but world markets as seen on MSCI European markets emerging markets Asia markets are still between 4% and 9% below the first quarter 2011.
As a result of the diversity of our equity business about 1/2 of our equity AUM is tied to non-U.S.
markets.
These mixed market results obviously impacted our revenues compared to a year ago so it created headwinds for us coming into the year though new business with clients and other revenue strengths helped to buffer the headwinds associated with these market effects.
I'll start with a comparison of results to a year ago then discuss results compared to the prior quarter.
On Slide 6 you can see that earnings per share of $3.16 included $3.10 of operating earnings and $0.06 of nonoperating income.
EPS benefited from growth in long-dated assets expense discipline and share repurchases.
The first quarter as-adjusted tax rate was 31.5%.
This sequentially is a 0.5 point improvement and this reflected the positive effect of state and local tax legislation.
And those benefits will continue for us going forward.
Operating earnings of $825 million which you can see on Slide 7 reflected expense discipline and improvements in long-dated base fees.
Our business model benefits from the first revenue sources.
We've got a revenue slide laid out for you on Slide 8.
First quarter revenues were $2 249 000 000.
This includes about $2 billion of base fees $80 million of performance fees and $123 million of BRS revenues.
Flows into most long-dated products helped to drive growth in long-dated base fees.
At the same time low rates and regulatory uncertainty have been a drag on our cash products.
As I mentioned before strong performance in the first quarter allowed us to generate performance fees that were comparable to 2011.
And while our performance varies by fund the gap to high-water marks for some funds was eliminated completely and for other funds was narrowed to a couple of percentage points.
We also continued to benefit from strong performance on our traditional products which generated $28 million of the total performance fees.
BlackRock Solutions and advisory revenues of $123 million were relatively stable compared to the first quarter of 2011.
An almost 20% increase in our core line revenues was sufficient to offset first of all the non-recurrence of a larger segment in the first quarter of 2011 and secondly the successful disposition of assets from our advisory portfolios.
The $49 billion decrease in advisory assets compared to a year ago was driven by dispositions which have broadly benefited U.S.
taxpayers.
The appetite for BRS remains strong both on the lending and the advisory side something Larry is going to talk more about.
Despite the effects of negative world equity markets first quarter base fees which you can see on Slide 9 on long-dated assets are up compared to 2011.
This is driven by clients putting assets into income multi-asset and index products and to an improved sec lending environment.
Just to note a few highlights.
Revenues on multi-asset class products are up 11% compared to a year ago.
And to put the growth of iShares revenues into perspective: The revenues are up 7% from the first quarter of 2011 and up 28% from the first quarter of 2010.
The only long-dated asset class with a notable revenue decline compared to a year ago is active equity and that is explained by the flows of quant product over the past year.
Given our strong performance on these products and really on a 3 basis -- 3-year basis we're now 80% above benchmark.
We continue to believe that this trend will reverse itself.
And as a matter of fact the quant outflows were at their lowest level in a single quarter since the BGI merger.
Compared to a year ago we also saw about a 20% decline a little more than that from the exodus of cash products low yields driving that.
Looking at expenses now on Slide 10.
Our expense discipline continued combined with an absence of closed-end launches resulting in a 3% decrease in as-adjusted expenses.
In addition to the reduced launch costs G&amp;A benefited from lower occupancy cost as we eliminated double rents books in Princeton and London when we were moving to new locations.
We also maintained stable marketing cost.
This is despite the launch of our major new brand campaign which I hope and assume everyone has seen at this point.
Keep in mind that the first quarter campaign launched in late February so reflected only one month of our actual advertising expense.
This is an important long-term investment already paying off in the volume and quality of dialogue with our clients also something Larry is going to talk more about.
Compensation expense was more than explained by an increase in base term [ph].
We have invested in the business and added great talent over the past year.
Our investments were focused around ETFs income retirement solutions and alternatives.
These are the same themes which have resonated with our clients and generated organic revenue growth.
Further as an -- as evidence of our investment in the business in the first quarter we closed the Claymore transaction that's our Canadian ETF platform and we launched 44 new iShares product.
Moving on to sequential results.
Operating results were relatively stable despite seasonal factors aided by favorable markets and a strong client response.
On Slide 12 EPS improved by $0.10 compared to the fourth quarter including $0.14 associated with improved marks on our co- and seed investments.
Relatively stable operating income of $825 million as seen on Slide 13 reflected strong markets and seasonal factors which I'll talk about as we continue on Slide 14 looking at revenues.
Organic growth and strong markets resulted in a $114 million sequential base fee improvement shown in the green offset by lower seasonal performance fees $67 million.
The fourth quarters are peak locked periods for performance fees.
And recall that in the fourth quarter of 2011 we completed a very large advisory assignment in BRS accounting for the decline in BRS revenues.
As discussed earlier the combination of strong markets and flows benefited all asset classes.
Base fees are shown on Slide 15.
There was particular strength in iShares resulting in revenues of $594 million and now representing almost 1/3 of our total base fees.
We did put a new slide in the supplement with the various breakouts of revenues that we thought would be beneficial to you.
We saw robust flows into both equity and fixed income iShares specifically emerging markets and a large array of income-oriented products.
Further we saw continued strength in both asset class revenues and strength in first quarter defined contribution flows.
It's encouraging to see the themes we believe to be so critical to our clients playing out in our flows and revenues as we begin the year.
I mentioned earlier continued expense discipline.
I'm now on Slide 16.
The base comp benefits of our fourth quarter personnel reduction were more than offset by the seasonal effect of first quarter payroll taxes driving that increase in comp and benefits sequentially.
Direct fund and distribution expense increased with our strong asset growth.
The $34 million reduction in G&amp;A includes a $15 million increase in sequential marketing expense associated with our brand campaign that was more than offset by other cost reductions including we had no fund launch costs in the quarter lower occupancy expense and lower professional fees.
Non-operating income of $15 million is shown on Slide 18 and included $55 million of positive marks primarily as you can see on our co-investments in private equity on the left-hand side and distressed credit in the middle bar.
The value of the investment portfolio was up about 18% closing the quarter at $1.2 billion excluding hedges.
The growth related primarily to seeding; included we seeded 2 new European income funds important for future growth and markets.
As a reminder we invest alongside and align with our clients and seed new products as required for the base business but we have no proprietary investments.
Our revenues and business model are predicated on acting as fiduciaries on behalf of our client and receiving a fee for providing those services.
Our balance sheet remains small with less than $8 billion of economic tangible assets primarily composed of cash receivables and the investment portfolio.
So wrapping up summing up on Slide 19.
We delivered a healthy margin and returned a large amount of cash to shareholders resulting in over a 70% payout in the first quarter.
Our cash flow generation allows us ample opportunity to reward shareholders consistently.
Our operating cash flow in the quarter reflected both the strong operating results and also the fact that we make our annual incentive comp payments in the first quarter.
Looking ahead we're extremely excited about opportunities we have to work with our clients in 2012 and believe we are uniquely positioned to continue helping them navigate this challenging environment.
We've entered the year benefiting from our business model and client focus.
Our intense focus on delivering to clients' needs generated top line revenue growth across long-dated asset classes as clients responded to investment themes designed to benefit them in these times.
With that I'll turn it over to Larry who'll discuss the external environment his dialogue and what we're seeing with our clients and the ways in which we can help them navigate these markets.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you Ann Marie.
Before I talk about 2012 and the first quarter and going forward it probably makes sense for me to reflect on how we guided to 2012 and talk about 2011 a little bit.
The volatility we saw in 2011 really froze many many clients worldwide.
Cash buildup is -- grew up throughout 2011.
Investing in bonds short-term bonds as a means to preserve wealth was a norm for most investors worldwide.
And we saw as an overall portfolio in 2011 pronounced derisking.
Although the markets had risk on risk off risk on risk off I would say the preponderance of invested -- investors worldwide added more cash in short-term bonds over the course of 2011 than they did in some incremental investing in more risk-on products.
We certainly also saw in 2011 more barbelling strategies; going into beta products index and ETFs; and going into alternatives.
And it was the uncertainty of -- from the U.S.
in terms of our management of our deficits and our fiscal discipline and which was essentially the lows from the latter part of the second quarter going into the third quarter.
And then we had the European crisis really coming to a real crisis in the third and fourth quarter last year.
We began to see stability in the world as the U.S.
economy started showing some rays of hope that there was stability.
But more importantly the actions from the ECB with their long-term financing vehicle LTRO that provided the necessary liquidity to stabilize Europe.
And from that we then began to see clients starting to focus on how derisked they were.
And then going into 2012 we certainly saw large-scale clients moving from cash positions into longer-dated bonds into credit type of products into dividend-like equity products all the types of themes that we are focused on in our campaign.
And so overall we saw some re-risking into the market.
However if you think about the internal generation of cash I would still say the fears of the investor still is more overwhelming than the hope for a better future.
So we -- despite the rally in global equities from its lows I would still qualify the market to be quite fragile.
Attitudes are basically on the borderline of pessimism than optimism.
And also we are seeing this in -- from our perspective with CEO behavior.
We're still seeing most companies being very risk-adverse.
I think we're going to see in the first quarter above-forecast earnings.
Essentially the reason for that is everybody is for -- is overlaying a overall view of pessimism not optimism.
And we are actually seeing performance better than that pessimistic view and therefore we're seeing in terms of corporate earnings more exceeds than misses.
But as we enter the second quarter I still believe there's a great deal of uncertainty ahead of us.
It is very hard for investors and CEOs and politicians to decipher between the good news and the bad news.
It's very difficult for investors to have truly a long-term view.
And so this growth in investing in bonds continues cash buildup continues mostly through bank deposits less than money market funds as an industry.
And so I don't believe that the future is much different than it has been but it is remarkable to think about how strong equity markets were in the first quarter with just some incremental investing in equities.
This is why as I said October last year as I said February this year I still believe in equities more than ever before because we witnessed with just some small investing a pretty substantial rally in the equity markets.
And that just is a great sign of how derisked people are.
And as you look back in the first quarter we saw large-scale repurchase of stocks from corporations a very modest calendar of IPOs.
And so as we enter the second quarter the outstanding of equities in the world is less today than it was in January 1.
And so it is -- so we're seeing CEO behavior purchasing shares back raising dividends all fundamentally strong foundations for a better equity market.
But let us be clear: We are not seeing major changes in investor behavior.
We are seeing some re-risking.
So incrementally versus the third and fourth quarter of last year yes we are seeing a lot more investing but I don't believe it's to -- it's at a point where we could say the markets are going to be really strong because of a strong transition out of the cash out of more bonds into equities.
That's just not happening yet.
Despite all that BlackRock fared very well which I'm going to talk about in a minute.
I think the U.S.
economy will be and will continue to be a strength in the world economy.
We believe the U.S.
economy can grow between 2.5% and 2.8%.
We are seeing stability in the employment market.
We are seeing incremental from the private sector some job growth.
We are still seeing some negative flow -- jobs created from the public sector.
And I should remind everybody: If we ever do tackle our federal deficits that is another way of saying we will have less jobs in our federal government as we tackle our deficits.
And so we do need a robust private sector and we do need a robust job creator in the private sector.
And that's going to be very important going forward.
Volatility in the world will continue in the next few weeks.
We have a serious important election in France.
We have elections in the United States in November.
And it's very important that everyone focus on the issues around the U.S.
deficit.
We -- in our quest of trying to stabilize our fiscal discipline we created this $1.2 trillion mandatory decline in spending beginning next year of which $700 billion will be for our military budget.
This should start having an impact on our economy in the second and third quarter as businesses that are chiefly doing business with our military and our defense they're going to have to start focusing on what this decline in defense spending means for their companies.
And so I have spent time in watching urging Congress to focus on this today because this is not an issue that they need to focus on in November as they think their back's against the wall.
I'm trying to alert Congress today: Their back's against the wall this moment.
Business behavior has to respond not as quickly as politicians but over a multi-quarter period of time and I do believe you're going to see business behavior change as we head towards the ultimate decline in military spending if we don't address that.
One last thing on the macro issues.
I do believe oil is going to play a more significant role in terms of the outcomes in different parts of the world.
I think that oil prices have a real influence on the ECB behavior.
I do believe the ECB has to ease.
And their interest rates are 1% but because of oil playing a significant issue around inflation the reluctance to ease in Europe is going to be very pronounced if we don't see a reduction in oil prices.
If we can't see an oil price reduction of some magnitude I do believe the ECB will ease will ease aggressively because it is our opinion that the euro has to fall in value for the southern-rim European countries to ever find growth.
Right now the southern rim politicians are constantly working on fiscal discipline which erodes the economy which creates greater strains on their population greater strains on the issues of unemployment in the southern rim.
And so we also need to find ways of growth in Europe and growth beyond the northern rim.
If we don't find that growth we will have more serious issues.
And as I said earlier the ECB issues is not a 3-year problem to work it out.
It's a 4- 5- 6- 7-year issue.
So what does this all mean for BlackRock with all this noise? We have seen a great interest with our clients worldwide in working with BlackRock to help them in guidance with advice in terms of how they should navigate their liabilities how they should invest in their -- to assets to meet those liabilities.
So I do believe our business model today has been more valid -- never been more valid than today in terms of working with clients as they try to decipher the good news and the bad news the push and pull of markets.
And I believe we are witnessing a real large increase in this type of advice.
We are certainly seeing this in the form of our BlackRock Solution area but we are seeing this in our multi-asset class area we're seeing that in BMACS we are seeing that in other high-contribution business.
Some of this is being manifest in increased performance in our ETF iShares platform; some of it in our as I said defined contribution; some of it in our alternatives business.
So excluding as Ann Marie discussed out this onetime previously announced outflow of a piece of index business that was out of our control this was -- this organization portfolio was assumed by a government and they internalized the assets.
We had approximately $25.7 billion of long-term flows very diversified.
And when I look at the environment of the world we were very pleased with that type of organic growth across many spectrums.
And it actually -- these long-term flows actually corresponded to our brand campaign our focus areas of ETFs retirement income multi-asset strategy solutions and alternatives.
So it validated our platform.
As our press release announced we have approximately $3.685 trillion of assets.
We witnessed over $200 billion of net growth in long-term assets to $3.34 trillion.
And what I think is also interesting as we focus on BlackRock's mix: Our mix continues to increase in the multi-asset strategy area where we closed at $246 billion.
We added more assets in alternatives to $110 billion.
Fixed income ended the quarter with $1.244 trillion and equities $1.744 trillion.
So once again it's this business model of mix.
It's a global business model.
It's a solution-based business model that truly helped us navigate what I would call -- in a very uncertain time in the marketplace.
The other thing that I think is important to relate especially relative to the S&amp;P: We entered this year with below-market level of revenues because of the performance of global equities outside the U.S.
in the third and fourth quarter.
And so when everyone focused on the S&amp;P the S&amp;P was flat.
And yet as Ann Marie discussed earlier there were some obviously very negative market performance numbers overseas in the third and fourth quarter.
We had that big hole to overcome.
We did.
And so this is another reason why I'm particularly proud of how we navigated in this quarter.
Before I get into some of the business highlights let me just discuss some of the investments we made.
Obviously we're making investment in our brand.
We believe our brand is becoming more and more important.
It is significant for us to expand our brand.
Our retail distribution partners have told us "You need to expand your brand." We need to have some demand pull instead of sell push.
And we are accomplishing that.
The brand recognition is growing.
The types of inquiries we receive globally in terms of our brand initiative has been quite strong.
It is that brand campaign that has helped us to distinguish and help our clients decipher some of the noise.
It is helping them understand where they should be focusing in these uncertain times and how they can navigate higher returns and mitigate some of the associated risk.
We had more inquiry than we've ever had with our website.
We had more inquiry with our telephone operators than we've ever had before not just in the U.S.
but worldwide.
And so the impact is immediate.
And we expect that impact to transform into sales over the course of the next few quarters and years.
So we continue to believe in this.
We believe it is differentiating us.
We believe we're being thoughtful helpful.
And most importantly we want to come across as a solution provider to all our clients: from our retail clients to our largest institutional client.
The other area that we continue to invest and we will continue to invest and that is investing in our people as we see more and more opportunity to expand our platform.
As I said over multiple quarters we are not actively looking at large-scale acquisitions.
I can tell you today we are continue to not looking at large-scale acquisitions.
I've never seen an environment with more companies for sale but we have not shown any interest in doing that.
What we are doing though is looking for talented teams to augment our platform already.
We added a emerging market debt team in Europe.
We added a new head of one of our emerging market equity teams.
We're adding more people across our capital markets trading platform marketings communication.
We're adding heavily in technology which I'll get into in a minute and risk in our quantitative analysis group.
The one thing that I think the world doesn't understand in terms of cost and that's the regulatory environment.
The regulatory environment continues to take shape.
I don't know what this totally means for BlackRock but we're investing large sums of money to become compliant and stay ahead of regulation.
This regulation will be required for all asset managers all hedge funds all private equity firms.
We are talking about regulations such as Form PF which is going to be requiring reporting derivative holdings to the CFTC and to the SEC.
This is a large-scale need.
We all -- and this is client-by-client reporting that has to be done on a continuum.
We have FACTA which we are going to have to report.
This is a big issue for our EMEA area.
We have a AIFMD the alternative investment fund management directive in EMEA.
This is all requiring a buildup of technology.
This is requiring building up more -- a larger team with our regulators.
This is not just a BlackRock phenomenon.
This is an industry phenomenon.
This is going to be a large-scale need worldwide.
One of the reasons why -- which I'll talk about it later on why we are seeing more and more interest in Aladdin and BlackRock Solutions is because of the need for better technology better systems.
This is not just for our risk management reason it is for reporting purposes too.
Having a single technology platform is going to be imperative to properly submit all your necessary regulatory requirements to all the regulators worldwide.
And so we are trying to stay ahead of this.
We are investing money and time for this and I do believe this is going to be a very large component of how other asset managers are going to have to respond.
This is -- and I just want to underscore it: This is not a BlackRock-only situation.
It is an industry-wide issue.
Society is looking for greater transparency greater information.
And we are staying ahead of that making sure we are compliant with all our clients worldwide.
And we do believe because of our position we have a higher fiduciary standard in making sure we do this as properly as possible.
Let me discuss quickly some of the businesses things.
Ann Marie did a very good summary of a lot of the business issues.
Our iShares business was a standout in the quarter with $18.2 billion in net new business which was remarkable.
This is in line with our growth in the fourth quarter.
Traditionally in the first quarter we have sometimes outflows as you saw big inflows in the fourth quarter and outflows in the first quarter.
The whole industry saw a very large increase in the utilizations of ETFs.
As I said I think a lot of the ETF flows was related to this modest risk on client -- added risk added beta.
As they were probably mismatched and too much concentration in cash and in bonds they added more exposure more beta whether it's long-term bond beta or high-yield beta or beta in equities or commodities.
They did it through ETFs.
We are seeing a trend though of more and more investors using beta products as alpha.
We are seeing more and more investors tactically allocating using ETFs to get greater exposure to an asset category to a region and ETFs are playing a more demonstrable role in that.
I believe that will become a larger and larger component and this is why we believe ETFs will continue to drive more and more growth.
We are still not seeing ETF's cannibalizing of the mutual fund business.
The mutual fund business is slow because people are not adding risk.
I'll get into ours in a minute but it is -- I don't believe much of this is cannibalization.
I believe most of the growth in ETFs are new participants in these products.
Much of it is institutional as they use beta for alpha.
The band across the ETF platform was oriented towards fixed income.
For us we had $9.4 billion of net flows.
We captured 46% of the fixed income flows for the quarter.
Particularly great were our U.S.
and Canada iShares products growing about $14.5 billion.
That was -- a lot of it was driven into emerging markets and more of our high-yield products.
Our emphasis in dividends was rewarded also in -- because we saw equity income grow.
We saw high yield grow to about $8.2 billion in inflows.
We also saw as people went back into the emerging market markets after huge outflows.
In the third and fourth quarter we had $2.7 billion of inflows in our emerging market ETF products and now it stands to be about $40 billion.
Ann Marie suggested we closed the Claymore transaction.
It was a wonderful time that it closed on and we had good flows in Canada.
And more importantly we have the dominant position both institutionally and retail in the ETF market in Canada which we are very happy with.
BlackRock -- legacy BlackRock was much stronger institutionally in Canada.
The Claymore transaction really helped us on the retail side so we cannot be more pleased with our position in Canada today.
And as I said earlier we will be looking to do in-market types of transactions like that if we could find opportunities to augment our position in different products such as ETFs.
International iShares we grew by $3.7 billion.
We had 59% of the EMEA market much of that was -- had to do with a lot of market participants.
We're leaving the note-related or the derivative types of ETN products and moving into the physical-based products.
We have the large beneficiary of that as we have aggressively discussed the attributes of physical-based ETFs versus derivative-based ETFs: the credit exposure that investors have with derivative-based ETFs.
As another example of our culture of innovation we continue to build out more products.
We added 44 new iShares products as Ann Marie discussed and those products have attracted already in the first quarter $700 million of new flows.
And we continue to try to be as innovative as any organization.
On the retail side we continue to see strength in the U.S.
and we continue to build our presence in the U.S.
So we have many participants that had outflows in the retail mutual funds.
We actually in the U.S.
had $1.2 billion of net long-term flows.
Another example how we are building our brand we're building our presence in the retail area.
In our European mutual funds we had a modest $100 million of outflows.
That is an example of the uncertainty in Europe and some of the uncertainty in Asia.
We -- hopefully we can stabilize our -- the businesses in Europe but I think the European mutual fund business is going through this transition as the marketplace tries to understand what it means with the sovereign debt crisis of Europe.
In terms of institutional business we are still seeing clients being very very cautious.
Most of our clients institutionally are -- if they're adding beta they're adding beta mostly in passive strategies to gain that market exposure.
But we are seeing some inflows in our active products.
In our Americas institutional business we had $7.7 billion of growth which was driven $5.7 billion in our active products.
A lot of that was in our multi-asset class solutions.
We also had a $1 billion award of a very large international client.
That is a best idea strategy for BlackRock: a huge award with a very large international client.
Our defined contribution continues to grow nicely.
We had close to $10 billion of growth split evenly between active and passive strategies of which $3 billion was in our Life Path multi-asset strategy offering.
And as we discussed in our branding campaign and as we discussed in many other forums we believe a focus on longevity is essential.
We do not believe so many Americans are adequately investing for their retirement properly.
We believe they are miscalculating how long they are going to live.
And we have a serious growing crisis in this country in terms of meeting the needs of longevity of life.
As I said in many forums we spend so much time focusing on health.
We are -- as humans are trying to find new ways of extending a life but we're spending so little time how to afford that longevity.
This is something that -- where BlackRock is trying to provide answers solutions hope and I think we are beginning that dialogue with many people on trying to find that solution.
But it is essential that we all -- all of us in our industry focus on the needs of financing longevity in this country.
This is not I should state this country.
This is a worldwide problem.
It's just as dire in other parts of the world too in making sure that we are saving enough.
In EMEA institutionally generated about $1.5 billion in inflows despite all this caution and de-risking.
Particularly that was for a large defined benefit plan.
And we continue to see growth in our index strategies.
But we lost about $3 billion in some of the active strategies in Europe predominantly in U.K.
equities as people de-risked in the U.K.
and some of the credit strategies.
I'm particularly pleased with the first quarter growth in alternatives.
We had about $800 million of net new business during the quarter but we are involved with so much dialogue.
We've never had more dialogue with our alternative strategies than we've ever had before.
This is what we've been talking about over the last year or so as we are seeing clients barbelling using beta and using more alternatives of strategy.
That is persisting that is continuing to grow.
That is not just a U.S.
phenomenon that is a worldwide phenomenon.
And in Asia-Pac we had one -- some outflows in Japan particularly.
We had $3 billion of outflows.
We actually are seeing some very good inquiries in Japan right now and more opportunities so I don't believe there's anything that is systemic about what happened in Asia.
Let me talk about BlackRock Solutions.
The need for strong risk management analytics continues to drive demand for our Aladdin-based services.
What's particularly encouraging: While BRS revenues were down year-over-year by $5 million we saw a 19% growth in Aladdin revenues.
So we transformed the onetime wins into long-dated sticky revenues.
So this 19% growth in Aladdin was one of the biggest growth rates we've had in the last few years.
It's indicative of what we see and the opportunities we have in Aladdin.
You have to remember we had as Ann Marie discussed some large dispositions in our advisory business which reduced our fees.
And as we -- we also had one very large governmental assignment onetime advisory assignment the first quarter of last year that we obviously -- it was a onetime assignment.
So if you look at our -- the consistency of growth in the Aladdin side this really encourage us to believe that we have huge growth opportunities going forward as we are becoming more and more as a percent of revenues being Aladdin versus the onetime advisory revenues.
I'm not trying to suggest that the advisory revenues aren't good.
They're wonderful they actually -- in many cases the onetime advisory revenues translates into an Aladdin contract.
So it is a very very important component of the BlackRock Solutions business.
The momentum is strong as I said in Aladdin.
We won a very large assignment in Japan another example as we are becoming more global in this platform.
We now have $12.3 trillion in the Aladdin platform that we are navigating risk for clients and providing an operating system.
And that is a record level.
There has been quite a bit of noise related to the BlackRock-Aladdin trading network.
Let me try to give a little more clarity about this.
We are responding to the regulatory regime that is transforming the future ways of -- the sell side does business.
Under Basel III banks are going to really require you to have higher capital.
Because of the Volcker Rule banks are going to have more inhibition and some prohibition in doing principal trading.
The natural outcome of that will be probably wider bid-ask spreads and I want to underline "probably." Well last if we could see a narrowing in bid-ask spreads quite frankly we don't need the Aladdin trading platform.
We are doing this with the idea that we want to be the most and highest level of fiduciary to our clients.
And if we are seeing a persistent widening in spreads we believe this system will continue to be -- will flourish and grow.
And so we are doing this with our sales right now where we are trying to cross more and more trades.
And through our Aladdin clients' wishes they ask to come onto this platform.
And so we are beginning the process in which we are going to be adding some clients to this platform.
And what -- let me underscore it: It will only be Aladdin-based clients that are going to be permitted to go on to this platform.
For BlackRock trades there is no commissions on this.
We are not going to make -- we're not trying to become a broker-dealer.
We are trying to be a fiduciary in minimizing our friction cost of trades.
For our clients that are on the Aladdin system we are going to try to charge a fee that overcomes our cost and that is it.
It is our intention through this platform in terms of revenues hopefully this will be another mechanism another reason why clients want to go into Aladdin system.
And if they are allowed -- if they are on the Aladdin system for risk management they'll have access to this platform.
That will be the revenue model as we design this.
But this is not going to transform BlackRock in anyway.
This is not going to change our behavior our relations with the sell side.
They are going to be powerful counterparties and powerful partners for us.
And so I just want to diminish this noise around this: We look at this as raising the bar as fiduciary standard.
Hopefully this will augment more Aladdin-like revenues over the course of the next few years.
But let's be clear: This is a long-term multiyear strategy.
This is not unlike when we've launched the Aladdin trading -- Aladdin technology platform as a mechanism to expand our relationships with our clients.
We are going to continue to invest in our Aladdin system.
I am very pleased to say that we are now winning more assignments in equities.
So Aladdin system used to be only bonds it's now in equities.
So we are now having great opportunities across all our existing clients to offer the Aladdin system across all the different asset categories.
Our SMA business although we had those onetime wins from last year and we had some dispositions for our clients continues to generate strong returns.
And we are -- we have been awarded another country assignment which I am not going to divulge so we're working with another European country right now.
It is public that we work for Ireland and it's been public that we've been reengaged by Ireland this quarter.
It is public that we are working on behalf of the Greek central bank.
It is not public related to another Central Bank assignment in Europe.
So we continue to be a firm that institutions are looking for advice and help.
And it's -- and it continues to drive and differentiate BlackRock for the future.
Let me just talk about some notable performance.
We had very good performance at our hedge funds.
We overcome some of our high-water mark hurdles in products like Obsidian.
Our FIGA product continues to differentiate itself.
R3 had a very good first quarter.
Our Equity Dividend Fund continues to grow and continues to differentiate it.
European equities year after year quarter after quarter they have done an amazing job.
Global allocations outperformed our benchmarks in the first quarter.
That's our $8 billion go-anywhere product that Dennis Stattman runs.
Our fixed income mortgage operation had a very good quarter performance.
Global Bond continues to do well.
Municipal retail has had another good quarter.
So overall I would say it was a very good quarter in terms of our products our performance and the performance in the products that we are really pushing.
Ann Marie discussed quite a bit about capital management.
We are committed in increasing shareholder value through capital management decisions.
We increased our dividend by 9%.
We are -- we continue to repurchase shares.
We have authority for a 5-million share repurchase.
We continue to think and believe that we have great opportunity.
We do have about $3-plus billion of free cash flow.
As I said earlier in this talk I am not here thinking that we're going to ever do a large merger again so I would suggest that our position about using -- utilizing our free cash flow for dividend and for capital management through shares is going to be a position that we're going to take over the course of the next few years.
We are very interested in as I said doing fill-in mergers but we are -- with the opportunity that we have in lift-outs of teams as we showed that we were able to do that in the first quarter we will continue to do that too.
So overall the first quarter was a good one.
I am very proud of how we positioned ourself going forward this year.
I'm remarkably excited about where we are and where we're going.
I am -- I really do believe we are as well positioned as any asset manager in the world as -- we are as well positioned at BlackRock as we've been in the last 6 years with our -- we don't have mergers to worry about we don't have a world collapse to worry about.
We're focused on clients we're focused on providing solutions for clients and we're well positioned globally worldwide with our team to provide those solutions.
Once again thank you.
We can open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I have is -- Larry just mentioned the $3 billion or plus of free cash flow.
The 72% payout was bigger than where you had been running the last call it 2 years.
And just curious on if that's a high level of payout that we should expect or if 50 is your best guesstimate going forward as you'd indicated in the past.
No.
Well no.
What -- the 70-odd percent is a combination of stock repurchases and dividend.
Our payout ratio of dividend is going to be between 40% and 50%.
I don't want it ever to be higher.
But last year I think we paid out 120-something percent.
I don't want to -- yes it's in terms of -- so I expect it to -- I think to be very frank we expect to use our free cash flow opportunistically up to the board approval in terms of utilizing that free cash flow to do whatever is necessary to support a robust stock.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
On the trading system just curious on the basic principles of it.
Is it a similar crossing network that you see in some of the equity markets where trades get done when there are same security same price at the same time trades crossing at the same time? And can you pre-load pre-existing trades and underneath the covers so to speak and wait for them to be hit? Just curious on how it's going to actually work.
I believe that is the design.
That is the design of the platform.
Right now it is obviously crossing and all that as we get more and more players on it.
There is going to be some transparency where the underlying desires of sellers and buyers will be.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
One other question on -- the new product pipeline has been good and you've been able to consistently launch new funds.
I think you launched 4 new fixed income ETFs in April.
So I guess the question is -- there's been some attention in the press to credit ETFs in terms of providing -- of promoting volatility in the markets.
I'm just curious if it's gotten any regulator attention and how you feel about that because it's obviously a big growth business.
There's certainly regulatories -- reviews on all things related to ETFs at the moment.
Much of it in the Europe has to do with router-based [ph] ETFs.
There is obviously reviews by the FCC in the freeze in terms of leverage ETFs.
They're not allowing new ETFs with any leverage to be created until they have a full review.
Specifically in terms of credit ETFs I'm not aware of any inquiry from any specific regulator.
Matt? No I'm not aware of any either.
So look I believe there is greater and greater demand for credit.
Whether you see that in separate accounts with -- or you see it in -- or you see that in ETFs ETFs just gives you more transparency and clarity where the market's going.
But I don't think ETFs are adding any more volatility than when you see large-scale demand in any one product whether it is a -- in physical-based securities separate account or through a publicly traded vehicle like an ETF.
I cannot understand why somebody would say the ETF creates more volatility than demand than any other physical-based separate account.
So I don't understand that noise if there is such noise and I'll just leave it at that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And here's a last one it's just on margin.
There's always a bunch of moving parts and obviously the first quarter has the performance fee give back.
But given higher asset levels and what's clear expense control even in the face of the marketing campaign.
Any reason to think that margins won't be in and around that 39% level that you've been in for a long time? I see no reason why over the course of the year margins will be consistent as they were last year.
39% is a good benchmark 39.5%.
Whatever that comes in it should be a good benchmark.
I just want to overlay the issue around regulatory issues I was trying to be very specific on that.
Regulation costs a lot of money.
And so I don't want to -- I'm not here to tell you we're lowering our margin expectations so I'm not saying that but I am saying that we are spending a great deal of time on making sure we're compliant.
And I don't believe this could be a onetime cost that's going to be very large.
Once we get it routinized onto the system it will certainly -- certainly once we get it on the system costs will be less.
But it really depends on how we are going to be regulated and how many more people do we need to interface with regulators as regulation of asset managers increases across the board.
But at this moment I am not saying it's going to have any major impact on margins.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Larry if we look at the core institutional pipeline the sequential change there I'm wondering if you can just comment on kind of what drove the decline there if we back out the $36 billion mandate.
And also are you seeing a mix shift in your institutional clients into ETFs out of passive mandates? There's no question.
You're seeing for those institutions who are adding beta for tactical purposes they're doing -- a lot of institutions are using ETFs.
A couple of sovereign wealth funds who historically used index funds are now using ETFs.
And so yes there is a change in mix but it's not entirely.
And our pipeline I don't think it's sequentially that much lower what $24 billion.
But we -- keep in mind we are not forecasting ETFs as you suggested or retail in those flows and -- but there are -- you're seeing behavior change with some institutions going in using ETFs because they value liquidity more than the cost of the -- than the asset management fee.
Obviously for those clients who believe that they're going to be sitting with a beta exposure over a period of time they will go into index funds with lower fees.
But to get that liquidity we are seeing as I said like some sovereign wealth funds are using ETFs more extensively.
Research Division</strong> And then on sec lending fees the second quarter is always your seasonally strong quarter for these fees.
So if we think about the changes in rates over the last year and really kind of what hedge fund activity is doing which it seems to be another driver how should we think about the step-up in sec lending fees which flows through management fees in the second quarter? Well we had obviously a very good first quarter on this.
We are seeing more hedged fund shorting stocks looking for shares.
So utilization was up in the first quarter we -- and we still see utilization strong in the second quarter.
And quite frankly in a very short end of the curve there's a yield curve.
It's only a few basis points but there is a yield curve at the very shortest period a point of the -- and so a combination of utilization rates and then some yield curve.
And the very shortest point of the yield curve has allowed sec lending fees to grow.
Ann Marie do you have any comments related to the first or second quarter? I think that's good.
We see both the seasonal effect and then some of those hopefully more secular trends both helping those revenues.
Your next question comes from the line of Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Maybe you guys can talk about just the insourcing this quarter.
When you look across your AUM is there some more of that low-fee index-oriented mandates that might be at risk as you look forward? No we don't know of any.
Research Division</strong> And then on -- Larry on the world of fixed income in terms of the barbelling between alpha and beta strategies if you will can you just talk a little bit about what's happening in core and core plus and just how important credit is becoming in institutional allocations? Well you're -- it's very hard for extension pension liabilities to meet their liability needs with -- without having some type of income in credit strategies.
But they're not going to -- they're certainly not going to do it in duration anymore with even long end being just so low in yields.
So we are seeing across the board a very strong interest in credit types of strategies.
We're seeing increased interest in hedge fund-like strategies in fixed income and in credit.
But your -- core strategies with the treasury market being so dominant in core strategies you're seeing more core plus interest and more credit-oriented strategies across the board more strategies that are global in nature emerging markets in nature.
So you're seeing institutions really reflect on how they are going to maneuver out of core strategies over the course of the next 2 years.
Now obviously for those who have the luxury of having their assets and liabilities pretty matched owning bonds is a very sensible thing to do.
And that -- and so I'm not trying to suggest across the board owning fixed income or owning in treasuries is not a thing to do.
Unfortunately so many of our pension funds are sitting with very large underfunded liabilities and they're all addressing it.
And this is another reason why we're seeing more interest in dividend-related strategies too.
So it's not -- we're looking for other strategies that can produce income and obviously try to reduce as much beta exposure as you can.
But I think Marc we're going to be living with this for a couple of years in this low-rate environment.
And unfortunately this low-rate environment is a real tax on savers on pension funds.
And it's a real question can these organizations tolerate for a couple more years? And to sit in bonds and core strategies for the next few years is that the sensible thing to do? Obviously your -- if you're incredibly risk-adverse that might be the sensible thing to do but it comes at a cost.
And we are trying to identify to our clients at -- what type of cost this is going to have on these organizations.
As we heard earlier this -- in the first quarter the average pension fund had greater mismatches as a result of market performance last year as we saw lower rates also their liabilities went up and their -- the value of their assets went down.
So it's not a pretty picture.
Your next question comes from the line of Cynthia Mayer of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if youve mentioned this but are you guys still targeting a comp-to-revenues ratio around 34.5% or 35%? Yes we're still in that 35% range.
It's a little higher in the first quarter because you get your annual bonus payment-related payroll taxes all hitting you there.
So it's always a little higher in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then on the move to the physically backed ETFs overseas do you feel as though that still has room to go that you could still gain more share there? Or has that pretty much run its course at this point? I'm not sure were going to gain more share but I don't think it's run its course.
I think more and more people are looking at physical-based ETFs there.
There is -- and we even saw one of our -- one of the derivative-based ETF players translate its business into physical base.
And so I don't think it's run its course because I do believe most buyers are going to be looking for physical-based products.
And I think that awareness has been getting more apparent.
Obviously we have 55% market share in Europe and so the last thing I'm going to do is forecast a higher market share.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Kelly of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Larry you'd mentioned that the discussions you were having with clients on alternative products has never been stronger.
I think you said a kind of similar commentary to prior quarter and showing up in your flows a little bit more this quarter.
So just wondering if you could segment your client base a little bit for the alternative interest.
So which institutional clients are most interested least interested? And how are they thinking about barbelling? It's -- I don't -- we are winning guys with the retail platforms in -- within your organization.
We have a couple of alternative strategies through the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney platform.
But institutionally really it's across the board where we're having dialogue.
I would say our penetration with foundation endowments is growing.
We're seeing more participation there.
We are seeing more asset opportunities with pension plans especially in Europe.
EMEA has been a very strong growth area.
Hopefully we're going to be closing one of our private equity types of strategies a lot of participation in that in Europe.
And so it is growing worldwide our penetration is particularly strong with smaller institutions.
And -- but there's not one area or one type of client that I could suggest to you that is looking to add alternatives with BlackRock.
But it's -- I can say geographically Europe has been a particularly large area of growth for us.
Research Division</strong> So one follow-up from me.
Just curious to get your thoughts on what we need for retail investors to truly reengage in equity mutual funds.
I know you said that the markets are still skittish and I'm sure you feel like -- the clients feel like they've been burned a couple of times in the market.
So what do you think we really need? Oh my gosh.
Look I think we -- it's all a confidence game.
It's a confidence game from our politicians we need leadership.
It's a confidence game with our CEOs we need leadership.
It's confidence from the FAs to give people more confidence.
In the United States I think as we see a stabilization in housing which we expect to see next year that will be a foundation for growing confidence.
But the issues of trying to navigate this European situation I think it's frightening for a lot of people just don't understand.
As we are trying to show in our branding initiative that there is a huge cost of doing nothing and we have to educate more and more people by doing nothing and market timing that is not a good answer.
And we need to really engage everybody in talking about what type of -- in terms of individuals what type of pool money do you need upon retirement? And how are you going to achieve that earning very little sustaining cash? And the question is does -- the noise of today does that have any impact on a 30-year objective? And unfortunately as we watch financial news on television and listening to it on the radio and reading it in print through blogs it's all about minutia and day-to-day strategies.
And so it actually accelerates the short term-ism but as advisors we have to focus on focusing what the -- what your needs are and that's what we're trying to do not with just retail -- with mutual fund buyers but we're trying to do that institutionally worldwide.
And it's very important for us to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Carrier of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Ann Marie just on the expenses so G&amp;A a bit lower.
You mentioned the marketing.
I think you said this quarter it's around $15 million.
And I just want to make sure we had that right.
So if we run rate that would it be another $30 million for the second quarter? And then I guess on the flip side when I look at the comp any way to size up the payroll tax impact? Because that will obviously moderate and provide some offset there.
Yes.
I can take those all offline but the payroll was broadly about 27 and the marketing is directionally correct.
I'll talk to you more.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Larry if you look at recent like trends in the institutional part of the business and you compare that to say like the past 10 years like what is the level of activity meaning engagement making decisions? Because it seems like the flows are improving but it still seems like industry-wide there's still a lot of uncertainty.
And then just one follow-up on that trading platform.
Just if we do go the route where Volcker is more draconian then in a good scenario for you guys and your clients what do you guys anticipate being like the max of your ability to internalize like meaning the percentage of the volume? To answer your first part of the question related to the activity of dialogue.
Dialogue has never been stronger but it takes a lot more time to try to get clients to move.
So their behavior is more of -- one of reluctance of fear trepidation.
But the dialogue is probably more unique than ever before.
But more importantly the dialogue is different.
10 years ago dialogue was on a core strategy: a core fixed income strategy a large cap strategy.
Those conversations don't happen anymore.
The conversations today are more about multi-asset strategy.
It's about alternatives.
It's about overlaying assets versus liabilities.
It is much more complex.
So the dialogue is longer the timing in which people commit is much longer.
Trepidation is large.
And so -- and that's what I'm trying to say at the beginning.
Although we have some nice market movements we've seen some nice long-term flows at BlackRock there is still an overwhelming amount of reluctance.
It's not a reluctance because they don't want to do something it's a reluctance overlaying fear.
Will this cost my job? How do I respond? And what we're trying to hit hard to everybody: Well doing nothing could cost your job even more.
You've got to -- we have to respond to these open issues so -- but I think the key is the dialogue is different.
It's more comprehensive: multi-asset strategy alternative barbelling.
Much different.
And I should also state as well if youve looked at our pipeline our pipeline speaks about that.
Our pipeline is much heavily oriented to multi-asset strategy and a lot more alternatives.
And so when you see our pipeline you'll see more of that type of behavior and those types of dialogues.
In terms of our trading platform if Volcker Rule is more draconian I hope it's not.
That's not in our interest as investors.
It may be in the interest of society.
But there is a fundamental cost with that and investors are going to have to pay for that.
Right now I think we're crossing about 6% of our trades.
Our hope is if we could get it up to 30% that would be magnificent.
That's a big -- a very high bar to achieve so let's go at 1% at a time from 6% to 7% to 8%.
And obviously we don't know the magnitude of how many clients from Aladdin will go on to it.
If we ever achieve those objectives of 20% or 30% of crossing it's going to have to mean a lot more participation with many more clients.
And so -- but if it is more draconian if markets are much wider I think more clients will want to be part of this platform and that will accelerate the utilization rate of the trading platform.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Katz of Citigroup.
This is actually Neil filling in.
Larry I was wondering if you could give us your thoughts today on money market reform and the likely outcomes.
We believe money market reform should be a fire way [ph].
We believe the industry has been reluctant to change.
We need to be working with the SEC on money market reform.
I've had dialogues with some of our fellow asset managers to work together on money market reform working with the SEC.
It is our position that if we do not work together with the SEC on money market reform the FSOC committee will make it for us.
And so we have been much more aggressive on addressing money market reform.
We believe it's necessary for this industry to begin growing again.
As we witness the industry is shrinking every quarter.
We have been isolated though with that opinion.
We have been remarkably one of the only firms to aggressively believe that we need money market reform working with the SEC to a sensible industry- and client-oriented solution.
And so -- but I must say in recent weeks we have through our dialogue offline dialogues with other firms I believe there's a good opportunity in front of us to work with the SEC for money market reform.
Hence we avoid the FSOC telling us what money market reform will do to us.
That's it? Good.
Thanks everyone.
Thanks for a good quarter everyone at the firm.
I look forward to talking to you at the next quarter.
Talk to you later.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christie and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Inc.
First (sic) [Second] Quarter 2012 Earnings Teleconference.
Our hosts for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Ann Marie Petach; President Robert S.
Kapito; and General Counsel Matthew Mallow.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mallow you may begin your conference.
Thank you very much.
Good morning all.
This is Matt Mallow.
I am the General Counsel of BlackRock.
And before Larry and Ann Marie make their remarks let me point out that during the course of this conference call we may make a number of forward-looking statements.
We call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual future results may differ from these statements and as you know BlackRock has filed with the SEC reports which list some of the factors which may cause those future results to differ materially from what we say today.
Finally BlackRock assumes and you should understand that we assume no duty to and do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that I'll get out of the way and turn it over to Ann Marie.
Thanks Matt.
Good morning everyone.
As we saw in this quarter volatile markets driven in part by political policy and regulatory uncertainty continued.
Until confidence increases investors are biased towards short-term defense [ph].
We saw this evidenced in the second quarter based on investor preferences for income products and liquid instruments such as ETF.
World markets continued to fare worse than U.S.
markets.
Compared to the first quarter the U.S.
markets were on average relatively flat while global European and emerging markets were down 3% to 6%.
Despite these market challenges BlackRock delivered a strong 39.2% operating margin and delivered operating results that were up compared to the first quarter.
Our financial performance highlights our strong focus on clients' needs and our ability to work with them supported by the breadth of our product set our global presence and our unmatched risk tools.
BRS is continuing to grow as risk insights and tools are in ever-increasing demand.
Our commitment to our brand has helped us connect to our clients at a time when they need and want advice more than ever.
Our cost discipline has supported our strong operating margins.
We remain committed to long-term growth opportunities and you saw this evidenced in our announced acquisition of Swiss Re's private equity fund of funds platform.
The second quarter also allowed us to continue our journey of transforming the ownership of the firm.
Post the May secondary offering of Barclays shares the ownership of the firm is almost 80% broadly held and that compares to 20% just 18 months ago.
The Barclays secondary offering was a great opportunity to communicate with investors about our organic growth opportunities and to take advantage of the cash-generative nature of our business model.
We participated in the Barclays sale via a $1 billion 6.4 million share repurchase which was incremental to our core repurchase program.
After the secondary closed we resumed our regular repurchase program and were able to purchase an additional 250 000 shares in the few remaining non-blackout days in the quarter.
Going forward returning cash to shareholders regularly remains a priority.
We also took advantage of a robust debt market and the secondary investor roadshow to lock in $1.5 billion of term debt at historically attractive rates.
The key takeaway for me is that our breadth and diversity have positioned us to perform well in various market environments and to consistently reward shareholders.
I'm going to walk through the specific results now.
As I make my comments I'll refer to the slides in the earnings supplement which you can find on our website.
And I'm going to be talking primarily about as adjusted results.
So if you look at the supplement I'm going to start on Slide 3 second quarter earnings per share of $3.10 reflected year-over-year EPS growth of 3% and sequential operating income growth of 1%.
I just want to contrast the as adjusted results to the GAAP results which are presented in the headlines of net income down 11% and remind people that in the second quarter of 2011 we benefited from a $52 million noncash tax benefit really the revaluation of our deferred tax liabilities.
Because it was noncash we never took credit for this benefit in our as adjusted results because we didn't think it really benefited our shareholders.
So the way we look at it it really is a 3% increase in net income.
Moving to Slide 4 our second quarter operating margin was 39.2%.
Cost discipline and seasonal factors allowed us to improve the margin 0.60 point sequentially despite the market-related revenue pressure and an increase in marketing expense associated with the commitment to our brand.
Our cost-to-revenue ratio was 35.1%.
That's exactly in line with the 35% we've been running for several years.
The next slide Slide 5 is something we pulled ahead that had been in the appendix last quarter.
We think it's an important slide because it highlights the diversity of our business as well as the dramatic difference in business mix as measured when you use revenue compared to when you use AUM.
From a base fee perspective we're an evenly balanced business with about 1/3 of our revenue coming from institutional 1/3 from retail and 1/3 from iShares while the AUM view really distorts the business mix and be dominated by institutional.
Slide 6 shows the decline in average global markets compared to both a year ago and to first quarter.
While U.S.
markets are up on average 2% compared to a year ago and flat compared to the first quarter the global markets across various indices were down 7% to 17% compared to a year ago and 3% to 6% below the first quarter.
Reflective of the diversity of our business about half our equity AUM is tied to non-U.S.
markets so these markets obviously affected our revenues.
I'll start with a comparison of our results compared to a year ago and then I'll move on to the sequential results.
On Slide 8 on the right-hand side you can see that earnings per share of $3.10 included $3.27 of operating earnings and $0.17 of nonoperating expense.
Operating EPS benefited from expense discipline and share repurchases offsetting market effects.
Nonoperating results reflected a stable investment portfolio and higher interest expense.
The year-to-date as adjusted tax rate was 30.4%.
The improvement compared to the first quarter reflected the positive resolution of certain outstanding tax positions and reductions in our foreign tax rate.
31% is a good modeling level for the rest of the year based on what we know right now.
Operating earnings of $832 million which you can see on Slide 9 reflected expense discipline more than offset by market-related revenue declines which we'll move on to on the next slide.
Our business does benefit from the diversified set of revenues.
Second quarter revenues were $2.2 billion.
This includes $2 billion of base fees $41 million of performance fees and $131 million of BRS revenues.
Market factors drove the decline in long-dated base fees which is that red bar.
BlackRock Solutions and advisory revenues of $131 million were up 13%.
That's driven by a 21% increase in our core Aladdin revenues.
And as we've said in the past Aladdin revenues represent the bulk about 2/3 of the BRS revenues and are very sticky.
Once people get on Aladdin really they stay.
Our managed disposition of assets in Maiden Lane I and III has broadly benefited U.S.
taxpayers as those funds have been fully paid with interest earlier than originally expected.
This is the key driver of the $68 billion decrease in advisory assets compared to a year ago.
The appetite for BRS remains very strong allowing us to continue great dialogue with our clients both regarding advisory as well as Aladdin and this is a global phenomenon at this point.
Looking at base fees on Slide 11 revenues are benefiting from our balanced business model and product offerings.
While the material declines in world equity markets more than explain the 11% decline in base fees on equity assets compared to 2011 this has been muted by an 8% revenue increase on fixed income and multi-asset class revenues.
So you see the strength of the balanced business model coming through.
Also compared to a year ago we saw the revenue effect of withdrawals from really very low-yielding cash products.
Now turning to Slide 12 expense discipline resulted in a 5% decrease in as adjusted expenses.
G&amp;A was down 6% as we reduced the occupancy cost associated with 2011 double rents and more than offset our branding investment.
Our branding initiative resulted in only a 14% increase in marketing cost as other year-over-year marketing efficiencies offset a portion of the branding expense.
We've been really encouraged by the client reaction to the campaign.
We've gotten some great initial feedback on the number of people who really recognize our name post the campaign and so we remain highly confident that this is a critical long-term investment in the business that's going to pay off over time.
Compensation expense was down 3%.
That's explained by decreases in incentive comp and temporary help.
Larry's going to discuss our continued investment in and commitment to great talent.
Moving on to sequential results and beginning on Slide 14 now sequentially EPS benefited from a $0.17 increase in operating EPS but that was more than offset by a $0.23 decrease in nonoperating EPS.
The nonoperating EPS reflected that the value of the investment portfolio was stable this quarter whereas in the first quarter the value of the investment portfolio actually increased.
So it's a non-repeat of an increase in the first quarter.
Operating income improvements in sequential operating income were driven by the same themes really driving the year-over-year result plus seasonal factors which I'm going to be getting into as I move on to Slide 16.
If you look on the left side starting with base fees $46 million of the improvement in base fees was associated with the seasonal increase and securities lending associated with the European dividends season.
So despite negative markets we delivered a $13 million improvement in base fees.
BRS revenues increased 7% while performance fees declined reflecting both a trend of lower performance fees in the second quarter compared to the first quarter and volatile performance in a volatile period.
In these markets we've got some funds performing very well but also we have funds that are volatile in a volatile market.
Some of our larger hedge funds have moved up or down multiple percentage points over days or weeks and this leaves us highly uncertain exactly where the funds will be relative to high watermarks on the last date.
We can talk more about that next quarter as the vast majority the biggest number of loss is in the fourth quarter though some are in the third quarter.
As discussed earlier a strong appetite for income products led to a $25 million improvement in fixed income base fees which you can see on Slide 17 while the seasonal factors we just talked about supported growth in equity index base fees.
Expenses on Slide 18 are down 2% sequentially reflecting the seasonal benefit of lower payroll taxes which peaked in the first quarter and lower incentive comp offset partially by our brand initiative which you can see in the G&amp;A expense.
Slide 20 shows our nonoperating expense of $43 million which in this quarter reflected $44 million of net interest expense.
Including the interest on the $1.5 billion of incremental debt that we issued in May the value of the investment portfolio as you can see was completely stable with gains offsetting losses.
The purpose of the portfolio is for us to seed new product and co-invest with our clients.
And just to give you some data on the benefits of those seedings funds that we seeded since fourth quarter 2011 specifically we seeded a multi-asset income fund an emerging markets fund and a global long/short fund have provided great new investment options for our clients and gathered over $800 million in new assets in this short period.
So we're really seeing the fruits of the seeding.
Our balance sheet remains small with approximately $8 billion of economic tangible assets composed of cash receivables and the seed and co-investment portfolio.
Moving on to 21 and summing up we delivered a healthy margin.
We generated strong operating cash flow returned a large amount of cash to shareholders and transformed the ownership of the firm.
Looking ahead we're extremely excited about opportunities we have to help our clients navigate this challenging environment and help them to balance between near-term unknowns and long-term opportunities.
Our balanced business model client focus and commitment to long-term growth are benefiting the business.
Near term we're well positioned to service clients' immediate needs risk appetite and desire for liquidity and products such as ETF.
We're also well positioned to work with our clients in the long term as risk appetite and the need for returns balance out.
Our commitment to alternatives remains strong as evidenced in our announced acquisition to private equity -- of the private equity fund of funds business though you have to recognize in this environment and also in these asset classes that decision-making time frames have lengthened.
These are long decision -- longer-term decisions for people.
So this opportunity is going to play out over time.
We think it's a very important opportunity which will generate strong results both for our clients and for our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it over to Larry who will discuss the external environment what we're seeing with our clients and our focus on performance.
Thanks Ann Marie.
Welcome everyone.
While the first 2 months of 2012 started with a lot of optimism we like the rest of the industry witnessed the softening in our net new business beginning in March and lasting through the quarter end.
I've discussed this quite a bit the risk on and risk off and I think the issues going on right now with all the uncertainty which I'll talk about has really created a change in attitude by investors as they are trying to redetermine how they should think about their portfolios which I'll talk about quite a bit later.
As Ann Marie suggested global markets were down from the last quarter and down even more dramatically from a year ago with the MSCI Barra World Index average in the second quarter down about 7.4% from a year ago.
This uncertainty continues to be fueled by the fragility of the European banking sector by the European sovereign debt issue and also the overall economic situation throughout the world today that includes China.
This has put investors in a more of a defensive nature and it is our job and we are spending a great deal of time with our clients in trying to help them think about how they should think about these issues.
We all know where the safe haven assets are.
They're in U.S.
treasuries.
They're in boons [ph].
U.S.
treasuries today are trading below 1.5%.
Boons [ph] at quarter end ended at 1.58%.
So we're talking about extraordinary low yield levels.
We're talking about yield levels that are -- that cannot meet the long-term objectives of anybody.
So the global growth -- so these safe havens over the long run may not be true safe havens.
Global growth maintains muted.
The most recent data from Bloomberg indicates that the real annualized GDP growth in the first quarter turned flat in the Eurozone remained sluggish in the United States between 1.7% and 2.2% and fell to a level that people didn't think was going to happen in China with China falling to a 7.6% growth rate down from the first quarter of something close to 8.1%.
This uncertain climate has shortened the horizons for decision-making and short -- and shaken the confidence of investors worldwide.
But not only just investors have been shaken I do believe CEO attitudes have been shaken by this.
This is a big change from our perspective from 2011.
Throughout 2011 despite similar type of volatility certainly the same type of issues we had to face I do believe CEO behavior has changed much more this time than we've seen a year ago.
I do believe CEOs have truncated their field of vision on top of all the truncated time horizons of investors.
The issue that I think is really critical is that 1.5% in treasury yields equates to negative returns.
1.5% over 10 years as a return will not get you to a retirement.
I do believe and I was in Washington yesterday I do believe the greatest crisis in America will be not health care in the next 10 to 20 years but the inadequacy of retirement throughout this country.
Yesterday a very large pension plan public pension plan announced that their one year fiscal year return was 1%.
They paid out their actuarial tables as 7 5/8%.
Obviously that type of mismatch cannot persist.
As payout large numbers only destroys the corpus creates a greater mismatch and this crisis is only going to get worse if we don't find solutions to address it.
Compounding the impact of low interest rates is the fact that people are living longer and longevity is accelerating.
While longer life should be a good thing people are going to have to work much longer to reach their needs as a retiree.
This in turn will create issues for our younger generation wanting to enter the workforce.
There will simply be fewer jobs and our younger generation will likely have an increasing financial burden funding the retirement needs of their parents and families.
I believe that in the future this underfunded pension and retirement plans will be more significant for governments in the United States and other parts of the world.
We believe at BlackRock we have the tools and the ability to combat these issues.
We are working with our clients in trying to have them focus on that.
We believe it's important to start focusing on returns over long periods of times which requires focus on what type of long-term investing not investing in products but in outcome-oriented solutions.
So this is not the traditional style box.
And this is a much longer conversation and we are having these types of very long but very exhaustive types of conversations with our clients in trying to help them navigate with these difficult situations.
So for the remainder of 2012 unfortunately all eyes are still going to be on politics and the economy.
In the United States we have elections in November followed by the impending fiscal cliff and the sequester.
This will likely create additional uncertainty and lead to more soft business sentiment and probably a reduction in consumer spending.
The global regulatory environment will continue to be more difficult towards financial institutions forcing more deleveraging creating more compliant requirements.
But let's be clear.
Asset managers will share an increasing cost of this regulation.
Europe will take as I said earlier this year anywhere between 5 to 8 years to sort out their issues.
This is a long-term issue.
There's no silver bullet.
We are talking about transforming the social contract between government and their population.
This cannot happen over a one-month one-quarter one-year situation.
On top of that the Europeans are going to have to find ways of growing in addition to these austerity plans.
In the near term as I said earlier this year I expect the ECB to be more aggressive on rates to drive the euro close to parity with the dollar.
This is one way that they could grow find growth for Europe on top of these austerity programs by making them more competitive.
This on the other hand is not a positive for the United States.
If we have benefited and our corporations certainly have benefited by having a weakening currency and now our currency is becoming a more -- a valued currency it will put some pressure on this country if the euro does indeed fall to a parity level.
I think at this time BlackRock assumes the euro is going to be falling to the $1.10 $1.15 area but there are some people who believe it needs to fall lower.
Let me talk about this.
What does this all mean for BlackRock? Let me first start off in talking about people.
As a global organization and a leader of our industry we are committed to adapting our organization to meet the needs of our clients in this changing environment.
As our clients' needs change we have to change or we will be less important for our clients.
Change when it is prescribed when it is planned is both necessary and healthy for an organization.
That includes change to ensure that how we are delivering our performance to our client that is also in our architecture and how we have discussions with our clients.
We recently witnessed some turnover in our portfolio management group with the departures of Bob Doll and Dan Rice.
We actually wish both of them well.
While we endeavor to keep turnover low to assure consistency in our portfolio management teams there will always be some level of turnover.
We certainly will make changes whenever necessary to avoid even the appearance of conflict of interest.
We use change to enhance our performance whenever that is an issue.
Another change we saw this quarter which I'd like to highlight is totally unrelated to the portfolio management changes was my good friend and partner's Sue Wagner's decision to retire.
This does not change anything within BlackRock.
We are actually fortunate with Sue agreeing to joining the BlackRock board in October and I am sure we will benefit from her insight her intelligence going forward as a member of BlackRock's Board of Directors.
Overall our turnover at BlackRock remains to be very low far lower than the rest of the industry.
Our turnover rate at the MD level is under 1%.
And turnover across the firm is also very low approximately 4% which is compared to an industry norm about 10% to 12%.
BlackRock has always had a strong focus on talent development including investing in our people hiring top-tier talent with the ability to have immediate and a long-term impact on our company.
As in the past we are constantly attracting prudent leaders who are excited to bring their deep expertise and client-centric philosophy to BlackRock.
We highlighted Phil Hildebrand will be joining us October 1 formerly the head of the central bank in Switzerland who will be taking a very important international role from our London office working on solution-based relationships with our 100 most important clients.
We noted earlier this year the hiring of Mark McCombe who is now our Head of Asia Pacific and had a dramatic impact already on our business in Asia.
We also have announced the hiring of many different investment teams a number of investors in our fundamental equity team where we were in need of upgrading due to performance issues.
And we are very pleased with bringing onboard an entire emerging market debt team that will really enhance our position in global bonds and our positioning worldwide in the fixed income arena.
So we are a organization which many people are seeking to join this organization and I think we are in a very unique position unlike so many other financial services companies.
And we are going to continue to find opportunities to bring in very high-talented people high-talented portfolio managers to help us build and navigate together.
I'm also proud to highlight that our incoming analyst class this year is over 200.
It's filled with some of the best and brightest minds from the top schools globally.
Providing oversight of our talent agenda and succession plannings we are fortunate to have an extremely strong and active board that was recently recognized as one of the top 5 boards for strong corporate governance.
I believe we were ranked 1 when I saw the analysis.
They are highly engaged in guiding the firm's strategy overall.
On an annual basis our board conducts a comprehensive review of each of our core businesses including results strategy outlook succession and talent planning.
Recognizing the importance of our human capital each year management and the board reviews our top talent across the firm and we have complete review of succession plans at all levels.
That meeting will occur in October like it's done for the last 5 years.
So this is nothing unusual nothing strange.
This is what we believe.
We need to have a high fiduciary standard and this is what we believe working with our board to making sure that we review management succession issues across all our businesses not just one business or one leader.
We believe this planning makes a better and more resilient organization and differentiated organization among so many different firms that have had issues around talent.
Let me talk about performance which is the key to any investment management firm.
We've had some notable performance in a wide variety of products supporting our key themes despite core global markets.
We also recognize there are a few areas where we need to improve and we are going to take action.
I am pleased to say performance was strong across our fixed income with our fundamental fixed income products demonstrating continued improvement and moving to the top quartile with 71% and 81% of our active taxable fixed income AUM exceeding its benchmarks or peer median for the 1- and 3-year period.
And particularly our high-yield team again was very strong with 80% of the AUM exceeding benchmark or peer median for a 3-year time period.
And this was also were consistent with over 60% of the other assets benchmarked for a 1- and 3-year period of time.
I am pleased to say our performance in our alternative products have been quite strong in some of the cases reversing some weaker performance that we saw in 2011.
Our fund of funds of hedge funds BAA has now had 13 I want to underline 13 consecutive quarters of positive performance relative to the benchmarks and peers.
Obsidian our fixed income hedge fund year-to-date is up over 20% and it's clearly outperforming its benchmark and is now back to its high watermark or close to its high watermark going forward from last year.
FIGA our model-based fixed income product is up 7% year-to-date and outperforming its benchmarks.
And I'm even more pleased to say after -- now it has 14 consecutive quarters of positive absolute performance not just relative performance absolute performance.
Our scientific active equity team which as we were very public about 3 years ago when it had some very poor 1- and 3-year performance numbers.
Over the last few years we've changed the leadership team.
We've added many more portfolio members and also analysts to help us navigate this.
And I'm pleased to say performance over its benchmark exceeds 67% for the 1-year and 85% for the 3-year.
So we can now move from a defensive position explaining what happened to now going forward.
We have the ability to focus on more positive opportunities for asset flow.
The area where we still are not hitting as well as we need to and that is fundamental equity.
This is where we've had some -- where we hired new portfolio managers.
We will be announcing other hires in the most recent months to come.
We have less than 50% of our AUM above the one year.
It's approximately around 44%.
That is not acceptable and we are working towards building that platform up and making sure those issues are addressed.
We've also had a challenging year in parts of our multi-asset product area Global Allocation and it's a little under 50% in its benchmarks and its one-year period is actually in the 32% area right now.
So we are working with that with Dennis Stattman who's had a 10-year great track record.
So Dennis we have total confidence with he and his team but these are the issues that we try to make sure that we stay on top of and address.
Let me move on to regulatory.
This uncertain regulatory environment and recent bank missteps in financial services will undoubtedly be called for even more regulation and asset managers may be impacted.
This is a new reality and BlackRock is trying to stay ahead of the curve and preparing for increased global regulation.
Let me just discuss money market funds.
Being in Washington yesterday I believe we are going to see the SEC finally come up for comment period a proposal.
I don't know what the proposal is but I think the gridlock within the SEC may be broken.
I may be premature in talking about it but that's the type of noise I heard in Washington.
We have been publicly acknowledged -- we have publicly acknowledged the need to further reduce the systemic risk in the money market funds without undermining the money market funds' source of value to investors and funding to the short-term capital markets.
We have remained -- we have maintained a constructive posture with the SEC with the FSOC staff throughout this debate.
SIFI designation.
The Office of Financial Research is conducting a study of asset managers.
We have encouraged them to try to be more transparent in their study.
This study should be completed sometime in fall and then there's going to be a likely comment period.
So at this moment I don't have any information what does that mean for BlackRock or any other nonbank organization that is being reviewed with the Office of Financial Research.
So at this time I can't give any more color on this but we will learn the same time everyone else learns when the official proposal is introduced by the FSOC.
Now turning to the business our focus on our strategic themes continues to be to drive flows across ETFs retirement income and multi-asset solutions.
So let me give you some of the highlights.
Institutional investors generally remain to be in a holding pattern while the trend for active to passive continues.
Globally our institutional businesses experienced about a $4 billion net long-term outflows.
However they were strong pockets of growth momentum including defined contribution and in official institutions.
Our strategic focus on retirement solutions continues to gain momentum as our DC clients generated $7.8 billion of net inflows slightly tilted towards passive strategies.
Our Life Path offering saw significant net flows of $3.1 billion.
In alternatives there was a lot of noise this quarter.
We actually redetermined what should be an alternative product and what should be just a normalized active product and $2.4 billion of that number was the redefinition of the product.
It was not an outflow but on the net difference it looks like an outflow.
There was also $1 billion of capital return because of successful reasons when we paid off a product.
We are seeing outflows in global ascent which offset some of the great momentum we had in other products including our multi-strategy hedge fund our emerging market hedge fund our model-based fixed income hedge fund FIGA and our renewable energy fund achieved for our first closing this quarter.
Internationally flows were essentially flat as we witnessed again a mixed picture of clients' behavior.
Obviously in Europe because of the situation in Europe we've seen a real slowdown in client activity.
Some clients are derisking their portfolios worried about what this all means and that's where we had an $8 billion active outflows while others needed to add risk and we had $8 billion of passive inflows largely index equities.
So it really depends on the client their situation their liability.
So there wasn't one dramatic trend.
It was a mix of trends within Europe.
Let me just turn to a pipeline.
We are very pleased with our net new business pipeline totaling approximately $55 billion as of July 12 up $30 billion from first quarter.
This pipeline includes $9.3 billion of mandates that were funded since quarter end and $45 billion of awards to be funded.
While this increase of our pipeline is certainly positive I should remind everyone it is important to note that much of the unfunded pipeline is in passive and then two this only reflects I would underscore only reflects our institutional business.
The majority of that number is institutional business.
I think we are reflecting our ETF flows quarter-to-date.
But that said the underlying momentum in a number of areas across the firm is being masked by the environment that we're living with.
We have strong momentum in alternatives right now both in the U.S.
and Europe which is creating increased diversification across our alternative platform.
Similarly performance across our EMEA fixed income products is leading to good opportunities in EMEA retail and with our financial institution platform.
And I'm very excited to tell you that these investments that we made over the last few years are beginning to pay off.
Let me move to retail the U.S.
institutional then I'll move to iShares.
Again the industry flows were down significantly from the first quarter.
Our retail franchise delivered strong results with $1.6 billion in long-term net inflows globally with particularly strength in U.S.
fixed income.
Again most firms in mutual funds had outflows in the second quarter.
In the U.S.
retail and high net worth generated $2.9 billion of long-term net inflows across all asset classes.
And we continue to deepen our relationships in the SMA business or the Separately Managed Accounts space yielding strong results with $1.6 billion of net inflows largely into municipals U.S.
core and other fixed income products.
BlackRock is the largest and most recognized SMA platform in the country with now $55 billion of AUM.
International retail another example of risk-off in Europe.
We had outflows of $1.3 billion predominantly in equities which is consistent across what we are seeing worldwide.
Across our broad retail platform though we continue to innovate we continue to bring new products to market.
Internationally we expect to capitalize in certain of our newer funds which are reaching their third anniversary with strong track records principally our European credit fund and our high-yield funds in Europe.
So once again this rebirth this renewal this investment in investment teams it doesn't happen overnight.
We're getting assets but you bring these teams in you nurture them they have good performance and after 2 to 3 years you start seeing inflows and we expect that from those teams.
Global iShares.
Despite muted activity industry-wide iShares captured $6.1 billion in net inflows.
We captured over 50% of the market share of industry fixed income flows for the quarter with $11.7 billion in net inflows while derisking which is impacting even ETFs is impacting the flows in our international equity and emerging market funds.
I would say organizationally we have 250 ETFs and when you see risk-off globally BlackRock's ETF platform or iShares platform will probably be more harmed in outflows because we have a multitude of products that are international-based that they are I would call more aggressive type of strategies than the core what I would call the core index the core fundamental strategies.
So that is one of our explanations in terms of market share issue.
I could talk about that later.
This quarter we started off strong because we did see some modest risk-on with $3.5 billion of net inflows so far this month which is in line with our historical market share.
Consistent with our culture of innovation and strategy into new markets we launched 50 new iShare products and special emphasis on fixed income and local equity strategies including our Green ETF launched in Brazil which generated over $200 million in flows during the quarter.
Let me move to BlackRock Solutions.
BlackRock Solutions continues to be an industry leader.
BlackRock Solutions continues to be in huge demand.
The need for strong risk management and analytics made the second quarter a resilient quarter despite the market adversity.
BlackRock Solutions revenues were up both for over-the-period-quarter and over a year-to-year basis.
This is on top of a reduction of over $61 billion of Maiden Lane assets so -- which I'll talk about in a second.
So what is also important we saw a 21% increase in growth in our Aladdin revenues which now represents more than 2/3 of our BRS revenues.
Just 3 years ago Aladdin represented about 1/3 of the BRS revenues and these are the long-dated more sticky form of revenues as clients put Aladdin and other -- our Green package our risk management tools onto their platform.
The Aladdin pipeline continues to be very strong and increasingly we are having -- our clients are now adopting not just our fixed income platform Aladdin but our clients are now looking to integrate our equity platforms.
So we are working on Aladdin conversions now on the equity side for some of our existing fixed income clients.
And I do believe having now a full product array of equities and fixed income at Aladdin is going to make Aladdin even more robust.
I just want to take a moment and say that because we're in a period of time that most positive is a negative and negative is a real negative in our atmosphere as of today but there's one thing that I'm very proud of and that is our successful payback of the asset disposition related to the Maiden Lane vehicles.
People don't pause and think about this is money that the government gave to Bear Stearns to make the Bear Stearns merger work with JPMorgan and to stabilize AIG to a lot of negative press a lot of uncertainty.
The American taxpayers were paid back in full with interest and there are still opportunities remaining for more profits with the remaining portfolio in these items.
This is a pretty big success for our country for our regulators in terms of what they are trying to attempt to do in stabilizing our economy back in 2008 and '09 and the results were very strong and not enough success is being illuminated.
We're spending more time focusing on failures.
Let me talk about brand.
Our investment in our recently launched Investing for a New World campaign continues to deliver results.
Building our strong brand is an extremely important long-term commitment that we are looking to make retail and our name recognition in the retail side to become a much stronger platform branded name.
This is not just in the United States but globally.
We now have clients who have never spoken to us before calling us and finding more about our offerings.
We now have more hits to our internal website than ever before and we're having more conversations with more FAs than ever before.
Let me give a couple of final comments.
In this climate we're very proud of our platform.
We are very proud of being a fiduciary committed to always doing what is right for our clients' best interest.
Once again I'd like to really thank our employees for the continued discipline and diligence in serving our clients across the globe and I want to extend my gratitude to all our clients who have trusted us with their financial future.
With that I'll open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Marc Irizarry of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just digging a little deeper into performance of active equity and fundamental equity in particular.
Can you talk just a little bit about some of the people changes? And then should we expect that there's sort of a go-forward replacement cycle? Because if you look at I guess the organic growth rate in active equities it actually improved sequentially.
So should we think about some of the people changes maybe pressuring where you are with consultants in fundamental equity and just maybe address the performance of people changes there? That's such a good question I'm going to give it to Rob.
We have continued to build investment teams that can weather the different cycles in the marketplace and we're looking for teams to deliver a consistent long-term performance.
And as you know we spent a lot of time and money over the last few years investing in the right talent to build up the right teams needed to deliver performance.
And you should expect that we are going to be very focused on this going forward especially in areas where we see or feel that there has been underperformance.
Let me give you a little bit of a broader answer to that beyond just fundamentals and I'll touch on that.
The first thing is that in our alternatives area you see that we've expanded our product suite and addressing this with several new teams that are around infrastructure where we think a lot of investments will be made private equity and real estate and Ann Marie did cover a bit of that by announcing the addition of the new Swiss Re private equity team into our product suite.
Larry mentioned a little bit about fixed income where we are focused on the process to make sure our teams can deliver strong performance.
He mentioned our fundamental fixed income products which we are very proud to say have now moved back to top quartile performance and the numbers are over 80% in active taxable fixed income exceeding the benchmark.
And then in iShares continuing to innovate the product suite where our index funds continue to deliver very strong results over 95% are above their performance tolerance.
And now finally the equity area which you highlight we have brought in a brand-new emerging markets equity team to raise the bar.
We hired a gentleman named Timothy Keith [ph] to head a new flexible equity team.
We have Chris Leavy who is a tremendous hire for us who is focusing now on strengthening our performance in the Large Cap Series in the fundamental large cap growth in energy and Global Opportunities products as well.
So I can tell you that Larry and I are going to be less tolerant of performance that is not up to par with what we need to do to drive growth and raise assets.
But when I look at performance I also want to focus your attention on our focus areas and how this translates into areas of growth for our firm.
So we have an income theme and there we have focused attention on our equity dividend product.
It has not only had strong performance but is rated 5 stars by MorningStar and is the Lipper Leader for total return and our global dividend income which has produced really good income and 85% of the holdings that they have have increased their dividend.
So here's an area where we have fundamental equity with good performance and that translates into driving growth.
Also in the income area investors are being served by the high-yield team that Larry cited which is continuing to be in the top 14% of their peers and raising a significant amount of assets and driving because of the performance that they have.
And I'll just mention a couple others.
In alternatives just to highlight a few that may not have been mentioned as well as it should have been is our core appreciation composite which is our alternatives flexible fund hedge fund has outperformed the target by a significant amount and we continue to attract interest.
And this global alpha product that we started in fixed income is up over 7% net of fees year-to-date.
That's a very exciting product for us going forward.
Within solutions the one product Larry mentioned was the Global Allocation fund and I would just say that this is a long-term team and while the second quarter was a bit underwhelming the absolute performance year-to-date is positive and clients have focused on the good long-term performance and the ability of this team to generate a good alpha in very different environments.
And lastly in the retirement space we created as you know the first target date fund and 20 years later we're very well positioned with our Life Path funds.
They have outperformed on average 84% of their peers across all the vintages in 2011.
And we also continue to see good flows in the ETFs and index product with notable flows in the fixed income area.
So I would say that performance can be described as very good in most areas.
Turnaround finally in a few areas that you've all focused on in the last few calls but most especially the strong performance in our 5 key focus areas and the continued investment in our portfolio teams are really driving the business at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on the alternative bucket just -- I mean it looks like -- clearly some of the core products experienced volatility.
The volatility that you're seeing is it sort of in line with what you've seen historically? And are we moving to a new -- to sort of a new place with alternative allocations where maybe manager selection is mattering more? And then is volatility becoming more important? I don't know if that's for you Larry or Rob.
Let me give it to Rob.
It's really -- the only change has been the volatility in the risk on and risk off.
We still rely upon the process that the individual managers have which has really not changed but I think that you may see more volatility in the numbers just because of this risk on/risk off situation which is happening globally.
But I believe the long-term performance in those and the current process that we have will bear out the right performance numbers for the team moving forward.
Research Division</strong> And you'd expect your flows to sort of follow that volatility pattern a bit more as well? Yes.
And I think that the highlight that I mentioned the FIGA some of these products which are the go-anywhere product giving flexibility to the managers is going to help their returns.
And we already see that attracting flows and also the clients that are interested the amount of visits and interests are up on those.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Fannon of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the alternatives I mean just thinking about the performance the outlook obviously is very difficult to pinpoint or forecast.
But can you give us a sense of how you think about performance fees today versus maybe this time a year ago or as we think about kind of even on a short-term basis next quarter and obviously a big ramp potentially in the fourth quarter? But any guidance on how you're thinking about that outlook would be helpful.
Well as I mentioned in my remarks the volatility in the environment has made it difficult for me to pinpoint even my own internal forecast on performance fees because we've seen -- as I've been observing where some of the biggest funds are relative to high watermarks I see them above high watermarks one week and the next week below them.
And it's so much a single point in time measurement that that's what makes the forecasting hard.
Rob had the luxury of talking over time and I fully agree the performance over time is going to be strong.
And I know the question you're asking is the performance on a single day and that becomes challenged.
Of course last year also was not our most robust year ever in performance fees.
And year-to-date we've tracked broadly in line with last year.
But that being said this environment does make our...
But I would say things like Obsidian is now back to close to its high watermark is an opportunity now going forward.
And we have other products that are doing quite well like FIGA and R3 or BAA.
So I think because of the volatility it's hard to track actually what the amount of performance fees but I would say we are in a better position at this moment than we were last year in terms of where we are in terms of high watermarks and other issues.
So it's now up to the PMs to perform but we're in a pretty good position.
But the volatility is pretty extraordinary.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
But that's helpful.
And then I guess on the expenses Ann Marie you mentioned that there was a 14% increase in marketing within the broader kind of G&amp;A line.
I guess could you help us understand what kind of the dollar amount that is and maybe as we think about expenses going forward how much -- where you are in that spending kind of marketing campaign and think about maybe the ramp or is that a good run rate kind of thinking about the rest...
Let me just say one thing before Ann Marie discusses the specific here.
Obviously all our spend is a function of what our commitment to everybody is related to our margins.
Not one expense is looked at separately from a total view of how you're tracking in our margins.
Our margins are up about 0.5%.
I think depending obviously where beta I can give you a much better degree of where our margins will be.
But I know -- one should not just lock in a spend on anything hard just because we are going to mitigate spend as we think about margins as we think about going into 2013.
But that said we are very committed in this brand campaign.
It is a long-term strategy and a major component of where we believe this firm needs to go.
So that Ann Marie will give you more of the -- can give you much more of the I guess the granularity of that.
Yes.
So just to give you the specifics sequentially marketing expense was up a little more than $20 million.
I would say that would be a reasonable rate at which we could run but there will be some seasonality in our marketing.
So you're not going to see -- like Larry said we're going to spend it the way it makes sense.
When everyone's in vacation in July and August we're not going to be running the same amount of ads.
We're going to spend less money and you're going to see that come down.
In the fourth quarter when people are ready to invest you're going to see it come up.
So we're going to spend -- I think the important thing is we're going to spend the money in a way we think we're going to get a real return on it.
And versus the overall level of where the firm is.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the composition of the institutional pipeline.
Can you talk about what was the largest mandate in the pipeline? Well it's multibillion.
It's less than $10 billion.
I think -- my guess is $6 billion or $7 billion.
I mean I think about $6 billion to $8 billion.
It's in that range.
I know the client but I don't remember the exact dollar amount.
And I must say these are not in the pipeline.
I met with a client last week and we're looking at a portfolio -- I'm not here to tell you we're going to win it but we're working on a strategic relationship with a client that is -- it's over $15 billion.
We're working on other clients that are looking to outsource a large component.
This is something that Rob's working on that may be possibly outsourcing a large component of the balance sheet.
So we're not even close to winning these yet so I don't want to put these in any models or businesses.
But we are -- because of this uncertain environment clients are looking for more as I said earlier more thoughtful more strategic type of conversations and some of the conversations we're having are really robust.
But I think on a general basis Craig our pipeline makeup is really consistent with the past types of pipeline compositions.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a follow-up on the new trading platform initiative.
I was wondering if you could give us any update and also talk about -- is all the expense for this platform kind of really in the run rate today? And then also maybe talk about what's the opportunity to revenue from the trading effort in your solutions business.
Well a I learn about a lot of it from the press.
They seem to know more than I do.
So we did do a beta testing which the press actually got and we're not trying to hide from it.
It was very successful.
I'm not even going to talk about how many clients were on it but it was successful.
We all seem pleased about it.
The run rate is probably appropriate with whatever is in our platform already but if we start seeing it ramped up we will have a higher run rate once we start really implementing if we have tens and tens and tens of clients as part of it after we go from the beta testing.
And then when you look at -- in terms of revenues we haven't focused on the revenue model component of it yet because we're focused and making sure the functionality.
And if the functionality is good if we can show to clients that this is a better execution the clients are aware that ultimately this is going to be some form of a revenue model.
Let me be very clear though.
As BlackRock as a participant for our clients that we are navigating trades for our clients we are charging no commission.
So that has to be very clear.
We cannot do that.
That would be illegal.
It would be against a lot of the Rissel [ph] laws and all the other things.
So we are doing that flat and clear with the idea that we're a higher fiduciary and we're getting better execution.
For clients who are on the Aladdin platform there would be obviously a transaction cost fee.
It could be cost plus something which would be very de minimis.
So I look at this not unlike when we first created Aladdin when we all started offering risk management service for our clients.
It was really meant to be a cost -- ability for us to fray some of our technology cost.
Obviously it transformed into something way beyond that.
We are looking at this as if we could earn enough revenues to offset all our trading platform costs across BlackRock that's a huge win.
It helps our margins.
So I don't want anyone to model out something that's going to be a massive transformational revenue area because I don't expect it'll ever be that but it may.
I never would have expected BlackRock Solutions' Aladdin to be as strong and robust as it is so -- but we are looking at it primarily to raise the bar as a fiduciary standard to minimize execution cost for our clients.
And Craig as I said to everybody over the last few years we would not be upset if the market-makers of today make the most tightest market ever and that there's not a need for our trading platform.
We are doing this only because of the issues surrounding Basel III Volcker Rule all the other issues where we believe there's going to be less capital in the marketplace for the security firms to be making markets for.
And so as a result of it we believe there will be a long-term need for this type of platform to reduce our cost of execution.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Kelley of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So just taking what you said about -- and we see it too in the asset liability gap of some of your clients and how that's widened out versus your pipeline and where you're seeing new flows what do you think stems the disconnect here? When do institutional clients take on more risk? What is needed to get them over the hump? Well let me just tell you a funny story I had.
This is not an institutional client -- let me restate.
This is not a pension fund client.
I was having dinner with one of the large sovereign wealth funds which clearly is multigenerational tools for capital and all our conversations over dinner were about talking about long-dated solutions.
And by dessert though they said "But we are still measured quarterly." That's the dilemma.
And that's the dilemma that everyone's facing.
We are -- clients are frightened of short-term volatility and so they have derisked.
And as you cited and what we have said in the past derisking is actually causing much greater pain over a longer period of time that -- and importantly if you are -- even if you are an individual retiree one of our defined contribution client if they're 35 years old and they've been sitting in bonds for 5 years during the era where you're supposed to start ramping up the compounding of your return to get an adequate retirement you were really harmed.
And I don't believe in our country today in other countries we do enough to focus on how does one get to the nest egg that is necessary to live comfortably during the retirement ages.
We spend so much time focusing on health care.
We spend so much time focusing on how to live an extra day week month or year and yet we spend so little time focusing on how can we build the appropriate nest egg to have that life during retirement.
I think in the short run what we have seen we talked about this over quarters and quarters we're seeing more barbelling.
We're seeing clients barbelling going into beta products and then going into alts.
Some of it unfortunately is not -- they're going into alts.
Why? Because of accounting.
Because in some like in some private equity areas of beta the accounting is longer-dated and therefore they have less volatility.
And so I hope those are fewer and fewer clients who are doing alts only for accounting reasons.
Obviously another reason why clients are going into alts and barbelling is because they're looking more for absolute return strategies not relative to return strategy and they're absolutely looking for return strategies that meet -- that exceed at least 7 5/8% return.
So they can meet their liabilities.
So I would say what we are seeing now -- I mentioned this $15 billion client.
This client is worried about low interest rates and how it's impairing and they have given us this ability to relook and recreate what they should do with this $15 billion.
And we're going to be looking at it over a multi-period of time.
And so what I do believe clients are beginning to do they're asking the question how should we frame this out? We're actually spending more time talking to the boards of some of the pension plan trying to help the board understand this.
Their fiduciary responsibility for retirees and for current employees is a very difficult one.
So these are very hard questions to answer.
And if we continue to have low rates and if some of these plans only earn 1% these issues become even more enlarged.
So I really do believe our platform has proven to be a differentiator in these conversations.
So not only do we have the breadth of products but we have the risk management tools that help them think about it.
And this is what gives me a great amount of comfort about what we're doing and how we're positioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one follow-up from me on the opposite end of your barbell strategy then there's been a lot of talk lately about your iShares strategy and the low-cost competitors gaining share.
So just curious where you think for your business specifically you'll see the most growth going forward both by asset class and by product -- sorry by region not by asset class.
Well as I said earlier when there's a risk-on in the world with our breadth of products that are worldwide we will have more than our market share.
As I said in the beginning of the third quarter we've had more of our industry type of market share because there was a little risk-on in the first week or so of July.
But when we are head to head in a commodity-based product I think you're correct in saying when a commodity-based product at one of the core strategies where price becomes more dominant because competitors have equal liquidity equal tracking air price is a more dominant issue.
Without going into much detail we believe we have a plan to address it over the next coming months.
And it is a big issue.
I have to give a lot of credit for Vanguard.
They are a trustworthy brand and they've taken market share from BlackRock in the U.S.
core type of equity products.
We're holding our own.
Obviously worldwide we're holding our own in fixed income but I am not pleased in our positioning to date in the core commoditized products in the United States.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Carrier of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question just on the fee rate usually in the second quarter there's the sec lending fees so it's a little tough to try to measure.
But if we just look sequentially it's an unusual quarter because your average core AUM x advisory the assets would be up a little over 1%.
But if you look at the fee rate it's down and if you strip out the incremental sec lending fees it would be down a decent amount.
So I was just wondering you mentioned some of the weight on like international equity markets.
But if you look at it on an average basis they weren't down as much.
And so I guess I'm just trying to figure out did you really see a lot of like core fee rate pressure or when we just take the period-end AUM numbers given the value of the market in June it's just a bad kind of average AUM number.
Mike I think the number one issue is a mix of business.
We saw flows out of equity flows into fixed income different margins.
So on top of the beta -- out of some active strategies and the beta strategies the key -- and this is an industry issue much more outflows in equity globally and much more inflows in fixed income.
The risk-off trade.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
That's helpful.
No I was going to say there are no fee issues.
It's all  Yes we had no fee issues.
That's what I'm...
But even within equity it's a mix issue going from what I would call the higher-risk areas to the more core areas and those tend to be higher fee to lower fee.
So it's all mixed...
But also if you look at where markets degraded the most those are some of the higher fee areas the emerging market products the energy products that's where the greatest degradation of actual returns were where we had these larger negative returns and those are the higher-fee products.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay that makes sense.
And then maybe just on the succession that you mentioned just in terms of the overall firm.
Yes it's really the most asset managers that the firms tend to be run for the investors and that's where a lot of the focus is on.
And so from the investor's side we don't see the full bench.
So with Sue retiring what's your outlook -- who's on the bench? I mean obviously Rob but like what's -- how do you kind of see BlackRock going forward over the next couple of years? Yes Sue was visible working alongside with me but the bench actually has increased over the last few years.
We have a robust executive committee of men and women part of it.
As you said Rob is the President actively working on the firm's issues every day alongside Charlie Hallac who's our Chief Operating Officer and has been the Chief Operating Officer for 2 years.
We have Rich Kushel.
We have -- our bench is actually growing not decreasing and adding the Mark McCombes and the Phil Hildebrands has enlarged our bench.
And we have some young men and women in our firm who are really taking on much more of the responsibility.
You're going to hear more and more as investors about Rob Goldstein.
He is the individual who runs BlackRock Solutions.
He's done a fabulous job.
He's been at the firm 20-ish 18 years to be exact.
And he's done an incredible job.
And so the bench is growing.
And I'm forgetting some of the names or I'm not mentioning all the names.
But I would tell you the bench is strong.
It's robust.
And I'm very proud of the process in which we are engaged in elevating our team and making sure we have a robust team.
Rob do you have any comments on that? No I think the board goes through succession planning and we have just done an exhaustive review that's going to be presented.
And that's part of our goal is to make sure that we are bringing up individuals giving them more responsibility and having a very broad bench.
And we're -- we'll continue to do that.
And I think the focus has been on several people that have left the firm.
Unfortunately no one is talking about all the people that we've recently brought into the firm.
And we'll continue to do that and raise the bar for talent.
I agree with Larry.
We have a very strong bench that's been built over many many years.
But we've heard the investors ask for more transparency with -- having more visibility with more of our team and we're planning to do that.
And in fact we have thought about doing investor days at BlackRock.
I think we are planning to do that later this year or next year.
June.
June of next year.
June of next year.
Okay.
So I was -- so that's already on the schedule.
So we have much more transparency and visibility with our leaders of the firm.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Lee of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question on the -- I appreciate that you're highlighting the kind of different revenue characteristics of the different asset mix iShares and whatnot.
But maybe be helpful also to -- if you can provide some incremental color on the margin variance.
I mean my general sense is maybe iShares and index even though clearly lower fee realization rates may actually be higher margins I mean if there's any kind of color you can provide on how we should think of the variance and probably...
I'm going to have Ann Marie to really get into it.
But once again I would say twofold.
A the mix really does have a strong impact on the margin.
You're absolutely correct.
The margin specifically in index and ETFs are higher.
But obviously the equities have a higher margin than fixed income.
And so you take into the mix you take into -- as I said where do you have the greatest market declines those are the highest fee type of products.
And I think it's just -- it's heavily into the mix but Ann Marie help me.
I think the margin you're absolutely right with the ETFs and index both being -- because there's low incremental cost with managing those assets.
You can put on a lot of volume.
It's the beauty of that part of the business model.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay appreciate that.
And Larry understanding that we really don't know what the FSOC will come up with whether it relates to naming you or others a SIFI and what that even means from a capital perspective or otherwise but how is kind of that uncertainty playing into your thoughts over the next coming quarters or year about capital management? Is it kind of at the margin making you a little -- your appetite for say share repurchase a little less robust? I mean how should we kind of think about it? There's no question that it's an element of our process of thinking.
It's not a major element.
I think if it was an element I would not have bought $1 billion of shares back in May.
We intend to continue our share repurchase.
In our conversation with our board we believe that will be an essential component.
I think you should consider share repurchase as a continuation.
We believe that with our huge free cash flow that is just going to be a continuation of our business model.
So we don't -- once again I don't believe we're going to do any large-scale acquisitions.
However we are going to -- we continue to see small fill-ins whether it was the Claymore transaction in ETFs or what we did in the fund of funds which really fulfilled our needs because we have a very strong U.S.
fund of funds of private equity.
The Swiss Re transaction makes it a global fund of funds of private equity platform and it actually enlarges our products and infrastructure also.
We are actually looking at a couple of fill-ins right now one exclusively and we hope that is something that makes sense once we do some due diligence.
So we are in the market of making sure we have the best platform and taking advantage and being opportunistic in terms of fill-ins as I suggested as part of our business strategy.
But I will make it very clear.
Utilization of our free cash flow for share repurchases and dividends is also a major component of our plans for the future.
Whether we are a SIFI or not as you said we don't know what that means for capital.
We already have approximately what $1.2 billion of capital set aside because of regulators' request as a result of the BGI transaction.
So we unlike most asset managers we already have capital set aside.
We are -- and another thing you're aware of it but I need to remind everyone we're already regulated by the OCC the Federal Reserve the FSAs the SECs.
And so I'm not sure how that translates if we are one and what does that mean.
It probably will have bigger impact if there are other firms who are not regulated by these entities who will have a more pronounced impact than it would on us.
And possibly and I'm not saying it's going to happen there's a possibility that if you're designated a SIFI it might be a good thing.
Maybe you are because you're so properly reviewed and scrutinized you have a higher fiduciary standard and people -- investors want that.
The mood is changing dramatically.
It was always suggested for banks who are designated SIFIs and I think this is going to be true that their liability costs are going to be less because they're going to have more associated capital.
And I do believe in efficient markets their liability costs should be less than other firms.
Now since we don't have those types of capital needs and debt it doesn't have that type of impact but we'll see.
We'll see how this all plays out.
What I can say is we are trying to be as constructive and helpful when asked by regulators on helping them what it means to be an asset manager.
We have spent time educating them on asset managers.
So we've had requests from regulators can we educate them? Obviously one component of Dodd-Frank I have to remind everybody we are not allowed to have conversations to the regulators about this or it becomes a public disclosure item.
This is very different than most other forms of regulation or potential regulation.
And so let me be clear about it.
We are not going to regulators and trying to lobby or try to go against it.
We are trying to be cooperative when asked and so that's why we are still in the dark somewhat about how this all plays out.
Your final question comes from the line of Alex Kramm of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to come back to the ETF business and the equity side in particular.
Obviously we saw the outflows and you gave some good color and obviously emerging markets and other business also you guys were a little bit weak so I hear that.
But just the idea that we had outflows and in general I'm wondering if that means anything to you in terms of the maturity of the business not just your iShares business but equity and ETFs as a whole.
Do you think the access to passage is slowing down or is it just really a risk on/risk off kind of a move we're seeing here? I've asked my team that specific question because obviously that would have a meaningful impact on the future.
So we believe it is entirely a risk-on/risk-off type of transaction.
As I said we've had $3.5 billion of inflows so far in July.
Those are more of the non-core type of ETF.
They're more in what I would call the risk-on type of products.
And so more than ever before I think if you think about it what area has done some of the worst performances are areas like emerging markets.
It is Europe and it is energy product it is mining some of the ETFs that were very big winners a year ago.
And one thing I think is very important to note as I suggested in other quarterly calls we see very large active institutional participation in ETFs when they are searching for equity exposures whether it's in Europe or emerging markets.
So you have to also think this is not outflows from retail.
It was more of the institutional managers worldwide who use ETFs for beta exposures.
They are -- they took off risk and so it's just a -- to me using this flow information is a great indicator of mood.
And when -- I don't believe it is an indicator of a transition into a new pattern of growth.
I think it's a real indicator of mood which is consistent what we are seeing across our other products.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then I guess just lastly switching to the active side I think you mentioned a little bit about the quants the scientific equity product and how you finally have the better performance.
But I feel like you've talked about the better performance already for a couple of quarters now.
So what is changing now that you think you have a better conversation with clients to actually turn this into inflows? Inflow products? Research Division</strong> Yes.
We are having better conversations.
Those conversations have not transformed yet into flows but we are having better conversation or actually having some clients who had us on watch list before who have now taken us off watch list.
And one client actually gave us more money.
Now that was one example.
It is -- so as you know this area had severe underperformance 3 4 5 years ago and now we've proven that over the 3 years we actually have consistent performance a couple hundred basis points over most indexes.
And it's just time but the conversations are more robust.
The conversations are better.
And I would just say the outflows in that area are the lowest levels that we've seen in the past 6 quarters.
So it's -- the conversations are more frequent.
I could tell you the consultant conversations are totally changed from one that "What's going on?" to "Tell us more." And so it's just time.
I wish I could tell you time is today.
I don't have that understanding yet but generally we see -- after 3 year anniversaries you begin to see a slow and modest uptick and then you start seeing some real flows.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Very very good.
I guess it's something to look forward to.
Yes and I am looking forward to it too.
Thank you everyone.
Thank you all the employees.
I look forward to talking to everybody with a report at the end of the third quarter with a risk-on mood.
But we'll see.
Have a good quarter everyone.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Matt Kelley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So I was hoping you could first talk a little bit more about the integration of the iShares and BlackRock retail sales teams.
Your commentary is very helpful.
But how do you think this gives you an edge in approaching retail and the other client bases you just mentioned? And how big of -- what's the approach to them and how big of an impact do you think it could be? I'm going to have Rob answer that.
So as you know we have a lot of products on our platform.
And what we're finding is that the dialogue that we're having with the financial advisers is more wholesome.
They use both mutual funds.
They buy stocks bonds and use ETFs.
And what they want to have is a more wholesome conversation about how to use both in their asset allocation.
So we think by sending someone there and combining that group to have those more wholesome conversations that we're able to expand the type of business that they're doing with BlackRock because they're looking for stewardship advice and solutions and not just someone that's coming in with one particular product.
We also think by combining this we'll have a greater outreach because it takes more time to have those wholesome dialogue.
And in order to expand our reach we want to have more people in the field having those direct conversations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just following up on the ETFs again you mentioned your thoughts on the future fixed income ETFs potentially being a $2 trillion market.
I'd be curious to get your thoughts on the future of both active ETFs obviously a small component of the market currently and then whether there's a potential to have a stronger presence for multi-asset in the ETF space.
So we are continuing to explore the active ETF market.
Currently we really don't have enough evidence to show that that is going to expand as dramatically as putting fixed income ETFs in more of an asset allocation model.
That's where we're focused right now using fixed income.
But we do believe that that is going to continue to grow.
It gives clients a more liquid way to be in the fixed income market.
As far as the multi-asset we think that is a huge growth opportunity one that we are particularly set up to do because people are looking for a the asset allocation and in fact a way to enter more high-yielding instruments like alternatives.
And we think that there will be many many more opportunities to iShare various vehicles that are in the marketplace.
So we look at that as growth opportunities for us as well.
Matt this is consistent with what we've been saying.
We're not suggesting there's not room for active ETFs.
We just don't believe as the overall industry is going to be driving that much of the growth and the real key will be using ETFs as a tactical allocation product.
As evidence of what we did with this institutional pension fund by allowing them to simplify their huge fixed income positions and having 4 different dynamic fixed income ETFs allows them to move around the allocation from emerging markets to credit to low duration and back and forth.
And we believe you can earn alpha through that mechanistic way of moving around your weightings by those categories using ETF.
This is what we believe is going to be a lot more dynamic.
So allowing the investor to do more of that asset allocation within fixed income institutionally will lead more and more institutions that can be driving this.
This is one of the big reasons why we believe it could be a $2-plus trillion market Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions.
One most of these pricing changes are pretty immediate and one of your competitors has some transition issues.
So the question is what's the timeframe to see some effect potentially on flows and our market share? And then secondarily we've never really talked about ETF margins not that I'm asking for the number so to speak.
But as you think about margins over time assuming this change doesn't affect the overall revenue yield I guess can you talk about the benefits of scale a more effective sales force? What's happening with the direct cost? It looks like those are coming down a little bit.
And then where does new product development cost fit in there et cetera? So initially we don't expect to see any savings from our combination of the sales force.
We want to see how this is going to work.
We want to size it properly.
We want to make sure that they're having the appropriate dialogue.
And we think we'll see increased sales.
But we're not expecting that right out of the box to have any incremental savings on that.
So that's really the first part of it.
As far as the margin goes we don't break down the individual products in that way.
But we can certainly say that iShares contributes to the healthy 40% operating margin that we currently have and we expect that to continue.
And the other part of your question is that how soon do we expect to see growth in the new products? We have the pedal to the metal here.
We're going out in advertising.
The sales force is ready.
It takes a little time to go out and talk to everyone but we're working hard on ramping these products up as quickly as possible.
Those are the foreign new products.
And as you know the 6 existing ones that we have changed the price we are already seeing flows into those particular products.
So those are already outstanding and ready to be ramped up in new products.
We're going to have everyone out discussing it and hope to do it as soon as possible.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could follow up just on the margin issue again I mean obviously scale is of benefit but are the other inputs stable increasing decreasing? Any thoughts on that? On the overall margins? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the ETF side I'm sorry.
Oh.
There's always going to be more and more competitive pressure.
But we're not here to tell you that there's not issues like that.
But it really depends on the mix of the products.
I mean some of our margins increased in our ETF products because of the mix of business.
So it is a mix issue more than anything else.
It is the mix business -- much more dominant than competitive issues and things like that.
So if you could describe to me where the mix is going to be I could describe to you what the direction of the margin is going to be.
But we're very comfortable with where we are today in our margins.
We don't think the margin is going to dramatically change over the future.
And if the mix changes to much more -- like it did this quarter.
With more equities the margins improved.
If the mix goes more back into fixed income the margins will be reduced.
I'd say I don't think there's any mystery there.
Let me just touch on one thing because you asked the question kind of vague related to the changes in one of our competitors.
We aren't seeing flows into our existing products because of the changes of index providers with our competitor.
But I'm not getting into any more detail than that? LLC Research Division</strong> Just curious about the strategic decision here to initially roll out 10 ETFs.
Obviously you guys have the capability to do a much larger number than that for the new buy-and-hold investor that you're targeting.
Any thoughts there as to maybe you might see this expand a little bit or do you feel like this is a good initial launch? No we've done a lot of work on this and we've been working on this for the last 6 months trying to really identify the major core products that this buy-and-hold sector is interested in.
And we want to have the large and very liquid products that they're looking for.
And this is the group that we identified.
We will start here as our clients need change.
Then we'll look to -- if we need to make as much change we'll change.
But this is a lot of research over the last 6 months to make these changes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up I guess have you had any thought as to how Vanguard might react to this? I'm just wondering maybe if you guys could comment what you might be prepared to do if Vanguard turns around and reduces fees further on their end? Did you feel like you're fairly well positioned at this point? Or might that result in another reaction? Vanguard is an excellent company.
They have a great market position.
They have a great brand.
I'm not here to talk about my competitors.
They are actually a big client of BlackRock too.
So I'm not here to discuss what Vanguard may or may not do.
I believe we're in a very good position.
I think we responded to some elements.
But let me just say overall this is not a price war.
This is all about working with our clients.
I think you guys and I'm kind of -- I mean including the press have created this myth about a price war stuff.
There's nothing related to a price war.
We did not think about this as a price war.
We thought about this as a means to be much more comprehensive to our clients to provide as Rob said core products that will fit our clients needs who have different dimensional needs than some of our other clients.
And so we've got to move on from this myth about a price war.
As this -- we had our healthiest quarter.
We are very optimistic about where we are.
We're well positioned in product engineering and product design.
That's what's -- that's the greatest dynamic that's going to fuel ETFs.
It is not about pricing and all that.
It's responding to clients to provide products that fit the needs of clients as they expand in product as they expand geographically.
And I think we are as well positioned as any firm in the world in the ETF world to be responsive to our clients in products in geographic mix and in design and then linking these products into a solution-based relationship.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Look I'm sorry to beat the dead horse on the ETF pricing issue.
But I did have another one.
I could see why matching or not matching rather fees on the emerging market product to Vanguard's VWO is sensible.
I guess you'd have to assume pretty drastic decay rates on your products that sort of the management for that to be an economic decision.
But I'm wondering still if some fee cut in that product might have been prudent as it relates to institutional traders.
And specifically do you have an idea of how much of your market share lost to Vanguard over the last 3 years was from leakage from an institutional trader segment? And might you be overestimating the importance of a secondary market liquidity in maintaining that segment's loyalty? The secondary market liquidity is tantamount.
I think we have 3x more liquidity in that product than any Vanguard product.
So it is an institutional choice and we continue to do that.
The one thing that people are failing to look at too is institutions by and large want to use the MSCI Index and so that's a big change too going forward.
But the one thing that no one is focusing on if you're an institution you're much more attuned to tracking error.
You're much more attuned to liquidity bid-ask spreads.
And if you add up liquidity you'll add up the most recent tracking error differentials.
The spread that you're suggesting is far smaller than what it really is.
And institutions understand that.
It's a harder thing to understand if you're retail.
But institutional and this is why we are continuing to see $6 billion of growth this is why we continue to believe what we're doing is the right one.
And you know what we'll find out in a year or 2 if we're wrong.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the new emerging market product hundreds of ETFs that have been launched over the years that never really gained traction.
So what gives you confidence that this product will succeed given that it's arguably not first to market in the buy-and-hold segment? And in your research on the segmentation of these markets how important did you determine that the first market advantage is to customer segments exhibit greater price elasticity? No question.
First to market is a huge advantage.
That has not changed.
That has been our position and we've discussed this over many years.
And obviously we are aware of first market issues.
On the other hand we do believe the brand of BlackRock and the brand of iShares is quite compelling.
Most ETF platforms are just not growing enough.
They're not going to achieve scale or velocity.
And I do believe we have an advantage with our platform.
Our platform that we have in retail our platform that we have globally and institutionally allows us to have more connections with retail clients and more importantly with institutional clients globally.
So there's no question first market mover is a very compelling strong foundational issue.
We know we can't change that dimension because we fully believe that is a very compelling dimension in terms of looking at growth of ETF product.
But we do believe just like -- with our brand with our brand advertising backing this we believe we have a large opportunity in hand in building our market share in that product.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to ETFs -- I'm sorry also to beat the dead horse.
As you look out a company let's say you are successful in building out this buy-and-hold strategy the pricing differential between the maybe your institutional liquidity-driven investor it's pretty sizable.
So is there a risk of any kind of sort of adverse arbitrage even without incremental pricing back and forth between you and Vanguard Schwab what have you.
But just internally just in terms of that adverse shift have you thought about that in the sort of...
There's no question if our core products can build more rapidly than you think there's no question you could see a slow burn from the large product -- from the existing product to the smaller one.
I'm not here to suggest otherwise.
In addition first of all our fees are not our decision.
There are mutual fund and in this case our iShares board's decision.
So I don't want anyone -- it's pretty hard for me to discuss this.
I don't even -- I'm not on the board Rob is.
But it is a board decision related to fees and it is the board's decision to determine how should fees be looked upon versus various products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe a 2-part second question.
When you mentioned before the world going to a more of a service solutions based business between sort of the beta and some of the alpha strategies what's the outlook for active equity mandates generally? And then the second part of the question is if you're successful in getting to $2 trillion of fixed income passive inflows in fixed income where does that come from and the implication for the fixed income businesses at large? Let me address the fixed income side first and we go on to passive and active and I'll let Rob discuss that too.
On the fixed income side I think Basel III has a huge implication and the Volcker Rule related to capital positions for banks and security firms.
They're going to have to have higher capital balances.
And therefore they're going to have to charge more for their balance sheet.
This is totally -- this is totally in the same direction how we think about our building and trading platform if we need to create more liquidity.
So unquestionably investors in fixed income are feeling the issue around liquidity and fixed income.
And if more and more institutions who are actively investing in fixed income are being punished by the bid-ask spreads which erode active returns which is a real threat we believe more and more institutions are going to put a large component of their fixed income in this type of strategy by owning 4 5 6 core active fixed income ETFs and move around that dynamic.
And we're seeing that.
We have more and more dialogue.
We're in a dialogue with one other large institution right now in doing that.
So I believe that trend is going to be a major component.
Now if miraculously we see some very tight bid-ask spreads and we see less pain in trading actively fixed income maybe the outlook on fixed income will be lessened.
I mean we are responding to the market and trying to be solutions-based relationships with our clients.
And this using ETFs as a solution is a very good way of minimizing that trading reduction.
It certainly reduces operational risk for clients who are sitting with huge pools of fixed income.
And so we are obviously very involved in various dialogues on this.
But importantly we're seeing more and more clients who are tactically allocating using fixed income ETFs and we believe this will continue.
So Bill if you believe that Dodd-Frank Volcker Rule Basel III is going to have a permanent impact in the way of balance sheet treatment for security firms and banks in terms of making markets which means wider bid-ask spreads then the usage of ETF fixed income is going to grow.
If you don't agree in that outcome and you think we will get more normalized again than we have it in this past year then you may not see as much growth.
But let me -- before Rob turns over let me just say we'd done something very fundamental about fixed income and equity.
This is really a beta-alpha issue related to the alpha part of equities.
If fundamental equities outperformed consistently the indexes you are going to see then more flows back into alpha products.
That's -- so you're going to see the ebb and flow from index into alpha and back and forth.
One of the big reasons why we are aggressively building our -- and you may say this is wrong but we are aggressively building our alpha fundamental equity teams because we believe there will be a time where active managers outperform with consistency.
Hopefully those teams are at BlackRock and we're going to get the flows then.
And we're seeing that already.
Albeit small we are the -- we have a -- our European equity team is the top decile team over the last 5 years.
We are actually winning about 50% of the flows in European equities in Europe.
Now 50% of the flows only represents $400 million $500 million this year.
And so if you have performance you are going to get those flows.
And I do believe that -- if the equity industry has a more consistent out-performance after fees by the way then you're going to see a mix change between beta and alpha.
But Rob do you want to respond to that? I'd say Larry has said it directly.
The field is narrowing based upon performance.
If you have the performance there are flows to get.
So I would not rule out active equity and we're going to build that area because there will be another cycle where active managers outperform their benchmark significantly enough for that money to move.
And we want to be there to capture that money.
The key is -- the real key is if you look -- talk about bar-belling for a second Bill there's just so much money flooding into alternatives.
And so we see that unabated.
But the reality is a lot of hedge funds are certainly underperforming the equity markets now for a couple of years.
And it looks like this year is going to be another year where most hedge funds are underperforming.
The real question will be is there a pivot point whereby investors start saying "Gosh I maybe not as interested in hedge funds strategies or as much and maybe I will use some of that allocation to go back into fundamental equities." So don't just think it's active-passive.
It is also a balance between investing in alternatives and fundamental equities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I certainly hear your point.
It's coming through loudly and clearly that the ETF market is segmenting and that there has been historically a group of capital markets participants who value the liquidity type bid-ask spread and so forth.
But I'm hoping you can build on your earlier answer or your answer to an earlier question by answering the following: To the extent that the history of finance has basically seen lots of deep pressure in the institutional side of the business as well with brokerage commissions coming down bid-ask spreads narrowing on the institutional side of the business why shouldn't we think that the same price pressure or price consciousness on the part of customers in the buy-and-hold segment will over time manifest itself in the other segments that you say is currently not all that price-sensitive? Well what we're saying also that segment is also looking at the bid-ask spread as a component of cost and they're looking at tracking error.
So from that segment they're looking at all 3 and the totality of those 3.
And what I think there's a failure of people recognizing the 2 other costs.
So I'm not suggesting they're not thoughtful about costs.
But keep in mind for a lot of the trading-oriented organizations if they're tactically allocating they're looking at much more -- they want to make sure that they get as close to the index as possible that's their tracking areas.
They want to make sure that they have the liquidity.
And so unquestionably in our conversations and dialogues with those institutions fees are less important.
I am not suggesting though that fees and the trends in fees across all of our businesses are under review continually.
If you provide the right solutions though fees become less dominant.
And so this is an industry that in my mind has those types of dominant pressures.
As I said we saw that evident in our loss of our $70-odd billion fixed income product where some -- our competitor are willing to do it almost at cost.
So that's another evidence of -- you could call it fee pressure we would call that kind of stupidity.
But -- so I don't want to leave anyone with the notion that we're not constantly reviewing our products.
We're not constantly reviewing how those products are performing.
And obviously it's undeniable lower fees are better than higher fees for our clients.
Rob do you want comment on? Let me just say look it's a very generalist question.
Over time it will depend upon what the competition is what the value proposition is and then what the innovations are that we're able to establish to want people to come to our products and they're willing to pay for those innovations.
So we have to be on the cutting edge and we have to earn the fees from them.
And that's what our strategy has been for the last 20-odd years.
But what you're talking about is that everything always reverts to price.
And remember we have vendors too.
So we understand that from our perspective as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> One quick -- one second question my final one regarding your advertising.
It's curious to me that you're doing this mass market with the Yankees and so forth.
In the sense that -- are you trying to create an outcome in which customers come into -- let's talk about the retail segment -- customers come into retail brokerage firm and ask for iShares or rather...
Yes.
Yes yes yes.
We have been told by our distribution partners we need -- if we're going to be the #1 or 2 largest providers of products largest providers of solutions in both iShares and in our mutual funds we needed to have more brand awareness.
And -- that is -- and so we've been told by our distribution partners it is necessary for us to have more branding more brand recognition to support their effort in selling our products.
So we are responding to our clients and they were loud and clear to us a year ago in that we needed to build brand awareness.
That is truly our objective.
And in a very short period of time we are achieving some of that.
And it's a long story and it's going to take time.
And time if you have the message over time that message becomes very strong.
And the great brands have strong brand messages that are resilient over time.
That is my #1 priority related to this brand branding effort.
So we can have a long-standing brand effort that has a connection with the retail client.
So our distribution partners can find it much easier to talk about BlackRock or BlackRock iShares products.
No.
It's -- we have a lot to look forward to a lot of volatility.
We have a presidential election.
We have a fiscal cliff.
We have -- and we also have European uncertainty in front of us.
Setting that aside though BlackRock is as well positioned to respond to all those issues to our clients to help our clients in terms of understanding how to deal those uncertainties.
And as we said in our branding initiative BlackRock was built for these times to be responsive to our clients to helping our clients overcome the uncertainty around all of these big macro issues.
And lastly I just want to thank all of the employees of BlackRock for a great quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Inc.
Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Teleconference.
Our host for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Ann Marie Petach; and General Counsel Matthew Mallow.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mallow you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone.
This is Matt Mallow.
Before Larry and Ann Marie make their remarks as I do with each of these calls let me point out to you that during the course of this call we may make a number of forward-looking statements.
We call your attention to the fact that our actual results may differ from these statements.
As you all know BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC which lists some of the factors which may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what's said today.
Finally BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
With that I'll get out of the way and turn it over to Ann Marie.
Thanks Matt.
Good morning everyone.
I'm going to provide some brief comments.
I'll point out a few highlights in the earnings supplement and as usual I'm going to be discussing primarily as-adjusted results.
Overall 2012 was a very good year for BlackRock's clients shareholders and employees and we're entering 2013 with great momentum.
We generated record full year EPS of $13.68 that's up 15% compared to 2011 reflecting a 5% increase in operating earnings and a 3% increase in revenue compared to a year ago.
Record quarterly earnings per share of $3.96 were up 29% compared to a year ago and that's supported by a 24% increase in operating income and up 14% compared to the third quarter and that's supported by a 19% increase in operating earnings.
The fourth quarter operating margin was 42.6% and the full year margin was 40.4%.
This reflects cost discipline strong investment performance and a trend of continuous improvement.
The full year margin was up 0.7 point from 2011 and up 2.2 percentage points since 2009 when we acquired BGI and even more than that when you compare it to the pro forma combined margin.
All that data is on Slide 4 of the supplement.
Most importantly fourth quarter earnings reflected strong revenue growth and positive momentum in net new business across each of our channels.
Improved investment performance and positive market.
These are important trends as we begin 2013.
In the fourth quarter clients continued to re-risk with particularly strong flows into equities.
We saw $31.2 billion into equities primarily into ETFs and institutional index product.
We also saw $12.4 billion of demand for fixed income products driven in part by retail investors who maintained their preference for income-oriented products.
Defined contribution plan growth drove flows into multi-asset class products.
We also saw a demand for single-strategy hedge funds and private equity fund of funds while returning significant capital as we liquidated our PPIP fund after generating a 23.5% return.
We believe our strong and consistent cash flow model differentiates us within the financial services industry and allows us first to continue to invest in both organic growth and tactical acquisitions such as the recently announced acquisition of the Crdit Suisse ETF platform that really expands our presence in Switzerland; secondly it allows us to pay dividends which we have consistently increased with earnings growth over time; and thirdly to repurchase shares in the open market.
In 2012 we generated $3.1 billion of operating cash flow and our -- and continued our discipline of returning that cash to shareholders.
We announced today a 12% increase in our dividend to an annual level of $6.72 per share.
This is our fourth consecutive year of a dividend increase with 3 of the 4 increases at a double-digit growth rate compared to the prior year.
And to put this into perspective our dividend is now higher than our 2008 EPS.
We've repurchased about 870 000 shares in the quarter for $166 million and our board approved a 7.5 million share increase in our repurchase authority.
This gives us authority to repurchase 10.2 million shares including the 2.7 million shares remaining under our prior program.
And just to review 2012 we repurchased 9.1 million shares for $1.5 billion.
And when you combine that with the $1.1 billion we paid in dividends we returned $2.6 billion of cash to shareholders or 104% of our net income.
I'm going to move to the earnings supplement which you can find on our website.
I'm going to skip a number of slides and focus on just 4 slides that tell most of the story.
Let's start with Slide 8.
As I mentioned previously we produced a 29% increase in earnings per share compared to the fourth quarter driven by growth in operating EPS.
The as-adjusted results reported here did exclude a $30 million onetime expense.
In order to ensure compliance with new OCC guidelines regarding short-term investment funds or STIFs BlackRock chose to sell certain legacy securities at a loss.
And to make a onetime $30 million contribution to the STIF funds to maintain the dollar NAV of the funds while also complying with the new rules.
All of the securities affected by the new OCC guidelines have been purchased in BGI funds prior to BlackRock's acquisition to BGI and were supported by Barclays under our $2.2 billion capital support agreement.
Last quarter we had successfully negotiated a partial release of Barclays' coverage in return for a onetime payment into the funds in excess of what we had expected them to receive under the agreements.
Prior to the publication the new OCC guidelines BlackRock had been really successfully pursuing a hold to maturity or orderly sale of the securities.
Importantly all the securities added to the portfolio since the BGI acquisition have been at much lower risk.
The funds are now fully compliant with OCC guidelines that don't go into effect until July.
Also on this page you can see our nonoperating results.
Nonoperating results reflect a $21 million increase in the market value of the co- and seed investment portfolio.
And just to mention the fourth quarter as-adjusted tax rate was 31.4%.
31.5% is likely a good modeling for 2013 -- good rate for modeling 2013 based on what we know as of today.
Moving to Slide 10.
Fourth quarter revenues were $2.5 billion that's up $312 million or 14% from a year ago.
I already mentioned the strong performance on the disposition-related portfolio and a number of our single-strategy hedge funds with December locks which both contributed to growth in performance fees of 63% compared to a year ago.
We enter 2013 better positioned than we entered 2012 as we do not face the same performance headwinds we faced coming into 2012.
So the performance fee related to the disposition portfolio will not repeat in 2013.
And just as a reminder fourth quarter is our peak performance measurement period with that just eliminated number of funds actually have performance measurement periods in the first quarter so you always see some seasonality there.
We delivered full year growth in BlackRock Solutions and advisory revenues.
That's despite the fact that we successfully managed a $75 billion reduction in advisory assets.
Those revenues were replaced with core 11 revenues revenues which are recurring and provide a solid foundation on which to deliver revenue growth in 2013 as the appetite for both Aladdin and advisory opportunities remains strong.
Base fees as you can see on Slide 11 were up $218 million with growth across almost every asset class.
In the fourth quarter we generated a 6.4% annualized organic growth in long-dated assets when you exclude the institutional index which are lower fee and a bit more volatile in the flow basis.
The full year organic growth rate on the same basis was about 4.2%.
So when you combine this with market improvements this was a key driver to the 11.7% growth in base fees in the quarter compared to a year ago.
We entered 2013 with the benefit of our 2012 flows -- the 2012 market of improvements and positive flow and organic growth trends.
You can see that in the pickup in the growth rate in the second half of 2012.
This is all positive  [ph] momentum for 2013 revenue growth.
As we look forward to 2013 we've made real progress.
Outflows and scientific equity in the fourth quarter were down to $2 billion.
And our outstanding performance track record leaves us very confident in this product.
Our fixed income performance is also strong in attracting institutional and retail investors.
And in fundamental equities we've made a series of changes throughout 2012 that are beginning to positively impact performance.
A number of trends from 2012 are expected to continue into 2013 such as the growth of ETFs retirement themes including growth in defined contribution assets and growth in appetite for income solutions and alternative products.
In addition we've positioned ourselves well through organic investments to meet investor appetite for emerging market product as well as to take advantage of more opportunities with clients in Asia and Latin America.
On Slide 12 you can see expenses were up 8%.
That compares to the 14% growth in revenue primarily driven by revenue-related factors including performance fee-related revenue sharing.
The full year comp-to-revenue ratio was 34.9%.
This is right in line with our 35% trend which has been totally consistent over the past 6 years.
G&amp;A expense increase is up $30 million were more than explained by our investment in marketing and branding including the relaunch of our iShares brand.
As we look forward we will continue to invest in our brands.
I would expect 2013 marketing expense to be roughly in line with 2012 for the full year though we do plan to begin the year with very strong messaging.
Given the positive client reaction to the campaign we remain highly confident that this is a critical long-term investment in the business.
So to summarize in 2012 we delivered organic revenue growth driven by our strategic focus areas healthy margins and strong operating cash flow which we returned to shareholders.
We've consistently run the business to serve our clients and deliver value to our shareholders.
Year end is a good time to reflect on a few metrics which put our consistency and our long-term track record into perspective.
Our 2009 dividend was $3.12.
Our 2013 dividend of $6.72 is more than double that level.
Our pro forma 2009 operating margin for the BlackRock BGI combination was 36.8%.
Our 2012 margin of 40.4% has reflected steady year-over-year improvement and has contributed 2 percentage points of operating earnings growth that's beyond the revenue-related growth in each of the last 2 years and even more than that in the year of integration.
We're particularly proud of this result in light of the investments we've made to grow the business and to serve our clients in an increasingly complex and demanding regulatory environment.
Most importantly our platform investments and client relations have generated revenue growth which has been the core foundation to our overall growth in operating income which when combined with our share repurchases has accumulated to an 11% 5-year CAGR in EPS.
Looking ahead our focus on performance and the strategic needs of our clients and our ability to generate cash flow and reward shareholders leave us well positioned to deliver in 2013 and beyond.
With that I'll turn it over to Larry.
Thank you Ann Marie.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining the call today.
As you can see from the earnings release our quarterly and year-end financial results were very strong 14% increase in revenues 29% increase in diluted EPS compared to the fourth quarter 2011 with accelerating organic AUM growth approaching 7% annualized in the fourth quarter.
During the fourth quarter we generated $47 billion of long-term net new assets.
In total we generated $60.8 billion when you include cash and advisory.
For the year we generated over $107 billion of long-term net inflows.
When you exclude the 2 index products that we previously announced in terms of our outflows the big large fixed-income index product that we lost because we chose because of the fee compression that the client demanded.
And also we should keep in mind during the year we reduced our advisory assets by $75 billion through the distribution to back to the New York Fed on Maiden Lane and paid a nice profit to the American taxpayers related to our success in navigating those portfolios.
So at year end we ended up with the highest AUM ever at $3.8 trillion.
But more importantly this was not just in one product area.
Our AUM levels reached the highest levels in institutional retail and iShares.
Another testimony to the broad-based platform that we've created here at BlackRock.
Our equity and multi-asset product classes are each at the highest AUM levels in history.
This quarter we crossed over $1 trillion in institutional index products.
In EMEA we saw client AUM also at its highest level now making up over 30% of our total AUM another point above the diversification of our business model on a geographic base result.
So these results clearly demonstrate the tremendous value and the still enormous potential we have in our diversification our scale and our global reach.
We are seeing proof that the investments we have made in people products technology over the past 3 years are paying off.
And I think it's the consistency that we've been discussing with you that we are going to invest in people and technology.
We're going to invest in brand and that is beginning to pay off in the financial results.
This quarter we saw positive asset flows across every client channel in every geographic region.
At the heart of our diversification strategy has been a strategic emphasis a combining act of passive [ph]   capacity and capabilities to offer clients a holistic investment solution.
To me it is particularly gratifying that our people have shown quite dramatically that active and passive not only can live together but indeed flourish to the benefit of our entire organization but more importantly to our clients.
Our clients are coming to us not just on one strategy but a holistic approach.
And the fact that we can provide them a beta a alpha with risk management overlay no other organization in the world can do that.
We also continue to maintain a relentless focus on investment performance and we are seeing continued strong momentum in our fixed income performance and our scientific active equity products where we have a number of top quartile performers.
And we're seeing signs of improvement now in our fundamental equity product sets.
And I mentioned last quarter we have replaced a number of underperforming equity teams over the last 18 months and I'm pleased to say that most of the changes are behind us.
And in each of these new teams they're performing above their respective benchmarks since they have taken over.
These are the investments that we have made these are the investments that in the short run are very costly but we are beginning to see the results of those investments.
And I feel very confident that we will see those benefits continue in the quarters to come.
Our diversification gives us a powerful competitive edge as we move into 2013.
In fact BlackRock more than any other organization is equipped to meet these client needs in an environment of unprecedented complexity and uncertainty that will differentiate us and help us ensure that we continue to track clients and nurture increasingly deep hopefully productive relationships with them.
And that is why I'm as passionate as I have ever been about the future of BlackRock.
Let me turn to the fourth quarter and the full year results.
We have been living in a strange investment environment for some time.
Economic and political uncertainty persist.
Unfortunately it will -- they will continue to persist.
Lower rebate -- rates remain.
A tax on savers remains a problem in terms of the underfunding of pension funds -- plans that are getting worse.
And demographic because they're changing with more people entering retirement and living much longer  in retirement and are not prepared to meet the needs of elongated longevity of life.
So we are seeing with these big macro challenges we're seeing several megatrends in investment behavior.
The secular shift to passive investing in ETFs a focus on income and retirement clients are barbelling risk using passive and high alpha product strategies including alternatives.
Importantly these themes represent strategic growth areas for BlackRock with ETFs income and retirement products index and alternative strategies which have accounted for over 50% of our flows in the fourth quarter and 75% of our flows of the year.
So these are the themes we discussed over the last few years with consistency.
These are the themes that we discussed in our branding initiative to helping our clients understand their issues.
And I believe the results of those flows are speaking loudly with selecting the right themes and understanding the macro themes that are impacting the investment environment.
Over the last several years we've invested heavily in our businesses and businesses and teams to position ourself for these megatrends.
In addition in 2012 we began marketing the BlackRock and iShares brand far more aggressively than ever before.
Our marketing communication efforts are designed to raise awareness about the investment challenges facing our clients and the breadth of solutions that BlackRock and iShares offer to help navigate these very challenging environments.
These efforts have been extraordinarily positive even more than I and all of us have expected.
As measured by increased awareness of our brands more traffic to BlackRock directly and through intermediaries and most importantly in growth in our market share and assets which is particularly evident in our ETF flows.
With ETFs we continue to witness broad-based adoption among both retail and institutional clients.
We finished the fourth quarter with the #1 share globally with -- in ETFs with $35.7 billion of new assets our highest net new business in a quarter since the merger of BGI in 2009.
In addition iShares finished in 2012 with net new business over $85 billion or a 33% market share.
Again our best year since 2008 representing a 14% organic growth for the year.
I am very pleased to tell you that our iShares AUM ended the year at $753 billion.
Clients certainly appear to be re-risking in the fourth quarter.
I am not sure I will call it re-risking going forward because when you look at the duration of treasuries a 15-basis-point movement means you lose your entire coupon or your performance for the year.
So what we are seeing is clients understanding the embedded risk that these low interest rates or bonds and are now migrating into equities not necessarily in re-risking but looking at the relative values of the income that equities can provide and importantly the upside potential in a modestly growing environment in our world.
And so this is a huge benefit for us.
And I know many people talk about this a re-risking and I think we should stop talking about a re-risking because of the nature and the nature of fixed income relative to equities.
Our iShares equity in fixed income AUM is up approximately 27% and 25% respectively.
Our Core Series the new products we debated in October had about $4.6 billion in net new business representing about 17% of our U.S.
flows.
And all our regions posted positive flows in almost every asset class in ETFs.
In the coming year we will do -- we will expect to see a pickup and actively manage ETFs with a change in the SEC rules on derivative use.
But I'm very impressed with the statement from Barron's magazine that came out this weekend.
And I state "Actively managed ETFs maybe the biggest story that never quite happened." And so there was a lot of noise about actively ETFs.
We believe in them but we don't expect them to become anything large to the extent of what core type of ETFs will produce.
I remain very committed to our -- growing our iShares franchise both organically and through acquisitions.
Consistently we announced last week that we entered into agreement with Crdit Suisse to acquire their ETF business.
This is our second ETF acquisition in the past 12 months.
Claymore a Canadian ETF platform was done in January of 2012 another good example of adding unique product capability and unique markets consistent with what we were saying for the last few years doing fill-in acquisitions where we believe we have great opportunities.
And the Crdit Suisse deal also represents a major new commitment for BlackRock in the Swiss market where we see significant opportunity to build out a full suite of investment offerings in Swiss dollars.
And this is as evident by our acquisition or -- the Swiss Re Private Equity funds of funds business which we closed this past September.
Overall a standout quarter for the year for iShares and we have begun 2013 with an incredible momentum as you could see in the public data of the flows and ETFs in our dominant position.
Let me talk about our other strategic initiatives and the first one is income which continues to be a focus for all investors.
It remains a key market theme and driver of inflows for us.
In a low rate and volatile environment investors are seeking products that can move consistently with the markets that could withstand changes in our environment.
And those are the products with high dividends and high-yield products that provide enough income to warrant the risks.
This is leading to strong demand in our income-oriented products which last year we generated over $18 billion in flows.
We saw this trend manifest up in our retail channels where we generated long-term net inflows about $4.1 billion dominated by fixed income and income-oriented products.
Both U.S.
international retail generated about $2 billion in net new long flows respectively.
For the full year we saw $11.6 billion of long-term net flows and for the end of the year long-term retail about $403 billion in this area.
In 2012 consistent with what we talked about the barbelling of risk we launched 3 alternative retail products to bring higher alpha institutional quality hedge funds to retail.
We experienced one of our strongest quarters to date in the retail alternative flows about $275 million.
We now have nearly $10 billion in retail alternative products.
Let me turn to the second strategic initiative and that was retirement which continues to be a theme about longevity aging population changing demographics worldwide which are driving new investment decisions.
The market landscape is shifting from defined benefit to defined contribution which is driving strong flows for us.
We in our channel we generated $29 billion in net flows for the quarter which represents a 9% organic growth.
There's no other DC manager that had a 9% organic growth and of that $2.4 billion and that's inflows in the fourth quarter.
Our LifePath target date suite is a key component of our retirement solutions generating $3.3 billion of new business in the quarter and $14 billion of flows during the entire year.
2013 will mark the 20th year since we introduced this product the first target date product in the industry.
Another example of the innovation of our platform and anticipating needs for our clients.
As we anticipated -- let me go into institutional products first.
The institutional products produced about $7.2 billion in net long-term flows driven largely by barbelling and continued to shift in the multi-asset and passive.
For the year we saw about $11 billion in net long-term flows once again excluding those 2 outflows that we proactively removed.
And long-term institutional AUM at the end of 2012 ended at about $2.3 trillion.
And as we anticipated the shift to passive has proven to be a significant and long-term trend in the industry one in which we are very well positioned to benefit.
Globally we added about $15.2 billion in net new business in our institutional index business in the fourth quarter and crossed the $1 trillion threshold of institutional index products.
We saw outflows in our institutional active equity and some outflows in our fixed income products.
The equity outflows was largely due to rotation out of a large cap equity style box and additional withdrawal from our scientific equity one.
Some of this we would expect it as we changed our managers.
Some people buy by contract will change their -- they will pull out assets if we change their managers.
This is something we anticipated.
This is something that we expected.
However our new teams in these products have already shown a healthy change in our performance and we expect to see that change over the long period of time as we continue to build out positive alpha in those product areas.
And in the fixed income product areas we are seeing clients trying to navigate some moving out of core fixed income into other products whether it is alpha products like hedge funds or in some cases reallocating back into equities.
We still believe there is a lot of opportunity in fixed income so I don't want to sound harsh about it.
I think many of the income products of fixed income we have great products.
I am very pleased to say which I'll get into a minute about our performance.
Our performance has been extraordinary in some of these products that we've already emphasized.
Let me touch on -- before I talk about performance let me talk about BlackRock Solutions.
Revenues were up 2% for the year and 8% since the last quarter.
Our Aladdin business posted a very strong yearly and quarterly growth of about 16% for the year and 10% for the quarter.
We added $3.5 trillion in new assets on to our Aladdin platform with the addition of 16 clients and expanding into 10 existing client mandates.
I am very pleased to say that we now have 51 Aladdin clients and we are analyzing on behalf of our clients' assets now close to $14 trillion of assets that Aladdin now helps our clients in terms of analyzing their risk.
We see at this moment more opportunity for Aladdin and the use of Aladdin than we've ever seen in the history of our outsourcing of Aladdin products to our clients.
The pipeline is extremely robust.
The dialogues we're having for utilization of our Aladdin products has never been as strong.
Let me now touch on performance which I'm very pleased to talk about.
We have over the last year talked about how we have this relentless focus on performance making sure we fill the needs and the expectations of our clients.
Our fixed income platform reap benefits from the past changes with strong 2012 performance.
84% of our  fixed income AUM exceeds its benchmarks for 1- and 3-year period of time.
We have -- our 3-year performance is better than the majority of our large competitors.
And I'm very pleased to say not just in our core products but we are top decile in our high-yield products.
And importantly our strategic income opportunity product which is a go-anywhere fund we are in the top quartile in that product for 1- and 3-year period beating most of our large peers.
In our scientific active equity area we are going to make a very large push in 2013 because our results are terrific with 84% of our products exceeding their benchmarks for 1 year and 90% for 3 years.
A tremendous turnaround for the team.
This product has better alpha than about 95% of all large cap series products in the world.
And so we talk about this as a quant product.
This product should be sold to the non-quant players.
We hope to be showing this to clients who have large core holdings and large cap products because we have a very very competitive story to-date.
It's no mystery we made some large changes in our fundamental equities because of mixed performance with less than 50% of our AUM above our benchmark.
We're not satisfied with it.
We made some very large changes with the knowledge that in some of those changes we're going to lose assets.
This is a fundamental belief that we needed to upgrade our teams build stronger and more robust teams and I am very pleased with a short-term results of our new teams.
Our emerging equity team that came on board early last year they were over 700 basis points above the benchmark exceeding almost everybody in terms of performance.
And we are in dialogue with clients about these products.
Our European equity where quite frankly there's just not much flows into European equities in the last year but we grew by about $3 billion in European equities.
Our 1 our 3- and 5-year track record is in the top quartile.
So we have these pockets that have done well.
We have had pockets of area that have done poorly and we replaced those teams and are building those teams up to be much more respectable.
In our multi-asset product area we were about at the 49 percentile for some of the core products not acceptable right at the middle essentially.
And we are working it very heavily in making sure our teams continue to build performance that hopefully approaches the top quartile.
I am very confident in our teams though.
Last year despite being around the 50th percentile we still produced 11% returns for our clients in that product.
And I should say it is now the 10th year in a row we earned and generated 11% returns.
So on an absolute basis these products have done fabulously well.
On a relative basis we were right in the middle of the pack.
And we hope with the investments of -- in our teams to augment our existing great team that we have that will -- this will benefit in terms even a better performance.
And in alternative we continue to build momentum and we've had solid solid performance in some of our products.
One of our fixed income products had a 39% return.
Other fixed income products had close to 15% returns.
It's certainly -- we talked about the PPIP was a huge success we had for the American taxpayers and our clients in terms of 23.5% net performance.
That's after fees by the way to our clients.
Let me look ahead in 2013.
I am very thrilled excited about the coming year probably more excited than I have in many years.
We are seeing tangible results from the changes in the firm's architecture that we announced last summer to better align the needs of our clients.
We're seeing a strong response in the investments that we built in terms of investments in brand and other things like that.
And importantly we continue to focus on execution to achieve consistent organic growth and momentum.
We're starting to see the results of that in the last 2 quarters.
Since the start of a year we've generated over $14 billion in new fundings and we're also looking at about a $49 billion largely institutional pipeline.
So the funding at the beginning of the year has been large larger than any year to have $14 billion of fundings in the first 2 weeks and still -- and having a $49 billion pipeline.
So growth is coming from an increasingly global set of clients with the AUM manage for international clients approaching about 50%.
And we recognize the importance of reaching clients through the depths of our products our technology and our global reach.
Our focus areas over the past year have all shown good traction and will remain our focus in 2013.
We continue to be heavily focused on ETFs.
We'll be focused on retirement and income alternatives and risk management solutions will remain the growth areas for 2013.
In particular we are putting even a greater emphasis on emerging markets and particularly China represents a key opportunity for BlackRock as both the destination and source for investments.
China's market development has been marked by a long periods of status quo punctuated by regulatory driven and often unanticipated changes.
To succeed we realized we need to be engaged in the key discussions and decisions particularly helping create options to be in the position to execute successfully when there's opportunities emerging in China.
And to best position BlackRock in this market we're developing key relationships by expanding our investments and identifying senior leaders as demonstrated by our recent announcement this week that Hsueh-ming Wang will be joining us as our Chairman of BlackRock China which is a fantastic hire for us.
We have a true noted leader who will be helping us and me guide our position in China.
We already have nearly $200 billion in emerging market assets with the majority of those AUM passive products.
We believe there's a tremendous opportunity to grow our active franchise.
While it takes time with strong managers with performance that will attract clients' attention.
For example we hired a top-tier portfolio manager for Asian equities last winter and already his strong results are gaining traction with our clients.
So looking forward we are going to embrace the changing investment landscape and evolve our organization to maintain superior performance and to meet the changing needs of our clients.
The drive for performance and excellence is implicit in everything we do every moment every day every time we intersect with our clients.
Our business is a fiduciary-based business.
And as a fiduciary investment performance remains our top priority.
We are also focused on managing ourself efficiently and working smarter to ensure strong returns to our shareholders.
As Ann Marie discussed we remain committed to returning value to our shareholders.
In 2012 we returned over $2.5 billion to shareholders with our dividend and continued strong repurchase activity buying a total of 9.1 million shares for the year.
This will continue to be a priority in 2013.
I am very pleased to say that our board approved that 12% increase in our annual dividend and has given us the discretion to purchase additional 7.5 million shares which is bringing up our capacity now to 10.2 million shares.
The things that we have spent -- in the last few years preparing for and positioning our firms are now happening.
I've discussed margins in every one of these calls.
I said when there's beta we will scale appropriately.
Our business is scaling appropriately.
And in the fourth quarter we posted a 42.6% operating margin which is a result of strong organic growth beta market discipline.
And remember this is a 40%-plus margin in a year where we absorbed a substantial new investment in our brand investment in our teams and unprecedented levels of regulatory costs.
I've always said that we could easily break through the 40% margin in strong markets and we did.
I continue to believe a full year margin of greater than 40% is appropriate so we will continue to drive efficiencies to making sure that we continue to build our platform and to build the most efficient asset management firm in the world.
So in closing the key takeaways for me are this: One after 3 years of continuous evolution and focus in investing in our people our products our technology and more recently our brand our clients and partners are understanding our business model more than ever before and the results are validating the benefits of the diverse business model we have built.
Secondarily we've continued to differentiate ourselves from our peers which uniquely positions us to continue to be driving momentum in 2013.
And three we are relentlessly focused on executing against our strategic growth priorities.
Let me just state one thing because obviously there's always -- there was some uncertainty about leadership at BlackRock.
Let me be very clear about my views of the BlackRock leadership.
We have what I believe the best the deepest management team in the industry.
Myself and my team will be leading the business for years to come with skill and innovation.
I can't tell you how proud I am in working with my team and how much I enjoy having a leadership team that helps me and the entire firm navigate a better future for our clients a better future for our shareholders.
Once again I need to just thank our employees for really delivering a great year for our clients in terms of performance and what I would say a great year for our shareholders in delivering the financial results that are expected from us.
With that thank you everyone.
And we'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions]  Our first question will come from the line of Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I've got 2 questions; they're kind of related.
One there's widespread belief that investors will reengage in equities and you said in your prepared remarks about re-risking.
I'd love to hear -- and we think of re-risking as more tactical in short term -- but would love to hear your latest thoughts on reengagement which we think is more longer term and strategic.
So when accounting for the fiscal cliff are there indications of reengagement in either the retail or institutional investors? And maybe if so what are you seeing differently in the beginning of this year or even the end of last year that may have been different than what we saw in either early 2011 or even early 2010? Yes.
Ken I was trying to talk about that.
I agree with you re-risking is a tactical trade.
Obviously in some areas that may be happening.
But the flows that we're seeing institutionally through iShares and mutual funds it appears to me that people -- the Federal Reserve's actions in terms of persistent low rates and now making in my mind fixed income much riskier it's hard for me to say moving from fixed income products to equities is a re-risking trade.
It's more of a diversification of risk trade maybe.
And we are seeing very -- beginning to see some large scale what I'll call systematic changes in behavior.
Since the beginning of the year we have one large institutional client heavily oriented towards fixed income.
They awarded us about $6.5 billion entirely in equities mostly in index.
But in our conversation with the client it is a reorientation of risk how they think about it.
And as I said this investor has predominantly been a fixed income investor and they're diversifying their portfolios accordingly.
And so I think these are -- the movements we're beginning to see is -- it's not tactical anymore.
It is much more of a secular movement.
And I think that will -- even in the ETF flows you're seeing a consistent flow.
If you look at the flows year-to-date and I'm talking about the first 15 16 days in ETF the flows I think as an industry are more than 80% in fixed income.
This doesn't feel to me that it's a risk on tactical movement.
It's people are looking for exposure in more equity-like products.
Your next question will come from the line of Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have a quick question maybe following up to Ken's a little bit just on this topic.
I mean you gave that example where that one institutional client is looking at shifting its allocation towards equities.
In your view I mean how -- if we see that more broadly or if you've seen them more broadly do you -- outside of maybe dividend strategies I mean how do you think -- do you think most of that will actually flow to beta strategies like your index products or more to ETFs? And to what extent do you think or the fact that tax rates have gone up at least on individuals and tax flow accounts that that may even accelerate demand for ETFs and the index products at least in the retail world? Well I mean this one client is a non-U.S.
client so tax rates had nothing to do with this one client.
It was a global client.
I think everyone are looking at different strategies.
As you said I think there is a strong movement towards dividend-oriented products.
There is strong movement into beta products as you barbell for those clients who are barbelling risk or going into beta products and may be at 20% allocation in the higher alpha products.
But it's our view and this is why we're making these large investments there's going to be great opportunities in the alpha products.
And so I think what you're going to see over the course of a secular trend which may take 1 to 3 years maybe longer you're going to see people as they get comfortable in equities maybe through beta products they're going to start navigating and seeing opportunities in alpha products as long as the risk reward total return after expenses are greater than the beta products.
And so to me we believe that will be the trend.
We're betting on it.
We're investing in it.
And quite frankly I'm happy we're not seeing this today because we're building our track record with a lot of our fundamental teams right now.
And if the re-risking was going on or the secular change in the active equities today I'd miss a lot of it because I don't have the duration of time and performance with the new teams.
We benefit in some of our teams but not all our teams.
So we are pretty pleased with the reorientation into equities chiefly going into beta products.
And as we build those relationship with our clients and this is -- when we did the BGI transaction I said from the very beginning to a lot of people's skepticism that having beta and alpha side-by-side is a very strong position.
Most people never thought they could be side-by-side.
We believe by working with our clients we're agnostic whether they go into beta or alpha.
We want to have a relationship.
By having our clients right now going into beta we know what their emphasis are doing.
We know what they're thinking about.
And then we now have time as they think to relook at alpha products that we could have that dialogue.
So this is playing totally into our strategy.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And maybe just a follow-up on the money fund business just kind of curious.
I mean yourselves and a bunch of your peers have announced just in the past week or so about reporting daily NAVs.
And in general at least my general sense is I guess the industry is kind of yourselves including maybe come to the conclusion that at this point it may not be perfect but maybe floating NAVs is the best solution for some products at least.
Can you maybe talk a little bit about your client reaction to that to the extent you've had interactions about it or...
Sure sure.
Let me just be precise with it.
We have always had a constructive positioning in this.
We always believe that we needed to change the money market industry to make it much safer with less systemic risks.
We always believe that we need to create a sounder product for our clients and users of the product.
So I've always believed that we needed to have a constructive dialogue with the regulators in Europe and in the United States so we have taken a much more constructive approach than some of our peers over the years on this point.
I am very pleased with the movement that we made in this industry.
This was led by Goldman Sachs.
But I do believe daily NAV is a good step in -- by providing more transparency which we've always said at BlackRock we're prepared to do this.
And we may disagree with the outcomes and how they -- what ultimately comes and how do we navigate risk but we're having a constructive dialogue.
I do believe that net result will be a safer money market fund industry and I believe the product will be sound for investors.
I'm not here to suggest that we're 100% supporting floating rate NAV.
We believe there's other approaches that could probably achieve the same results without a float but I'm not -- we're going to be constructive on this.
But the key element is to make this a product in which our investors see opportunities to invest to make excess returns.
At the same time making sure as an industry we don't represent real risk for the industry and for society.
Your next question will come from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned Larry maybe the last call last couple of calls the opportunity to grow the ETF business and the fixed income platform.
I'm just a little bit curious if you could maybe update your thoughts on that and where you see the greatest growth from either geographic or product-wise as well? Yes.
Rob Kapito is here as President.
He's spending a great deal of time on this.
He is the BlackRock board member on our ETF iShares platform.
Rob why don't you just come here and answer that question.
So Bill we see -- we still see a lot of demand in the emerging market sector because clients are still a bit confused as to how to take advantage of the individual areas in the emerging markets and this gives clients great diversification very quickly with liquidity in that market.
So we think that is an area that's going to continue to grow.
We also see a significant amount of people that are looking for buy and hold and that's why we created the new Core Series.
And we're starting to see a lot of interest in that Core Series especially from the individual investor.
And that's very exciting and that's why we created that so we'll continue to be talking about that.
And then of course we have some innovations that we're going to introduce into the marketplace.
One is an ETF that's going to look a bit like a bond but have all the benefits of an equity and the attributes of a bond.
And with all people struggling right now to find diversification in the bond market we think this will be a very liquid and transparent way to get into that market.
So we're bringing the BlackRock innovation into the ETF market.
And we hope in the next several months to make several introductions into this market with products that we think are very very much in demand from our clients both in fixed income and in equities.
And I would say the other 2 areas that we're very excited about of course is the high-yield area.
As people look for more income and diversification the HYG product that we have continues to grow and we have top decile managers in that area in the active space.
And then we also have the ETF space to offer them product as well.
And lastly with the continued demand for income our dividend income ETFs are also seeing a lot of interest.
So we're very bullish on the products that we currently have.
But we're going to bring the BlackRock innovation to bear very very shortly and we'll be introducing those into the market.
You'll hear a lot about them.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just Larry coming back to margins and your commentary about at least 40% margin is notable.
Throughout 2012 I think it was a very big year for expenses that you highlighted a few things.
As you looked out to this year notwithstanding the marketing spend you mentioned this first quarter about messaging but are you at a point where the investment spend can't keep up with the revenue growth that could allow for the margins to be even structurally a bit higher.
I mean all I keep hearing is scale and flow leverage.
And so I'm wondering can you actually plow the money back fast enough not to let the margins go a bit higher? As you know Bill we do manage our investments very accordingly to where we see the -- very specifically related to where we believe our margins should be.
We made a lot of investments.
I don't believe we have to make as large of investments in terms of portfolio teams.
Now we need to start beginning to see the revenues there.
But we are going to innovate.
As Rob discussed we'll be -- we are investing a lot of money in technology.
We are actually investing a lot of money right now in terms of making sure we're compliant with all of the regulatory issues which I think is going to be a burden a much greater burden for our competitors because I don't think they have the technology to do that because I think all of us are going to be facing much greater scrutiny in terms of regulation.
And this is not just a U.S.
phenomenon it's a global phenomenon.
It's true in Japan and Europe and everywhere else.
So it is -- it's broad-based and we're spending a lot of time on that.
But no if we have a stable to upwardly moving markets there is no reason not to think that our margins can increase and therefore we're not going to need to invest as much going forward as you would continue to see margin increases.
But look it I've come a long ways in the last few years.
By talking about baseline around 40% margins and we've been able to deliver -- some of you think I'm a little too pessimistic on how I try to manage margins but I really do believe -- if I had to think about what we've done the last 3 years in terms of investing and now we're starting to see those benefits of investing at the same time very big increases in our margins.
So we are -- we will continue to invest where we see appropriate.
I will continue to buy fill-in companies in terms of capital management buying companies that we see -- the opportunities like we saw with Claymore or the Crdit Suisse ETF platform.
So it's going to be a mixture of investing and passing through higher margins to our shareholders.
Your next question will come from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First just given your focus on organic revenue growth really versus organic AUM growth can you provide some perspective here on the mix shift that we're seeing away from active equities and alternatives and maybe look at it a different way? And I also know lower industry demand for C assets [ph] is kind of impacting this.
But what do you really expect management fee accretion from growth from higher fee products? Is this something you're still looking for? Yes.
I mean we still -- in our trends we are still seeing the fact that revenue growth from what we see in our own data is exceeding AUM growth.
And that's founded on -- some of the growth we're experiencing is in channels and opportunities where those fee relationships inherently are higher.
And if you just think about within for example the fixed income world what's more appealing now is a more specialized product compared to a more core product.
So we have been seeing that trend within our 2012 data and we do expect that again in 2013.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow up on the Solutions revenue which had a really nice sequential pickup here.
Can you help us think about any seasonality or unusual items that may have impacted the fourth quarter results? And also can you provide us an update on the revenue mix here? I believe there's kind of 3 main segments one is sort of risk management Aladdin two is long-term AUM and three is really short-term assignments.
Yes.
Oh...
Oh go ahead -- I'll talk about the -- you talk about...
Yes.
So first of all with respect to the quarter it was a very clean quarter.
A year ago we had a onetime large completion.
So when you look at it compared to a year ago that's the difference you are seeing.
But if you look at this fourth quarter it was a pretty clean quarter.
And as I've said before the mix of those core Aladdin revenues are 65% to 70% of those overall revenues.
So you're down to what I would call the non-repetitive.
We've got to earn them again or a vast minority of the assignments.
So so much of our BRS assignment revenues are now coming from the core repeatable revenues.
I would say what you're also seeing is a number of completions in the setting up of the Aladdin assignments.
As you know the setup of Aladdin the implementation phase very low fee very highly cost in terms of manpower -- of the implementation.
And when you begin to now go from implementation to having the full Aladdin setup working for our clients then the overall fees kick in.
And that's also what you're starting to see on the revenue line of Aladdin revenues.
And as I always used to say sometimes we got to balance it out because when you are doing the initiation and the setup of Aladdin it's -- they're very low fees and very high expenses harmful for our overall margins.
But once that kicks in obviously it's a net positive in the margins.
And so you're seeing the completion of implementations and the beginning in some of these clients of the full Aladdin setup.
And as I said we have an extraordinary pipeline in 2013 in terms of the Aladdin utilization.
Your next question will come from the line of Michael Carrier with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a question on the cash flow.
You guys increased the dividend and increased the authorization.
I think if we look over the past 2 years just on the buyback side you had some ongoing buybacks and then you had some I don't know unusual or the big tranches.
So when we start thinking about going forward your strategy on the dividend seems very clear.
But when you look at the remaining say roughly $2 billion of cash flow that you generate do you have like a sense of like priority of like 50% of that will be used for ongoing buybacks and 50% maybe for small acquisitions investments seed regulatory? Just trying to get a sense if we can somewhat predict...
Yes it's hard for me to -- first of all we do have a strong consistent dividend policy.
Then the rest of the capital management I look at are the opportunities we're investing.
If I see opportunities in investing that are more creative than share repurchase I will do more of that.
If I don't see as many opportunities -- or we have many opportunities that don't require that much money.
Our commitment is to be really robust in our capital management after as you said regulatory stuff and all that other stuff.
So there could be a moment in which the ratios move quite extraordinary to all share repurchase of our cash to a period of time when we see opportunities a smaller repurchase program because of opportunities in the inorganic acquisition area.
But you should assume if we believe -- if we are going to do an acquisition -- in every acquisition it has to be accretive to share repurchase.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just as a follow-up you mentioned in the past that the ETFs sometimes you experience some seasonality as the year goes on and fourth quarter is strong.
But it also feels like the structural growth in the adoption of the ETF product is underlying driving a lot of the strength.
So I just want to get a sense like 2012 was a strong year overall the fourth quarter was strong.
Do you still tend to see some seasonality in the first half of the year? Or do you feel like given the marketing spend given the structural growth that you're seeing that's enough to offset some of that seasonality? Well last year we didn't see that seasonality that we saw all the years before.
So we always used to see a huge fourth quarter and outflows in the first quarter.
And last year that did not happen.
And so far this year we're seeing strong inflows after a strong fourth quarter which if this persists I think it is fair to say there's structural growth in the industry itself.
And it certainly feels like there's structural growth in the industry.
And as the largest participant in this we're a beneficiary of that.
So I'm not going to make one claim at the moment.
I don't think I have enough information.
But if we're -- in our conversations with our clients more and more clients are adopting a utilization of ETFs.
In fact clients today that have heavily used lower fee index funds they're now saying "Okay I want a percent of my index funds to have even greater liquidity." And so they're seeing -- so they're seeing some now investing in higher cost ETFs relative to their index fund but that allows them with much more flexibility and portability for them in terms of navigating their asset allocations.
So you are seeing more utilization more adaptation of ETFs I think worldwide.
Your next question will come from the line of Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A question on the alternative business.
You mentioned that you're growing your alternative retail AUM.
You had some good flows there.
But I guess if you look at the overall dollars in the alternative buckets still relatively small I guess versus the totality of the business and maybe the opportunity.
Can you talk a little bit about this convergence which I think might be a bit of a buzzword? But I mean the alternative retail opportunity for you guys what that means and what sort of the outlook is to grow alternative product in the retail channel? Yes let me let Rob answer that.
So like institutional investors that are trying to get some more yield and better returns in a low rate environment the retail investor has also now started to look for alternative investments.
Previous -- in previous years you had to be an accredited investor and there wasn't a wrapper that was sufficient to be able to sell to the individual investors.
And over the last several years we've cracked that code and have been able to create mutual funds that have alternative type investments in them.
We have launched a series of these mutual funds now that have alternative type investments in them in the various sectors whether they be anything from commodities real estate and almost quasi hedge fund-like products that we are already seeing some very strong demand and have interest from all of the wire house systems to be the manufacturer of that particular product for their distribution.
So we expect that to continue.
The second area that I would put in alternatives would be model-based investing where a lot of the individual investors are also clamoring for more yield.
And that is going to be distributed through models that we are going to provide to the distribution houses where they will either execute the trades based upon our models or we will execute the trades and a good portion of that is going to be in alternative investments.
So today there is much better wrappers and much better products that are going to allow the individuals to invest.
And we expect to play a very big role in the manufacturing of that product for the individual investor.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just in the multi-asset class segment if you will.
Can you talk a little bit about how those products are being used in the channel? I mean obviously performance is there sort of I guess more of a risk-management approach when you think about those products versus maybe more sort of upmarket capture vehicles? Or you could just discuss what's happening in multi-asset class a bit.
So there are both sides to that.
There are those that want to take more risk in those and there are those -- there are probably more people that want a risk-managed approach to the multi-asset product.
And there again we're doing the same thing for the individual investor that we're doing for the retail investor.
I would just say that the space has become very crowded because a lot of the smaller hedge funds are crowding into spaces such as the distressed areas such as the credit area.
But the biggest piece of that is going to be what we're going to call "outcome type" products where people are looking for a specific outcome and -- or you can describe that as target date.
And we're putting together those type of products in the multi-asset area that I don't think a lot of our competitors are really thinking about.
And that takes a lot of technology and risk management in order to provide the appropriate outcome to the type of investor that's there.
So in the generic hedge fund distressed type multi-asset there we're seeing a lot of competition.
But in the multi-asset where it's more risk managed target date outcome oriented that's where we're really going to be able to grow.
One area that we have that you'll notice we're working on the performances our global allocation product.
It's a flagship product.
Over any 10-year period you want to look at it's had stellar performance.
Last year our performance was not as good as some of our other competitors and that's because we had a little less risk on it.
But the long-term performance is very good and it's a go anywhere-type of product global-type product that clients will continue to look for and we have a good long-term record in that.
And we hope to continue to raise more assets in it.
Our next question will come from the line of Alex Kramm with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to come back to the ETF business and maybe a little bit more detail.
You just talked about the strength in the fourth quarter and year-to-date but I think one of the things we would point out is clearly that you've benefited from the whole index shift between well -- that Vanguard announced.
And when we talk to some investors in that space clearly some people switched right away back to your product.
So just wondering when you talk to institutional investors in this space do you think there's still a big pipeline of folks that are evaluating and might shift back to -- or want to be in the MSCI products and will be in your iShares products? Or do you think that's basically behind us and it's now a battle for new flows? Well first of all Vanguard is a tremendous firm a great competitor.
They're a big client of ours.
We have never done anything in -- as something that we are -- a fight between BlackRock and Vanguard that's a topical myth by the media.
We are just trying to execute our strategy and provide what we think are great outcomes.
We are still in conversation with a number of large-based clients right now on our emerging market product to go into our emerging market ETF.
And so specifically to your question there are still more flows to come we think.
But let me just cite one other reason.
Our tracking error on that product was better than our competitors.
And so when -- once again people just talk about management fees and we have kept on telling everyone "You're not looking at the total way how they should be looked at." Especially for institutions who are cognizant of tracking error bid/ask spread among the issues around management fees.
And so when we look at our positioning and our -- even in our emerging market product area we had a very competitive product last year.
So it's not just because of a change of index.
It is also because if you look at our success in navigating that portfolio in 2012 we had better tracking error and we have a very tight bid/ask spread.
So you add tracking error bid/ask spread plus the fees they're very competitive to each other.
And that's how we look at everything.
And I think the marketplace is starting to recognize it in terms of efficiency for after-tax.
No firm can claim better than us.
We spend a lot more time in making sure our clients get a complete product whether that is tracking error whether that's tax efficiency.
So we think about all these things.
We just don't think about one dimension.
And I do believe it is that consistency of looking at it on behalf of our clients whether this is the appropriate index whether we have the right tracking error whether we are managing to an after-tax return I think it all comes together that we have a very compelling product.
Research Division</strong> That's very fair.
But just to stay on the index side just for one more minute or one more question here I think in the past when you've talked about the whole pricing competition and so forth you've also said that maybe in the process you might be able to reduce some of the index fees you pay to save some of the expenses.
So does this whole index selection now show that there's actually a lot of power in the index and we'll not see abilities to reduce pricing there? And then on the flip side does it actually give you more appetite to be in that index business yourself if regulators allow it either by buying somebody or building something out organically which I think you've talked about before? So as a fiduciary we have to be relentless in terms of our expenses.
We have constant dialogue with our service providers whether they're index providers or custodial banks to get the lowest fees possible.
At this moment we have no true desire in buying an index provider.
They do a very fine job but their -- our job is to be a fiduciary making sure we get the lowest fees but also helping -- being partners with the index providers.
And quite frankly we believe MSCI provides a great index product.
They've done a very good job in my mind navigating global index products.
And we will continue to work with them but we will continue to be a fiduciary on behalf of our clients making sure we have the lowest fees.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt Kelley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So just wanted to come back to the institutional client that you mentioned who is predominantly fixed income switching back to equities or in discussions to do so.
They have done it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's done.
So curious to get -- I've seen you talk about it in the past increased allocations to alternatives now we have this whole debate of fixed income to equity.
So that particular client what sort of allocation strategy did they have before in percentages by asset bucket if you will? And how are they shifting that now? I don't -- that's -- I've never -- I don't know that.
That's not terribly transparent to me.
We -- but it's fair to say this client is heavily dominated by fixed income products by the nature of its liabilities the nature of what it historically looked at risk.
And what they're saying today that because of low interest rates -- and keep in mind this is not a dollar-based institution.
It's not a U.S.
institution.
They believe you're going to be able to get higher returns with the appropriate risk.
So it was an extraordinary amount of reallocation into equities and we are a benefit of that.
We having dialogues with many global institutions now about this whole idea of relooking at equities and I think this is going to be one of the major themes of 2013.
And as I said I don't know if this is -- we should call this a re-risking strategy anymore.
That's my new view.
It's looking at on a risk-adjusted basis where -- on a relative value where you can have the most appropriate returns.
And so I think you're going to see movement -- more movement into equities and this has been my overall theme personally for the last 2 years and it's now starting to manifest in behavior with our clients.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
So along the same lines and then I'll -- just one last one from me after that is is there an intermediate step in terms of -- do you think that balance funds hybrid funds take more inflows than equities in the near term instead of just a larger shift from one asset class to the other? No question.
There are going to be some -- especially on the retail side you're going to see people looking for more -- a global allocation-type of product giving the management of a fund the responsibility of allocating across sector and product and region.
So it really depends.
So a lot of clients believe they could do that themselves.
They have their own CIO and they're using our products as vehicles in doing so.
And other ones are going to say "Why don't you guys do that on top of what we already asked you to do?" So I don't view it as one trend in that.
It really depends on the specificity of a client.
Does the client have their own CIO? Do they not? How do the clients think about it? Do the clients have consultants -- if a client has a consultant they may think a little differently because a consultant will do the allocation working alongside with the client.
So I don't think there's one prescribed behavior.
I am pleased to say that we are in dialogue with many clients working alongside with their consultants working directly with the clients in terms of talking about risk exposures in a low rate environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last one for me and sorry to make you sort of repeat yourself on the operating margin but we've talked a lot about the marketing spend and where you are on that but you also made a comment that a lot of the hiring on the equity side the active side of the business is kind of behind you.
So given that if we continue to see a bigger portion of your assets and revenues in the passive side of the business is it fair to assume that the comp ratio should go down? So that should be an incremental benefit to the margin as well right? Well I hope our barbelling at BlackRock continues and we have just as great a performance fees if not greater.
I am very pleased to pay a lot of comp when our teams pay -- provide the returns that they did.
So I'm not going to make a judgment on that but if -- there's no question if more and more money goes into beta products then you would see changes in the comp line in terms of that behavior.
But our success will be -- if a lot of money goes into beta there is going to be money going into the alternative strategies that we get a component of that too.
Your next question will come from the line of Daniel Fannon with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a follow up on a comment you made about some of the outflows you have been seeing on the active equity side as a result of the personnel turnover.
I guess where are you in that process? And do you think we should see more of that over the next kind of 6 12 months? Actually with -- one of our recent teams that we brought on we're actually in the process of potentially having a big block of assets moving to BlackRock.
So -- but if we have the performance with our new teams where -- we will not see the outflow.
So I don't -- I think we're chiefly behind.
I know of one area where we -- I think in the first quarter we're going to see some outflows but it's very modest.
But in all the other cases I think those outflows are chiefly behind us.
And as I said we're now seeing -- we're now in dialogue of a big block going into one of our new team's products.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess on the regulatory front you've already addressed the money markets side.
But I guess if you could maybe update us on the sec lending potential changes in Europe and then any other issues out there that you are either monitoring or thinking might be impactful to the business over the next kind of [indiscernible]...
Well there's no regulatory changes for sec lending.
There was a non -- there was a group that's talking about sec lending but it was -- there's nothing -- that was not a regulatory statement.
It was just a group that's saying there should be issues.
So that's not -- we're going to have more supervision.
We're going to have to be more buttoned down.
We're prepared to be working with all our regulators and providing more data more research.
To me that's going to be -- we're going to see a lot more scrutiny and much more need for information to our regulators worldwide.
So it's not -- it's something we're living with.
We're not fighting.
It's just part of our business.
But I don't -- we're going to see in Europe the whole changes in retrocessions so the -- that is going to be probably the biggest change.
How do you reward your distributors? How do distributors make money in an area where there's no retrocessions? That's going to be the big change in 2013 in Europe.
And quite frankly I think worldwide that question is being asked.
How transparent are the costs of execution? How transparent are the costs of information to the retail clients going to be? And how does that impact manufacturers like BlackRock and everyone else? But we're in front of it.
We believe we are navigating this quite successfully.
As you know part of our investment in teams we have teams in Brussels and we have teams in Washington working with our regulators.
And so we're involved in that.
That was part of our investment making sure we are considered a constructive information provider to our regulators that we're helping them think about risks and thinking about how they should navigate going forward.
So it is just part of our business and we're not fighting it.
And we're building the functionality to provide the information that our clients -- that our regulators are going to ask of us.
And I would underscore -- they're going to ask us for that information.
They're going to ask every one of our competitors.
Maybe that's one of the reasons why Aladdin is picking up more an accelerated type of request for Aladdin because we're going to be in a pretty good position by having our Aladdin position by providing the transparency of information to regulators.
I can't say that about a lot of other firms and that could be why we're seeing more inquiry.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions.
Mr.
Fink do you have any closing remarks? Hopefully everybody enjoys 2013.
And let's hope Washington gets its act together and that we could have a sensible solution in terms of our deficits.
And if we have that we can have a very productive year in our markets.
That is in my mind the biggest drag to our economy.
The economy is not dragging by itself but Washington is dragging our economy by inaction and importantly confusion.
So I'll leave it at that.
Thanks everyone.
Thanks to all the employees.
I look forward to talking to everybody after the first quarter.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Inc.
First Quarter 2013 Earnings Teleconference.
Our host for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Ann Marie Petach; and General Counsel Matthew Mallow.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mallow you may begin your conference.
Thanks very much.
Good morning everyone.
This is Matt Mallow General Counsel of BlackRock.
And before Larry and Ann Marie make their remarks let me point out that during the course of this call we may make a number of forward-looking statements.
We call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual results may differ from these statements.
And as you know BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC which list some of the factors that may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we say today.
BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that let's let the call begin.
Okay thanks Matt and good morning everyone.
Just a very brief comment a number of our shareholders clients and employees are in Boston so our thoughts are with all of you in Boston.
But moving on to BlackRock I'm happy to say that Gary Shedlin is joining us for today's call and will be assuming the CFO title and responsibilities after this quarter's 10-Q.
I'm also pleased to be turning over the reins at a time when the business is doing well and when there is terrific momentum with our clients our performance and markets.
Gary has been a key adviser to the firm and given his knowledge of the firm and the industry has stepped in running.
I'll provide some opening comments point out a few highlights in the earnings supplement.
And as usual we'll be discussing primarily as-adjusted results.
As I said on our January call we began 2013 with great momentum.
That has continued and is reflected in the first quarter results.
We generated first quarter EPS of $3.65.
That's up 16% compared to 2012 reflecting a 12% increase in operating income and a 9% increase in revenue compared to a year ago.
The first quarter operating margin was 40%.
That's up 1.4 points from a year ago and this is our strongest first quarter margin since the acquisition of MLIM.
We are demonstrating the leverage in the business while investing for top line growth and also investing to assure compliance with evolving regulatory requirement.
These results are especially strong when you consider that the first quarter included $18 million of fund launch costs and $33 million of costs associated with about a 3% reduction in staff.
The staff change is associated with an initiative to align our organization to present priorities and opportunities.
We're hiring to support growth and expect to end the year with meaningfully more people than we began the year though of course it does take time to make sure we're bringing in the right talent.
To be clear this was not a cost-savings exercise.
It is an action to align talent and capability to what we believe are the most important opportunities for our clients.
As the environment needs and opportunities change we will continue to change evolve and innovate.
Most importantly first quarter earnings reflected organic revenue growth and positive momentum in net new business as well as the benefits of strong performance.
The themes for which we positioned ourselves last year continue to play out.
Investors are seeking income and in the present low interest rate environment are using lower volatility higher-yielding equity investments to achieve these objectives.
Investors are also using rotation across equity beta segments to produce alpha.
Once again index products that's both ETFs and institutional are the go-to tools for investors to achieve their objectives.
Multi-asset class and income products continued to appeal to clients' needs for solutions and barbelling strategies are driving flows into single-strategy hedge fund.
Our capital policy remains consistent.
The foundation of our strong dividend is supplemented by our ability and intention to repurchase shares consistently.
We repurchased approximately $250 million worth of shares in the quarter.
Our core quarterly repurchases have increased over the last 5 quarters as the secondary sales of our 2 large shareholders are now behind us.
The strong cash generation of our business allows us to continue to invest in both organic opportunities and tactical accretive acquisitions.
In the current environment we expect to continue regularly with this repurchase activity.
I'm going to move to the earnings supplement which you can find on our website.
I'm going to skip a number of slides and focus on just 6 slides that tell most of the story.
I'm going to start out on Slide 8.
As I mentioned previously we produced a 16% increase in earnings per share compared to first quarter of 2012 driven by 17% growth in operating EPS which I'll come back to in a minute.
Nonoperating results reflected a $51 million increase in the market value of our co- and seed investment that was driven largely by positive marks on our co-investments both in private equity and distressed credit products.
The first quarter as-adjusted tax rate was 31%.
This is a little lower than I had estimated on the last call but is a rate that we now think is a good planning level for 2013 that's based on what we know as of today.
The improvement from the prior estimate was driven largely by our geographic mix of earnings.
Moving to Slide 10 first quarter revenues were $2.4 billion.
That's up $200 million or 9% from a year ago and really about 3 quarters of that came from improvements in base fees.
Exceptionally strong performance on a number of our single-strategy hedge funds contributed to our strongest first quarter performance fees since 2006.
And I'd point out 2006 was a bit of an anomaly because it was just a single real estate fund driving this where this is solid performance across a number of hedge funds.
The third and fourth quarters remain our peak performance measurement periods and the second quarter has historically been our lowest quarter.
We'll continue to update you on performance throughout the year.
We delivered 11% growth in core Aladdin revenues offset partially by a decline in the advisory revenues associated with the successfully managed wind-down in the Maiden Lane portfolio.
The appetite for Aladdin remains strong.
We had 5 successful implementations in the quarter.
And Larry is going to talk more about our robust pipeline here and the ongoing client appetite for these tools and services.
It is clear that our clients and the opportunities are increasingly diverse including insurance companies pension funds and other asset managers.
Base fees as seen on Slide 11 were up $152 million or 8% with growth across almost every asset class.
In the first quarter we generated about a 5% annualized organic growth in long dated assets and that's both if you look at it including and excluding the lower fee institutional index assets.
The strong flows in equity ETFs and retail really means that the organic revenue growth was well in excess of the AUM growth.
The flows reflect a terrific response from our clients to the focus areas which we discussed earlier.
We also entered 2012 with the benefit of our -- 2013 with the benefit of our 2012 flows and 2012 market improvements both of which were positive contributors to the first quarter 9% revenue growth.
We are not surprised by the year-over-year decline in active equity revenues.
We are committed to improving performance in this area and this is something we've been talking about.
We made investments in new teams and talent in 2012 and we do have some great areas of success in European equities and the performance now on our quant equities.
While we're not satisfied with the present results particularly on U.S.
equities we are very confident in these new teams and pleased with some of their early successes.
It's just going to take some time.
Excluding fund launch costs -- and now moving on to expenses on Page 12 -- and also excluding the reorg costs expenses were up $53 million or 4%.
That 4% is compared to the 9% increase in revenue again reflecting leverage in the business.
The expenses that went up were primarily driven by revenue-related compensation.
The first quarter comp-to-revenue ratio was 36.5%.
This is broadly in line with a year ago.
The first quarter ratio for comps revenue generally runs higher than the full year.
This is due to the seasonality of payroll taxes.
And this year also due to the reorg expenses which affected the first quarter ratio.
I'll talk a little more about expenses when I talk about sequential results.
Broadly speaking the majority of the themes we have discussed are playing out in our sequential results in a similar manner as in the year-over-year results but there are a couple of unique items I want to call to your attention.
Beginning with revenues on Slide 16 and as we've already discussed we're seeing the benefits of both flows and markets contributing to base fee growth.
At the same time we see the natural decline in performance fees associated with the seasonality of blocks.
The small decline in BRS revenues was associated with the timing of recognition of revenues on those onetime advisory-type assignments in the fourth quarter of 2012 and not at all reflective of the momentum in the business or opportunity.
With respect to expenses on Slide 18 the $56 million decrease in G&amp;A that's excluding fund launch costs was driven primarily really the big bulk by the timing of our marketing spend.
As I said last quarter we will continue to invest in our brand.
We've seen positive client reaction to the campaigns.
We work very carefully to really spend the money when we think we've got important messages for our clients and when we think it will have the most meaningful impact.
Thus it may not be consistent from quarter-to-quarter but in aggregate should remain broadly consistent with the full year 2012 spend.
With respect to compensation I've already mentioned the seasonality of payroll taxes.
So to summarize.
The first quarter in many ways is a continuation of the trends and results we saw in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We delivered organic revenue growth driven by our strategic focus areas.
We delivered performance which drove performance fees.
We delivered year-over-year margin improvement and we continued to return cash to shareholders.
Our success has been driven by our commitment to consistently run the business to serve our clients and deliver value to our shareholders.
With that I'm happy to be stepping into a role where I'm going to have a lot more time with our clients.
Again I think the timing of this transition is ideal given BlackRock's positioning relative to client needs and our ability and commitment to innovate and grow.
I know that among Gary's priorities is to continue to raise the bar on the quality and depth of our conversation with our shareholders and analysts.
With that I'll turn it over to Larry who will talk a lot more about what we're seeing with our clients our continued investment in talent and some of the trends of accomplishments that we're excited and proud about.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining the call today.
I just want to pause again and talk about the incident in Boston yesterday.
We are constantly reminded as investors of global markets that we live in uncertain times.
The terrorist acts in Boston deteriorate confidence for investors which is one of the major causes of problems related to our financial markets.
But at this time we should just all pause and our prayers and wishes go out to the families of -- who are harmed and those who even witnessed this tragedy.
It's just another reminder of the type of world we live in and it's a reminder as investors of -- in global markets that we have to be always cautious related to our outlooks because we live in these uncertain times.
As Ann Marie covered in her report we delivered strong first quarter financial results including a 9% revenue growth 16% EPS growth and a 40% operating margin.
Importantly we generated another quarter of consistent organic growth.
Long-term AUM grew 5% on an annualized basis while base fees grew at an even higher rate highlighting the positive mix shift that continues in our business towards our retail and iShares channels which are having higher revenue profiles.
During the quarter we continued to reach new corporate milestones.
We're at the highest AUM ever $3.936 trillion including record AUM levels in each of our client channels.
We delivered record first quarter revenues and operating income.
iShares crossed over $800 billion of AUM this quarter.
We saw our strongest quarter for equities net flows at nearly $34 billion.
And we saw exceptionally strong Aladdin growth in the quarter where we added 7 new Aladdin clients.
And we've added close to $1.3 trillion of new assets being implemented on Aladdin.
This was a very strong quarter for BlackRock.
And looking back following our 25th anniversary as a firm these results clearly demonstrate the tremendous value we've built including our unique mix of capabilities scale and global reach.
Yet it is the next 25 years and the enormous potential in front of us that excite me.
Last week we completed our leadership off-site where our focus is squarely on growth growth through innovation and growth through focused execution.
I believe we have the strongest management team in the industry focused on delivering unique client solutions.
Couple that with our growing brand recognition and global presence I can assure you we continue to see a long path for growth in the future.
We've talked about in past calls the diversity of our platform which has allowed us to capture flows across market cycles and this quarter is no different.
I just want to step back and say this is a platform that is unique in its scale in its breadth in the balance between passive and active and it is because of that platform we're able to achieve these type of results.
We witnessed cash coming off the sidelines and being put to work largely in equities and multi-asset products.
And while I don't believe this means we're seeing a great rotation out of fixed income -- in fact we saw a strong growth in fixed income in different regions of the world -- we're witnessing investors searching for yield in a variety of asset classes including equities and higher-yielding fixed income.
Investors want fixed income that look like equities and equities that look like fixed income.
Even as investors move back into equities they are cautious emphasizing low volatility and emphasizing income.
This trend will likely to continue for the foreseeable future for at least 2 reasons.
Global demographics are evolving and aging global populations continue to grow.
We are living longer.
As I mentioned before longevity and the lack of preparedness for longer retirement is a significant global issue.
And this issue is going to be with us for years to come.
Global quantitative easing programs have reduced rates to its historic lows.
Long-dated fixed income securities traditionally used to fund retirement obligations now carry asymmetric risk for investors looking to match retirement assets and liabilities.
So for the foreseeable future investors will be forced to find yield in other asset classes such as equities alternatives and higher alpha fixed income.
Let's jump into some details on the business and then open it up for questions.
In global retail we generated $8.8 billion in new flows our strongest quarter in over 2 years.
Our key themes continue to drive positive momentum across geographies led by income outcome-oriented solutions and alternatives.
Investors are continuing to look for a variety of products to satisfy their needs for income in the current low-yield environment and so -- and to do so in a way that protects them from this asymmetry in interest rates.
Our SIO strategic income opportunity product and actively managed fixed income fund designed to perform well in diverse interest rate environments took in more than $1 billion in the quarter and crossed the $5 billion threshold.
In the U.S.
we launched a multi-sector fixed income closed-end fund generating more than $700 million in new assets.
This fund will grow to over $1 billion once leverage is added.
Internationally we saw strong flows in our Euro Short Duration our high-yield and global opportunity bond funds demonstrated the continued evolution and diversification of our global platform.
On the Solutions fronts we saw investor appetite for absolute return products particularly in Asia and in Japan.
We met this demand by raising over $1 billion in our Global Allocation product.
Retail alternative strategies had a strong quarter globally with the strength of our 40 Act [ph] products in the U.S.
and in single-strategy hedge funds in Europe.
In the U.S.
we saw flows of more than $700 million driven by global long/short credit and emerging market long/short equity.
The alternative mutual funds we've launched in the past 2 years are now over $1.5 billion in AUM.
And we recently launched 3 new funds in this space to capitalize on growing demand for our expertise in this category.
This will increasingly be an important theme in our global retail franchise.
Fundamental equities is a mixed story in the quarter.
We saw flow -- outflows in our U.S.
franchise and this not a surprise as we changed 4 of our investment teams over the last few quarters.
We saw positive equity inflows into EMEA close to a $1 billion led by our strong European equity product as investors added incremental risk.
With nearly $5 billion in flows in the United States and nearly $4 billion internationally I continue to be excited about the diversity of flows and the continued global potential of our global retail.
Global iShares led the market with $25.6 billion in net inflows representing more than 1/3 of the first quarter's industry flows approximately 35% driven primarily by strength in equity products.
iShares continue to be a barometer for risk appetite as clients increase their equity exposure.
Early in the quarter we maintained a leadership position in global equity flows with broadly diversified net equity inflows of $26.3 billion.
IShares' first quarter flows were diversified across regional businesses.
U.S.
iShares showed strong equity inflows of $20.4 billion which was slightly offset by a fixed income outflows of $3.2 billion.
Also our Core Series product suite which we launched last year to penetrate the buy-and-hold segment gathered more than $3 billion in net inflows during the quarter.
International iShares new business was driven by equities inflows of $5.9 billion and in fixed income inflows of $2.2 billion.
We saw particularly strength in our single-country funds such as Mexico where investors are using these vehicles to put money to work in local markets without having to build the infrastructure to support the individual security purchases.
We remain totally committed to growing and innovating our iShares capabilities both organically and through acquisitions or a few partnerships.
We will continue to be aggressive in evaluating transactions that provide unique capabilities for accessing new markets.
Last month we announced the long-term exclusive alliance with Fidelity that enables Fidelity's 10 million customers to access ETFs with a smaller marketing -- to access ETFs provided by iShares.
We started this relationship 3 years ago with a smaller marketing arrangement.
And this is the next step in a longer-term relationship that aims to meet the needs of self-directed investors on a major scale.
Fidelity was already an important relationship for BlackRock and I'm very excited about working with them in the years to come.
Our global institutional business produced $5.1 billion in long-term net new business driven largely by a combination of continued shifts to passive and demand for multi-asset class solutions.
Institutional flows were led by passive equity net inflows of $13.6 billion.
As we talked about in past calls more and more institutions have shifted to passive as part of a barbell strategy for tactical allocation as part of a core holding.
And we see these trends continuing particularly for passive equity where we saw our largest flows in more than 2 years.
We saw outflows in our institutional active business primarily in the United States.
While a portion of the outflows in our active equity franchise was due to the weak historical performance the preponderance of outflow activity in fixed income was episodic events such as M&amp;A activities and clients reallocating portfolios.
We are committed to continue to drive top-tier performance which we have been achieving in active fixed income and in some of our new active equity positions.
Especially in emerging markets we continue to see very very positive alpha which I'll talk about in a second.
Retirement continues to be a theme for us and we remain very very well positioned.
Our defined contribution clients generated $7.4 billion in net inflows in the quarter.
And our defined contribution franchise has now crossed over $440 billion in AUM up 19% year-over-year.
Our key component of our retirement solution is our Life Path target date suite.
Our Life Path assets have grown 40% over the year.
Finally we are seeing good momentum in parts of our alternative platform particularly single-strategy hedge funds and alternative solutions as clients are rerisking and looking for customized alternative programs as clients are rerisking.
In the U.S.
we have had more than 10 new institution client funds alternative mandates with us in the quarter.
Clients are also responding to the breadth of offerings on our platform with interest in our illiquid offerings.
Due to the nature of some of these products we will not realize revenues for some of these commitments immediately but we'll see as a -- see the results as the capital is drawn down.
This strength is also overshadowed by outflows from a single large hedge fund with challenged performance over the past few quarters which I'm pleased to say this year that fund is up over 5% and it's back over the high-water mark.
BlackRock Solutions continues to have a very strong momentum.
BRS revenues were up 2% since the first quarter of 2012.
And our Aladdin business posted very strong year-over-year growth of 11% due to multiple successful implementations and growing client base.
So far this year we've added 7 new Aladdin clients and we are in the process of implementing close to $1.3 trillion in new assets on to Aladdin.
Our momentum in BRS and Aladdin is as strong as ever.
We're seeing existing clients adding new capabilities and new clients recognizing the advantage of the Aladdin network.
I still believe we are just beginning to unlock the full capabilities of our Aladdin business.
My last comment on institutional is our pipeline which remains very solid with approximately $35 billion across index and active mandates.
Importantly a lot of these active mandates are in our high-performing single-strategy hedge funds.
Let me move on to performance.
As I mentioned on previous calls last year we made a number of investments to enhance our portfolio management teams to improve performance and add capabilities.
Now we are building a track record in those product areas.
We are confident that these results will yield into flows over time which we're already beginning to see some in some of the areas.
Our fixed income performance has been very solid.
Approximately 79% and 81% of our active fixed AUM exceed benchmarks for peer mediums for 1 and 3 years.
This has helped drive net new business in our retail fixed income products up to $5.4 billion this quarter.
Our scientific active equity performance has been in the top tier for the past several quarters.
At the end of the first quarter 77% and 92% of our AUM was above benchmark or peer medium for the 1- and 3-year period.
Our U.S.
fundamental equity franchise is a work in progress which we discussed quite extensively last year.
We have our teams in place.
And in most cases our teams are outperforming their benchmarks.
And we'd still need more time to demonstrate that performance but I believe we have the right teams in place.
In EMEA and Asia we are seeing very strong performance and it shows in our flows.
In multi-asset performance has been strong.
Our global allocation funds which makes up a large portion of our assets in this category is at a record asset level as of a few days ago and has delivered a 12% annualized return over the past 10 years with 1/3 of the risk of global equity markets.
This is exactly what we told our clients we would deliver and our team is delivering those results.
Alternatives continue to be -- continue to build great momentum.
This is an area where I've been most pleased over the last quarter and it shows in our performance fees.
As a firm we remain totally committed to continue to build out our alternative space.
We believe this is an area -- as we discussed barbelling -- we believe this is an area where more and more clients are going to be seeking out BlackRock for advice.
As Ann Marie discussed as a firm we remain very strongly committed to driving increased shareholder value and our capital management decisions reflect that commitment.
In January we announced an additional 12% increase in our annual dividend of $6.72.
And during the quarter we also completed repurchase of approximately $250 million of our stock.
2013 will be our 10th year paying a dividend.
On a compounded annualized basis we increased our dividend by 24% since 2003.
Over the past 2 years we've continued to enhance our talent with a combination of external hires and elevating high-performing talent from within.
Our external hires include Mark McCombe who runs EMEA -- Asia Pacific; Philipp Hildebrand at EMEA; Hsueh-ming Wang from -- who is our Chairman of China; David Blumer our new head of EMEA; Gary Shedlin our new CFO; Gerardo Rodriguez joining in April to focus on emerging markets strategy.
But in addition which does not get enough highlighting is our continuing elevated of our high-performing individuals internally.
Adding new members to our global executive committee to continue to push for new perspective.
Mark Wiedman has been added as Head of our Global iShares; Rob Goldstein Head of our Aladdin and Institutional Business; Patrick Olson as our Head of Global Strategy and Planning; Quintin Price to run our active portfolio management capabilities worldwide.
We continue to be pushing our internal team for more opportunities and pushing them into greater and greater leadership roles as we build out our platform.
We live in a world that is continually changing and our clients facing increasingly complex challenges.
BlackRock will always be willing to change and adapt to our clients' needs and I'm committed to serving our clients with the best talent in the industry.
I'd like to just close by taking a minute to recognize and thank Ann Marie for her help.
She's a friend and she's been a terrific CFO building a world-class finance capability over the past 6 years.
She's going to do equally well in our client-serving opportunities and helping us navigate our complex client relationships in the future.
And I know Gary will be able to take over for Ann Marie in a very swift manner.
So let me just restate what I mentioned at the beginning of the call.
This was a strong quarter for BlackRock and our shareholders.
We remain diligently focused on consistency and execution and we are not going to become complacent.
In many ways we have just begun to see the power of this platform.
And I believe we have ample opportunity to maintain this growth and possibly accelerate the growth.
With that I'm happy to open it up to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dig a little deeper on the new alliance with Fidelity.
I'm wondering if you guys know what the level of iShares' AUM was on the Fidelity platform as of quarter end.
And then I'm wondering what are your longer-term penetration targets for this platform and maybe if we can think about the speed that you expect to gain some share on this platform too.
Well that is not a public piece of information that I'm -- I can't be responsible for discussing that so just bear with me on that.
But our enthusiasm is quite great with the opportunity we have -- the opportunities we have with Fidelity.
The first 3 years were a success and what our new announcement is to build from that success now by adding up to 65 ETFs iShare ETFs onto the platform have given us much greater opportunity to build greater penetration with their clients and a deeper conversation with their client-serving team.
I would also add though Craig this also enriches our relationship in a totality basis.
Even as from their distribution side it just gives us a better opportunity to sell our mutual funds and other products there.
So we look at this as a comprehensive relationship.
The working relationship with our teams is very strong.
But importantly I look at what we are doing with Fidelity to complement what we're doing on our core strategy ETFs.
This is what we deemed as the most efficient way for us to target a buy-and-hold RIA channel.
This is an area where we said over the last few quarters we under-penetrated.
When we announced our core strategy ETFs we said this is the channel we're going to go after.
But by enlarging our partnership and our relationship with Fidelity it really enhances our ability to interact with the independent RIA channel.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one follow-up.
You had $112 million of security lending fees in the first quarter.
How should we think about the seasonal pickup in 2Q due to the timing of the European dividends? And I'm wondering will this be a similar year to 2012 when we think about the comparison or are there some key differences? Well when I look at it really the fourth quarter and the first quarter in sec lending both looked very similar to a year ago and look similar sequentially.
And so I would continue to expect a seasonal pickup in the second quarter associated with the dividend fee sec.
But what we -- I would say in the first quarter what we saw was greater -- we had more securities out on sec lending and so the trend was good in terms of utilization.
But because of the continued compression in rates we saw less rates.
So lending spreads was less.
But more importantly and this is an important characteristic -- we spend so much time we have a huge team out there trying to look out across all the prime brokers and all the different organizations that are looking to barbell stock.
We -- I look at not just at our obviously our -- the net interest spread.
I think the most important characteristic in sec lending is the amount of securities out to borrow.
And this is the one area that I'm pretty proud of our team in making sure that we have deeper penetration.
And hopefully that will continue.
I'm not here to tell you the seasonals won't change but we most certainly saw more demand.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> One quick one on the numbers.
You mentioned 7 new clients for Aladdin and I think it was $1.3 trillion in process of being brought on board.
I don't -- I highly doubt that it's directional but that would imply about a 10% bump to the current base fee run rate in Aladdin.
Is that -- am I in the ballpark of new fees coming on board? Well it's certainly a 10% increase in possible assets in that so that's what you're getting at.
10% -- no it's less than that.
It's -- I'm not going to get into the details but it's -- one client is quite large and has economies of scale and all that stuff.
But it's -- you're in the range but not there without getting into much detail.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I can live with that.
Curious -- you've spoken in the past that the bond ETF penetration is literally about 1/10 the size of the penetration of the equity markets has enjoyed.
Curious what you're seeing and expecting there.
And then if you could talk towards what you spoken about recently in terms of the fixed income ETF and corporate bond lend when we might expect that product to be coming out? The iShare bond is going to be -- is momentarily without getting into registration issues we expect it soon.
I'm getting kicked by my General Counsel.
It is my view that this is a great opportunity for the market and for us.
We've had many conversation with many potential investors in those products.
The enthusiasm is great.
But as we saw in most ETF products it's a slow grind and people are going to be looking for liquidity and opportunities.
And if the liquidity and opportunities are there then you start seeing a faster ramp-up.
So it is momentarily when we're going to announce -- when we launch that.
The overall view of ETFs and bonds is as robust as ever.
We are very constructive on those products.
And so my feelings haven't changed at all despite obviously a huge change in momentum from fixed income flows that we witnessed the first half of last year to 90% flows in equities.
And so I guess it's a testimony to the products that these are efficient vehicles for investors when they are looking to rebalance to restructure.
And so we continue to be in front of clients with all types of ETF products and we continue to be driving those flows on a global basis.
You didn't ask this question but if you look at ETF flows as an industry some of the great flows as an industry are also when investors are under-invested.
So you see great flows in Japan because of the changes in the economic future of Japan or the hope of the change of economic future.
And so you're seeing it across the industry larger flows in Japanese-oriented DK-oriented [ph] ETFs.
And as I said what we saw also at BlackRock because a renewed interest in Mexico we were -- we saw larger-than-historical flows into Mexico.
And so this is exactly how we're trying to position ourself having a suite of products that are global in nature and respond to it.
This is one of the big reasons why we are so excited about our inclusion of the Crdit Suisse ETF platform.
This will give us a great Swiss franc product as clients are going to look to diversify in currency and in asset categories.
Your next question comes from the line of Luke Montgomery with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> A quick question on the margin.
You have unparalleled scale a number of product categories that arguably have incremental margins in the 70% range or more.
So without dismissing the progress you've been making on the margin which is really encouraging if you were pressed to explain why your margin isn't higher can you point to any structural explanation for that in terms of business lines product mix geographic presence? And what is really preventing you at this point from having an industry-leading margin or actually the industry leading? I'm going to -- let me give you my view and I'll let Ann Marie talk about it.
A I think our 40% first quarter margins are pretty impressive.
Two we did great investing in our new equity teams.
When we launch our -- when we do win these Aladdin assignments they actually in the first year drag our margins down because they're basically cost-related types of assignments until they're fully implemented.
We continue to build and reinvest in the company.
So as I've always said I'm going to continue to invest to build a better company in the future with a mind of having increased margins.
If I wanted to play the margin games I certainly could ramp up margins dramatically as you suggested.
But at this time because of all the opportunities I think we have as a firm I'd be harming the overall company for future growth.
So -- and the other thing is let's not underscore the amount of spend I have related to regulatory inquiries and regulatory compliance.
We are spending a great deal of time now putting all the requests in terms of information flow on to our systems.
This will actually benefit our Aladdin clients one day too as we put these types of refinements for BlackRock onto the Aladdin system.
But these costs are large and I suggested that last year and I will continue to suggest that now.
One of the outcomes of increased regulatory uncertainty there is always a need for more lawyers and so as my General Counsel raises his hand.
And so I actually believe we are being judicious in the way we're managing margin.
I have always claimed I expect to see higher margins in the future as we continue to build.
And I agree with you we do have some very high-margin businesses but I'm not going to -- I'm going to continue to build for a better future.
Ann Marie? Yes.
I just wanted to chime in that to remind people that the pro forma margin in 2009 of the combined BlackRock-BGI was 36.8%.
And first quarter and especially this first quarter with the reorganization costs in it was a very strong margin.
So there's been enormous progress and that's leveraging the business that we're committed to continuing.
It's always going to be balanced with making sure that we're growing that top line which is where the real value comes.
If you strip out the onetime expense of the reorganization that would add over a 1 margin point to the quarter.
I'm not suggesting we're going to continue to be at 41.
I don't know where we're going to come out.
But we all -- as I said before we have an eye to continuing to build and grow our margins.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That was really helpful.
Second one for me.
I know there were some hope that ESMA would clarify its guidelines for sec lending in Europe.
But it looks like the document that was released in late March left some of the key issues kind of vague.
And there's still a question at least in my mind whether you're allowed to profit from this activity.
So could you just help us understand how binding the ESMA rules are who has the final say on all this and what your outlook on the regulation is? And then along with that you earned about $500 million from sec lending in 2012 so what is the split between Europe and the U.S.? Matt do you want to go into that? Yes sure.
The ESMA guidelines are still being reviewed and analyzed by all of us and haven't yet been finally determined.
We know that everyone has these concerns about our ability to continue receiving sec lending fees.
But let me just say that with the -- we do know that the guidelines have confirmed that we can charge fees and we're going to see where they wind up.
But we support ESMA's efforts.
And as fiduciaries we already provide a high degree of transparency and disclosure which is what some of this was about.
And we're working with national regulators.
National regulators have to implement a lot of this to preserve the benefits of securities lending for clients and the broader capital markets.
So it's early days and we'll be back and we'll see where this all goes.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> First question Larry you didn't really talk about it in your prepared marks but there was one SEC commissioner came out suggesting that there could be a money market proposal in the next month or so.
So wondering what are you hearing in terms of what it might be and how you might be prepared to react if it's onerous? I expect it's going to be some form of floating NAV.
I mean I see no evidence to think it would be anything but a floating NAV on the prime type of funds.
I don't believe it will be any form of floating related to the government type of funds.
So I think -- I don't -- we don't expect any surprise.
We had a whole team in Washington this week.
It's still pretty -- it's not -- it's a pretty dynamic situation but I do believe now with the commissioner of the SEC being -- and the chairperson being finalized I think we're going to see some type of announcement from the SEC shortly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So second question so a two-part question.
One is I want to verify Ann Marie did you say that G&amp;A will be flat year-on-year despite some seasonal sort of quarterly trends? And then the second question is part of that is with the Fidelity arrangement is that accretive to the overall margin of the company? So the first question what I said specifically was with respect to marketing but that's a key component of our overall G&amp;A.
And absolutely on the second.
I mean we think this is going to be a real win-win.
On the -- we -- marketing is a variable expense.
We will spend more money when we believe it's an -- there's a great opportunity.
And if we believe that the business dynamics don't permit it we will spend less.
So it is something that we can adjust continuously and so it is going to be fluid and we will continue to navigate around that.
And I will affirm what Ann Marie said related to Fidelity; it is accretive immediately.
Your next question comes from the line of Marc  Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Larry just on the trends and flows this quarter.
I'm curious if you can give us a sense of the -- maybe the more cyclical rotation that could happen.
You mentioned that.
I guess you don't really see this great rotation happening but there's a search for yield.
Do you -- did that sort of dynamic accelerate throughout the months this -- so far this year as sort of events unfolded in March? Did you see any change in sort of people maybe preparing to take on more risk? Just curious what clients are saying.
There's no question.
We saw greater risk-taking worldwide and so -- but that doesn't mean it's a great rotation.
It just means people are looking to take risk in other forms.
As I said they're looking for equities that are more bond-like with high coupons low vol.
They're looking for fixed income that has higher yield that looks more like equity.
I think those are the overall trends and those trends continue.
Obviously we saw at the beginning of the first quarter a huge rerisking.
But the rerisking came from cash not from bonds.
Secondarily as we've witnessed about a 40 basis point rally -- rates went down in late March and now April -- we saw probably a slowdown in some flows but in the last week we've began to see a resurgence in flows again.
But I would say overall Marc clients are looking to add more risk.
Clients are looking for that market setback to buy.
I don't sense a market setback is going to have people running back into more bonds but I think if we had a market setback I think we would actually see more equity investments.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then on the active equity business I guess there was some bigger -- an uptick in outflows.
It looks like institutionally driven from fundamental equity.
Do you have any sense of where we are maybe in the cycle of...
Recognize that that's almost over.
That was just a reaction in -- 2 clients actually did predominantly because we changed the portfolio managers.
It is something we were not surprised at.
We were disappointed.
We were trying to have them stay in those -- with the new managers because we believe it's an improvement but they had some -- they have these formulas of changing -- of moving on if there are some big changes.
And this is -- these are the costs and this is why so many firms are afraid of changing managers even with mediocre performance.
And we made a conclusion mid-last year that we are going to rebuild for the future.
We're going to spend the money in recruiting great teams and we're going to take the short-term hits in terms of the potential outflows.
But in the areas where we are seeing performance some of our emerging market equity teams that have been here now 1.5 years with great performance we have many dialogues worldwide.
We continue to see some very strong flows as I said in my prepared talks about -- in European equities where we have a world-class team.
We continue to see flows in our dividend equity side.
So I would say the best way I can talk about the first quarter for me was a mixed picture.
It wasn't as robust as we -- I would have liked to have seen it but it certainly wasn't terribly bad and unexpected.
But we're -- I think in terms of seasonality in terms of those clients' decisions that's behind us.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you've talked at length about the growing interest by investors both retail investors and institutions in risk.
But what about the choice of active versus passive? It's sort of hard to tell from the data quite frankly whether this surge into equities paired with continued strength in fixed income points to a resurgence in interest in active investing.
Or whether the multi-decade trend that we've seen toward passive investing both indexing and ETFs continues unabated.
What's going on? That's a very good question.
There's no question from our vantage point we saw more barbelling than ever more interest in beta products both ETFs and index products across the board.
We're actually witnessing some of the largest global institutions who were heavily 5 years ago were 100% in active they are now navigating the majority their reinvestments and their new investments in beta.
So there's no question as you said there is a very dominant trend towards greater and greater participation in beta.
As I also said one of the uniquenesses of ETFs and iShares we are seeing more and more investors are driving ETF flows because they're using beta as alpha.
And so I think that trend will continue.
I am making a large long-term bet though that there will be a time when investor behavior will move back into fundamental equities.
I can tell you as in our case where we have really good performance we've seen flows.
I'm sure by looking at industry flows other firms that had strong consistent returns that beat the index after fees are still -- are seeing flows.
And so I think what you're seeing is you're not seeing overall trends in active fundamental equities but you're seeing it where there is good fundamental performance after fees.
This is another reason why in our prepared conversation I talked about why we continue to build our alternative strategies whether it is the SIO and CIO types of products and fixed income and our single-strategy hedge funds.
We continue to see very large momentum there as clients are looking to use beta and then barbelling by other types of strategy.
So we are making a fundamental view that equity -- fundamental equities will be a place where investors want to go but overwhelmingly the flows continue to be driven in the beta products.
LLC Research Division</strong> My second and therefore my final question relates to your relationship with Fidelity.
I'm very curious about the following.
It seems to me that there are a handful of organizations in your industry T.
Rowe Price the Capital Group and Fidelity that literally stand for active management.
This is their heritage and this is what they grew up with.
So I'm very curious to know when you were talking to Fidelity about why it's in Fidelity's interest and presumably you had that conversation -- I'm not going to ask you to tell me what Fidelity was thinking.
I want to know as the head of BlackRock what you were thinking and saying.
When you were having that conversation with Fidelity about why it's in their interest for those guys to clone their active industry-specific funds for example how did that conversation go? Well a I think Fidelity is a tremendous firm.
I think their fiduciary as strong as any firm that I know of.
I think they believe in active management as you suggested and I think they understand that their clients are not only looking for active products they're looking for passive products.
And I believe that they have come to terms that if they are going to be as strong a fiduciary and looking out for their clients' interests that being in partnership with BlackRock iShares allows them to penetrate and continue to have that dialogue on the beta side but also continue to be a fiduciary and drive also flows for their active products.
So I think it's very consistent with a long-standing position of Fidelity of having fiduciary responsibility first and foremost.
And I would say all my conversations with the leadership of Fidelity has always been they want to be known as a key long-term fiduciary for their clients.
And I think this achieves that objective and it also allows them to continue to build and drive their active flows.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First on maybe Solutions outside of Aladdin.
To what extent are you seeing more pension and sovereign wealth funds stepping up their interest in outsourcing asset allocation to BlackRock? And does a risk-on world weaken demand to outsource or does a low interest rate environment sustain that interest? And ultimately what gets these big entities to pull the trigger? Well we asked Craig Phillips who is driving our FMA business to drive that solution-based business.
Ann Marie in a few weeks will be a leader of that business.
So I'm going to let Ann Marie talk about that a little bit and I'll add so...
What I would say is there's a lot of different types of opportunities there.
And it's not just a pure outsourcing of asset allocation which is part of it but it can be thinking about asset allocation for a portion of your portfolio.
It's modeling assets next to liabilities and planning your asset strategy next to your liability strategy as you're thinking of that including your cap contribution strategy.
I think that asset allocation in the present environment has been a key contributor to beta.
And I mentioned that in my remarks because we are seeing people using ETFs as a tool to asset allocate.
And we can help people to use these tools to get there combined with the risk pools to actually understanding what they're doing where the returns are coming from and where the risks are coming from.
What's interesting when you look at a number of clients including very big sophisticated clients they don't actually understand that combination of risk analysis with return analysis.
So Ken I don't believe -- we're having more dialogues with more large clients than ever before on the solution fiduciary type of businesses.
So the dialogue whether it's a low rate environment or risk-on or a combination of both we're seeing more and more clients interested in it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what gets them to pull the trigger? When do we start to see more of these conversations actually turn into mandates? Well we won -- we just won a $1.5 billion mandate this past week.
And it was a multi-asset category with many alternatives.
It was a great team-wide win.
We are -- we had another dialogue with another client about a $10 billion possible assignment.
I would like them to pull the trigger on this $10 billion one as soon as possible but we are in dialogue with many different clients right now on this.
What I have witnessed in these types of conversations though there are long gestation period to get the clients comfortable on these type of assignments.
But when they pull the trigger it's generally a big event here at BlackRock.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of investment you really backed income products and that was really the right decision.
As we think about alternatives what are the alternative solutions that you want to emphasize over the next 5 years? And is there an analogous situation in the income products like in the alternative world is there something that is really just going to be a hit that you want to scale up and build and...
Probably the biggest area that I can think of is and I talked about this in my prepared remarks I believe more and more investors are very worried about the asymmetry in long-duration fixed income.
And so they are looking for alternative products that have -- doesn't have a duration benchmark and it's trying to navigate around that.
So our SIO product which I suggested raised another $1 billion.
And I believe with our performance we should be at $15 billion $20 billion.
This is in the top quartile product.
It is beating our 2 largest competitors by a significant amount in this product and we should be growing this dramatically.
The other area that I believe over as you suggested a 5-year period 10-year period of time it is going to have to be -- continue investing in the emerging world whether it's Mexico or Southeast Asia in different categories whether it's going to be in debt products or in equity-like products.
So it's going to be a combination of multi-asset strategy and a continue to investing in the emerging world where we're making equally large investments.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Kelley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones actually.
First I just wanted to ask about the success thus far in merging the iShares and retail sales forces how you're seeing that play out and success on non-Merrill platforms? It's too early to making some grandiose comment.
I could tell you my teams are telling me it's quite successful.
There is great enthusiasm there.
But we -- whether we are seeing any short-term milestones I think what's important what we're -- and our messaging to all our clients by doing this -- and this gets back to some other questions we had earlier.
And this is related to -- we have to be in front of our clients providing them information both on beta and alpha products.
If we cannot do that then nobody can.
We should be the organization that's getting in front of the FAs the RIAs in a open form of talking about the attributes of alpha and beta.
And they should not be -- it should not be inconsistent or it should not be communication through 2 different voices.
Our whole idea was because we believe if we are truly a fiduciary to our clients is providing a wholesome conversation on the attributes of beta and alpha the combination of passive products and active products and how can they fit in a portfolio.
And so we needed to re-engineer our own firm to making sure that we are -- we're telling the story in a proper way.
So I believe in the long run it's going to generate increased penetration.
It may mean continue investing in our teams it may mean more investing in our technology to provide better information for our teams to sell those products in a holistic way but I am truly committed on the idea of providing a wholesome client relationship on beta and alpha.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one -- a little bit more kind of granular housekeeping question is just in terms of comp.
There are a number of moving pieces.
You have the seasonality in the first quarter.
You have the $33 million severance and you have the fact that you guys are saying you're going to end the year with higher headcounts.
So I'm just wondering first of all with the new hires you have is there a full run rate in the first quarter? And the incremental heads that you're adding over the course of the year should we be thinking about that as lower cost per head than you have right now or in line or how should we be thinking about that? As you recall we're not going to add a lot of costs in base comp.
And I think our key comp driver is going to continue to be our variable comp which is going to be dependent on the performance of our portfolio managers as well as the performance of the firm overall.
While we've added people we have also made significant moves in our footprint over the last 2 years that has dampened the fact relative to the number of people that have been added to the firm.
We'll be very aggressive in managing those expenses.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Carrier with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just on the iShares in the past there's been some seasonality.
I know last quarter you mentioned that you're not seeing it as much or some of the structural growth is offsetting that.
So just wanted to get your view on that.
And then one topic that sometimes will pop up is when you look at the 2 series that you have with iShares and the 1 on the kind of the old series there's different fee rates and you've always mentioned that part of that is because of the liquidity.
Just wondering over time if you're really successful on the new series and if those new assets get to a certain level is there anything that stops clients from moving within the different products? I mean are there any nuances among the different series that would prohibit that? No.
I mean if we have great success in our core strategy and the assets grow dramatically there and liquidity grows there you would see some form of arbitrage over the long run.
But I would also add though when you talk about total costs and one of the reasons why we were very successful in some of our higher management fee products has been our great success in providing higher and more efficient tracking than our competitors.
And so once again I have to remind all investors who -- and I wish our -- I wish the agencies that we viewed alternative -- all ETF products look at not just management fees but they look at tracking error and look at bid-ask spread.
So you calculate those 3 characteristics of the total experience of an ETF.
In some of our higher fee products that you were talking about actually because of positive tracking we actually outperformed.
And so you have to look at it in a total cost experience and that's an -- that's an important characteristic to look at it.
This is one of the reasons why I don't expect to see the arbitrage anytime soon.
You have to look at it on the total client experience.
And that's important to understand why you're not seeing massive changes in clients' demand in different products.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then just maybe on the seasonality and then probably just bigger picture.
When you look at the iShares opportunity and when you look at the amount that you guys when you see it the different distribution channels and where you're at versus where you could be over the next 3 to 5 years like what inning are you in that build-out or in that penetration and that could be both on the equity and obviously on the fixed income it's much much earlier? I actually believe we're in the third inning.
I actually believe there's huge upside opportunities.
I think people are miscalculating the continued growth both institutionally and somewhat retail on utilizing ETFs as beta as alpha.
We're seeing even the traditional index players clients who were looking to add ETFs to provide a little greater liquidity in their index portfolios.
We're at the first inning second inning and fixed income as ETFs will continue to play a bigger role.
But I can't -- I think the first quarter when you think about where the industry flows are it would really in my mind really shows how dynamic ETFs are.
When you see the huge increase in equities because clients were underweighted in equities they're overweighted in cash and so you saw large purchasing of equity ETFs.
In addition just by the growth of ETFs in Japan and Mexico it really highlights that this is not just a domestic U.S.
phenomenon.
It's a global phenomenon that clients are using ETFs not just to get beta exposure but to also get exposure in region and exposure in categories.
And this is the whole story of what we're trying to do with iShares that we can provide beta exposure across regions across countries across products.
And if we can provide that consistently more and more clients will come to iShares.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Fannon with Jeffries.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess just to follow up on the fixed income I think you mentioned some outflows that were specific to certain clients in the active segment this quarter.
If you could rehash that please.
And then the other -- the opportunity within the ETF category for fixed income you said there's been dialogue and demand is that coming from your core base of active customers or is that from a new -- is that incremental to what you guys -- who you're already touching? So in terms of outflow and this is a merger-related client that had large sums of money in short-duration products that took the money out and bought a company.
And one of them was just a restructuring from fixed income to another asset category.
That was -- those are the 2 dominant themes in the fundamental fixed income side.
In terms of our forthcoming announcement we believe it will be new classes of investors in bond ETFs.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Hopson with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions real quick.
On ETFs I realize we're kind of slicing and dicing.
But the most recent trends seem to be a little bit of movement away from the biggest plain vanilla product into really slicing and dicing whether that's the Japan hedged products whatever.
You think that's just a short-term trend number one? And depending on your answer does that make you need to slice and dice even more? And then on margins so the improvement year-over-year in the quarter was 140 basis points and there's some extra costs.
So is there any reason why if the market gains hold that you couldn't show a 150 250 basis point improvement in adjusted margins on a year-over-year basis? So in terms of the rotation of ETFs and the slicing -- I think you're talking about the slicing and dicing.
I think as I said earlier I'm repeating myself but I really do believe if you look at the overall trends we saw huge investing in the U.S.
equities as the world started believing in the U.S.
economic story.
And we saw a huge investing in Mexico and Japan.
As to Japan was obviously a country in which historically investors underweighted for years.
And I think people were under -- we needed to get equity beta-ed in Japan.
And Mexico was just the continuation of a great economic story.
I think -- I don't think there's any grand story about mixing and matching.
It just illuminates how people are adapting to use more and more ETFs as beta as alpha.
And I think that's a very important component.
I don't believe -- this does not lead me to believe that we have to mix and match and create more smaller and more divisible types of products.
I think clients are looking for big macro-theme products.
I don't believe investing in Japan alone is a macro -- is a mix and match or investing in Mexico is a mix and match.
What we are seeing is sometimes some clients don't want to invest in a global index like an MSCI.
Some investors want to say "I want to highlight by owning 7 countries in that index " and they could do that with ETFs and iShares.
So you have some clients who are saying "I would like to just invest in North America " so they could buy a Canadian and a U.S.
and a Mexican ETF.
So we're seeing various different ways that you could use ETFs and the simplicity of that.
And I think that's the major story.
It's not a story that we have to divide them up into many more categories.
Lastly in terms of margins there is no question as I said earlier if you take out the onetime charge our margins would be 100 to 140 basis points higher than it was -- than we announced.
I don't like showing -- giving too much granularity on margin.
I've always said we expect to see higher margins consistently year after year.
Obviously margins are beta dependent.
They're performance or fee dependent.
But we will continue to navigate and monitor our expenses.
I can control expenses and that's my commitment to you.
I can't control beta.
I do believe we'll have higher markets over the course of this coming year.
So we will be very disciplined in terms of managing those expenses related to what goes on in performance fees and beta.
So what I'm suggesting you should assume pricing margins predicated on beta.
But this is something that we are committed on and we believe we have great opportunities to expand the margin without harming the future growth of the company.
And that's how I'm trying to manage it.
We will continue to make sure we are making investments.
We will continue to make sure that we have the best investment teams.
I will be relentless in making sure we have a firm that is based on performance and that's my commitment to all of you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions.
Mr.
Fink do you have any closing remarks? No.
Great quarter.
I want to thank all the employees.
Once again our hearts and wishes are out to all those who experienced this -- the problems associated with the Boston terrorist act.
We live in these uncertain times.
We live in times of -- that are really tough to reconcile at times.
And it is our job to provide some consistency to our investors to overcome once again a lack of confidence that terrorist acts like this presents to us and our entire country.
So with that let's continue to hope for a great second quarter and I will be talking to you shortly.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Susan and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Inc.
Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Teleconference.
Our host for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Gary Shedlin; and General Counsel Matthew Mallow.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mallow you may begin your conference.
Thanks very much.
Good morning everyone.
This is Matt Mallow and I'm General Counsel of BlackRock.
Before Larry and Gary make their remarks let me point out that during the course of this call we may make a number of forward-looking statements and we call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual results may differ from these statements.
As you all are aware BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC which lists some of the factors that may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we say today on the call.
BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that I will get out of the way and let the call begin.
Gary? Thanks Matt and good morning everyone.
It's my pleasure to be here to present our second quarter results for the first time as CFO of BlackRock.
Today I'll provide some opening comments on our financial performance and also reference selected pages from our earnings supplement which has been posted on the BlackRock Investor Relations website.
I'll be discussing primarily as-adjusted results.
These results exclude among other items the financial impact of a significant Charitable Contribution in the second quarter which I will review in more detail shortly.
Finally I'll outline some changes we've made to our earnings release to improve transparency and facilitate a better understanding of the drivers of our business.
As I discussed at Investor Day a few weeks ago we're focused on 3 key drivers of shareholder value: organic growth operating leverage and capital management.
Despite some market volatility over the last 6 weeks of the quarter we delivered on each of these drivers resulting in a strong quarter and continued earnings growth.
We generated second quarter earnings per share of $4.15 up 34% compared to 2012.
Operating income was $982 million 18% higher than a year ago reflecting record base fees in the quarter and continued margin improvement.
Non-operating results reflected a $22 million increase in the market value of our seed and co-investments as well as a $39 million noncash pretax gain relating to the PennyMac IPO which we disclosed in our first quarter 10-Q.
The second quarter as-adjusted tax rate was 27.3%.
During the quarter we benefited from a number of discrete tax items totaling approximately $29 million which were primarily attributable to the realization of loss carryforwards.
For planning purposes we continue to believe that 31% is an appropriate run rate based on what we know today.
Underpinning our results was continued organic growth which we achieved despite a challenging market.
In the second quarter we generated approximately $12 billion of net new long-term flows.
As Larry will discuss in more detail these flows continued to demonstrate the diversity of our multi-client platform as our retail and institutional channels drove our organic growth this quarter offsetting the outflows experienced in our iShares business during the month of June.
Despite the fact that organic growth for the quarter was below our stated target we've generated approximately $130 billion of adjusted net new long-term business over the past 12 months representing a 4% organic growth rate.
Because 83% of these net flows were generated by our retail and iShares channels our organic revenue growth was even higher as these channels have higher effective fee rates compared to the firm's overall average fee rate.
As you can see on Page 10 in the supplement second quarter revenues were $2.48 billion up $253 million or 11% from a year ago.
Base fees reached record levels on the back of historically strong markets and organic growth.
We experienced year-over-year base fee growth across all traditional long-dated asset classes.
In the second quarter we continued to experience strong performance across a number of our single strategy hedge funds contributing to a significant year-over-year increase in performance fees.
Lower performance fees versus the first quarter were a result of seasonal factors.
Given recent market volatility and the majority of funds that lock in the second half of the year we will continue to update you on performance throughout the year.
Our BlackRock Solutions franchise continued to benefit from robust activity.
Revenues in the second quarter were $138 million up $7 million compared to 2012.
Our Aladdin business benefited from continued trends favoring global investment platform consolidation and clients seeking multi-asset risk solutions while our FMA business saw momentum from ongoing regulatory change especially in Europe.
The Aladdin pipeline remains strong especially driven by demand from asset managers.
And while year-over-year results were impacted by the timing and recognition of certain fees we continue to expect mid-teens growth rates for the business.
Securities lending revenue grew 21% versus the first quarter led by seasonal demand but declined on a year-over-year basis as a result of spread compression.
Turning to Page 12 of the supplement.
Expenses were up $103 million year-over-year driven primarily by revenue-related items including direct fund expense and compensation.
This was a 7% increase from a year ago compared to an 11% increase in revenue over the same period and resulted in an operating margin of 41.3% 210 basis points higher from a year ago.
We continue to believe that scale is a critically -- is critically important to our business and we see scale advantages in a number of areas: growing our passive business leveraging our brand spend offsetting technology cost to our Aladdin business and absorbing the increased cost of regulation and compliance.
In particular as we indicated last quarter we'll continue to invest in our brand especially when there is an opportunity to deliver important messages at a time when messages will have the most meaningful impact.
As such we increased our brand spend in the second quarter to levels more consistent with the year-ago quarter.
We still expect our full-year brand investment to be in line with 2012 levels.
Our margin has recently benefited from positive mix shift and rising global market levels.
However in the last 6 weeks of the quarter we witnessed outflows in certain high-margin products and the decline in market levels.
As we emphasized during Investor Day we remain committed to dual objectives: running the firm as efficiently as possible while also investing for future growth.
While our margin will fluctuate as a function of mix shift and data we remain confident that we can maintain minimum margins of 40% and stable market conditions.
We remain committed to using our cash flow to optimize shareholder value with the first priority to invest in our business.
In May we announced the acquisition of MGPA a private equity real estate investment advisory company.
This deal will double the size of our real estate advisory business and extend its reach to Asia Pac and EMEA.
The acquisition will not be material to earnings per share and is expected to close in the third quarter subject to customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions.
Though not included in the current quarter on July 1 we completed the acquisition of Crdit Suisse's ETF business with assets under management of $16 billion.
This acquisition will extend our footprint in the Swiss market and bring a broader range of opportunities to Swiss investors through our iShares platforms while also adding an array of complementary products to serve our clients across Europe.
Our capital management policy remains consistent.
We repurchased approximately $250 million of shares in the second quarter matching the value of shares we repurchased in the first quarter.
As we have previously stated in the current environment we would expect to continue this level of repurchase for the remainder of the year.
Before I turn it over to Larry I want to address the impact of PennyMac on our quarter results and some changes to our earnings release.
Between 2008 and 2012 BlackRock made a series of investment in PennyMac a leading national mortgage lender and servicer.
In May PennyMac completed an initial public offering.
BlackRock was not a seller in the IPO.
However as a result of the IPO we recorded a noncash non-operating pretax gain of $39 million related to the carrying value of our equity method investment which is included in our as-adjusted results.
As Larry will discuss more fully subsequent to the IPO in June BlackRock made a Charitable Contribution of approximately 6 million units of our PennyMac investment to a new Donor Advised Fund.
The fair value of this contribution was $124 million and is included in G&amp;A expense on our GAAP income statement.
In connection with the Charitable Contribution we also recognized an additional noncash non-operating gain of $80 million and recorded a net tax benefit of $57 million.
Among other items the financial impact of the entire Charitable Contribution has been excluded from as-adjusted results.
Page 28 of the earnings supplement details the financial impact of both the PennyMac IPO and related Charitable Contribution.
Going forward BlackRock will continue to account for our remaining 20% PennyMac holding as an equity method investment.
Finally as some of you may have noticed we have made some changes to our earnings release.
Given the diverse nature of our multi-client platform we feel that our AUM inflows are best viewed and analyzed through a comprehensive lense.
With that in mind we have added incremented AUM disclosures by client and product in order to provide greater transparency on our business drivers including the addition of average AUM data based on relative month-end averages.
Given this additional disclosure we have also decided to discontinue the reporting of our net new business institutional pipeline.
This decision is not meant to signal any change in the outlook for our institutional business.
In fact our pipeline at July 11 was $49.3 billion up $13.9 billion from April 11 with a mix of business largely in line with prior quarters.
We trust these changes will facilitate a better understanding of our overall business.
And with that I'll turn it over to Larry.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you Gary and thanks for joining everyone -- us today on this call.
But before we start I'd like to reiterate how excited I am to have Gary on board.
He's been a close partner of mine and adviser to BlackRock for many years and it's great to have him as a full-time member of our team.
Let me begin with a little market context.
What started out as a relatively steady first 2 months of the quarter for markets took a turn in late May following a series of global events all within a concentrated period of time.
The Fed's comments on May 22 suggesting a change in narrative a change in the idea of tapering their bond purchasing program led to markets aggressively selling off to the long end of the curve.
What we witnessed to see also is a rapid sell-off from leveraged investment products.
The same time growing uncertainty surrounding Japanese policy makers going all-in on our stimulus efforts triggered approximately a 20% 3-week sell-off in the Nikkei after a very large run-up.
And finally continuing market worries about Chinese growth and emerging market capital flows sparked a downturn in emerging markets.
These events drove a material uptick in market volatility and we saw different types of investor react in different ways highlighting the stability of BlackRock's multi-client platform.
In fact we saw very little in the ways of changes from our largest institutional clients as we remain committed to their long-term investment objectives.
We did see a market change in trading-oriented investor behavior particularly with respect to long-duration fixed income and emerging market equity exposure as those clients used liquidity in our iShares products to reposition their portfolios.
Many of these macro and policy concerns that attracted attention in the markets remain along with the ongoing political uncertainty of the Middle East are likely to continue to drive global capital market volatility.
However I remain just as constructive on a long-term upside of the U.S.
equities as I have been over the last 2 years.
We've spoken frequently about the benefits of our diversified business model at BlackRock and we saw strong evidence of that again this quarter.
Generated record long-term base fees of $2.1 billion and long-term net inflows of approximately $12 billion taking our flows to $51.4 billion year-to-date.
We benefited from the diversity of the client segments we serve the diversity of our product set and the diversity of the geographies in which we operate.
During the quarter we had 11 funds across retail and iShares generated more than $1 billion in flows.
These funds did not include our traditional growth engines Global Al and Equity Dividend which I believe showcases BlackRock's highly scalable product breadth which -- with representation across all major classes client segments and importantly geographies.
In recent quarters iShares delivered a substantial portion of BlackRock's overall organic growth.
This quarter it was our Retail and Institutional businesses driving growth and offsetting iShares' outflows.
Positive net flows in the quarter were led by multi-asset products unconstrained fixed income and retail alternatives 3 key areas of focus where we've been investing to building market-leading position.
Our flows also reflect the benefit of our broad platform and BlackRock's global reach with positive contributions from both our active and passive franchises and strong flows in our EMEA and Asia Pacific regions.
Before I walk through the results I'd like to take a minute to discuss the macro trend that has been a key driver of flows at BlackRock and I think will continue to drive BlackRock's upcoming quarters.
This is about the growth -- Great Rotation.
The Great Rotation in equities has been much discussed.
We are seeing a rotation at BlackRock but it's not from fixed income into equities it's a rotation within fixed income.
Over the past several quarters we've been warning our clients about the asymmetric risk in their fixed income portfolios.
The 30-year bull market which I was witnessing through my career in fixed income products has meant that more than a generation of investors had never seen the losses in their fixed income portfolios.
In the past few months obviously that's started to change.
10-year yield spiked more than 100 basis points from the lows of early May through the first week of July and the Barclays Aggregate Bond Index fell nearly 5% during the same period.
There is a Great Rotation.
We believe it's going to be out of core Barclays Aggregate-type products the types of products that have been benefiting from duration extension in the past but are now sources of increased risk.
We expect to see flows moving into more flexible nontraditional fixed income products.
Industry flows into flexible bond products across the industry has increased sevenfold year-to-date versus the same period last year while flows in more traditional bond categories has fallen as great as 80%.
We built BlackRock on our reputation in fixed income.
We let that performance get away from us in 2008.
And we spent a great deal of time on rebuilding that -- the performance platform at BlackRock.
And we fixed the business over the past few years and I'm proud to say that we're well positioned today in fixed income space more than we've ever been and we're now ahead of most of our competitors.
As of the end of June we're outperforming in a number of key fixed income areas.
We've seen strong recent outperformance in our Total Return Fund which is a top decile for the 1-year period and should prove to have a better defensive position relative to our peers.
Our Low Duration Bond Fund is a top quartile for a 3-year period of time is in the sweet spot for yield-starved investors searching for some strong performance with minimum duration risk.
And perhaps most importantly our unconstrained Strategic Income Opportunity fund or SIO is in the top quartile for 1- and 3-year period.
SIO is designed to provide yield capital return and downside protection in diverse interest rate environments.
They took in more than $1.6 billion in the quarter now has -- for $6 billion in assets.
We're very encouraged by the retail adoption of this product.
As we introduced the fund outside the U.S.
and to institutional investors SIO is well positioned to be one of BlackRock's largest and most important products in the coming years.
So across the board we're well positioned to benefit from the changes in fixed income.
We've developed strong offerings across unconstrained across floating rate alternatives and multi-asset categories.
For example this quarter we launched the Asia Floating Rate Income Fund which is designed to protect against rising rates and we saw more than $300 million inflows.
In the alternative space we saw $1.1 billion of U.S.
retail flows in our Global Long/Short Credit Mutual Fund a product designed to eliminate interest rate risk and provide credit-driven solutions.
Our Multi-Asset Income Fund or MIA -- MAI has been a strong fixed income substitute.
It's 5-star go-anywhere income solution that continues to see strong momentum taking in more than $1 billion for the second consecutive quarter.
As investors begin to more fully appreciate the risk in their fixed income portfolios we have the solutions our clients need we're well positioned to reap the benefits of the rotation within fixed income.
The types of outcome-oriented solutions I just discussed have been a key driver in our retail and institutional client businesses which generated healthy flows despite the challenging investment landscape.
In retail our diversified platform continues to deliver result.
This quarter we generated $5.1 billion in net inflows with key themes of income alternatives and outcome-oriented solutions driving positive results across all geographies.
U.S.
retail and high net worth had long-term net inflows in the second quarter of $3.5 billion.
I just mentioned SIO MAI and our Global Long/Short Credit Fund all which netted north of $1 billion in net flows in the quarter.
Alternatives are rapidly moving into the mainstream as the funds we launched in the past 2 years have more than $2.5 billion in AUM having raised $1.1 billion in our second quarter.
During the quarter we also launched the Emerging Market Allocation Fund an innovative actively managed product leveraging our 12 separate emerging market teams that create product breadth that few if any of our competitors can match.
International retail we saw long-term net inflows of $1.6 billion reflecting global consistency in targeted growth areas including strong multi-asset fixed income and alternative flows.
Multi-asset net inflows demonstrated increasing interest in our Global Allocation Managed Volatility and Dynamic Asset Allocation offerings as retail investors look for us at BlackRock to provide them solutions to address the market volatility.
Let me turn to fundamental equities.
It still is a mixed story.
However we're pleased with the strong start we're starting to -- we're seeing in some of our new managers in U.S.
fundamental equities and across the board.
And our Basic Value Fund a great example of the turnaround over 275 basis points of outperformance in the past 6 months.
Our European equities continue to strengthen led by our top-decile performing -- performance across a number of our funds including our euro market fund offset by outflows and our natural resources where we had a dominant position and remain to be dominant but where we're seeing outflows in commodity-like type products.
And we saw outflows in our U.K.
equities.
What I'm particularly pleased -- being set up when we see a refreshed inflows and that is in our Emerging Market equities.
One of our new managers has been with us close to 2 years now is Andrew Swan who continues to outperform beating his benchmark by more than 300 basis points year-to-date.
Our Global Allocation fund which has performed very very well while managing risk exposure for the last rolling 12 months it earned over a 12% return to our investors.
Let me turn to institutional where we generated $7.8 billion in long-term net new business.
Flows are driven largely by a combination of continued shift to passive and demand for multi-asset solutions.
The tone of our conversation with institutional clients remained positive as evidenced by clients adding to positions amidst all this market volatility.
This also speaks very loudly how our clients are looking for BlackRock for helping them to provide solutions.
And in that sense we are seeing bar belling that continues to be a dominant theme with large strategic clients investing in both equity and fixed income index mandates alongside alternative solutions to achieve uncorrelated returns.
Institutional active products saw positive flows for the first time in 8 quarters with $1.3 billion in net inflows.
Strong multi-asset flows offset fundamental equities and active currency challenges.
We benefited from our proactive plan dialogue around regulatory changes as implementation of RDR-like regulation in Europe drove a large highly customized multi-asset strategy an advisory win for the quarter.
We expect to see more types of opportunity working alongside our distribution partners as they try to respond to RDR and we believe we will see more sub-advisory type of relationships as that continues.
Once again our key growth subsegments specifically defined contributions and official institutions continue to be strong contributors.
We generated $4 billion in our target date LifePath product in the quarter with now nets over $7 billion in new flows.
We also saw more than $6 billion of flows from official institutions primarily into path of equity mandates.
We continue to evaluate ways to connect our products and clients for the overlay of risk management through BlackRock Solutions at our Aladdin platform.
Our Aladdin business continues to grow with multiple successful implementations and an expanding client base much of which is in global in nature.
As Gary mentioned we continue to expect mid-teen revenue growth in our Aladdin business.
We signed a record number of advisory assignments in Q2 and we continue to see opportunities to have clients use Aladdin especially now with the new regulatory environment we're all living in.
We also announced that during the quarter the alliance with MarketAxess which will allow our clients to tap into a deeper liquidity pool for U.S.
credit from the Aladdin platform.
We remain well positioned across BlackRock Solutions and our financial advisory business continues to showcase the differentiated and strong multi-client platform.
We were recently retained in 2 new assignments that speak to our unique analytical capabilities.
The first is the assignment on behalf of Her Majesty's Treasury to provide advice on Royal Bank of Scotland; and the second is a significant country-wide banking diagnostics.
We are proud to be a trusted adviser for global leaders when they face -- faced with issues involving significant financial complexities.
And we also work very closely with all the regulators related to the implementation in terms of new focuses on risk management leverage ratios.
And we believe with this greater and greater scrutiny more and more clients are going to be looking for Aladdin as a source of risk management tools.
Now let me turn to iShares.
As what Mark Wiedman who runs our iShares business told you at Investor Day iShares are used in both as an investment vehicle but also it's used as an exposure tool by our clients.
Amidst market volatility in June we saw clients again turn to iShares to express their views in this case on emerging markets and long-duration fixed income.
In the 3 weeks following May 22 clients redeemed nearly $15 billion in iShares.
The ability to exit quickly the ability to exit efficiently and in bulk is part and parcel of our value proposition to an important client segment a trading-oriented investors.
These investors prefer iShares as the broadest most liquid suite of ETFs.
They use iShares when they want to take on fresh risk as they did earlier in the year and the fourth quarter of 2012 and when they want to exit as they did following the Fed comments on tapering.
The consequences is that our quarterly flows and our flow market share will be volatile.
Since quarter end the flows have reversed with more than $6 billion of inflows through yesterday and more than $30 billion of net flows year-to-date.
In fact despite the volatility we saw in June we are running at the same rate of growth as we did last year as last year we saw a summer swoon in our ETF market.
So we love our position in our business and we expect this as the same type of future.
But importantly we look to longer horizons.
Over quarters and years our market share of assets have been stable and in 2012 for instance we grew in line with a global industry with 27% AUM growth and a 14% organic growth.
The flows in the second quarter reflect the fact that iShares delivered the liquid market exposure that our clients' expect.
This is true even in the products that experienced the most selling pressure including emerging market equities and fixed income ETFs.
EEM our flagship emerging market fund traded a record $5 billion in a day all in the secondary market without any creations or redemptions.
Similarly for the first time we saw a $1 billion plus trading [ph] day in our leading U.S.
corporate ETF like HYG and LQD.
So overall our product performed in a challenging period but we welcome continued dialogue around the mechanics of ETFs.
We are constantly working with market makers and exchanges to ensure that ETFs are working appropriately.
As the market leader in the industry we believe we have a responsibility to lead the charge on market practices and investor education not just with respect to iShares but in the ETF market globally at large.
Turning to the business results for global iShares we ended the quarter with $1 billion in net inflows.
We've seen a healthy start in the third quarter with $6.2 billion in net inflows through July 16.
iShares base fees of $723 million represents a 21% year-over-year increase.
Fixed income outflows was $1.5 billion driven a rotation out of the long-duration fixed income.
We also experienced outflows in our commodity-like products of $2.2 billion in line with the macro pressures in that segment.
Equity net inflows in our ETF products was $2.7 billion showcasing the breadth of our offerings as outflows in emerging market products were offset across the franchise.
A key driver in our new flows was our minimum volatility equity suite where we saw -- launched a new marketing campaign during the quarter.
This set of products offers investors equity exposure with flatter peaks and valleys.
It's an innovative solution that we developed in-house and we raised more than $7.6 billion since the launch of this product only 2 years ago.
Let me just also add regionally iShares results were supported by strength in Europe and Latin America offsetting the weakness I talked about in the United States.
EMEA iShares retained its leading position with $2.5 billion in net inflows.
Flows were led by equities with $2.2 billion in net inflows.
We actually had our 25th consecutive month of positive ETF fixed income flows in India.
Overall we remain very pleased with the direction of our iShares business.
However we must remain aggressive in pursuing new opportunities through both product innovation and tapping into new market segments.
Let me give you 3 examples.
First we launched -- we recently launched our fixed income iSharesBonds series targeted towards traditional fixed income investors.
Second we launched our Core Series products which we designed for the buy and hold segment and we delivered $3.6 billion of net positive flows in the quarter.
And third last quarter we announced our long-term strategic alliance with Fidelity to provide access to iShares in the self-directed segment.
And that partnership is off to a great great start.
In summary iShares provide solutions both for investors focused on liquidity and those looking to build long-term portfolios using beta products.
We believe that we continue to be in a secular bull market for ETFs and that as a market leader we will both drive the growth and benefit from the growth of the market.
I'll wrap up my comments with a few other significant events that occurred during the quarter.
Our brand campaign continues to drive increased awareness and recognition and we backed that up with targeted marketing towards our key investor segments and products.
We're helping our clients to answer the question to what to do with their money and we're focusing their attention on the solutions they need to be successful in the current investing environment.
We're also trying to remind our clients that their objectives is in most cases about retirement.
And the noise we saw in the last 6 weeks truly has little consequences in terms of their long-term objective needs.
And as I said earlier we have not seen investor behavior change by what I call our traditional long-term clients.
And I think our ad campaign is helping our clients understand that we need to be focused not on the noise of the day but on the objectives over a long cycle.
As Gary discussed during the quarter we used a portion of our ownership stake in PennyMac to fund a philanthropic entity by seeding the Donor Advised Fund.
As a leader in our community as a leader in the industry we're committed to be -- to the well-being of our communities where we live and work.
This new charitable initiative will deepen our commitment to public responsibility that has always been fundamental to our business.
We expect the fund to be operational in early 2014 and it will be a cornerstone of BlackRock's philanthropic efforts including among other things helping to promote financial education for low-income families and individuals.
I'd like to personally congratulate and thank Stan Kurland and the entire PennyMac team for the work they've done in building that business and creating value that will benefit BlackRock shareholders for the years to come.
Finally in June we hosted our Inaugural Investor Day.
Our goal was to provide more exposure to the depth and talent of our team and provide a deeper dive into the growth prospects for the firm.
I've been fortunate to be surrounded by a talented and dedicated global team for many years and that team is a key driver of our performance and growth.
As a result as this quarter shows even in periods of volatility we have a platform designed to deliver for both clients and shareholders.
We are well positioned to benefit from long-term market trends including the rotation within fixed income space with our unconstrained alternatives and multi-asset offerings as well as a continued shift to passive in the use of beta products to generate alpha with our iShares business.
We will continue to strive to stay ahead of secular changes and put our clients in a position to meet their investment goals.
We have an exciting opportunity in front of us to execute on the growth plan we laid out a few weeks ago.
I believe that growth plan is intact and I believe we will continue to drive the types of rates we discussed in much more detail during Investor Day.
I would like to thank everybody in all the hard work for all the employees.
And with that I'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Carrier with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Larry just one question on the fixed income business.
You gave a lot of detail.
Just in terms of BlackRock how you guys are setup from a fixed income product mix what's your offering when you look at the mix of say like the core products versus the -- what you characterize as either the alternative or the flex products? And then also just from like a fee perspective.
If we continue to see more of that shift over time what tends to be the fee rate in those products versus some of the more core products? On the unconstrained type of product the margins are -- or the fees are higher than our core products but I won't say dramatically higher.
And as we see more and more growth in that obviously we'll look to change that.
But right now the fees are higher than our core products.
And as I said for the -- our 1- and 3-year period of time after fees we've outperformed our peers in that.
So that's one positive thing.
We're going to have a lot of clients who are not going to be able to move out of core.
And we still -- we have great performance in our core offerings also.
It is my view that more clients should be moving more towards more the unconstrained type of products and I do believe you're going to see more and more investors move in that.
Let me just also add 2/3 of our fixed income assets are held by institutional clients and they're generally slower in terms of movement.
But I do believe that the dialogues we're having more and more institutional clients are asking the question how should they be looking at their fixed income portfolio.
As I said in my prepared speeches we had a 30-year bull market people were very accustomed and very convinced that having their assets in a core product was a foundational component of their fixed income allocation.
I think that is being -- that will change over time.
I think we'll be a big beneficiary of that change.
But as I said institutions are slow to adapt.
They have to work with the consultants and I don't mean that in a negative way.
They take -- they have to act as a fiduciary making sure they're -- they need to make sure they're meeting the needs as a fiduciary.
But importantly also many of our fixed income investors whether they're insurance companies or other types of organization they are looking to match their assets to their liabilities.
And so a lot of fixed income investing is liability-based investing.
And those types of investors you're not -- they're going to be -- they're not unhappy with rising rates if their liabilities are moving alongside with that.
So that's why we're here to say there's going to be a rotation but it -- and it could be large in some segments of fixed income owners and in some segments it is going to be much less.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just as a follow-up you mentioned some of the volatility in May and June and how the ETFs performed.
Just on the fixed income side you mentioned the relationship with MarketAxess you guys announced something with TradeWeb.
Just during that same period of time in May and June just given the regulations dealers holding less inventory any insight in terms of as a big fixed income player how the markets performed? And based on those relationships what you guys are trying to do longer term? Sure.
That's not related to iShares.
I mean but one thing is very clear that people are using -- I think one of the big trends that I think even surprise me many investors use iShares in fixed income for beta exposure.
Sometimes some investors used to use some form of derivatives and swaps and other forms of options now they're using ETFs.
So that's one of the things that was designed.
There was no question during I guess those few moments during late June.
There were periods of pretty poor liquidity in the fixed income markets especially in credit.
I'm not particularly alarmed about this.
I think the Street has done a very good job to try to manage their balance sheet issues managing their leverage ratio issues managing their capital issues.
We as long-term investors are going to have to deal with this.
This is why I believe more and more fixed income will be traded on electronic platforms in the coming years and I think we'll find a new source of liquidity.
But in the short run there are bouts of illiquidity that's the entire market.
And I just want to underscore the cash part of the market the ETF component of the market I mean we saw periods of time of illiquidity.
But as I reflect now in less -- in more calm periods today what I'm particularly surprised at how well the exchanges and the market participants of fixed income ETFs performed.
As I said we saw $1 billion of flows in one day the creates and redeems worked very well.
There was periods of time during the day where there were appearances of discounts but all that was was a indication of where the cash market was going.
And obviously there is many cases in which in global bonds where markets were closed overseas and the ETF market from that close looked like a discount but it was really telegraphing where the markets were going to go the next morning.
And so we were -- I mean we were very pleased with how they performed.
Nevertheless as the market leader we are doing whatever we can to assure as great a market liquidity as possible.
It is our responsibility to educate and to inform to making sure that we have a more liquid market.
But the overall fixed income market is going through this evolutionary change now as Wall Street is relying less on balance sheet spending much more time on flow.
They're dealing -- they're developing their own electronic trading platforms MarketAxess is another one.
And as long-term investors this is something we're all going to have to live with and adapt.
Your next question comes from the line of Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just following up on fixed income allocations from institutions just in terms of going from maybe core to non-core products how are fixed income ETFs playing into those discussions? And just following on on some of the discussions around the -- what sounds like sort of market dislocations if you will that were temporary versus sort of tracking our long-term for fixed income.
Maybe you could talk about sort of the market share opportunity? Mark Wiedman's here and he's going to be able to answer that question in a lot more granularity than I can.
So Mark why don't you answer that? Marc there are 2 things I think implicit in your question.
Let me address them separately.
The first is about growing adoption by what I would call fixed income specialists of fixed income ETFs.
So historically the users of fixed income ETFs have been wealth managers and asset allocators.
I call them generalist investors.
And that's where the bulk even today of our fixed income ETF holdings are.
What's the big transformation that's occurring is we're seeing fixed income specialists who control I don't know 98% 99% of the global fixed income assets actually starting to use fixed income ETFs in their portfolios.
For liquidity purposes they're using them for tactical positioning.
It's our aspiration with the iSharesBond launch that we actually penetrate beyond the tactical position into longer buy-and-hold segments whether they'd be an insurance or bank or corporate balance sheet or individuals around the world.
So that's the broad trend and we see it every day.
It gets a bit masked when you see people flowing out of an asset class because it looks like they're exiting the ETF.
What they're doing is using the ETF and again those tactical traders for the exact purpose for which they bought it which is the ability to get out quickly when they want to.
The second question you're addressing is the -- I think Larry used the appearance I think that's the right word of a gap between the underlying and the ETF price.
And I think the issue here is volatility you can see versus volatility you can't.
What ETFs do is they shine a light on intraday volatility in the underlying asset class the cash market the underlying securities.
And so an optical gap can open up in the short term versus net asset value which is the industry convention by which for example even ETFs report the value.
But it's important to understand that's because the NAV depends on historical pricing.
It's a disciplined conservative tool for valuing securities at the last known transaction price.
The problem is in fast-moving markets those prices go stale.
So if you're talking about let's take the example of overnight equities emerging market equities or Japanese equities for example.
The ETFs will keep repricing based on news during the day.
And we've seen this historically in 2011 after the nuclear disaster in Japan we saw it recently with the sell-off in Japan that our leading ETFs for Japan EWJ keeps trading as if it's a continuous market with the Nikkei in Tokyo.
So that's the first part.
The second thing is on the bonds is understand that the prices in the NAV are recorded at historical last transaction.
What that means is that for example in our high-yield ETF the leading one HYG 30% of the underlying securities are priced at a security -- at NAVs 3 months or more old 30% of those prices are 3 months or more old.
That's the industry convention it's how we price our ETFs for disciplined conservative valuation practices.
But it creates optical illusions versus the underlying cash markets because there are securities in which there actually just haven't been transactions.
So that's the basic issue.
We believe our securities have performed -- actually our ETFs in particularly high-yield and emerging market performed better than they ever have.
And that's why our clients are actually happy to be using them and that's why we're happy to be -- that's our key takeaway.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you can just give some color on your EM -- on active EM business both in equity and debt.
Obviously we saw -- we've seen a pretty good bout of volatility here.
Are you sensing or seeing from your clients any change in thinking about being active in EM versus passive in their allocations toward EM? No I think that those are who are -- a core group of our investors believe that active management EM is part of their core philosophy and this is why we've been so aggressive in building our EM fixed income team and our EM equity team.
And EM and also as I suggested our EM alternatives.
What we did we have a $500 million win in our EM fixed income team.
This is on the active side.
As I talked about Andrew Swan in terms of his outperformance in a component of that.
But there are another core group of investors and some of them official institutions.
They're investing in EM principally through a beta product.
And so our job as I've said for many quarters is to provide an active solution and a beta solution.
But Marc I have not seen any dramatic shift out of beta into active or vice versa.
I think those who are -- who believe in active will continue to invest in active and those who believe in -- who want exposure and they're not as concerned about excess performance they're going to go into beta.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just Larry on the active equity business the flow trends they look like they decelerate or improved sequentially a little bit.
How much of the improvement is sort of redemptions slowing versus wins in active equity? Are you seeing sort of the end of the bout of redemptions or is it gross sales are picking up or...
I think a lot of the redemptions are the component of when we transition our managers we expect large outflows.
And so some of -- so obviously that's behind us.
Our investors are starting to see the positive turnaround.
We have probably more dialogue than ever before.
Some of our trends we are seeing continued flows in European equities where we have a 5- 3- and 1-year track record that's in top quartile.
And so we're -- so some of it is a combination of both.
But the other thing that we're seeing -- we continue to see more and more interest in multi-assets where clients are looking for equity exposure but in a more of a multi-asset type of strategy where you could navigate around.
So -- and the other thing is it's undeniable our scientific active equity team has had great results.
I expected to start seeing more inflows but we're not seeing any outflows as you suggested.
So I think it's fair to say our -- the outflow drag is probably behind us and now it's opportunity.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick question just going back to the capital management really on the debt side.
I'm just curious how are you thinking about managing kind of the debt side of the ledger? I mean I think you had around $750 million of some notes that matured.
I mean should we expect that the objective is to kind of chip away at outstanding debt over time as part of the capital management strategy? Rob it's Gary.
So our next maturity is in December so we're basically a little more than a year away from that and that's about $1 billion.
So we're obviously monitoring.
There's the constant tradeoff -- I'd say there's 2 trade-offs.
One is basically trying to basically get a feel for obviously where we think rates are going to go and spreads over the next 16 months so we're going to be very mindful of that.
But we're also mindful of the negative carry.
So we're going to try and balance base -- both of those items in terms of trying to have an outlook and understand the negative carry.
But we're certainly not going to play that too cute.
So whether it's next month or it's 6 to 8 months from now that remains to be seen based on our continued analysis but we're very mindful of it.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know you don't -- you guys didn't provide the balance sheet but -- and I could be mistaken.
I guess I thought you may have some floating rate notes that matured back in April or May and I'm just kind of curious how you...
Those were pre-refinanced last year at the time of the Barclays buyback.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Another follow-up question on Aladdin.
Just want to make sure I understand how some of the new business flows.
You talked about having pretty strong pipeline and expecting double-digit growth there.
Am I right in assuming that there's some upfront costs as you bring on those mandates so that maybe it takes a while for profitability on the new mandates to flow through in that.
With that and given the strong growth you've had there in the last couple of years should we really be expecting maybe some acceleration over the coming year or so in the Aladdin's growth? Well as we said both Gary and I said we expect double-digit revenue growth.
Obviously it's lumpier.
So over course of the year we expect that.
We've signed 5 new mandates in the first quarter and 5 new mandates in the second quarter.
We have never seen this type of volume.
And we are about to sign one of the largest mandates we've ever had.
As I said more and more institutions are looking to take on Aladdin as their risk management solution.
And this is asset managers this is official institutions insurance companies and so we continue to see huge upside and opportunity to build Aladdin.
We crossed about another $14 trillion mark in terms of assets that we are now analyzing risk on behalf of our clients.
It continues to be an industry leader.
And I believe as an industry leader because of the increased regulatory issues that we all have to face having a risk system that is across product that encapsulates regional issues regional differences compliance issues it allows investors especially the more regulated investors to deal with the regulatory compliance in a far better way that they would have otherwise.
Especially in Europe as you have each country now adapting regulatory issues a little differently.
And so the regulatory issues that we are all facing BlackRock included is enormous.
And if we did not have at BlackRock -- I'm going to speak for ourselves for a second if we did not have a monoline platform of risk management risk understanding a monoline platform of -- in terms of trade entry trade discovery inventory management we would have far more difficulties.
And I think one of the reasons why we continue to have better than industry average in margins has been because of having this technology in face of all the regulatory added needs that we have to face.
Our competitors who are asset managers obviously have the same issues.
They are now becoming our clients.
They are faced the same issues and they're trying to achieve the same type of simplicity and operating structure that we have at BlackRock and we're happy to make them our clients.
And Rob I would just add just specifically that the year-over-year comparison in terms of it being up 5% I think was your question is definitely the result of timing and recognition of renewals and implementation fees.
So there's no question there's some timing issues in there.
And to Larry's point on the pipeline I'd say the one really very good piece of news is while we're adding -- we added 5 clients in the first quarter and 5 new clients in the second quarter the run rate of revenues for that group of clients is increasing fairly dramatically.
And in fact in the pipeline as Larry mentioned the run rate of those new clients is even greater than the second quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the money market forum [ph] you didn't really talk -- you touched on it.
I know you covered it at the Analyst Day recently but there's been a little bit more movement maybe by the IRS and I'm just curious what's been the feedback from your client base as they've had a chance to ruminate a little bit on some of the proposed change by the SEC and what might be the behavior around any of these changes? As I said during the Investor Day I don't think we're going to see that much change.
I think this has been so well telegraphed.
If we get the IRS changes as you suggested we need to deal well with [ph] changes.
That's something that's going to be very important.
So if we get these changes which I think are coming forth we have been working very closely with the regulators.
As they finalize this they've asked for our input as they've asked for other people's input.
We've been -- we're providing input to the regulators from input that we have had from our clients.
As I said this is so well telegraphed.
We're going to have some clients who are going to have to move probably close -- more to the government-oriented funds because they require some form of guarantee some sort of backstop or they -- and they have to have a constant NAV.
Some clients are going to be able to adapt to have a floating NAV.
And the reality is Bill because we publish every day now what our NAV is it really has almost like a implied floating NAV even today.
And as our clients are watching all the clients that are in money market funds are saying how the NAV is staying much more constant.
The industry has done a very good job of self-policing itself.
And so I think much of this is already in the marketplace.
One last thing we have the final comment letter is due in September.
And as I've said we're getting feedback and we're providing that feedback to the regulators from our clients.
But as I said Investor Day I'm very calm about this.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then a quick question for Gary.
I heard you on the $250 million is a good run rate in terms of repurchased.
But with the stock trading where it's at right now and your earnings building how are you thinking about that on a go-forward basis? And I guess the real question is as you think about the share count should we expect that to continue to migrate lower or will that start to stabilize at this point? I think we're obviously going to continue to try and be as consistent and predictable in terms of our capital management policy Bill as we possibly can.
As I said the run rate for the moment I think we feel very comfortable with the $250 million a quarter.
We're going to try and be really systematic about that as opposed to overwhelmingly opportunistic.
And so with that I would expect for basically the second the third and fourth quarter you'll expect the share count to come down and obviously generally kind of gets offset in the first quarter of the year based on employee comp issuance.
But overall you're going to see that count continue to come down.
Yes.
I -- we have not discussed this with our board.
This is a discussion that we would have probably in our later board meetings.
But it's very clear that as long as we generate the free cash flow that we are generating Bill which obviously will grow as we grow earnings it would be my expectation the board would authorize us to continue with the process of reducing our share count.
But I mean obviously that's subject to conversation.
And we do have board authorization for what? 7 million 8 million more shares outstanding right now.
But right now our board has agreed to the current rate that we are purchasing right now.
But just pay attention to our free cash flow and we don't need to discuss anymore.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one point of clarification.
The $6 billion that you've got on iShares quarter-to-date did you provide dynamics to where that's coming into in terms of products? I'm sorry I might have missed that.
No we did not.
I mean it's all public data.
Mark why don't you just quickly answer that.
It's broadly distributed I can -- I don't have off-hand the numbers for Core Series by assets.
The -- into where they come but we see -- I give you one example of how the Core Series is achieving its purpose relative to more high velocity trading vehicles.
We launched IEMG which is our low-cost broad EM exposure vehicle.
Lower liquidity doesn't have the derivatives ecology of its big sister EEM.
IEMG launched in October.
It's nearing $2 billion.
That money kept flowing in even during massive outflows out of EEM.
And what that shows is there's 2 different segments: there are consistent buyers coming in a trickle and then you see other buyers or -- and sellers who are moving in and out much faster.
So I would say look at the Core Series for a long-term investment trend so we can get you that data it's out there public.
And then for -- you look for more fast money as products like EEM and HYG.
Your next question comes from the line with Matt Kelley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones for me.
So I'd just be curious to get your comments on the demand for allocation funds from -- segmented into institutional and retail demand.
So as you think about financial advisers and you think about institutions where is kind of the increase or decrease at the margin and pickup in demand? And how your EM allocation fund is fitting in within that so far as well? You mean the EM [ph] allocation fund part that we announced -- that we discussed? So where we see clients looking for BlackRock to do the allocation these are generally fiduciary mandates where we are working alongside with them and we are working with them and we're seeing a rise in fiduciary types of businesses.
But I mean principally these allocation types of products are retail-oriented products.
That's what they're designed for or that's where we're seeing in the RIA channel and other channels where clients are looking to have these types of products.
In Global Al obviously that's a very large scale retail product and it's expanding now in their RIA channel in itself.
And so one should not expect large-scale institutional monies moving into these type of products.
But for those clients who are looking for investor decisions as a fiduciary that will be -- continue to be a larger business of ours.
In fact in this week's P&amp;I there's a whole article about fiduciary business talking about how that's a growth area in the investment management business.
So that's where we're going to continue to see that.
And the other area where we see it Matt is in our Defined contribution and our LifePath business where as I said earlier we had another $4 billion of growth $7 billion over the quarter.
And this is where we are taking that investment decision or allocation process.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then as a follow-up I saw some news out that BlackRock's considering the launch of a Swiss fund range.
So I'm just -- I'm curious and I know that's something you guys touched on in the Swiss market at your Investor Day.
So when you think about that how have you -- what have you set up and what do you still need to set up? Are all the pieces in place now it's just about kind of execution and distribution? Mark I mean...
I think what you're referring to is we acquired the Crdit Suisse ETF platform.
That gave us a platform in Switzerland.
The primary rationale for that was they're offering Swiss ETFs to Swiss buyers who for tax reasons can't by UCITS funds.
But it's important to understand that gives us a foundation which we will be building on for offering a broader Swiss complement beyond just ETFs in Switzerland.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just to follow up on that.
I was actually referring to the broader launch.
I'm not sure if that's something you guys can kind of comment on.
Well in Switzerland we continue -- we're a big believer in Switzerland.
We believe whether it's in Swiss francs whether it's specifically the investment management platform that we have in Switzerland our -- I think you're referring to our Swiss country manager spoke about launching of some Swiss-oriented product Swiss-based and that's just a continuation of our desire to build a stronger presence in Switzerland.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First on sort of Barclays AGG versus unconstrained how much capacity do you think there is in this unconstrained market? It seems very intuitive that you'd see the switch from core to alternative.
But I guess is there enough supply to absorb this meaningful potential demand? From my perspective the investment process is no different than managing an Agg.
Obviously it requires more flexibility a lot more technology making sure you're managing to the level of risk that you want to take.
But there are many competitors in this product.
JPMorgan has a great product.
PIMCO has a product our product so I believe the capacity in the industry is in the trillions.
I think this is going to be a very large component of the future bond market and I look to the key participants to be a big player in it.
We just -- we happened as you've noted in your research report we have really great 1- and 3-year performance and we continue to drive great performance in this area and we're continuing to see accelerated flows in these products.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then 2Q I think you opened your prepared remarks saw 2 very to different markets.
April and May was very different than June.
And I think it was mentioned that the tone with many clients has not changed.
But I assume with some clients it has changed.
I'd say maybe first with which clients have the conversation or the tone changed and what actions do you expect them to take because of the change in rates particularly on the unintuitive side? You mentioned like Barclays AGG to unconstrained.
But I guess are there other areas where you're seeing leading indicators for change whether it'd be like dividend stocks or real estate or FX products by retail or institutional.
So any other things worth highlighting there outside of the unconstrained versus Barclays Agg? Yes I think when we see these shifts in attitude when you see 100-basis-point movements in rates you certainly have an accelerated dialogue with your clients.
So even our most deliberative clients who are looking at long-term solutions they require a lot of hand holding also and they ask many questions.
But overall as I've said institutionally we did not see much behavior change.
As I've said and reiterated the dialogue we're having related to movement out of core products into unconstrained is one consistent dialogue.
But I would say 2 or 3 more trends that we had with our clients.
One is we continue to see more questions related to bar belling.
The volatility remind clients -- it frightens clients that markets can move very rapidly very violently.
So bar belling becomes a bigger component of what the clients are asking.
They're looking -- as a result of that we have not seen any slowdown in the use of index products or beta products.
We are also seeing more and more clients looking for more uncorrelated type of products equity fixed income and other types of products.
So some of our alternative products we have a lot dialogue in that.
But the key there I think is every time you have these bouts clients have to relook at how much illiquidity they can afford.
And so one of the key things that I think clients -- why they're moving towards more beta products is these bouts of illiquidity frighten them and you just have more structural liquidity in index-based products.
And that trend has not changed.
The other thing that -- but on the same side as the indication of the bar belling we have more than $3 billion of illiquid commitments in our pipeline.
So we continue to see the same type of behavior.
But the need for hand holding the need to talk about long-term solutions became more and more apparent during these bouts of illiquidity and during the great change in rates and the psychology of rates.
But we have not seen much behavior change in dividend stocks.
I think globally you still continue to see -- you didn't see any real outflows in dividend stocks as the industry.
I think there are great example of showing less beta.
They certainly show less beta on the upside and they showed less beta downside during the market setback and now we're back to almost close to the highs again.
Ken the key for us is to provide consistency in our messaging to our clients.
And as I said our hand holding has to be consistent and we have to -- we have to talk to our clients above the noise.
Now in ETFs I think Mark and his team had -- because Mark and his team deals with a lot of clients who are more in a component of the iShares it's more of the fast-trading people.
His team had to have very different dialogues.
So it really -- once again it speaks loudly of the diversity of our clients at BlackRock but the core institutional clients' behavior didn't change.
Obviously we saw a lot of hand-holding need in retail.
And probably the greatest hand-holding needs were in the iShares area where we saw the extreme volatility where people were using these products for beta exposure.
And in the case of June it was negative beta exposure not positive beta exposure.
That's okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> You've touched a lot of already on the ongoing debate about whether ETFs help or hurt liquidity during times stress.
I think particularly with an asset class like fixed income where underlying OTC liquidity is thin and getting thinner.
If I could ask you to be as objective as possible to what extent would you acknowledge that we're in unchartered territory? This is an open question.
And do you think that naysayers make any good points and what could go wrong here that would damage the reputation of ETF vehicle in the mind of investors and what keeps you up at night? This is a great question.
I'm going to listen to Mark first and I'll give my response after.
I think that I would say the first thing is we have learned we have a lot more work to do in educating clients and other stakeholders about how these vehicles behave what does the current market price actually represent versus as I mentioned the asset values and the like.
So a lot of work in educating people how the tools work.
The good news is the clients who use the tools are very happy with how they actually perform.
So that's the good news.
But there's a lot of work in educating a very broad group of people including clients about how the actual vehicles work.
I think one of the things that I think is underlying is that expectations of market liquidity and ETFs require a little bit of clarification.
The minimum liquidity of an ETF is the underlying liquidity of the asset class less arbitrage cost.
That's the minimum liquidity.
So if the underlying is illiquid the ETF itself also might be illiquid.
But some ETFs create additional secondary liquidity which Larry mentioned aggregate [ph] EEM for example $5 billion.
We see it everyday with our Russell 2000 product IWM which trades huge sums every day which you can never trade in the underlying.
So there's additional liquidity creation.
Those are the kinds of -- that distinction there I think it's important for people to understand so if you're trading in a obscure asset class like some Yemeni securities you should expect that the ETF will also be illiquid.
We don't trade in those.
We don't trade in those.
Not yet.
Basically that ETF will also be illiquid.
It doesn't by just becoming an ETF have magical liquidity.
I think that key distinction is the number one thing we need to get out there in the marketplace for people to properly understand how these vehicles are supposed to perform.
I would just add the markets -- there's heightened scrutiny of ETFs right now which I actually believe is a good thing.
There is no question during the moments of stress there was heightened inquiry related to the flows and the quality of the markets of ETFs.
We welcome this type of scrutiny.
It's this type of scrutiny that in my mind helps us strengthen the market for the future.
I am not here to suggest I don't lose sleep over our commitments in the ETF market.
It is a large commitment.
We have a lot of responsibility for the fluidity of this market for the success of this market.
And I don't take that responsibility lightly and I know Mark and his team does not take that responsibility lightly.
We believe the potential ETFs as we stated in some of BlackRock research would be greater than $2 trillion.
We believe this will continue to grow.
And so that responsibility is only greater to assure that this market performs as we describe.
And as Mark suggested it requires a lot of education.
And that -- and education can go only so far.
But we need to make sure that our regulators are updated continuously we have to make sure that all our competitors are taking that fiduciary responsibility as importantly as we do we need to make sure that the quality of the products can withstand the test of time the test of bouts of illiquidity and the test of time of variances of the markets.
If we can achieve that the trends that we see by investor behavior the ETF market will be more than $2 trillion which is a great opportunity for the entire market.
Mark is now telling me $5 trillion.
Yes we're at $2 trillion now globally.
We're going to $5 trillion.
Excuse me I knew where the $2 trillion came from but up to $5 trillion.
And so there's a great opportunity to continue to build that.
And as I've said from our viewpoint despite the noise the ETF market performed very well especially when you consider the underlying illiquidity.
And it's so important to note and I have to reiterate it because I think that point was not understood.
The fact that we were able to trade $5 billion at EEM without creating or redeeming adds $5 billion of market liquidity.
So you didn't have to put $5 billion of stocks into the marketplace.
And I think that's a very important component of these products.
And I should also remind people when you have at the end of the day big inflows or outflows of mutual funds you don't have that recreate and redeem that then results if there's redeems that then creates outflows and stock pressure.
So let's not think of iShares or ETFs as something very different.
It's just flowing 24/7 or during the market time opening whereas in the mutual fund side it's at the end of the day.
I'm just trying to say the markets are very similar one's just more transparent.
But having the ability to do that creates and redeem through the market makers is a very powerful differentiating feature.
I think that's the last of the questions operator is that correct? Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions.
Mr.
Fink do you have any closing remarks? No.
As I've said repeatedly what makes me very proud in leading this firm is the diversification of our platform our multi-client platform having multi-products global distribution risk management.
In times where we saw big outflows in one business we saw big inflows in another business really illuminates how this platform has been built and really allows us to be a very differentiated player in the world of investing.
Thank you everyone.
Thank you for your patience.
Thank you for all the time you've given us today.
Have a good quarter.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Inc.
Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Teleconference.
Our host for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Gary Shedlin; and General Counsel Matthew Mallow.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mallow you may begin your conference.
Thanks very much.
Good morning everyone.
I'm Matt Mallow the General Counsel of BlackRock.
And before Larry and Gary make their remarks let me point out as I do in each of these calls that during the course of this call we may make a number of forward-looking statements.
We call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual results may differ from these statements.
And as you know BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC which list some of the factors that may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we say today.
Additionally BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
So with those formalities out of the way let's begin the call.
Thanks Matt.
Good morning everyone.
It's my pleasure to be here to present our third quarter results.
Before I turn it over to Larry to offer his comments I'll review our quarterly financial performance and business results.
I'll be referencing selected pages from our earnings supplement which has been posted on the BlackRock Investor Relations website and discussing primarily as adjusted results.
BlackRock delivered third quarter EPS of $3.88 up 12% compared to 2012.
Operating income was $978 million also 12% higher.
Excluding the impact of fund launch costs in the year ago quarter operating income was up 9% on a year-over-year basis.
Nonoperating results reflected a $23 million increase in the market value of our seed and co-investments largely driven by private equity real estate and distressed credit and mortgage investments.
Recall that non-operating income in the second quarter of 2013 reflected a $39 million pretax gain relating to PennyMac's IPO.
Our GAAP tax rate for the quarter was impacted by a noncash revaluation of our deferred tax liabilities based on various U.K.
and domestic state tax law changes which we exclude from as adjusted results.
The third quarter as adjusted tax rate was approximately 30% consistent with a 31% annual run rate which remains in appropriate intermediate term planning assumption based on what we know today.
In the third quarter we saw approximately $25 billion of long-term net new flows representing an annualized organic growth rate of 3%.
We again demonstrated the consistency of our highly diversified multi-client platform with retail and iShares driving our organic growth this quarter more than offsetting the outflows we saw in our Institutional business.
We've raised approximately $124 billion of long-term net new business over the past 12 months representing a 4% organic growth rate.
Because 86% of these net flows were generated by our retail and iShares channels our organic revenue growth exceeded asset growth as these channels have higher effective fee rates compared to the firm's overall fee rate the same dynamic held true in the third quarter.
As you can see on Page 10 in the supplement third quarter revenues were $2.5 billion up $152 million or 7% from a year ago.
Revenues were driven by base fees excluding securities lending which increases a function of both organic growth and market appreciation offset by reduced securities lending revenue reflecting ongoing softness in the hard-to-borrow or special collateral markets.
Sequentially total base fees which includes securities lending declined by 1% driven by mix and a seasonal decline in securities lending activity.
As a function of the market volatility we've witnessed in the latter half of the second quarter we entered the third quarter with lower assets on our management and our average AUM for the second quarter.
During the second quarter we were also impacted by iShares outflows and a negative beta-driven mix change in markets linked to some of our higher fee businesses.
We experienced the opposite phenomenon during the third quarter with iShares inflows and positive beta which will benefit our base fee run rate as we enter the final quarter of the year.
Performance fees for the quarter reflected solid results in our diversified single strategy hedge fund platform.
Our performance fee eligible products belong to a broad range of asset classes and investment strategies and are normally not dependent on a single fund or market theme.
While the fourth quarter is generally our seasonally highest quarter of the year for performance fees recall that last year's fourth quarter included a large one-time fee related to the wind down of the U.S.
government PPIP portfolio.
Our BlackRock Solutions franchise benefited from robust activity in the third quarter.
Revenues were $156 million up $28 million compared to 2012.
Our Aladdin business which represented 72% of BlackRock Solutions revenue in the quarter grew 19% year-over-year benefiting from trends favoring global investment platform consolidation client seeking multi-asset risk solutions and a growing client base that is progressing through multiple bases of implementation.
Our FMA business had a very strong quarter with year-over-year revenue growth of 29% driven by advisory fees related to completed assignments and deliverables.
While our FMA business continues to benefit from ongoing regulatory change especially in Europe the revenue profile of FMA will be lumpier than the Aladdin business on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Revenue classified as other fell sequentially primarily driven by our decreased ownership stake in PennyMac and lower transition management activity in the quarter.
As we discussed on last quarter's call we now hold an ownership stake of approximately 20% in PennyMac down from 33% prior to PennyMac's IPO and our subsequent charitable contribution.
Turning to 12 -- Page 12 excuse me of the supplement.
Expenses rose $50 million year-over-year driven primarily by increased marketing and promotion spend and revenue-related items including compensation and direct fund expense.
As we have previously indicated the investment in our brand may vary quarter-to-quarter but over -- but our full year 2013 investment will be in line with 2012.
Direct fund expense is largely linked to AUM levels primarily in our index and iShares businesses.
Adjusting for fund launch costs in the third quarter of 2012 expenses rose 5% year-over-year compared to a 7% increase in revenue over the same period and resulted in an operating margin of 41.2% a 50 basis point increase versus a year ago.
We remain committed to using our cash flow to optimize shareholder value with our first priority to invest in our business.
We completed the acquisition of the Crdit Suisse ETF business in July and $16 billion in assets under management extending BlackRock's footprint in Switzerland and bringing a broader range of opportunities to Swiss investors.
In addition while not included in the third quarter on October 4 we completed the previously announced acquisition of MGPA a private equity real estate investment advisory company.
This deal doubles the size of BlackRock's real estate advisory business extends our reach to the Asia Pacific and EMEA regions and reinforces our commitment to offering investors access to markets worldwide.
As previously noted both transactions will not be material to our earnings per share.
Our capital management policy remains consistent.
We repurchased approximately $250 million worth of shares in the third quarter in line with the past 2 quarters.
As we have previously stated in the current environment we would expect to maintain this level of repurchases for the remainder of the year.
Our solid financial results once again reflect the benefits of our diverse platform and strong partnership with our clients.
We saw positive inflows across all major asset classes and regions with retail and iShares driving growth in our client businesses.
Similar to the second quarter the breadth of BlackRock's platform was demonstrated by 10 funds across retail and iShares each generating more than $1 billion inflows.
We spoke at our Investor Day about our excitement around the global retail growth opportunity.
This quarter we saw long-term flows of $8.3 billion in retail driving 7% year-to-date annualized organic growth a significant increase compared to the 3% organic growth we saw for the full year 2012.
Results were driven by many of our key themes including income alternatives and outcome-oriented solutions.
U.S.
retail saw long-term net inflows of $3.4 billion with strong flows unconstrained fixed income and alternatives.
This represents a continuation of the momentum we've witnessed in the second quarter with both our strategic income opportunities and global Long/Short Credit Funds again delivering more than $1 billion in new flows.
In the face of sizable industry outflows this quarter BlackRock's strong investment performance proactive client conversations and breadth of product offerings once again drove net inflows and fixed income.
On the equity side we saw moderate outflows.
Larry will spend some time on the positive investment performance trends of our recent hires later in his remarks but we are still punching below our weight in equities and we have consistently recognized it will take time to see an inflection.
International retail saw a strong long-term net inflows of $4.9 billion representing an 18% annualized organic growth rate.
Flows were similarly driven by our global themes including alternatives and outcome-based solutions.
We experienced strong flows into equities led by our top-performing European equity franchise and experienced ongoing momentum in multi-asset as clients leveraged our solutions-oriented strategies including global allocation managed volatility and dynamic asset allocation.
Global iShares benefited from strong industry flows in September as risk appetite improved and once again demonstrated its leadership position.
iShares remains the vehicle of choice for investors who want to quickly and efficiently express their views in the market.
Following the macro-driven redemptions we experienced late in the second quarter investors once again turned to iShares to increase risk allocations driving significant inflows.
In addition we continue to see robust secondary market liquidity which adds to the depth of markets for our clients.
For the quarter iShares raised $20.2 billion of long-term net new business equities led the way with approximately $21 billion of net inflows while fixed income experienced modest redemptions.
Year-to-date iShares has accumulated nearly $45 billion of net flows representing a 31% share of global industry flows for the quarter and 27% year-to-date.
Our Institutional business experienced $3.3 billion of net long-term outflows globally.
However we saw a continued momentum at Defined Contribution and in liquid alternatives.
We saw passive outflows of $3.4 billion in the quarter with equity outflows more than offsetting fixed income inflows as market uncertainties slowed institutional fundings and re-risking strategies and caused some clients to tactically rebalance the weight from passive equity.
Active flows were roughly flat for the quarter with strong inflows into fixed income and multi-asset offset primarily by equity outflows.
Fixed income inflows were driven by EMEA and APAC clients while multi-asset inflows were paced by our LifePath August 8 franchise which experienced $3 billion of net inflows representing a 17% annualized organic growth rate.
BlackRock now manages more than $80 billion of LifePath assets which are a key driver growth for our Defined Contribution business.
Active equity outflows were driven by both scientific and fundamental strategies and were primarily performance-related.
Part billing remains a prominent theme with institutional clients and we saw another strong quarter for illiquid alternatives.
Year-to-date we have now -- we secured nearly $5 billion of commitments which will generate future net new business as those dollars are invested.
Overall it was a very solid quarter and with that I'll turn it over to Larry.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks Gary and thanks for joining the call.
The current market environment remains challenging.
Uncertainty is high and fundamentals are taking a back seat to policy decisions.
The narrative in Washington that's running the debt ceiling debate is reducing the confidence in investors and business leaders leading to a short-term focus and risk adversion.
Rather than investing in new equipment or job creation CEOs are focused on increasing stock buybacks and dividends which does little to drive long-term economic growth.
Even with a deal to avoid a default the damage has been done by the fact that we have had a debate questioning whether the U.S.
will pay its bills and the impact will be a slowdown in economic growth.
In the face of this market uncertainty BlackRock diverse platform continues to perform.
We saw a $25 billion of net inflows this quarter driven by positive flows in all major product categories and in all regions of the world.
The flows we're seeing today and the stability of our platform are the result of investments we made in the business over the past few years.
After acquiring BGI in 2009 BlackRock went through a period of integration that led many clients and consultants to take a wait-and-see approach.
Could BlackRock marry active and passive investing that created more holistic solution for our clients? We addressed these challenges emerging 2 organizations performance issues and certain products and creating a single cultural identity.
During this time we never lost our focus of -- on identifying and focusing and attending to the needs of our clients.
We rededicated ourselves to: One the pursuit of alpha generation leveraging our risk management and analytic capabilities to better advise clients and create solutions; two we built our brand; and three strategically position BlackRock to address key investment themes.
The combination of strong performance and risk management focus continued investment in our brand a strategic focus on strengthening of client relationships positions BlackRock well beyond 2014.
Top quartile investment performance is critical for BlackRock to be the world's premier investment manager.
Several years ago we went through a restructuring of our active fixed income business.
What was a weakness coming out of the financial crisis is now a strength and we are seeing the payoffs.
Our strong performance track record across our fixed income book once again drove positive flows in a challenging market for the asset class.
We saw more than $7 billion in active fixed income inflows this quarter despite outflows in the industry.
Our 1- our 3- and importantly our 4- and 3-quarter year performance is meaningful in excess of our key competitors in total return unconstrained and high-yield and low-duration products we are all well positioned for a continuing rotation within fixed income.
BlackRock's early investment in the unconstrained fixed income space positions us to capitalize on what I believe will be one of the defining themes of the foreseeable future as investors reassess risk in their fixed income portfolios and look to limit the impact of duration in a rising rate environment.
Our unconstrained bond strategy the Strategic Income Opportunity fund had its third straight quarter with more than $1 billion in net inflows driving growth in retail.
On the Institutional side we are having active conversations with our clients about the diversification benefits of our unconstrained allocation and we expect to see more momentum coming from Institutional on that front.
Moving to equity performance as we've discussed in the past one critical area for investments for BlackRock has been our U.S.
fundamental equity franchise.
Much of the confidence I have been making these changes in our equity platform stemmed from the success we had in the rebuilding of our fixed income side.
BlackRock did see $5 billion of outflows this quarter on our active equity business.
While we're not satisfied with that outflow we are pleased with the investment performance we're seeing in some of our managers.
And as Gary suggested that outflow really came more from the international side and was more idiosyncratic than outflows that were stemming from portfolio manager turnover.
Our basic value fund is more than 450 basis points above its benchmark and is in the fourth percentile.
Our large cap core product has risen from the 76th percentile to the 35th percentile and these funds -- since these funds came under new management we have seen more than $2 billion in new institutional mandates in our fundamental large cap growth portfolios through the third quarter and had additional $1.8 billion mandate which funded earlier this month.
Our commitment to rebuilding our active equity business is just as strong as a commitment we made to rebuild our active fixed income business and I expect to see the same positive results and flows over time.
Just as BlackRock needed to refocus in our investment performance we also needed to build our brand to drive growth in our retail businesses and the investments we made in the BlackRock and iShares brands are now delivering those results.
As we've grown and diversified the firm over time communicating a clear message has become a critical component of our client interaction.
Over the past year we've been reaching out aggressively to clients to educate them on the risk of fixed income and the need to prepare more effectively for retirement.
And we're linking those messages directly to investment strategies and individual product offerings.
we're seeing the benefit of those efforts in increased traffic to our websites much higher brand recognition better client dialogue more pulls from clients and improved flows in products targeted through our marketing and communication efforts.
Retail is a key focus area for BlackRock's marketing effort.
As Gary mentioned earlier our global retail business has grown organically at a 7% annualized rate this year more than double our 3% growth in 2012.
These results are an outcome of our continued focus on driving investment performance across the entire platform and our investment in the BlackRock brand.
International retail is a significant growth driver raising nearly $5 billion in new flows the most in the quarters since 2009.
The success we're seeing in international reflects our strategic plan to diversify this platform.
Our active equity franchise drove nearly $2 billion in net flows led by European equities and the nearly $3 billion inflows we saw in active fixed income multi-asset and alternatives demonstrated the benefits of deeper relationships we've been building across our global client base.
Outcome-oriented investing is another driver for retail.
This is a high-growth market where BlackRock has a unique ability to package active and passive strategies backed by BlackRock Solutions risk management and analytical capabilities.
No other firm has that ability to put those 3 components together on a outcome-oriented investing platform.
We aligned through our model portfolio initiative last year and now have more than 8 000 live subscriptions.
We've seen strong client appetite for our packaged solutions with nearly $2.7 billion in combined flows this quarter across our 2 flagship strategies our Multi-Asset Income and our Global Allocation product.
In addition to driving growth in retail we continue to be focused on positioning for the long-term secular trends in the ETF market.
Clients use iShares as an efficient and transparent portfolio construction tool to move quickly in and out of investment exposures and increasingly as buy-and-hold vehicles to build core exposures.
We see liquidity-oriented investors turn to iShares as a preferred vehicle when they want to increase market exposures as they did in mid-September and when they want to reduce exposures as they did at the end of the second quarter.
Given the volatility on the liquid side of the product set and the seasonal trends we've seen over time we tend to look at growth in iShares in a rolling 12-month basis.
In the last 12 months iShares has seen more than $80 billion of inflows driving organic growth of 11% consistent with our long-term expectations.
As we further penetrate the buy-and-hold segment both through the Core Series and our strategic partnership with Fidelity we expect more stable quarterly flow patterns.
The iShares Core Series has delivered positive flows in every quarter since its launch date including more than $9 billion of net flows year-to-date and more than $13 billion of flows since inception representing organic growth of 20%.
And on the Fidelity platform we've seen iShares grow at an annualized organic rate of 13% also led by our Core Series.
International expansion will also serve to increase diversification.
iShares brought in more than $5 billion of flows in Europe this quarter and we increased our presence in the market following the closure of Crdit Suisse ETF platform acquisition in July.
BlackRock continues to invest in the ETFs space to drive adoption and the new usage by broadening the client base using ETFs and launching innovative products.
In the quarter we saw our first bank client purchase of iSharesBonds and we launched near a short-duration bond fund that is well positioned for the current fixed income environment.
Let's talk about performance investing in our brand and how our investments in key themes position BlackRock to deliver value.
The key to growth is translated in that progress into strengthening our relationships with our clients.
The depth and richness of conversations that BlackRock is having with clients have progressed substantially in the last couple of years.
I've seen that in my own discussions with clients and I hear the same from my colleagues across the firm worldwide.
The BlackRock Investment Institute or BII is an example of all that we are building coming together.
BII sits at the center of our 1 600 portfolio managers analysts and researchers worldwide.
The Institute was created with a single goal in mind to harness the best insight from our global investment team and leverage that insight through a robust dialogue across the entire BlackRock platform to drive performance.
And I do believe our performance results recently speak loudly about the value of this Institute.
With the creation of BII not only our investment team is better equipped to produce alpha but BlackRock is also positioned to identify market themes and share our investors' thoughts and ideas with our clients.
As an example we hosted a call earlier this month on the fiscal challenges in Washington which was led by several or top strategists and portfolio managers and was attended by more than 1 000 clients.
Additionally in the last few weeks we've had strong attendance and positive reactions at client events in Asia in Brazil and in Washington.
Our reputation for problem solving continues to build as more and more people turn to us for insight and counsel.
They appreciate the perspective that BlackRock and our platform affords them and helping them solve these challenging financial problems.
What BlackRock brings to the table is resonating with clients.
Our products are more -- are on more retail platforms and buy lists than ever before and we're seeing that positioning to drive growth.
In bringing together our retail and iShares sales force we're having more holistic conversations with FAs and RIAs and you're seeing that manifest in flows from these businesses.
I've met with a number institutional clients over the last few months pension funds consultants central banks sovereign well funds and the reception is better than I've ever seen.
The identity we're building and the clarity of message that we're delivering is differentiating BlackRock's value proposition.
As the uncertainty in Washington impacted institutional client asset allocation decisions in late September we saw passive equity outflows for the first time since 2008 driven by profit taken in equities rebalancing and a reduction in risk.
However we benefited on the other side of that reallocation with nearly $7 billion of net flows into fixed income largely driven by international financial institutions turning to BlackRock for domestic credit exposure and more than $4 billion in new money from official institutions across active and passive strategies.
We also saw a strong BlackRock Solutions results.
BRS continues to be a key differentiator for us in client-seeking risk management solutions.
Our financial market advisory business is benefiting from the ongoing regulatory change particularly in Europe and we continue to have robust dialogues regarding the benefits of our Aladdin risk management platform.
We are close to signing one of our largest ever Aladdin assignments.
Before I wrap up I'd like to spend a minute addressing the regulatory process.
Last month the Treasury's Office of Financial Research released its study for the FSOC on asset managers.
As requested we will submit a letter to the SEC detailing our views on the report by November 1.
We think this study reinforced some of the important fundamental points in which we wholeheartedly agree.
That report stated first asset managers or agents they're not principals.
Asset managers act as fiduciaries on behalf of our clients.
Second asset managers are different from banks and insurance companies.
Asset managers don't take deposits.
Asset managers are not wholesale funded and asset managers don't benefit from any government guarantees and we aren't levered in any material way.
The study also raises a number of potential risks related to specific investment products or investment practices.
We agree with some of those additional regulations and we agree that it is warrant to look at this as we have advocated reforms to address many of this risks.
However since these risks are unrelated to the size of asset managers we believe regulation targeted at specific products and practices will be more effective than company-level regulation or just a few firms.
Looking ahead BlackRock will continue to see the benefits of our investments we've made in our performance in our brand in our strategy and our relationships with our clients.
The positive impact that these investments have delivered make me more confident that we're on the right path.
As Gary noted investing in our business where we see opportunities for our organic growth is a key objective and I see substantial growth opportunity for BlackRock on the horizon.
When I talk to clients I see them looking at BlackRock differently they have in the past.
They see us as a partner as a firm that can deliver solutions unlike anyone else in the industry.
Our ability to combine active and passive solutions on a single platform backed by risk management and analytical capabilities or our BlackRock Solutions business position us to take our client dialogue to a higher level.
And this is a higher level both in institutional and now in the retail side.
We're seeing those conversations drive an acceleration in our business and I expect to see that acceleration continue.
Finally we'd like to thank all of our employees for the hard work and contribution to BlackRock.
We look forward to the continuing to partner with our clients around the world to deliver them all that BlackRock has to offer.
With that I'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Matt Kelley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So you mentioned modeled portfolio.
I just wanted to dig a little bit deeper there because that's something we've heard a lot about on our end.
So can you help us size this in your mind and how important building modeled portfolios with advisories are in terms of getting increased penetration for iShares in the channel? I have Rob Kapito here.
Rob you want to come over and answer? Rob is spending a great deal of time working with these channels especially with the Morgan Stanley channel related to models and how that impacts our active and our iShares.
So clients are now looking for a more holistic solution to their clients' portfolios and they're looking for more asset allocation.
And we are finding that clients have both active and passive in their portfolios.
And what they're requiring now is for us to build model portfolios that they could use our products in them or use other products in them.
So iShares is certainly a significant part of that asset allocation.
So we think by providing these models to the advisors that that will stimulate our -- their use of our products in their portfolios and that should help the growth of iShares as well as our other passive and active portfolios.
Matt one of the thing that we're trying to do and we're not there yet is making sure that we can use some of the Aladdin capabilities on the retail side too.
So that's something we are studying we are in dialogue with many different distribution platforms.
And so the first component of really adding value to our -- to the retail side is these model portfolios which we're developing but also can there be some analytical support in addition.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then maybe this one is a little bit more for Gary but you mentioned the fee rates in some of the iShares products and how there's a little bit of a tailwind now that your back in what we have see in the fourth quarter there's been a lot of focus from investors on EEM.
So I'm hoping you can give us a little bit of -- maybe help us size a little bit better both the impact on fee rate and sec lending fees from the shift that you saw during the third quarter and now into the fourth quarter if there's anything incrementally you can give us? Well Matt I would make the following observations.
I mean I think as we enter the third quarter we saw really 3 different dynamics that basically created a little bit of headwinds for us since we came into the quarter.
One obviously as I mentioned was that our spot assets under management at the end of the second quarter basically ended up being below the average for the second quarter.
And that obviously was one element.
Two is we saw some clear outflows in iShares particularly around EEM in the latter part of the second quarter as we mentioned.
And the third element was overall beta mix which I think is very important where we basically saw significantly worse beta performance in markets like the emerging markets natural resources the world index which obviously is relevant because we have some of our higher-fee products in those markets.
As it relates to the third quarter as we basically get through the third quarter we basically saw all of those trends reverse.
So we basically end up actually having a spot AUM at the end of the third quarter as you can see in the tables about 3% higher than our average for the quarter.
We obviously benefited from strong inflows in iShares in September at the latter part of the quarter as you know some of that was driven by EEM.
And then finally we actually saw beta improvement in those markets that are at higher fee products completely opposite of what we saw in the second quarter.
So that all sets us up well to basically enter the fourth quarter with a better run rate.
On the other hand on securities lending as you mentioned which as you know is part of our base fee line we did see meaningful compression and spreads.
And so while we saw our average on loan balances go up roughly by about 7% year-over-year we did see significant spread compression primarily around the lability spreads where we saw those spread declined a little over 30%.
And I would say that that's obviously created the drag.
Can I just -- let me just add one more thing Gary on that.
So sec lending is a result of a need for people to borrow stock whether it's a hedge fund or our people were -- and generally you see a lot of activity around mergers and some type of corporate event.
And we all know the merger market corporate event market has been rather low compared to other years.
And hedge fund behavior has predominantly been more of a derisking type of strategy this year as evident of what our hedge fund results relative to the S&amp;P.
And so the sec lending liability spreads have come down quite a bit.
And whether this is a seasonal issue or secular issue we'll find out.
But unquestionably sec lending volumes are down quite a bit in terms of the fees.
So Matt just to finalize on that.
I would just basically see that as Larry said that's driven primarily by the special collateral mark.
And I would say that unless we see a meaningful change in the conviction of hedge funds around their trading activity change in leverage or change in basically the M&amp;A environment I don't think we would expect to see a major change in that in the coming quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then I'll just -- one quick follow-up for me it's just on the OFR report.
Larry you mentioned and I know there's a lot to still to be determined there but just -- can you give us a sense for what your conversations have been with the regulators kind of coming into that going out of that? Any steps you've already take to satisfy any requirements from them or anything else you can give us incremental will be helpful.
A we had no conversation with any of the regulators prior to the publication.
That would have been considered lobbying under Dodd-Frank and so we did not have any dialogue.
And we read the results we read the results simultaneous with everyone else.
We are now with the publication.
We are in dialogue with the different regulators the different participants in the FSOC.
And all I could say is the conversations are good they're robust.
Our letter will most probably be public when we submit it in November 1 but it's just a process and we are very comfortable with the dialogue and the process that the regulators are putting forth.
Your next question comes from the line of Kenneth Worthington with JPMorgan.
This is actually Alex Kigel in for Ken.
Ken apologizes he's not able to join us today.
We basically just wanted to know about your fixed income business.
It seems like June was in part an inflection point for the fixed income investors.
What are your thoughts about 3Q sales as an indication of fixed income investor behavior as we continue to see rates potentially move higher at some point? Can we look at BlackRock solid fixed income sales for 3 -- for the third quarter as an indication of your resilience of the fixed income franchise? As we see it potentially rates start to rise? Well a I think that activity in Washington is going to probably mute.
The fixed income rate rise for some time so I'm just going to -- I disagree with your proposition right off the bat.
I think we're in a lower rate environment a lot of people suggest today.
And I do believe -- as I said I do believe the behavior in Washington is dragging our economy down.
And I actually believe the Federal Reserve is probably more reserved in terms of any movement related to tapering and there's going to be a lot more -- they're going to probably pause waiting to see if indeed the economy is impacted by Washington's behavior.
It is our view that we are well positioned as I said.
We are very well positioned in fixed income because of performance.
We are very well positioned because our position in unconstrained fixed income.
And we are well positioned because of our solid performance in credit and high yield.
So you put all those things together if there is going to be flows if there's rotation I think we're very well positioned for that.
And as we saw in the third quarter we did see people look to us as -- in terms of adding fixed income exposures.
And I would say very clearly the dialogues we're having with clients related to fixed income are more active than they have been in years for us.
And so if the dialogue we're having with clients worldwide institutionally retail if that's an indicator of forward growth then I think we're going to be -- we're going to have consistent growth in the future.
Great.
And just as a follow-up can you please update on the progress you feel you're making in teaching fixed income ETFs to institutional investors i.e.
particularly banks and financial institutions and as well as institutional investors and actively managed short-term fixed income products? We continue to have -- as I said when I've got a dialogue in fixed income it does translate also to dialogue in iSharesBond.
It's not just the active fixed income unconstrained side.
It is as I said in my prepared remarks iSharesBonds we have our first bank client we have many conversations going on now and our new ETF product has been near which is a low-duration type of product for those who are frightened of the longer-duration products.
So I think -- as I said we have consonant whether they are in ETFs ETF bonds and/or our active products.
Your next question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So quick question maybe hoping you could give some color on how you guys positioned the money funds given everything going on the potential U.S.
default and not only maybe avoiding technical issues that can arise but also maybe some of the knock-on effects that could come about as well? Well let me just state overall.
We have dozens of teams working on contingent plans throughout the organization.
Our job is to be a fiduciary and our job is to focus on even the unanticipated risk associated with any default.
So beyond our money market funds I think it would be incorrect to think that that's all we're focusing on related to default there are many municipal bond market to collateral management of swaps to working with the custodians.
You'll have to understand the rating agencies even if only one treasury bond this is a coupon payment definitionally the entire sector then is considered a defaulted security.
And so we have to be prepared for all the contingencies whether they're T-bills or any other bond U.S.
bond instrument.
And so I think we're doing a very good job without getting in in any of the details to making sure that we're anticipating those unanticipated problems associated with this type of event.
As we all know when you think back about the Lehman Brothers result everybody thought that Lehman Brothers was it.
But then when the reserve fund had that Lehman Brothers exposure that's when I believe that we really fell off a cliff 5 years ago.
And so our job is having these task teams working towards all the unanticipated possibilities that would occur in terms of collateral management in terms of clearing in terms of what is considered good collateral and bad collateral.
So in addition to our money market funds where we're obviously very focused on we're focused at across all different of our platforms.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question on the regulation you had mentioned that you guys had started up a really active dialogue with the regulators here on the back of this OFR report.
Just kind of curious it's the one thing that I'm trying to struggle to get my head around is if there is some kind of city designation for a large asset manager what -- how does that manifest itself like what does it mean? Does it just mean enhanced supervision? Does it mean capital? In your dialogues do you have any sense of that or can you give us any color...
No.
But let me just step backwards I think you're aware we have capital set aside for operational risk that was a condition we had with our U.K.
and U.S.
regulators.
So unlike many other asset managers we are already in that position.
We are already regulated because of PNC's 20% ownership with us by the Federal Reserve.
We are regulated by the control of the currency because of our bank trust division that we bought when we acquired -- when we bought BGI.
So we have -- we're a firm that is very heavily regulated across region and across all the different regulators.
So your question is a good question but I can't answer it.
But I can say we have -- we are -- we have regulatory oversight by many of those regulators that other firms if they were a SIFI do not at this present time.
And it's a good question what does that mean? Because the OFR did state we are not a bank we're a fiduciary we're an agent.
And OFR stated that these are not our assets we're not levered so I honestly don't know what it would mean if they designated a bunch of firms as SIFIs.
And that's why my comment was very specific related to one of the ways that we've read into the OFR is that maybe they are going to regulate specific products like money market funds.
But they may begin some type of supervision over let's say all types of products that have some x amount of leverage.
So that would incorporate leverage type of hedge funds and other types of products like that.
So we're not -- this is too early in the dialogue too early I believe in the regulatory reviews of what they're going to do.
But I think the OFR report was a very fair in my mind a very just report about what asset managers are and adjustly cited some risks associated with some of the types of businesses that asset managers are in.
And so we are working alongside with regulators in responding to their questions as best we can.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Carrier with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Larry maybe -- first on flows you give a lot of detail and the teams like maybe current quarter there's been some different trends than what we've seen kind of year-to-date.
If I look at just the disclosure you guys give iShares retail you've been gaining some momentum; institutional has been more subdued and you guys have talked about that being a little bit more mature.
But when I look at iSharesBond and I look at the say $45 billion of flows year-to-date if you segmented that into sort of the retail population or the retail channel versus the institutional like where is that kind of breaking up? And particularly in terms of -- because if I look at your retail equity flows they've been more subdued but that's more on the active side but it seems like the momentum is still there.
So I just wanted to get some color on the iShares penetration in the 2 channels and how that would shift to flows for retail versus institutional? Let me give this to Rob because Rob is working very closely with the whole team.
Yes.
So basically we have been focused on a few areas of iShares penetration.
The first is is still in the education mode.
So there are a lot of institutional clients that are first learning how to use iShares in their portfolios for liquidity reasons and for access to markets before they actually find an active manager to manage those assets.
They also are looking for asset allocation from the iShares and that's primarily on the institutional side.
And we have very good penetration in there but it's a process that's really just at their early stages.
So if you think that iShares is actually grown already we think that it's just the early stages of the growth of iShares institutionally.
On the retail side again it's a larger education process but a lot of the FAs who managed these particular portfolios are using iShares more and more in their asset allocation models that I talked about before.
And we are very focused on what we call a Core Series which goes directly at what we think retail clients are looking for.
And already this year we have raised $9 billion in the Core Series.
And these are more of the buy-and-hold type of retail investors which is a segment that we have begun to spend a lot of time focusing on.
The other thing is that since I mentioned to you that we believe that clients have both active and passive strategies in their portfolios we have combined our sales forces and we will now have the largest sales force of any asset manager going out and educating both the institutional and the retail advisors on how to use iShares.
And then last we're building up our distribution because being in the iShares business or the ETF business it's really capturing the flag and providing the largest funds that have the transparency and the liquidity.
And of course you recognize some of those -- the partnerships that we have established one most recently being with Fidelity and we're seeing really good results early on from that relationship and we have several other relationships as well.
So we are seeing continued growth in iShares continued ideas for the use of iShares.
And specifically because we're going into markets where a lot of liquidity concerns are emerging certainly iShares will help in providing liquidity in the markets where there may not be as much liquidity as in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just as a follow-up.
Gary you gave some helpful color just on the fee rate and the -- you know how to frame the outlook.
If I combine that with AUM up around 6% in the quarter just going into the fourth quarter it seems like it's setting up from -- for some decent operating leverage.
Anything on the expense side that's more seasonal that would offset that or it is just seasonally you're going to have more momentum heading into the fourth quarter just want to make sure there is nothing else that we should be thinking about? Yes.
I think frankly on -- well I mean before we talked a lot about compensation on the variable side and direct fund expense which we've talked about I think if you look at the obviously performance fees will drive relative changes in compensation levels.
But beyond that on the G&amp;A spend I would say that if you compare kind of the second and the third quarter sequentially and then you saw a little bit of a dip in the third quarter based on marketing spend going down which is really all of the difference.
And I think as we've been fairly consistent in our statements that marketing spend is going to vary quarter-to-quarter.
We would naturally see probably a lift up in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
But beyond that in SG&amp;A I think with the exception of that I think the run rate is pretty well established.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citi.
Research Division</strong> In terms of my questions on the Core Series having just phenomenal success that you highlight some very good organic growth.
Just sort of curious as that portfolio builds would there be any natural internal pricing pressure for the remainder of the business to maybe reset pricing lower just given will it likely be a pickup of liquidity in the Core Series? I don't think so.
I think this is just another leg to stand on here where there are specific clients and we're looking at a segment that's called the buy-and-hold segment.
And that typically has lower fees than those that look for more trading.
And we're seeing both i mean it's pretty much equity spread.
So it's really different segments of the markets and this is actually a new segment for us so I don't really think an impact the other fee segments in the iShares business.
Yes.
Bill I would add one more thing to that.
If you think about the manner in which investors buy the buy-and-hold in the Core Series these are much stickier assets so you're going to have much greater dollar amount and still have a much lower amount of liquidity in transactions because of the nature of the investor.
So unless we saw a mixed change of investors on the Core Series which would then lead you to think maybe there would be some cannibalization of the other ones I don't -- we're not seeing any evidence of a migration from that.
I would say that the investors are looking for more liquidity into the Core Series.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then my follow-up.
You didn't even talk about too much this quarter I'm sort of curious and maybe an update of demand in positioning in the scientific portfolio? Our share performance is really good and it's -- we are having more dialogue but we have not seen any real pickup in demand in that one area.
But we do have in one of the scientific areas is our fixed income global opportunity fund which we closed midyear and there's a possibility we will reopen it.
It's been a very very successful fixed income hedge fund and we will probably think about opening it next year.
And that had about a $400 million of this quarter in terms of growth.
But it was a scientific equity where we saw that one outflow internationally.
And that was just one client looking to move out of that asset category.
So now I would -- I'm disappointed that we're not seeing more opportunities because we really do have a great track record in that area.
And it's an asset category that is going to really just take more time to have the investors come back into the platform.
And I -- and keep in mind I think investors are now using more and more beta products instead of scientific and they're using beta as alpha.
And I think that's one of the outflow of interchanges in mix and the mix and style that maybe 5 6 7 years ago people are using quant strategies.
And today they're just -- and more and more of those investors are going to just be beta strategies but actively managing their beta strategies.
Your final question comes from the line of Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Larry on the fixed income active inflows can you give just a little more color on -- do you think what saw this quarter was a function of more manager replacement and manager sort of rotation amongst the competition? Or is this sort of more of a rethinking going on given the sort of the outlook for rates from institutional investors? So on the institutional side I don't think it was -- I think it was -- I think some of it was just -- I don't know if it was a rotation out of all other fixed income managers.
I think it was more just a -- the clients these institutional clients were just generating more and more cash because of their operations.
And we're winning these new assignments as they generate more balance sheet because of our performance and our long-term relationship.
Some of these clients we won are existing clients with other products so they did some form of RFPs.
And because of our performance and our position we won.
On the retail side I do believe some of it is rotation into BlackRock and so -- and I believe it's just the beginning very strongly.
Research Division</strong> Okay helpful.
And then maybe this is a question for Rob on the alternative business.
I'm particularly interested on outside the U.S.
just in terms of -- it looks like this quarter you saw an uptick in inflows and alternatives first quarter and several that you've seen inflows there.
Maybe you could give us an update on sort of the retail build out of alternatives and sort of what you expect for that business? So we're very bullish on providing alternative investments to the retail investor.
And it's all been about providing the appropriate wrapper in order for the retail investors to get involved in the -- in that area.
So we have the alternative investments.
And as you know for a period of time people have been separating alpha and beta and getting their beta from passive and iShares and their alpha from more alternative investments.
And we've had those products and have been able to do that allocation for institutional clients.
And what held us up on retail is providing the wrapper for them.
Now within the 40 Act companies in the U.S.
and also in outside the U.S.
we have the wrappers and have been very successful in finding investors to go into those.
Unfortunately we have track records in those products as well that are long term.
So it's pretty -- I think it's going to be pretty exciting to watch especially in the long/short credit where we have significant expertise and the track records.
And in this particular environment that gives people a lot more opportunity for yield which is what they're looking for.
So this will help us provide the retail investor with the same alpha/beta separation as we're doing the institutional and I would look for significant increased sales in those particular areas because it make sense for the client.
I would add one other thing Marc our single strategy hedge fund have done quite well in terms of performance.
And our objective just like building our brand in retail we are aggressively trying to build our brand in alternative space too.
And that's going to be an important component of our future growth that we identified not just as a passive manager in an active equity and fixed income but we're identified as a strong solution for alternative needs.
And importantly we have a very big forward calendar in terms of commitments in our illiquid products.
So we are -- we're seeing more and more dialogue with our investors in the alternative space.
Rob talked about the retail side but the institutional side is quite robust too.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was just going to ask along those lines.
I know the pipeline is something you guys don't necessarily disclose much but could you give some -- maybe some color on sort of what the composition of the pipeline would look like across the firm? I just got kicked by my General Counsel.
We've determined that it's just -- we don't talk about that forward or about our forward calendar anymore or forward commitment but we're fine.
But on the -- I'll leave it at that I'm being kicked again.
This concludes our teleconference Mr.
Fink do you have any final remarks? I just want to thank everybody for the commitment they have.
This was a truly differentiated quarter for us.
I'm very happy with the results especially with all the debates that are going on in Washington.
And as I said in my formal comments I think we're very well positioned due to the platform that is unparalleled in terms of active passive platforms with our overlay of risk management and that continue to drive these unique dialogues that we have with our clients.
And I look forward to talking to everybody after the fourth quarter.
And hopefully everyone has a very good end of the year.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Teleconference.
Our host for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Gary Shedlin; President Robert S.
Kapito; and General Counsel Matthew Mallow.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mallow you may begin your conference.
Thanks very much.
Good morning everyone.
I'm Matt Mallow the General Counsel of BlackRock.
And before Larry and Gary make their remarks let me remind you that during the course of this call we may make a number of forward-looking statements.
We call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual results may of course differ from these statements.
As you know BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC which list some of the factors that may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we say today.
And additionally BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that I'll get out of the way and let the call begin.
Thanks Matt and good morning everyone.
It's my pleasure to be here to present our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results.
Before I turn it over to Larry to offer his comments I'll review our quarterly and full year financials and discuss our fourth quarter business results.
As usual I will be focusing primarily on as adjusted results.
Overall 2013 was a strong year for BlackRock shareholders clients and employees.
And our solid fourth quarter results position us well going into 2014.
BlackRock delivered fourth quarter earnings per share of $4.92 and operating income of $1.1 billion up 24% and 10% respectively compared to 2012.
Full year EPS of $16.58 was up 21% compared to 2012 reflecting operating income of $4 billion which was 13% higher.
Fourth quarter nonoperating results reflected a $61 million increase in the market value of our seed and co-investments largely driven by continued appreciation of private equity distressed credit and hedge fund-related investments.
Our 26.5% as adjusted tax rate for the fourth quarter benefited from several favorable non-recurring items.
We continue to believe that 31% represents a reasonable long-term projected rate so our actual 2014 tax rate may be closer to 30% as a consequence of additional non-recurring items which may arise during the coming year.
In the fourth quarter we saw approximately $40 billion of long-term net new flows representing an annualized organic growth rate of 4.3%.
Total long-term net new business for 2013 was approximately $117 billion representing a 3.4% organic growth rate.
BlackRock continues to demonstrate the stability of its diversified multi-client platform with organic growth across each of our client businesses and solid growth from our Retail and iShares franchises.
Fourth quarter revenues were $2.8 billion up $238 million or 9% from a year ago and were driven by strong growth in base fees performance fees and revenues from BlackRock Solutions.
Revenues for 2013 totaled $10.2 billion up 9% versus 2012.
We experienced year-over-year base fee growth across all long-dated asset classes.
And base fees performance fees and solutions revenues each reached record levels for the full year.
Fourth quarter base fees rose 10% year-over-year driven by a combination of market strength organic growth and the acquisitions of the Crdit Suisse ETF and MGPA businesses offset by continued pressure in securities lending spreads.
Performance fees for the quarter were $268 million up 12% from a year ago reflecting very strong results across BlackRock's alternatives platform including our hedge fund of funds platform and a diverse set of single-strategy hedge funds.
While last year's fourth quarter included a large onetime fee related to the wind down of the U.S.
government PPIP portfolio this quarter benefited from a similarly sized performance fee associated with an opportunistic 2007 vintage closed-end mortgage fund which was partially liquidated in December.
As we have previously indicated the fourth quarter is generally our seasonally strongest performance fee generating quarter for the year.
BlackRock Solutions revenues of $157 million were up 15% year-over-year and roughly flat to the third quarter.
Our Aladdin business which represents 73% of BRS revenue in the quarter signed more than 15 new clients in 2013 including one of its largest ever and continues to benefit from trends favoring global investment platform consolidation and multi-asset risk solutions.
Sequential results were impacted by the timing and recognition of certain fees and expenses.
Our Financial Markets Advisory business or FMA signed more than 50 new assignments during the year and continues to post strong revenues even as the business transitions from a crisis management emphasis to a more institutionalized advisory business model with a strong focus on helping clients navigate and implement requirements for the new regulatory environment.
The decline in fourth quarter other revenue was primarily driven by equity method earnings attributable to our ownership stake in PennyMac.
Expenses for the fourth quarter rose $136 million year-over-year driven primarily by revenue-related items including compensation and direct fund expense and increased levels of G&amp;A expense.
Our full year compensation to revenue ratio fell by 40 basis points in 2013 to 34.5% primarily driven by the proactive reshaping of our employee base including geographic location and the impact of positive beta.
Quarterly G&amp;A expense rose $76 million sequentially and reflected a variety of factors including increased marketing and promotion spend ongoing and deal-related costs associated with acquisitions relocation-driven occupancy and lease impairment charges FX and other miscellaneous items.
Excluding the timing impact of our marketing spend approximately $15 million of this quarterly increase represents recurring expense associated with our continued growth.
Notwithstanding the increased level of G&amp;A in the fourth quarter our operating margin was 42.7% relatively flat with year-ago levels and 41.4% for the full year 2013 representing 100-basis-point increase over 2012 levels.
We remain committed to using our cash flow to optimize shareholder value with our first priority to invest in our business.
In line with that strategy and as previously discussed we completed the acquisition of MGPA on October 4 adding $11 billion in assets under management and extending BlackRock's real estate debt and equity investment capabilities to Asia Pacific and Europe.
During 2013 we also returned approximately $2.2 billion to shareholders through dividends and buybacks representing a total payout ratio of 74%.
Heading into 2014 we remain committed to our predictable and balanced approach to capital management while also being mindful of the uncertain regulatory environment in which we are operating.
Consistent with this our Board of Directors has delayed a quarterly cash dividend of $1.93 per share of common stock representing an increase of 15% over the current level.
Since instituting our dividend in September of 2003 BlackRock has increased the dividend in every year other than 2009 when it was unchanged.
Over that time period the dividend has grown at a compound annual growth rate of approximately 24%.
We repurchased an additional $250 million worth of shares in the fourth quarter bringing the total for the year to $1 billion and are committed to maintaining a steady level of repurchases into 2014.
Our strong financial results reflect the benefits of our improved investment performance diverse platform and deep partnerships with our clients.
We saw positive flows across all of our client businesses and regions with Retail and iShares continuing to drive growth.
The breadth of BlackRock's platform was once again demonstrated by a record 12 Retail and iShares products each generating more than $1 billion of net flows in the fourth quarter.
We continue to see strong results in Retail with flows of $16.6 billion for the quarter representing a 15% annualized organic growth rate.
U.S.
Retail's long-term net flows of $9.4 billion for the quarter drove annualized organic growth of 12%.
Our unconstrained Strategic Income Opportunities fund Global Long/Short Credit fund and Multi-Asset Income fund continue to drive growth with each delivering more than $1 billion in flows during the quarter.
Fixed income flows of $2.5 billion were driven by solid investment performance product diversification and success in our duration managed product suite.
International Retail saw long-term net flows of $7.2 billion for the quarter representing an extremely strong annualized organic growth rate of 23%.
Our European Equities suite continues to drive results with $2.9 billion of net new business during the quarter and $7.9 billion for the year capturing 21% of category flows in 2013.
We also saw demand for our solutions-oriented multi-asset product line led by our Global Allocation Managed Volatility and Dynamic Asset Allocation products.
As a result of the changing regulatory landscape in Europe and its impact on the existing retrocession distribution model we are witnessing growing Retail demand for efficiently packaged passive investment vehicles and made a decision to strategically reposition certain index mutual fund ranges previously targeted towards Institutional investors.
In line with this strategy we have reclassified approximately $20 billion of AUM related to these fund ranges from our Institutional channel to our Retail channel.
This reclassification is presented in the column titled Adjustments in the AUM tables contained in our earnings release.
Global iShares once again led the industry with 27% market share of net flows in 2013.
In the quarter iShares raised $19.1 billion of net new business as equity inflows of $24.1 billion were partially offset by fixed income and commodities redemptions.
Developed market equities attracted the majority of fourth quarter iShares flows led by European and U.S.
equity exposures broad global funds and Japanese equities with modest outflows from emerging markets.
EMEA iShares led regional flows with $22 billion for the year driving organic growth of 16% in 2013 and were well diversified across equities and fixed income as we expanded our efforts to penetrate new client segments and markets.
The iShares Core Series targeted to buy-and-hold investors attracted approximately $11 billion of net flows during the quarter and approximately $20 billion for the year.
Buy-and-hold segment represents a strong growth opportunity and continues to be an area of strategic focus.
Our Institutional business generated $4.8 billion of net long-term inflows in the fourth quarter led by continued growth in defined contribution.
Strong multi-asset inflows included $10.4 billion of assets related to 2 LifePath open-architecture mandates where we provide customized asset allocation glide paths direct asset management and third-party manager selection.
In connection with these new mandates we reclassified approximately $6 billion of existing AUM from both indexed equity and indexed fixed income to active multi-asset to better reflect the overall nature of the mandate.
This reclassification is also presented in the column titled Adjustments in the AUM tables contained in our earnings release.
Active equity outflows were driven by fundamental equity outflows of $1.5 billion and were primarily related to our U.K.
equities business.
We are seeing tangible benefits from the ongoing rebuild of our U.S.
active equity business as fourth quarter results included a $1.8 billion fundamental large cap growth sub-advisory funding.
In alternatives outflows were driven primarily by non-core active currency mandates and return of capital including the partial liquidation of the previously mentioned closed-end mortgage fund.
However we saw another strong quarter for our liquid alternatives generating over $1 billion in commitments for the fourth consecutive quarter.
During 2013 we secured $6 billion of total commitments of which $5 billion have yet to be deployed.
Our full year results reflect successful navigation of the shareholder value roadmap we outlined at our June Investor Day: generate organic growth demonstrate operating leverage and consistently return capital to shareholders.
Our diverse platform and strong performance track record position us well to continue our journey as we enter 2014.
And with that I'll turn it over to Larry.
Thanks Gary.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call.
BlackRock has consistently advised our clients on the importance of making their money work for them.
2013 was another year that clearly highlighted the benefits of being fully invested and missed opportunities for more than $10 trillion of cash sitting on the sidelines.
The S&amp;P has more than doubled off of 2009 bottom.
Certainly generating outsized returns is going to be more challenging going forward.
However increased confidence in economic growth is providing support for asset prices and I am constructive on equities for 2014.
Same time global political risk and market dependence on extraordinary monetary policy remains elevated and policymakers and central bankers are going to have to get it right to keep the market even-keeled.
In the U.S.
political conditions appear to be improving on the margin and markets are acting -- reacting positively to the Fed's tapering announcement last month.
Globally Europe is slowly recovering and I want to emphasize slowly.
Investors are hoping that Japan will continue executing on its plans and that the market is paying close attention to China with its own set of proposed reforms.
Last year we saw a huge divergence between developed markets and emerging market equities.
And the performance diverged considerably and most investors also lost money in bonds last year.
Just being invested is not enough.
Clients need to be properly positioned.
At the core of BlackRock's value proposition for clients is our ability to constantly challenge ourselves and to evolve in the face of these changing market trends and client needs.
The global diversified platform and strong alpha generation track record we built over the past 25 years at BlackRock positions us to provide the investment advice and solutions our clients need to meet their investment goals.
BlackRock raised $117 billion of long-term net new flows in 2013 representing a 3.4 organic growth rate.
Our client mix continues to shift towards higher fee Retail and iShares business which accounted for 88% of our organic asset growth and a larger percentage of our organic revenue growth this year.
This growth helped us fuel a 13% increase in operating income and a 21% increase in earnings per share versus 2012.
And these results speak to the strength of our business model which I've talked about every quarter the differentiated business model.
And I believe it is that business model that will continue to give us the potential to accelerate even from here.
Over the course of the year it was the collective strength of our platform across businesses across regions across asset classes that delivered for our clients and our shareholders.
BlackRock's broad array of investment solutions drove growth in 2013 with 43 products raising more than $1 billion of net new flows versus 25 such products in 2012 highlighting our ability to meet the diverse needs of our clients.
As we've discussed in previous calls the investment landscape is moving away from traditional style boxes as clients focus on achieving outcomes rather than buying products.
BlackRock has built a very strong foundation to be the leader in the solution and outcome space.
In Global Retail we are raising our profile through our branding efforts evolving our product set in anticipation of changing market trends and deepening our distribution relationships with our distributing partners.
BlackRock's clients are increasing their combined use of alpha and beta including the broad-based adoption of passive products as building blocks along with increasing standards for performance in a winner-take-all environment.
And we are focused on retirement solutions and the importance of financial planning in the face of rising longevity.
Over the past several quarters we've discussed the growth opportunities in Global Retail and that growth is materializing.
We saw Retail long-term flows of $39 billion for the year leading to 10% organic growth a significant increase compared to the 3% growth we saw in 2012.
International Retail had a very strong year with net inflows of $18 billion in 2013 representing a 15% organic growth rate.
Flows were positive across major regions and diversified across asset classes highlighting the benefit of our platforms' breadth and our ability to transcend our business across region.
Our top-performing BlackRock Equities franchise led the equity business with $8 billion of net flows this year.
We also generated more than $4 billion of net flows in both fixed income and multi-asset class products and as investors turn to BlackRock to manage duration and volatility in their portfolios.
BlackRock's U.S.
Retail business saw $21 billion of net flows in 2013 growing organically at 7%.
Income was a key theme for U.S.
Retail in 2013.
Investors continue to search for yield in a low-rate environment and did so with an eye on rising rates and a growing appreciation for the risk of rising rates.
BlackRock's platform our client dialogue our marketing campaign were aligned to take advantage and we were proactive in educating our clients about the risk in their fixed income portfolios.
Flows across the income theme in 2013 were led by our top-performing strategic income opportunity fund which brought in $7 billion of flows this year.
Our Global Long/Short Credit our 0 duration liquid alternative product and our multi-asset income product each raised $4 billion in 2013 as investors looked for top-tier income solutions.
BlackRock remains intensely focused on performance.
Our strong fixed income performance drove the #1 industry ranking in U.S.
Retail active fixed income flows for the year where we generated more than $9 billion of net inflows in a year when the industry saw outflows of $30 billion.
These changes in investor preference for income go beyond Retail and drove a strong rotation within fixed income that we anticipated will continue.
And already in 2014 we are seeing accelerated interest in this area.
Unlike many of our peers BlackRock saw fixed income inflows throughout the year in 2013 and we expect to see substantial money in motion within fixed income this year.
And BlackRock's best-in-class 5-year performance track record across our bond platform puts us in a position to capture those flows.
Our unconstrained bond solution SIO continues to generate strong interest from both Retail and now a much growing interest from our Institutional clients as investors reassess their duration risk and the maturity risk in their core bond portfolios.
BlackRock's actively managed business is essential to our future growth as we look to generate alpha for our clients.
If you look at our performance tables in our earnings release you'll see the numbers are quite impressive.
Taxable fixed income now has 87% of its assets above benchmark for the 3-year period up more than 30 percentage points since 2010.
Our scientific active equity team has 96% of our assets above the benchmark almost 70 percentage points since 2010.
Our Fundamental Active Equity numbers are improving but are still held down by our Equity Dividend Fund which isn't really a benchmark-driven product.
And if you strip that out you'll see that more than 67% of our active equity funds are above the benchmark for a 3-year period.
As noted before we've made important changes to our Fundamental Active Equity teams in 2012 and '13 to ensure that BlackRock meets our clients' high performance standards and we're beginning to see results with the 4 largest funds under new management showing material performance improvement since the new team joined BlackRock.
Our basic value fund is more than 540 basis points above its benchmark and is in the fifth percentile.
Our Large Cap Growth product has risen from the 75th percentile to the 30th percentile.
And our Large Cap Value product has risen from the 97th percentile to the 35th.
But active management isn't just about traditional long only products.
BlackRock generated $561 million in performance fees this year primarily as a result of delivering substantial return for clients invested in our highly diversified $110 billion of alternative franchise.
We're seeing Institutional clients increase allocation to alternatives and we've seen strong fundraising in our illiquid product set.
BlackRock raised more than $6 billion in new commitments across a variety of strategies including opportunistic credit infrastructure debt and customized alternative solutions in 2013.
Our Retail liquid alternatives raised nearly $5 billion this year and we have the right investment teams and the right distribution presence to play a leading role in Retail alternatives.
We're seeing the trend of clients are using our active and alternative strategies alongside our passive offerings continuing.
BlackRock's combination of alpha and beta on a single platform and the ability to leverage our Aladdin risk management platform positions us as well as any firm to offer custom solutions across the investment spectrum for our clients.
On the passive side it was another strong year for iShares generating $64 billion of net inflows and 8% organic growth rate.
Secular trends supporting future ETF growth remains.
These include increasing adoption of global penetration; expanding the usage of ETFs as a core building block; and three as investor demand for innovative new products.
As Gary mentioned our iShares Core Series is one example of BlackRock's ability to expand our reach into new segments like buy-and-hold space.
Since the launch of the Core Series in October 2012 we've raised nearly $25 billion representing a 30% annualized organic growth.
BlackRock's strategic alliance with Fidelity which we enhanced in 2013 is another example of our commitment to buy-and-hold investors.
And we saw organic growth of 15% in 2013 nearly doubling that of our overall iShares business.
While we saw strong iShares equity flows in 2013 it was a challenging year for long-duration fixed income and ETFs.
The interest rate environment led many liquidity-oriented investors to sell long-duration assets which made up more than 70% of our iShares fixed income book.
As a result we saw more than $7 billion of fixed income outflows this year a sizable reversal for the iSharesBond business from a strong 2012.
Helping to offset the pressure on the long-duration side our short-duration fixed income suite gathered nearly $9 billion this year led by our floating rate bond fund.
BlackRock is focused on strengthening our offerings for clients seeking protection in a rising rate environment by offering expanding product set that includes 4 new U.S.
funds including short duration versions of our flagship high-yield and our investment-grade credit products and short maturity and liquidity income funds.
Fixed income ETFs represent a sizable long-term growth opportunity for BlackRock.
And with diverse offerings in long and short durations and fixed maturity products I believe BlackRock is very well positioned to capitalize on this opportunity.
I've spent a lot of time in 2013 talking to clients talking to shareholders talking to regulators and politicians about longevity.
Longer lifespans and underfunded retirement plans are one of the defining investment challenges of our generation.
BlackRock is committed to helping clients meet their retirement savings needs and our ability to customize outcome-oriented solutions is a key differentiator.
In 2013 BlackRock's Defined Contribution clients contributed $30 billion of net inflows for a 7% organic growth rate taking our Defined Contribution franchise to over $525 billion putting us as the fourth largest in the DC industry.
We continue to see substantial appetite for the target -- for our target date fundings and offerings.
BlackRock launched the industry's first target date product 20 years ago and our LifePath franchise has a strong track record through market cycles and continues to evolve to meet the needs of our clients.
The BlackRock LifePath franchise is the third largest in the target date industry at over $100 billion in AUM with over $23 billion of net flows for the year a 38% organic growth rate.
This franchise is important to BlackRock's position and trajectory in the Defined Contribution market.
And we recognize the responsibility that comes with more than 8 million individual investors and clients investing in our LifePath products.
And while we're very pleased with our Defined Contribution group's results in 2013 we want to sharpen our focus on retirement solutions for individual investors.
So we're forming a dedicated retirement group in the United States.
Chip Castille at BlackRock will be leading this group in addition to his current role as head of our Defined Contribution business.
Chip and his new team is leveraging their expertise in this category will help BlackRock tackle retirement not just through individual product but as a suite of investment solutions for all our clients whether they are building their retirement savings or spending for their longer lives.
BlackRock is focused on anticipating our client's needs in these challenging markets and delivering unique solutions.
The benefit of a diversified business model we built our focus on risk management and technology and our partnership approach to achieving outcomes for our clients drove our results in 2013.
This past year marked BlackRock's 25th anniversary.
And we reached a number of milestones including crossing the $4 trillion long-term AUM threshold and the $10 billion revenue threshold and our hiring of 11 000 employees -- or having our 11 000 employees and importantly funding our charitable foundation so it could be much more active in helping areas of need especially education of financial issues and health for young people.
In 2013 BlackRock hosted our first Investor Day where we formally introduced the investment community to our deep bench of leaders at BlackRock outlining targets and strategies for growth and made a series of firm level commitments to our shareholders.
We grew at 4.3 annualized organically for the quarter and 3.4 for the year.
And we continue to believe that BlackRock will grow in the future at 5% going forward.
In Retail organic growth was 10% ellipsing our high single-digit target.
And at iShares we grew at 8% and we continue to believe that low double-digit growth are attainable.
BlackRock's Institutional business grew at 1% in 2013.
With our performance we continue to believe that our growth rates in Institutional business will grow faster and we're well positioned to hit our low-single digit growth -- goals going forward.
In BlackRock Solutions we pointed to mid-teen revenue growth during the Investor Day in our Aladdin business.
And in 2013 our BlackRock Solutions business delivered total revenue growth of 11% including 13% growth in Aladdin.
Finally we laid out financial goals including a dividend payout ratio between 40% and 50% consistent share repurchase a minimum operating margin of 40% through the cycle and double-digit EPS growth.
And BlackRock achieved each of those goals in 2013.
Looking ahead in 2014 we're committed to delivering these results for our clients and shareholders by focusing on achieving superior investment performance enhancing our product set and distribution capabilities and continuing to understand and solve for our client investment goals.
I have never been more bullish on our platform.
Our unique platform of delivering alpha and beta and risk management solutions across products and across regions no other firm has this platform to allow us to have this diversified approach to our clients.
Also as I reflect back over our 25 years as a company it reinforces for me the critical importance of focusing on our role as a fiduciary to our clients.
Especially in today's regulatory climate it is vital that every employee of BlackRock looks to do the right thing in every situation every day.
Finally I want to thank our employees for the dedication and outstanding contribution in 2013 in delivering the full capabilities of BlackRock to solve for the ever-changing needs of our clients.
Thank you.
And with that I'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the Defined Contribution business.
I think you've been one of the more successful firms with customized target date products.
But your firm is not one of the integrated record keepers which historically has been a structural disadvantage.
Could you speak a little bit more about what you think your market opportunity is there and what segment of the DC market by plan size you'd be most focused on attacking? We were very successful this year in our target dates with large plans.
So that was similar growth with some very large assignments with some large players.
We do not believe being a record keeper is a disadvantage for us.
Actually it allows us to be agnostic about which record keeper they use.
We work with the plan.
We are focusing on the clients' needs.
And if they have an XYZ record keeper we will be working with them.
We are very committed in working with them.
So we are the largest in Defined Contribution platform as I said in the U.S.
with $526 billion.
So we are a large player and we're a large player and I think you just said it Luke because we are willing to work on customized solutions.
This is where our investment technology really gives us an advantage.
And it allows us to use the technology that we have to help design Defined Contribution plans that meet the needs of the plan.
Some plans may want to have their investors in a much more conservative plan.
Some others would want something a little more.
But we have the ability to customize the solution.
And in our presentations it plays quite well with our clients and this is why we continue to drive as you suggested above-market growth rates.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then switching gears a little bit.
I wondered if you would comment on any significant regulatory developments.
I know that we've got the consultative paper from the Financial Stability Board on SIFI designations.
We've seen the Volcker Rule that came out in December.
And also with that I know you've identified compliance spending on regulations as one of the ongoing pressures on expenses and profit margins.
So I was hoping you could give us a sense of where we are in the spending cycle for that.
Have you incurred a lot of the upfront costs? And are we -- or are we at an elevated long-term run rate? Well I thought the ROSCO [ph] Financial Stability Board's paper on a framework was a good framework.
We actually agree with their framework.
We actually we with the year framework.
Their framework really spoke about products and how they need to look at products.
This is something that we've been discussing here in the United States.
As I've said repeatedly it was not the largest institutions the asset management had that created any of the real problems.
With long-term capital in the late '90s that would not have been a large-scale platform.
You had Bear Stearns asset management with a leveraged mortgage fund that created the beginning of the crisis here in the United States.
And the money market crisis was created by the #9 largest money market fund that was reaching for yield which plays into this whole concept.
As you look at where risk may lie risk is going to be lying in products.
So we need to make sure that products are going to be analyzed in making sure people understand the systemic risk around products and the leverage associated with those products.
Clearly I think the ASCO [ph] plan discussed vanilla mutual funds probably don't create those types of systemic risks.
Vanilla-defined benefit plans that are in core strategies are not that risky.
Keep in mind the one thing that is very -- I think regulators understand -- are beginning to understand.
At BlackRock we do have $4.3 trillion of assets.
But we have thousands of clients.
We have contracts that we have to live up to by our clients.
And we have hundreds and hundreds of different products with different strategies.
So it is not a unified platform.
And I think it's more understood here in the United States and in Europe that this is not our money.
This is client money.
We have to live by our fiduciary standard with all these monies.
And so we are working very closely with our regulators worldwide.
We have constructive dialogue.
And yet nevertheless the new regulations whether it's Reg FD whether it's working on disclosure items we are spending more money on compliance.
We have to have -- I think society is demanding higher fiduciary standards for all of us.
And we are committed in doing this and we are building a robust compliance process.
We're spending money on technology.
I'm not here to tell you we're finished investing and I don't know how much more investing we have to do but it's -- I could say with certainty we spent a great sum of money meeting the needs of today's I would say fiduciary standards.
Your next question comes from Bill Katz with Citi.
Research Division</strong> The first question I have is as you think about the active versus passive dynamic what are you seeing from your clients as you look into 2014? Is there any kind of sub-rotation back into active just given what seems to be a better market backdrop? Sort of part 2 of that question is what's your latest thoughts on getting into the fundamentally based ETF segment which seems to be growing very rapidly? I'm not sure what you mean by fundamental base.
I'm going to let Rob talk about it.
I still don't think it's growing that fast so I won't agree on that.
But I think there's a lot of potential there but I don't think it's growing yet.
Related to the rotation and active versus passive equities I think questionably in the third and fourth quarter we did see rotation out of index equities but I'm not certain that rotation all went back into active equities.
It was a -- and much of it was rebalancing.
Because of the huge gains in U.S.
equities a lot of pension plans did rebalancing into fixed income.
This is one thing I think so many people in the marketplace misunderstood because they focus on retail flows and bonds.
But there was large flows back into fixed income as pension funds needed to rebalance.
And some of that rebalancing also went into alts.
We are going to be having a survey that we will be releasing related to investor preferences.
I think it will be released today.
And that survey showed that we're seeing large preference by institutions to be migrating more and more money into alternatives.
So some of that rotation out of index went into alts.
We did not see that much rotation into active.
And yet I do believe that you're going to see some rotation out of index type of -- or beta strategy equity strategies into active especially possibly in the emerging market area where it's been so heavily depressed relative to the developed market.
I'm going to let Rob talk about ETF flows.
So on your question we have -- we believe transparency in the ETF market is very important to the growth both in Retail and Institutional.
But we are also seeing some demand from investors that their interest is away from a specific index or benchmark.
So therefore we're targeting certain products to meet those particular I'll call them rules-based products.
And so we've launched a couple of these and these have been primarily in the short duration area.
Some of them have to do with equity factors.
Some of them have to do with [indiscernible] products.
And those are less transparent because they are not against an individual index more rule-based.
So we don't see a tremendous amount of growth in what you would just call active ETFs in the index space.
Where we see it is innovations where an index does not provide what the client is looking to do.
We have launched several of those and we have several more of that we're going to be launching and they'll be based upon client demand.
And your next question comes from the line of Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Larry I want to -- so the active -- I want to follow along Larry on your comment about the shift maybe that you sort of anticipate you could see in EM back to active.
If you look at your active equity business and you sort of try and square that with the comments around the D-style boxing or the sort of removal of constraints and be more global when you look at your active equity product set are you -- do you expect that you'll see some of that EM allocation to dedicated funds? Is global equity product likely to be more of a driver of that shift back to active? And then I guess finally where are you in sort of the process of pruning your active equity offerings? So we see a huge market for us in the active equity space.
Let's keep in mind that it's still a $25 trillion market this active core space.
So you have to start with performance before you can get involved.
And finally after a lot of hard work we have now products in place that we did not have in place before with the performance that we currently have.
But where we think the demand is going to be in the active space as people move more back toward from passive to active is going to be more towards unconstrained first before they move into more of the style box.
So this is where we excel because we'll be putting together more packaged products.
And in the EM space it's going to be more in for example in EM allocation fund.
So that's where we see the money coming into the active space.
We've seen it going into Global Long/Short type product.
But it's more in unconstrained first than it is in style.
But we have to make sure that we all understand that the active space is still a very very large space.
And because of our performance we hope to take market share in that particular space based on performance.
I would just add one more thing Mark that our Global Al product which we had -- so we're talking about performance-related or Fundamental Equity but Global Al had a performance issue 3 years ago.
And this past year it has great performance and is back to very strong long-term record.
And as a result we began to see some very strong flows especially globally.
I mean the big change what we are seeing in these unconstrained products like Global Al.
It historically was I would say 100% U.S.
based.
In 2013 probably 30% of the flows was overseas.
And even so far in 2014 if anything it's accelerating with more global flows.
So this is not just a U.S.
phenomenon.
This is just not a U.S.
pension fund phenomenon.
More and more global clients are looking for less benchmark less style boxed and this is obviously a major change in both the fixed income area and the equity area.
Research Division</strong> And I guess related to that if you look at the fixed income retail share gains that you had in 2013 I guess there's a few incumbents if you will in the fixed income retail U.S.
area.
What -- SIO has been a big driver of that but there are other products sort of behind SIO.
Should we think about again that sort of unconstrained fixed income being the sort of the share gain opportunity for you in that channel? Yes there's no question it's going to be like a Global Long/Short Credit Fund.
It will be credit style and it's high yield.
We have a 5-year top quartile product.
It's doing quite well.
We've seen large flows and high yield.
We continue to believe we're going to continue to see high-yield flows this year.
As I said Global Long/Short.
And importantly we see billions and billions of dollars moving out of core index fixed income moving into probably more unconstrained types of products.
I think that is going to be the 2014 strategy.
The one thing that I think I don't know I didn't say it today if you look at the Barclays Aggregate Index 87% of its risk is duration.
And if you have a view that interest rates systematically will be higher over the next few years it's a pretty hard product to be in and yet people need to be in fixed income.
I mean you're not going to see insurance companies run away from fixed income.
In fact rising rates are very good for insurance companies.
Obviously pension funds -- as with the improving equity markets there are some pension funds that are much closer to defeasing and getting out of equities and going entirely in bonds.
And so it's wrong to think there's one tidal wave in the marketplace.
There are many different divergent trends that are navigating around the fixed income area the one area where I do believe you're going to see a reduction.
And that's going to be the core base or style box fixed income products.
Your next question comes from Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> So I just think I'll kind of follow up on that.
And I guess as you think about your outlook for fixed income a lot of what you said is around Institutional.
Can you talk about Retail where we saw outflows in 2013 and what you think we could see there from in terms of fund flows within the fixed income market? Well if you tie in my view about longevity I have always believed Retail has overly invested in fixed income.
I think this is one of the tragedies that we have in America today that so many individual investors have been so panicked by the media by the economic conditions by job conditions.
Much of it is reasonably understood.
And as a result so many individuals have kept their money safe as a thought and overinvested in fixed income as a safe holder.
Well obviously if you believe interest rates are going up it's not a safe place to be anymore.
Hopefully some of that money goes into equities.
And hopefully some of the individual investors start thinking about outcomes and long strategy investing because that's the need we need.
And so if you believe that longevity continues it is our view that so many individuals whether it's through their IRA their defined contribution plan are so under-invested in the duration of their liability or their retirement needs.
And so some of the investing in fixed income is probably -- as I said was more of a place holder.
And unfortunately as I said at the beginning of my speech we had a doubling of the S&amp;P since 2009 was not the right place to be.
But one thing I can say that I think is happening we are seeing a convergence in how individuals and institutions think about things.
However insurance companies always have income needs.
Pension funds obviously would all like to defease as it ever could.
And so you're going to have long-term trends that are going to be constructive for fixed income.
So despite the views that we may have systematically higher rates in the future it is going to produce more demand for fixed income.
And this is one of the reasons why we had such a large credit rally and why we believe that will persist.
And this is why we have not been totally afraid of the realities of a changing -- the changing realities of the Federal Reserve and the manner in which they are handling their monetary policy.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just as a follow-up no real comments about scientific equity in your talk about flows or outlook I assume that demand there just...
Yes.
Well it is somewhat really disappointing for me that we haven't seen extraordinary flows there yet.
If the industry -- the quant equity industry had massive outflows and for a couple of years we had persistent outflows.
What I can say the negative flows have stopped we were flat last year.
We are talking to more clients than we ever had about this.
I actually believe this is a -- this is one area where we're unique.
This is one area where we should be growing.
This is an area for us as an emphasis in 2014 with this strong performance that we have.
And the strong performance is in Europe.
It is in Asia.
It is in the U.S.
Across the global platform we have strong consistent performance with less equity beta.
And so this is something that hopefully this will accelerate.
But I will say loud and clear I have been disappointed in the lack of flows I am -- but I am thrilled about the team's persistence in making sure we have great performance and we do have a positive view of our positioning going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First I just wanted to touch on the operating margin.
And really the adjusted operating margin remained above 40% really all year in '13.
So I'm wondering do you have pretty good visibility that the margin can remain north of 40% in 1Q which is typically the seasonally softest? And then also can you help us quantify the onetime lease expense inside G&amp;A? Sure Craig.
It's Gary.
So on margin I think from our standpoint we're being pretty consistent in terms of our views on margin.
I think Larry mentioned the commitment we made.
We're very comfortable at setting a floor on margin of the 40%.
Obviously you mentioned the first quarter tends to be seasonally soft in terms of performance fees and then payroll taxes and the like.
Again we're not managing the business on a quarterly basis to a margin.
We're not actually managing the business at all to a margin.
We're trying to balance both growth and profitability to come up with kind of the Goldilocks solution.
We are continually looking to beta and shifts in our business mix to have positive implications hopefully on margin and we're going to continue to push forward on that.
So I don't think there's really any change in margin other than reaffirmation of the margin targets that we've kind of talked about.
In terms of the G&amp;A for the quarter I think you highlighted a couple of things.
You talked about lease.
There's the number of items frankly that are elevating G&amp;A in the fourth quarter itself.
Sequentially that's up about $76 million which is 23%.
I'd say a couple of things there.
Seasonally higher marketing in the quarter definitely drove higher G&amp;A.
We've talked about that being fairly targeted over a course of a year but we'll move quarter to quarter depending on opportunities.
The lease basic cost you talked about roughly about $12 million was in the quarter.
We had some -- both non-recurring costs related to M&amp;A but also ongoing costs associated with MGPA closing in the quarter.
We had some FX that was higher in the quarter and a variety of other accruals.
I think what we're trying to basically target to people is that if you exclude the impact of kind of the volatility in our marketing and promotional spend about $15 million of the increase is really tied to our continued growth sequentially.
Research Division</strong> Really nice color there.
And just as my follow-up we're just looking for additional perspective on the open architecture glidepath product.
So really what is carrying client feedback today? Are there other competitors kind of aggressive in this market too? And where is the AUM on that product as of December 31? So in terms of the glidepath just we re-classed $6 billion from index equity and index-based multi-asset to better reflect the mandate that we got again 2 large mandates.
And the $6 billion effectively reflects assets that we managed before we won the open architecture mandate.
And then if you will there was an additional $10 billion that came our way that we are responsible for the overall glidepath some of which we could end up managing directly some of which will end up being allocated to third-party managers as part of our multi-manager glidepath assignment.
So today in total that's roughly about $15 billion $16 billion.
It is a growth area that we see.
And the only other point I would basically say this is really just another way to customize for the client in an outcome-oriented manner and it's primarily attributable to the LifePath franchise and our overall technology spend and commitment to that franchise.
You should think about fees in this respect.
That's also important.
Fees here are generally consistent with other large institutional index mandates.
Your next question comes from Michael Carrier with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Larry maybe just a follow-up on some of the color that you gave on allocations inflows.
So I guess first when I think about the Institutional commentary around the fourth quarter in terms of rebalancing and fixed income that makes sense.
Do you think that's more of like a transitional because of the strength in the market? And then you guys will get further on in '14 sort of the underlying trends that you've been talking about whether it's on the alternative side the passive side like continue? And then on the Retail side have you seen any of that meaning given the strength in the equity markets any unusual behavior of rebalancing? Or are they still too weighted towards fixed income so you're not really seeing that same trend? Yes.
So we feel we have not seen any real trend.
It's consistent.
I mean if you just look at our ETF flows as I said $76 billion of flows into equities $10 billion of outflows of commodity and fixed income type products.
But Institutional yes it's really -- you generally see the big rebalancing institutionally in the fourth quarter and some people in the first quarter.
In our survey that we're releasing we did -- we heard that there's still more rebalancing but not so much.
If the Institutional survey that we'll be releasing today is an indication of what the big macro trend is more investing in alts and so I don't think you're going to see a persistence of rebalancing out of equities into bonds.
I think this is just -- as I said it's more seasonal especially in light of the equity run.
The one thing that we should be mindful of if we continue to have an equity rally of some magnitude there are going to be some corporate plans that are going to defease.
We're aware of 1 or 2 large plans that are above their 100% funding rate.
And they are having dialogues right now should they defease and should they just immunize their plan their DB plan.
And so you're going to have that type of behavior too.
So this is one thing that's really in my mind a testimonial to BlackRock's platform.
We're seeing institutions go one way we're seeing ETF players go another way and we're seeing mutual funds being a little more balanced.
And so this -- in my mind having that ability to see the various types of investors by region and by business line or by outcome needs we're seeing very different behaviors across the board.
The beauty of our platform we were able to capture that and understand that.
And this is why we are spending so much time with our clients and trying to help them think about outcomes and not about the noise of the moment.
And ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions.
Mr.
Fink do you have any closing remarks? We want to thank everybody obviously thank our employees for a really good 2013.
I just wanted to repeat that in our business today we have to live with even stronger more robust fiduciary abilities.
And as I said very clearly it is apparent as a leader in the investment management business that we set the tone.
And the tone has to be strong across the board.
And that is my commitment to our shareholders that we will continue to set the tone of a strong standard fiduciary platform.
And it's that standard and that tone that allows us to grow a deeper relationship with our clients.
With that thank you everybody and I'll talk to you at the end of the first quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Carmen and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Incorporated First Quarter 2014 Earnings Teleconference.
Our host for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Gary Shedlin; President Robert S.
Kapito; and General Counsel Matthew Mallow.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Mr.
Mallow you may begin your conference.
Thanks very much.
Good morning everyone.
Before Larry Gary and Rob make their remarks let me remind you that during the course of this call we may make a number of forward-looking statements.
We call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual results will of course or may of course differ from these statements.
As you know BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC which list some of the factors that may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we say today.
And as we usually warn you BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that let the call begin.
Thank you Matt and good morning everyone.
It's my pleasure to be here to present the results for the first quarter of 2014.
Before I turn it over to Larry to offer his comments I'll review our quarterly financial performance and business results and as usual I will be focusing primarily on as adjusted results.
BlackRock delivered first quarter earnings per share of $4.43 up 21% compared to 2013.
Operating income was $1.1 billion 15% higher than a year ago reflecting continued revenue growth and a decline in G&amp;A expense.
First quarter non-operating results reflected $69 million increase in the market value of our seed and co-investments which were impacted by the monetization of a non-strategic opportunistic private equity investment.
The first quarter as adjusted tax rate was 30% and we continue to believe this remains appropriate planning assumption for 2014.
Underpinning our results was continued organic growth despite volatile market conditions in the first quarter.
We saw $27 billion of long-term net new flows representing an annualized organic growth rate of approximately 3% with organic revenue growth once again outpacing organic asset growth notwithstanding the volatility which impacted our shares during the quarter.
Our highly diversified multi-client platform generated more than $5 billion of net flows across each of our Retail iShares and Institutional businesses.
First quarter revenues were $2.7 billion up $221 million or 9% from a year ago and were driven by continued growth in base fees performance fees and revenues from BlackRock Solutions.
We once again experienced year-over-year base fee growth across all long-dated asset classes.
Base fees increased to $162 million or 8% from a year ago as average assets on our management increased as a function of organic growth market appreciation and the acquisitions of the Crdit Suisse ETF and MGPA real estate businesses.
Base fees were roughly flat compared to the fourth quarter and part due to change in our AUM mix which was impacted by relatively weaker data in markets with higher fee products and a lower day count in the first quarter.
Performance fees for the quarter increased $50 million from a year ago primarily due to a performance fee associated with a planned final liquidation of the opportunistic 2007 vintage closed-end mortgage fund that was partially liquidated in the fourth quarter.
This fund now holds only a residual balance with limited additional performance potential.
BlackRock Solutions revenues of $154 million were up 22% year-over-year and were roughly flat compared to the fourth quarter.
Our Aladdin business which represents 71% of BlackRock Solutions revenue in the quarter was up 10% year-over-year.
Sequential results were once again impacted by the timing and recognition of certain revenues as we continue to onboard a number of very large clients on to the Aladdin platform.
Our Financial Markets Advisory or FMA group continues to post strong revenues.
Now this quarter reflected a higher level of revenue associated with asset disposition assignments in prior quarters the FMA group continues to develop a more institutionalized advisory model with a focus on helping clients navigate and implement requirements for the changing regulatory environment.
Expenses for the first quarter rose $80 million year-over-year driven primarily by increases in revenue-related items including compensation and direct fund expense partially offset by a decline in G&amp;A expense.
Compensation expense increased from a year ago broadly in line with growth in the overall business.
As we have previously noted the first quarter adjusted compensation to revenue ratio generally runs higher than the full year due to the seasonality of payroll taxes which increased year-over-year due to appreciation of BlackRock's share price.
including the impact of closed-end fund launch costs in last year's first quarter a current one-time benefit from a reverse of UK-related real estate related retirement obligation which is no longer required to be funded and lower other expense partially offset by foreign currency exchange movements.
Our G&amp;A expense in the first quarter also benefited from a delay in the timing of certain expense items including marketing and promotional spend which will be incurred throughout the remainder of 2014.
Our operating margin for the first quarter was 41.4% we continue to demonstrate benefits of scale in our overall business.
We remain committed to using our cash flow to optimize shareholder value by reinvesting in our business and returning excess cash to shareholders through a consistent and systematic capital management policy.
As previously discussed we announced a 15% increase in our quarterly dividend to $1.93 per share of common stock.
We also repurchased an additional $250 million worth of shares during the first quarter and are committed to maintaining a steady level of repurchases during 2014.
BlackRock's financial results reflect the breadth and depth of our investment and distribution platforms.
Our first quarter results reflect continued focus on key strategic themes including income outcomes alternative and strategic data as clients look to both active and passive vehicles to meet their evolving long-term investment needs.
We continue to see strong growth in global retail.
Retail long-term net flows were $14 billion for the quarter representing 11% annualized organic growth rate and were positive across all asset classes.
International retail once again demonstrated strong results generating long-term net inflows of $9.8 billion representing a 25% annualized organic growth rate.
Equity flows of $4 billion were led by our top performing European equity suite while fixed income net inflows of $2.5 billion were driven by demand for our short duration unconstrained and high yield bond products.
Multi-asset net inflows of $2.7 billion reflect the continuing momentum in our global allocation fund a key component of our bundled outcome oriented family of products.
U.S.
Retail's quarterly long-term net inflows of $4.2 billion representing annualized organic growth of 5% were led by fixed income's continued success in our duration managed product suite.
We also saw accelerated interest across our diversified retail alternative platform with $1.5 billion of net inflows.
Importantly our global long/short equity fund managed by our SAE team saw accelerated flows in the quarter with each of global long/short equity and global long/short credit attracting more than $700 million in net new assets during the quarter.
Global iShares generated $7.8 billion of net new business in the quarter driven by fixed income flows.
In the face of market volatility iShares continued to deliver the efficiency liquidity and performance our clients expect from the leading global ETF provider.
In total iShares equity flows for the quarter generated nearly $1 billion in net new assets which flows into developed markets more than offsetting outflows of nearly $8 billion from EEM our flagship for emerging markets ETF.
In recent weeks however we have witnessed a change in emerging market sentiment and flows have reversed with approximately $4 billion coming into EEM since quarter-end.
The global ETF industry experienced strong fixed income flows during the quarter and iShares was well-positioned to capitalize on investor demand with a diverse suite of offerings across duration and style.
For the quarter we captured the number one global market share of industry fixed income ETF flows generating approximately $6.6 billion in net new assets including $4.6 billion from Europe.
Our institutional business generated $5 billion in net long-term inflows for the quarter.
Strong passive net inflows is $17.6 billion were partially offset by active net outflows of $12.6 billion.
Overall results were characterized by a number of sizeable client inflows and outflows driven by a variety of factors.
Within passive we saw both rerisking and increased usage of Liability Driven Investing or LBI as clients rebalanced their pension plan taking advantage of strong equity markets and improved funding ratios.
As markets and interest rates continue to rise we expect to see more of this type of immunization activity.
That said we also saw the redemption of single large LBI assignment in connection with the annuitization of a client's pension obligation.
Active outflows were driven by several factors including corporate events and legacy performance issues.
Active fixed income flows were impacted by a single $6 billion outflow driven by the acquisition of the client by an entity affiliated with a competing asset manager.
Fundamental equity flows were negatively impacted by a large subadvisor redemption which was linked to legacy under-performance.
Finally despite continued strong overall performance we also experienced outflows of approximately $4 billion in SAE including a significant client redemption that we were able to leverage the breadth of our platform to capture a larger passive mandate from the same client.
Larry will discuss performance in more detail but we believe that our current investment performance in both active fixed income and equities is strong and competitively well-positioned.
During the quarter we also saw continued growth in targeted institutional sub-segments including the client contribution where we generated more than $8 billion of net inflows with particular strength coming from our LifePath target based suite and passive equity offerings.
In institutional alternatives net inflows into hedge funded funds were offset by capital return and other liquid products.
However strong fundraising continued in illiquid alternatives with more than $1 billion in commitments raised for the fifth consecutive quarter.
Across retail and institutional clients we saw almost $2 billion of core alternative flows during the first quarter the highest category flows we have seen four years.
Overall the quarter again demonstrated the consistency and stability by our diverse platform and we continue to believe that we are well-positioned for the remainder of the year.
With that I'll turn it over to Larry.
Thanks Gary.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call.
While the first quarter marked the fifth straight quarterly rise for the S&amp;P 500 equity markets experienced significant intra quarter volatility.
Central Bank policy continued to be a key focus area.
Global economic indicators fluctuated relative to expectations and the market attempted to digest heightened geopolitical concerns all of which impacted asset prices.
Volatility continued in early April as valuation concerns and short-term de-risking drove the worst week for domestic equity market since 2012.
And I expect this type of volatility is likely to impact markets for the remainder of the year.
The industry has seen positive mutual fund flow throughout this latest market setback.
That's a good sign that long-term investors are actively engaged helping to offset hedge fund deleveraging.
In the midst of these challenges BlackRock clients' goals remain consistent focused on investing to improve their financial futures.
More than ever our clients both institutional and individuals need to think beyond the next new cycle and the next quarter to meet their long-term investment objectives.
BlackRock's focus on long-term strategic themes like outcome-oriented investing retirement and longevity allows us to have a differentiated conversation with our clients and to provide them with the advice they need to meet their long-term goals.
Our client dialogue is enhanced by our ability to integrate technology and risk management into our investment approach and harness our collective intelligence across the entire firm.
BlackRock attracted $27 billion in long-term net new flows in the first quarter which again reflects the diversity and breadth of our business with positive contributions coming from all client types all asset classes and all regions.
We have more products on more buy list than ever before.
The level of RFPs we're involved in and the level of client interest across our platform from active and passive and increasingly in alternatives continues to rise and we're seeing momentum in important long-term asset classes like infrastructure where investments we've made on our platform are beginning to pay dividends.
My focus and the focus of BlackRock's leadership is on capitalizing the opportunities we see to deliver the solutions our clients need.
We recognize these opportunities must start with a strong investment performance and performance is at the foundation of the BlackRock culture.
We structured our business to give portfolio managers the technology the risk management tool and a forum of information sharing and at the end giving them autonomy to promote the superior investment performance that our clients expect.
One significant differentiator for BlackRock is BII or the BlackRock Investment Institute.
By bringing together our investment professionals to daily meetings topical investment forums and knowledge sharing events BII heightened the best ideas from our top investors and shared some of the most interesting solutions with our clients.
We're focused on fostering in an environment of information sharing to benefit our portfolio managers while which would ultimately enhance performance for our clients.
We are benefiting from that enhanced performance across our fixed income business where 89% of our active fixed income AUM is above benchmarker peer medium for three years.
We are also seeing strong performance in many areas of alternatives multi-asset and equities including European and Asian equities and we fully expect the same from our new equity teams in the U.S.
We talked at length about the work we've done to address performance issues in our U.S.
equity business.
This quarter we saw $4 billion of outflows related to a legacy performance in that business primarily driven by a loss of a very large subadvisory assignment.
We recognize that our fundamental equity performance was not in line with our clients' expectations; it required a significant investment and talent.
We made these investments and we remain encouraged by the performance of our new teams.
Since the new teams joined BlackRock over the past two years our U.S.
basic value improved from the 51st percentile to the 7th percentile our large cap core from the 76th percentile to the 16th percentile and our large cap value from the 97th percentile to the 37th percentile.
These are the trends that we continue to expect and through these trends we expect to see investors asking BlackRock about what we could do for them in active U.S.
equities.
As we know from our experience in restructuring our active fixed income business several years ago the process is costly and it takes time to build long-term scalable track records.
The results we are seeing today in terms of fixed income performance inflows highlights the reward from successfully executing on this type of overhaul.
BlackRock is committed to bring in the top-tier alpha producers and we are confident that the moves we made in our active U.S.
equity business will position ourselves to achieve that goal.
Fixed income represents a meaningful opportunity for BlackRock.
The fixed income ecosystem is going through significant changes.
The industry is witnessing a heightened period of client interest and on all fronts BlackRock is positioned to win.
The competitive landscape in fixed income is evolving which highlights the importance of strong performance.
As we start to see a shift in the performance paradigm among industry leaders BlackRock has the product and the investment performance in place to attract flows from both retail and institutional clients.
As we've discussed on prior calls the industry has experienced a shift from traditional long duration fixed income to more flexible unconstrained products as clients access the risk of duration they have under portfolios.
This theme drove a substantial portion of double-digit organic growth we saw in our global retail business.
International retail we saw growing momentum in our unconstrained fixed income global opportunity fund which raised over $900 million during the quarter.
And in the U.S.
our flagship strategic income opportunities fund continue to generate strong investor demand with $2.7 billion of flow in the quarter.
SIO has generated $10 billion of flows in the last five quarters and now stands at early $14 billion of AUM.
What began as a retail theme early last year is now resonating with institutional and defined contribution clients as well.
We invested nearly $1 billion in SIO during the last quarter.
Fixed income demand on the institutional side is also been driven by early signs of pension plans taking advantage of improved funding ratios to rebalance and immunize portfolios and BlackRock experienced strong LVI flow this quarter as a result.
Clients are also increasingly looking to ETFs to manage their fixed income portfolios.
A Greenwich Associates report on the institutional use of fixed income ETFs found that one of five non-users plan to start investing in fixed income ETFs in the coming year while two-thirds of existing users have increased their usage since 2011.
Survey respondents named iShares as their preferred provider of fixed income ETFs with pricing the liquidity and breadth our product offering their top considerations.
Fixed income is a growth business for BlackRock and it has our largest flow category in the first quarter.
The breadth of our product offerings and performance meaningfully in excess of our key competitor positions us well for the continuing rotation within fixed income and to gain market share as the landscape continues to evolve.
Our platform breadth and diversity of our deep relations with clients are also a differentiator for BlackRock.
Gary spoke about some of the large flows we saw in institutional business this quarter and BlackRock's ability to bring a variety of products and service oriented solutions to clients often position us to recapture what would otherwise be lost opportunities.
In the case of one pension risk transfer to an insurance provider although mandates moved away from BlackRock due to successful execution of an LDI mandate we want a BlackRock Solution assignment to perform monitoring and valuation on that same asset pool.
The service transition was made possibly by our existing relationships our strong management capabilities and risk management capabilities and reputation which includes providing Aladdin or Aladdin risk support services to 12 of the top 35 insurance providers globally.
As a fiduciary it is critical that BlackRock not only provides the investment performance and solutions our clients need but also to take a leadership role in advocating for the best interest and those are the broader markets and the economy.
That's why last month I sent a letter to CEOs of every company in the S&amp;P 500 urging them to focus on the long-term to make investments in their businesses that will create opportunities and drive future growth.
BlackRock believes it is our responsibility and obligation to maximize the value of the assets our clients entrusted us and that prudent management practices and strong leadership by boards of directors promoting company's long-term successes and to lead a better risk adjusted return for investors.
BlackRock is also working actively with regulator to help build constructive solutions that improve the financial ecosystem for all investors.
We recently submitted a letter comment letter to the Financial Stability Board to address concern over the impact asset managers might have on market stability.
While we share the FSB's desire for a safer market environment and we agree with our focus on products rather than firms we argue that leverage rather than size should be the primary stream when determining the appropriate level of regulatory scrutiny.
We will continue to engage with regulators and policy makers that help insure that regulation is appropriately focused on where risk may exist at the product and at the product level and the practice level.
Looking forward we remained committed to partnering with our clients around the world to deliver them all that BlackRock has to offer.
Last week we hosted our Institutional Client Conference where we spoke with more than 100 clients on paving new pass to achieve outcomes for those who entrust us with our assets.
On June 17th we will be hosting our second Investor Day to discuss key drivers of future growth for BlackRock.
I'd like to close by taking a minute to talk about BlackRock's focus on our talent.
Talent is something we as a management team and our board of directors review continuously in order to build a deep bench of senior executives.
We view setting high standards for talent as a core responsibility to best serve our clients and investors.
We are excited to have a variety of senior leaders stepping into new roles and to welcome a number of senior hires to BlackRock.
Those new hires include Salim Ramji who was a senior partner in McKinsey &amp; Company will be joining the firm later this month as our new Global Head of Corporate Strategy.
Chris Jones will be joining BlackRock as our Chief Investment Officer and Head of Fundamental Equities for the Americas and Co-Head of our Global Fundamental Equity team.
And Helen Zhu recently joined to help BlackRock in our Chinese Equity business.
Our talent strategy reflects a focus effort we have taken to develop our people and enhance our culture.
We are committed to rotating leaders into roles that present them with new challenges driving their responsibilities and maximizing their impact on the firm.
These efforts to develop and invest in top-tier talent will serve to drive BlackRock's long-term growth and to enhance both the experiences of our clients and the value it deliver to shareholders.
As always I want to thank our employees for a dedicated service this quarter in helping our clients to build better financial futures.
With that I will open up it for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question is from the line of Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
First I would like to see if you could talk about the level and the outlook for institutional fixed income investment dollars in motion.
You called that in the press release the shift towards unconstrained and you talked in the call about short-term strategies but taking this from another angle would you expect the amount of money in motion to increase further given the high profile performance and management stability issues at PIMCO and to what extent has this already started and based on your past experience what kind of scale of opportunity is there here? I don't ever comment on our competitors.
PIMCO is a fabulous investment firm so and Bill Gross has been a friend of mine for over 40 years not that quite long about 38 years so.
We're in a great position; we're seeing increasingly more dialogue from institutional clients than we've seen before.
We began to see accelerated inflows on the retail side but now we are in more dialogue with more consulting firms advisory firms to pension fund.
So corporations are looking at how they should look at fixed income.
Some of it is -- some of the movement is towards unconstrained into like SIO products.
And let me just speak about BlackRock and reiterate having close to 90% of our products above their benchmark and some of them are in -- and many of them are in the top quartile now is a reason why people are coming to BlackRock both institutionally and retail.
Where we are beginning to see some increased dialogues though Ken is in defined contribution side where this is an area where we had very little penetration on the fixed income side we had large penetration on the index equity side.
So we are now enjoying more flows retail and institutional and in all components of institutional and I believe we will begin in the second and third quarters to see an acceleration in terms of money in motion as you called it in the fixed income universe.
All right.
Thank you.
And then to follow-up can you talk about the performance of the core alternative strategies so far this year? We're seeing some hedge fund strategies suffering pretty weak absolute returns earlier in this year and I'm interested to hear how your various strategies are performing and maybe which areas are performing better and which areas are performing worse? Well you're correct in saying there some hedge funds that have done very poorly and that was heavily oriented towards the macro strategies.
Our macro strategy hedge fund has relatively poor performance.
However our single hedge fund strategies or fixed income hedge fund strategies have all done quite well and in fact we took advantage of some of the pain within the marketplace over the last two months.
I would say overall we performed very strongly in our hedge fund strategies.
Our multi -- our long/short equity or long/short fixed income hedge funds where we're seeing some very large flows both retail and institutional we had good performance.
So we continue to see acceleration in conversations in the alternative space too.
Two areas that I would like to highlight on the outside where we're beginning to have a total change in dialogue one is our real estate area where we have had performance issues out five years ago.
And we have changes of leadership there we did the acquisition of our teams and we are now in more dialogues on real estate than we had been in many many years and infrastructure.
Infrastructure we brought along a team over three years ago and we are now starting to see accelerating flows into our infrastructure alternative area.
We're about $2 billion and I expect to see a doubling of flows over the next 12 months to 24 months in our infrastructure area.
This is an area that I think is going to we're going to have to continue to do invest in.
As we think about the world going forward there is a greater and greater need for infrastructure in the developing world in the developed world and most certainly in the U.S.
and we believe this is a great asset category for many of our investors.
And so we look at this as an area of extreme growth.
Your next question is from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Just want to circle back on institutional fixed income specifically LDI.
I thought it was interesting that the mandate wins here seems to be really concentrated in passive and not active.
So first do you think we need higher rates for this rate to really accelerate? And then will these wins you think reside mostly in a passive business or a mix between active and passive? Well LDI is a means in which you're trying to minimize risk and I do believe because of the growth in passive fixed income strategies in the ETF area and in obviously in the index side it's a great product for moving into LDI.
So I would say there would be a higher propensity for investors seeking passive strategies and active strategies for LDI.
But I think you're going to see in some care areas a growth of may be the unconstrained product areas into LDI also as a way of having a diversification in terms of fixed income strategies.
But you should assume when people go to an LDI strategy they're essentially de-risking and a component of that de-risking is staying pretty current on to an index and this is why you're seeing a higher propensity to go into passive strategies.
Thanks and just my follow-up here on the illiquid alt business which is mostly a retail phenomenon.
Which specific types of platforms and investor basis are really demanding these products and I'm really thinking about what your long/short credit and long/short equity fund? I'll let Rob talk about that.
So the retail base is thirsty for alternatives and so long/short credit and long/short equity but both global are important for the retail base.
And we've launched since 2011 six '40 act alternative products; they continue to raise money.
In the first quarter alone it was $1.4 billion and that's driven as I mentioned by the long/short credit which has had very good performance as well as the global long/short equity funds and each of those has raised over $700 million putting them in the selling fund.
So it's really a retail thirst and of course that's coming from what else is available to them which is low rates on the fixed income side and sometimes using dividend fund as a surrogate.
So they need that double-digit returns and that's where we're seeing the interest from.
Your next question is from the line of Robert Lee with KBW.
First question is on just about a year-and-a-half I mean two years ago you made a move to combine the ETF and the retail distribution force.
Just curious if there any way of quantifying or color you could give on what impact you may be seeing that has in terms of hoping to drive ETF flows and you like you're still at the early stages of that or is that kind of been helpful run rate so to speak? So we are still at the earlier stages in that and what it gives us the ability to do is have more holistic conversations with our clients because clients own both passive and active whether they describe that an index funds ETFs or active portfolios.
So most clients have been focused more on asset allocation and this way having people I can talk both sides of that conversation really resonates with them creating portfolios that are much more sticky going forward or that when there's an asset allocation they will asset allocate within BlackRock because we can offer the whole slate of products.
It has taken a while to get that underway because it requires a significant amount of training combining the sales force to have that and also to in a sense upgrade our sales force to be able to talk more holistically.
So while we've seen success it's still in the early stages and we expect more to come on that.
And maybe as a follow-up you've had really strong retail organic growth outside the U.S.
Maybe give a little bit color on maybe by geographic region or country kind of where you're seeing that and kind of if there is any specific markets that I believe or by -- I know there's the odd equity business I guess in the UK but any color there would be helpful? Rob it's been very broad based it's been so gratifying.
It's throughout EMEA and Latin America actually.
Areas of great growth have been really I would say the core of Europe Italy Germany Switzerland where we saw very good flows.
So it just continues to dominate and then even in Asia I don't know retail flows about $2 billion came from different countries in Asia.
So it speaks very broadly about our global footprint and our growing brand recognition in PacAm in Europe and in Asia and we continue to drive a strong position as an independent asset management platform working with our distribution partners worldwide.
But also let me -- also say what is a key driver to the success is the expansion of high performing products whether it's our performance in fixed income our performance in European equities active equities where we're in the top decile for five years and our growing success in Asian equities where we have Andrew Swan now with about two-and-a-half years under his belt at BlackRock with exceptional performance.
So it is about our positioning worldwide globally but it also the underlying component of that success is a growing success in our active product suite.
Your next question is from the line of Matthew Kelly with Morgan Stanley.
First I wanted to just touch on the ETF landscape and there's been a lot of activity both iShares and in competitor.
So I'd just be curious how active we should expect you to be on the new product launch perspective and where your efforts are focused both by product and region and where you've seen the most interest from some of your competitors? And maybe that's a better question for Rob either of you.
Yes let me just give you a macro view and let Rob get into the granularity of products.
But if you look at -- we had real large movements within the ETF space.
In the first few weeks of January we had up to $8 billion of outflows in EM which was pretty disconcerting.
Since that we had $4 billion of inflows.
But importantly since quarter-end which is all public so I can talk about it we've had $10 billion in net inflows in our iShares products.
So year-to-date we're over $17 billion of net flows.
At quarter-end we were approximately $7.5 billion so huge change in momentum.
And so getting into the both the competitive landscape change generally when you have more I would say more of an international flavor of investing we benefit when it's more of a domestic flavor some of our competitors benefit.
But I would tell you we're in a very good position to remain a leader in the ETF business in 2014.
Rob why don't you go talk about some of the products that we're launching and we're proposing and So we focus on what our clients' needs are the changing landscape in the markets.
So we have eight new products already this year.
And we're currency hedged to our enhanced international equity products and the other are fixed income.
Obviously there was a very big demand for short duration due to the fact that people -- most people thing that interest rates at some point have a higher probability of rising and there has also been a lot of interest in the municipal area.
So we're going to be very opportunistic we're going to follow the lead of our clients.
And in some cases we're going to grow market share and in some cases we're going to take market share where we may have been late to the gain but we see an opportunity and people respect the brand our ability to have the best tracking errors and liquidity in the marketplace.
So we're going to go out in both of those.
But we're going to continue to be -- have our nose close to the marketplace.
And we will be very active in new products that we believe that we can have scale.
Okay great.
And then my follow-up is I'd just curious to get your thoughts as a management team on the recent changes in the UK budget and impact on pension markets over there and where you're kind of -- where that -- where BlackRock is positioned to potentially benefit from any of those changes that they can throw? Well I'm glad you asked that because this is a huge opportunity for us and we spend a lot of time and effort developing our retirement products around the world and I think you heard Larry talk a lot about the need for retirement products.
And what you're talking about is really the UK pension reform where there will be less money going into the annuity product and more money going into products that are created for retirement.
And as you know you've heard us talk about our extensive U.S.
DC experience with our LifePath products and our floating products.
We estimate that this opportunity in the UK alone could be about $25 billion in assets that might have gone into annuities that now will be as Gary likes to say money in motion.
So we intend to put a lot of effort on putting together more retirement products to capitalize in this market.
And I think BlackRock is uniquely positioned because of our multi-asset strategies and our product development specifically tailored to the retirement area of which almost two-thirds of our assets at BlackRock are retirement related.
Your next question is from the line of Chris Harris with Wells Fargo.
So Michael Lewis caused quite a stir with his book that came out this month.
And Larry just wondering where you guys stand on the whole debate about market structure whether you think the markets are rigged or whether you think regulators should be doing more to kind of level the playing field if you will? And just kind of asking this question because giving your size and obviously you guys have a lot of influence as to how the market structure unfolds? Well we have invested tens and tens of million of dollars for making sure that the high frequency traders did not arbitrage us.
We looked at it is a fiduciary responsibility making sure that we always provide our clients best execution.
And we only do execution with the reputable counterparties and market venues.
So this is something that we've been focused on for years.
Obviously it's a piece of -- it's a book that quits obviously greater public awareness and we think there should be greater public awareness on these activity.
But this is something we've been focused on for years it is not -- our behavior has been consistent that our job as a fiduciary and get the best execution.
We believe that market structure should always be there to be protecting investors.
We believe in the concept of equal access of information.
We believe in the concept of simplification of order types and message orders.
So this is something we've been living with it may be in the public purview but this has been as a component of the market for years and years and years and I think I spoke about this in the past few quarterly updates that we have been vigilant in making sure that we're building adequacy in terms of our trading platform that we are providing best execution for our clients.
That's what I care about more than anything else that we are there making sure that with all of the new technologies that we are not been arbitraged or that we have more friction cost in our execution.
Because of the high preponderance of our equity holdings or index as you know we have to be so mindful of friction related to trading.
And so this is why we've been very aggressive making sure we have that we focus on best execution and I think this is a story that should be discussed but this is a story that we've been aware of for years and have addressed it internally in terms of our platform.
Understood.
Thank you very much for that.
And just really quick follow-up on the business.
You called out the performance of some of your newer team members and they're really having a very good impact just kind of curious to get your thought how long do you think it's going to take for the better performance to really start moving the needle on flows.
Do you think it might take something like three years to really start getting a lot better or in your experiences could we start seeing a bigger opportunity? I want to say bifurcated market.
In alternatives you could have no track record and announce a strategy and if the strategy makes sense we've seen this in the marketplace; people are able to raise money.
So it really depends on the product itself as we are beginning to see some nice flows and certainly much more dialogue in our Asian equity platform where we have just under a three-year track record there.
It takes more than a year for the key I would say on products like large cap core and large cap value and it may be three to four years -- two to three-year type of process.
After three years I think you then get on many buy lists across the board.
Some of these teams though actually that have joined the -- Have carried.
Have a following.
So even though they didn't have a track record here they are bringing with them track record.
So we are now that they're onboard we're seeing those people be more willing to move now that they know they have settled in with us so we will see some flows from there.
And that's the key if they continue to have the performance that they had at their prior place we can benefit early.
But in terms of our witnessing what happened in fixed income in that case it was really more than a three-year process in which we needed to reprove ourselves because we had such a strong position in fixed income we lost it and it took three to four years of building that team back and building the performance back up.
I don't think there is anyone straight line that's the way that we have review all the different products it really depends on the circumstances around the team and the product itself.
And your next question is from the line of Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Larry can you talk about the growth of fixed income on constrained.
It's interesting that you're now seeing I guess an institutional interest for SIO.
Is that a trend number one the expected institutional interest will continue to drift towards on constrained you're seeing that may be with allocations? And then relatively are you concerned at all about capacity and maybe trading friction in fixed income as the quest for returns in yield goes more sort of off index if you will? Unquestionably we are in more dialogues with more public and private institutional plans than ever before on the concept of some form of unconstrained.
It may not just be SIO there are other products we have FIGO we have other types of products.
So we are and we're looking at creating more unconstrained type of product so it may not just being one.
And we are beginning to see more interest on the defined contribution side for unconstrained.
So I think this is going to accelerate in a very large way.
Unquestionably anyone specific product like an SIO will have see this could not be $100 billion fund it was never designed to be something like that but do we have quite a bit of bandwidth and capacity for the near about future absolutely.
And so we're not concerned about capacity at the moment in any one of our products.
But it -- this is just beginning this groundswell towards -- moving towards an unconstrained type of fixed income product.
I think this will accelerate and I think it will become a very large -- well it is a very large component of our dialogue with institutions worldwide today.
The -- what is second part of your question? Marc was that -- did I answer that? Just in terms of trading? Oh trading.
Yes friction cost.
There is no question as balance sheets of the dealers are more contained you see wider spreads than fixed income.
I don't think this is a long-term problem it may be a short-term problem; it will move it will create more movement towards exchange trading for fixed income.
And I do believe this is one of the reasons why more interest in ETFs and fixed income.
So you don't have to focus on a bond you could focus on ETFs that have maturity or ETFs that are connected to benchmarks.
And so this is one of the reason why we think fixed income ETFs will grow dramatically over the course of next two years.
But there is no question there is times of great illiquidity and fixed income as dealers have cut back their capital associated with fixed income.
And at times it represents larger friction cost than other times but I do believe that will create a faster evolution towards more exchange traded fixed income platforms.
Your final question is from the line of Michael Carrier with Bank of America.
Gary maybe a few number questions.
So I think you mentioned and you saw it in the release just on G&amp;A there were some items that were real estate benefit.
And then I think non-op gains were a bit elevated and then same thing with performance fees.
So I guess any color around some of those lumpy items? Sure.
So on the G&amp;A expense as we mentioned the current quarter reflects what we call a dilapidation reversal which is a function of some building we have over in London that obviously artificially reduced expenses for the quarter.
As we also mentioned there were some lower expense due to timing of the spend; the most major component there is our MMP spend that we called out on a variety of quarters.
The fourth quarter as you know was actually impacted in many cases by the opposites we had higher MMP spending during time and we have some lease exit cost and a variety of other accruals.
So I think if you listened carefully which I'm sure you did in the fourth quarter we tried to walk you through what portion of our fourth quarter G&amp;A increase was kind of tied to our continued growth of the business and we really haven't changed our view on that at that moment.
So I think that the type of analysis you guys generally did in the fourth quarter looking at the first quarter we still standby.
In the non-op side you correctly mentioned that the non-op was driven by the monetization of the non-strategic opportunistic key investment that was really tied to some years ago where we had a little bit of different strategy around potentially growing our off business which obviously has changed at the moment.
And so I would say again there that the street generally was fairly consistent in terms of estimates of our non-op with the exception of that one-time item.
And I think on performance fees we really talked about it.
I mean we mentioned in the fourth quarter this is really the final piece of that liquidation.
And at the moment we would expect that most of the performance fees to be generally recurring in nature tied to our core goals business.
But as you think about business we are going to have return of capital successful monetizations of these things this is the normal course of business and also this is why we have to continue to have an engine of growth of new products and this is one of the key components of it.
And in connection with that again another $1 billion of commitments that were in the quarter which takes that up for now five consecutive quarters.
So keep in mind that those numbers are not hitting our net new business flows until the capital is actually deployed and once that capital is deployed it then obviously becomes available both to generate performance fees in the future.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions.
Mr.
Fink do you have any closing remarks? Just thank you for your commitment in investing in BlackRock.
As I said earlier I think the quarter is an example of the diversification of our business model of having a strong presence in active and passive and fixed income and equities and alternatives and it really shows up quite well in our first quarter.
And probably the other two major point that I would like to lead everybody during the course of the quarter as we had this extreme volatility and market movement every day during the volatility we had consistent inflows which leads me to say that much of the market movement was more of a hedge fund oriented fast money type of behavior long-term investors were committed to putting money to work and we saw no change in investor behavior in the first quarter.
Also as a statement towards -- as we look towards the second and third quarter we have never been in more active dialogue with more clients with more consultants with more distribution partners about BlackRock products probably in our corporate history and hopefully we can show you at the end of the second quarter that those dialogues turn into commitments.
Once again thanks for all the support and I want to thank all the employees for all the support.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Incorporated Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Teleconference.
Our host for todays call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Gary S.
Shedlin; President Robert S.
Kapito; and General Counsel Matthew Mallow.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Mr.
Mallow you may begin your conference.
Thanks very much.
Good morning everyone.
Before Larry and Gary make their remarks let me remind all of you that during the course of this call we may make a number of forward-looking statements.
And of course we call your attention to the fact that BlackRocks actual results may differ from these statements.
As you know BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC which list some of the factors that may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we say today.
And as we usually warn you BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that let the call begin.
Gary? Thanks Matt and good morning everyone.
Its my pleasure to be here to present results for the second quarter of 2014.
Before I turn it over to Larry to offer his comments Ill review our quarterly financial performance and business results.
as usual I will be focusing primarily on as adjusted results.
At our Investor Day last month I reaffirmed the growth framework predicated on driving organic growth using scale to create operating leverage in a consistent capital management strategy.
BlackRock executed on each of these drivers during the second quarter resulting in continued earnings growth.
We generated second quarter earnings per share of $4.89 up 18% compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Operating income was $1.1 billion 15% higher than a year ago.
Non-operating results reflected a $37 million increase in the market value of our [Steed &amp; Co.] investments.
Recall that non-operating income in the second quarter of 2013 reflected $30 million  $39 million pretax gain related to PennyMacs IPO and the results in the first quarter of 2014 were impacted by the monetization of a non-strategic opportunistic private equity investment.
Our 24.8% as adjusted tax rate for the second quarter benefited from several favorable non-recurring items and an improved geographic mix of earnings.
As a result of increased growth in our international businesses we now estimate that 29% is a reasonable tax rate for the second half of 2014.
And based on what we know today 30% represents a reasonable projected tax rate for 2015.
Our second quarter results were driven by $38 billion of long-term net new flows representing an annualized organic growth rate of almost 4%.
Flows were driven by our retail and iShares client businesses.
As we discussed at Investor Day faster growth in these businesses will drive favorable change in our revenue mix.
And we once again saw organic base fee growth meaningfully outpacing organic asset growth during the quarter.
Second quarter revenue was $2.8 billion up $296 million or 12% from a year ago and was driven by continued growth in base fees performance fees and revenue from BlackRock Solutions.
We once again experienced year-over-year base fee growth across all long-dated asset classes.
Base fees increased $257 million or 12% from a year-ago as average AUM increased due to organic growth market appreciation and the acquisitions of the Credit Suisse ETF and MGPA real estate businesses.
Base fees were up 6% compared to the first quarter aided in part by the seasonal increase in securities lending activities we typically see in the second quarter.
Performance fees for the quarter increased $26 million or 29% from a year ago driven by stronger performance in our broad suite of single strategy hedge funds as well as certain long-only equity strategies.
Recall that first quarter performance fees included a significant fee associated with the planned final liquidation of an opportunistic 2007 vintage closed-end mortgage fund.
BlackRock Solutions revenues of a $146 million was up 6% year-over-year but down 5% compared to the first quarter.
Our Aladdin business which represented 75% of BRS revenue in the quarter grew 11% year-over-year.
Flat sequential quarter results for Aladdin were once again impacted by the timing and recognition of certain revenue as we continue to onboard a number of large clients onto the Aladdin platform.
We anticipate that several of these large clients will go live in the coming months generating revenue uplift as we move past the implementation phase.
Our financial markets advisory business continues to transition from a crisis management orientation to a more institutionalized advisory business model with continued momentum in bank regulatory-related assignments including ECB AQR and Fed CCAR diagnostics.
As we mentioned in last quarter FMA results have recently reflected higher levels of revenue associated with asset disposition assignments.
While the second quarter of 2014 was also positively impacted by residual disposition activity the revenue impact was at a lower level than recent quarters.
Other income increased $17 million sequentially as a result of higher transition management service fees earnings from certain strategic investments and real estate related disposition fees.
Expense for the second quarter rose $145 million year-over-year driven primarily by revenue related items including compensation and direct fund expense and an increase in general and administration expense.
While compensation as a percentage of revenue declined year-over-year as a function of aggregate levels and mix of performance fees and timing of certain accruals quarterly comparisons are less relevant and our overall compensation policies have not changed.
G&amp;A expense increased $36 million year-over-year or 11% driven primarily by increased occupancy and office related costs and other expense including elevated legal and regulatory expense.
Aggregate G&amp;A expense in the first half of the year benefitted from a delay related to the timing of our total marketing and promotional spend the balance of which is expected to be incurred during the remainder of 2014.
Sequentially G&amp;A expense increased $64 million from the first quarter primarily reflecting the timing of marketing and promotional spend increased occupancy expense reflecting the dilapidation reversal in the prior quarter and the previously mentioned increased level of legal and regulatory expense.
Overall total expense increased 10% from a year ago compared to a 12% increase in revenue over the same period resulting in an as adjusted operating margin of 42.4% 110 basis points higher than last years second quarter.
We remain committed to a consistent and systematic capital management policy.
During the second quarter we repurchased an additional $250 million of stock consistent with repurchase levels during the last few quarters and view that as a good planning rate over the balance of the year.
Through both transformational acquisitions and targeted organic growth we built the industrys broadest asset management platform.
Our diversification whether in terms of clients products or geographies is a critical component of our strategy and enables us to deliver more consistent growth and more stable financial results over time.
Another element of our strategy is the growth opportunity in global retail.
We saw long-term net flows of $13.1 billion during the second quarter; driving 10% annualized organic growth with positive flows across products and regions.
results were driven by our outcome-oriented offerings including multi-asset alternatives and unconstrained fixed income and efficient beta.
International retail once again demonstrated stronger results generating long-term net inflows of $8.9 billion in the quarter.
Equity flows of $2.9 billion were led by net inflows into index funds which have witnessed accelerated activity as the post-RBR European distribution model evolves and demand for efficiently packaged retail investment vehicles increases.
Multi-asset net inflows of $1.4 billion reflected continued demand for our global allocation fund a key component of our packaged outcomes offering.
Fixed income net inflows of $4.7 billion were driven by flows into short duration unconstrained and high yield bond products as well as index funds.
Within international fixed income we saw $1.4 billion of flows into our BGF Euro Short Duration bond fund and nearly $850 million into our Fixed Income Global Opportunities fund or FIGO which is a cross-border version of Strategic Income Opportunities or SIO our flagship domestic unconstrained fixed income fund.
U.S.
Retails quarterly long-term net inflows of $4.2 billion were led by our duration managed fixed income suite and packaged outcomes including our multi-asset income and global long/short credit funds.
unconstrained fixed income continues to be led by SIO where were seeing strong interest from both retail and institutional clients.
We also saw growing momentum in our unconstrained Strategic Municipal Opportunities fund or SMO which raised over $500 million.
Global iShares generated $30.4 billion of net new business in the quarter representing annualized organic growth of 13% driven by strong equity flows.
Organic growth for iShares over the last 12 months has returned to low double digits consistent with our longer-term targets.
Equity flows of $20.6 billion were driven by a rebound in emerging markets and demand for developed market exposures.
In emerging markets EEM generated over $6 billion of quarterly net flows and in developed markets; we saw continued demand across a variety of exposures and geographies.
Fixed income net flows of $9.5 billion represented the leading share of fixed income ETF flows during the second quarter paced by flows into longer duration U.S.
treasuries investment grade corporates emerging markets debt and high yield.
The buy-and-hold segment remains an important growth story for iShares.
During the quarter we generated $5.5 billion of flows into the U.S.
Core Series; while also extending its reach and launching a European version of the core.
Our institutional business experienced $5.5 billion in quarterly long-term net outflows as net inflows into institutional active mandates were more than offset by net outflows in index equities.
Institutional active net inflows of $1 billion included $5.3 billion of net inflows into multi-asset class products driven by continued demand for our LifePath target-date suite and fiduciary wins.
Our strength in fundamental fixed income drove net inflows of $900 million with demand across unconstrained strategies; regional credit mandates and CLOs.
Institutional active equity outflows included fundamental and scientific outflows of $2.4 billion and $2.1 billion respectively.
We continue to experience outflows in fundamental equity products that are performance-challenged though SAE outflows were primarily driven by partial redemptions from clients harvesting gains in appreciated portfolios.
In core institutional alternatives net inflows into alternative hedge fund and private equity solutions mandates were offset by outflows in certain single strategy hedge funds and capital successfully returned to investors.
Nonetheless strong momentum continues in alternatives with an additional $1 billion of commitments raised in the second quarter.
Since the beginning of 2013 we have raised $8.5 billion of commitments across alternatives $6.7 billion of which has yet to be deployed.
Future net new business will be generated as these commitments are invested.
Institutional index equities experienced net outflows of $7.9 billion driven primarily by portfolio rebalancing.
In the face of strong equity markets and improved funding ratios pension clients continue to rebalance their portfolios and as interest rates rise we expect to see additional immunization activity if equity markets remain at or near current levels.
This quarter once again demonstrated the breadth and depth of our business model.
BlackRocks diversification continues to enable us to deliver consistent results one element of S&amp;Ps decision to upgrade BlackRocks credit rating to AA- making us one of the most highly rated firms in the global financial services industry.
At Investor Day we elaborated on the strategy to achieve our growth targets.
We remain confident that we have the right strategy tools and talent to execute.
And with that Ill turn it over to Larry.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining the call.
thanks Gary.
The second quarter marked the sixth great quarterly rise for the S&amp;P 500 and rising markets equity markets across the globe.
This was driven by growing confidence in the United States and in Europe and in pockets of outperformance in the emerging economies.
The 10-year treasury is back to near 2.5% the Fed continues to ease their bond buying efforts and even in light of some of the recent volatility the VIX is hovering near pre-crisis lows.
Markets have been complacent in the face of this risk with down days quickly followed by elevated buying trends.
Credit standards are loosening cap rates are falling and correlations remain very high following the spring shakeup in the global momentum trade.
However the positive environment and the market gains weve seen in the past several years have been driven primarily by accommodative policy decisions and coordinated central bank actions.
More of the same wont be enough to move market forward from here.
Corporate results and earnings growth will be needed to become larger drivers of valuation.
Thats where our attention has been and in the past couple of days weve seen second quarter kickoffs with some bellwether names posting very strong results.
Investors are also going to have to focus more economic growth to justify driving asset prices higher.
for that to happen governments across the globe must take meaningful action beyond monetary policy.
The United States needs to address issues like immigration and infrastructure and readers like Prime Minister Abe in Japan and Prime Minister Renzi in Italy must advance their reform agendas to produce tangible economic results.
Around the world infrastructure is a key area where governments and private capital providers can partner to drive long-term economic growth and job creation.
At BlackRock we remain highly focused on building a deep understanding of markets and evaluating risk from all angles.
I believe that the accommodative policy weve seen over the past five years will ultimately lead to increased volatility as policy decision diverge and investors become more focused on the performance of individual countries individual industries and obviously individual companies.
It is our responsibility as a fiduciary to help our clients to prepare for this type of shift by building durable portfolios designed to perform over the long-term.
We do this by providing our clients with a set of capabilities and a client experience that we dont believe anyone else in the industry can replicate.
We talked at our recent Investor Day about the key differentiators that set BlackRock apart and that will enable us to drive long-term results for our clients and importantly for our shareholders.
it starts with our people.
Talent and culture are critical to our success and Im pleased to say that the management changes we announced earlier this year have gone into effect as of June 1.
Our team is working together in this new structure to execute against our key strategies to meet the needs of our clients.
I strongly believe that we have at this time the deepest most talented team in the asset management industry and the strength of our next generation of leaders will drive BlackRocks future success.
BlackRock is the worlds most global asset manager.
We manage money for clients in more than 100 countries around the world through the combination of our on-the-ground presence in more than 30 countries and our ability to provide clients with the industrys broadest set of global and local investment solutions.
That global investment and distribution infrastructure positions BlackRock to capitalize on the future growth and development of the worlds capital markets that will be necessary to support global economic growth.
BlackRocks global platform generated $131 billion of long-term net flows over the last 12 months representing an organic growth rate of approximately 4%.
These results were driven by our diverse investment platform another key element that sets BlackRock apart from our competitors.
We have expertise across asset classes and we can deliver that expertise across a variety of investment vehicles.
We have active and index on a single platform which helps us position the firm to meet a holistic approach and needs of our clients.
The second quarter showcases BlackRocks product breadth with 12 funds across retail and iShares generating more than $1 billion in flows tying a record number of $1 billion plus funds that we saw in our fourth quarter of 2013.
These funds are spread across developed and emerging markets domestic and international clients equities fixed income and multi-asset class active and index and short and long duration exposures together demonstrating BlackRocks ability to be clients needs across the investment platform and spectrum.
As I mentioned many times in the past the diversity of our platform our deep client relationships and our global footprint all positions BlackRock to deliver consistent financial results for our shareholders.
And that consistency enables our management team to look forward at the key trends impacting our business and invest aggressively where we see opportunities.
One of those key growth areas is outcome-oriented investing.
The investment landscape is shifting.
Investors are looking for outcomes that target their investment goals rather than benchmark-specific performance.
This outcome-oriented style of investing requires a combination of a diverse set of investment capabilities and a focus and a deep focus on client service.
Most asset managers specialize in one thing and so they look at every client problem to the lens of that one specialty whether it may be active investments or index investments or fixed income or equities.
BlackRocks diverse platform allows us to instead to focus holistically on our clients needs and draw upon and across the entire firm to meet our clients needs.
The investments weve made to build the combination of active and index across asset classes and regions and our technology and risk management capabilities differentiate BlackRock in the outcomes and solutions space.
And BlackRocks offerings of packaged outcomes continue to drive growth in the second quarter particularly in our retail businesses.
Our five star multi-asset income fund MAI led by Michael Fredericks is one of our flagship package outcomes an example of a fund that targets a critical challenge for our clients generating reasonable income in a low yield environment by tactically balancing income across equities fixed income and non-traditional sources of income.
MAI has raised over $1 billion in the quarter and crossed the $7 billion mark in total assets.
This fund has doubled in size organically over the last 12 months.
Similarly in the unconstrained fixed income area SIO has raised $3 billion in flows in the quarter stands at over $16 billion in AUM and is the second most active mutual fund in the U.S.
in terms of year-to-date net new flows.
The interest in outcome-oriented investing is especially strong among our institutional clients.
they are increasingly looking for investment partners that provide analytical insight thought leadership and breadth and depth of investment capabilities all which play strongly to BlackRocks strengths.
At BlackRock we take a consultative approach with our institutional clients focused on understanding their specific needs and leveraging Aladdins capabilities to deliver investment solutions a capability that is differentiated from other asset managers.
Our relentless approach to risk management and technology positions BlackRock to offer a complete advice to our clients to help them not only achieve their returning targets but to do so with a comprehensive understanding of their individualized risk and making sure they understand the risks that they are taking.
The combination of Aladdin our global platform and our investment expertise across broad ranges of strategies positions BlackRock to deliver highly customized solutions to all our institutional clients worldwide.
For example on the first half of 2014 we closed more than $1.6 billion in custom alternative commitments and we saw strong flows in our fiduciary business especially in EMEA and demand for our LifePath target date suite in the United States.
Our iShares business is also positioned to provide outcomes and solutions to a wide range of clients with differing investment preferences and differing objectives.
iShares continues to be a major growth driver for the firm delivering $77.5 billion of net flows in the last 12 months.
And $30.4 billion of net flows in the second quarter across a variety of products and client segments.
As Mark Wiedman discussed at Investor Day there are three ways our clients are looking at ETFs and iShares specifically.
One is core investments or building blocks to construct the basis of buy-and-hold portfolios; two precision exposures to express a specific a targeted investment viewpoint and three as a financial instrument to efficiently add beta exposure to a variety of equity and/or fixed income markets in some case replacing futures with ETFs and iShares.
Each of these key product segments globally contributes to iShares growth in the quarter delivering the number one ETF flow market share position for both the quarter and now year-to-date.
Regardless of our strengths for growth we cannot be successful unless we produce superior investment performance.
Nothing is more important than delivering performance for our clients.
After the financial crisis we restructured much of our active fixed income business.
Our focused execution has paid off and we have strong performance across fixed income with 90% of our active taxable and 70% of our active tax-exempt fixed income AUM is above our benchmark for peer medium for a three-year period of time.
As of the end of June weve seen strong performance in our fixed income total return fund which is in the top decile for the one for the three and a five-year period.
Our low duration bond fund is the top decile for one and three years.
And our newly launched Strategic Municipal Opportunities fund or SMO is in the sixth percentile for a one-year period of time.
We also continue to see strong performance in our scientific active equities with 93% of our products above benchmark or peer medium for a three-year period.
And from our index offerings where we have 98% of our assets were within or above the tolerant level risk level for over a three-year period of time.
I have spoken at length about the steps we are taking in our fundamental equity business to improve performance.
We streamlined our investment process and recruited tough quality managers to add to our existing talent base.
Most recently Chris Jones has joined BlackRock as our Co-Head of Global Fundamental Equities and is our new CIO of America Equity Teams.
And Antonio DeSpirito joined us or will be joining us in our Equity Dividend Team later this year working very closely with Bob Shearer.
In the second quarter several of our fundamental equity managers who had put up strong performance in recent months suffered a setback in a variety of global momentum aided strategies and had produced strong alpha reversals.
We recognize that we remain in a rebuilding phase in this business and though we never like to see performance setback we remain confident today in our capabilities of our teams and all our processes.
To give you a few examples of the strength of some of our new managers Andrew Swan who manages our Asian equities and Bart Geer who manages our Basic Value are in the 14th and fifth percentile respectively since they joined BlackRock.
And that performance is starting to begin to pay dividends with flows.
We believe that over time fundamental equities will be a growth area for BlackRock.
We believe the combination of investing in our talent and our global footprint our access to information and idea-sharing and our risk management capabilities positions BlackRock to deliver sustained superior investment performance to our clients.
We know this is a multi-year effort and we are committed to seeing it through.
These investments in our fundamental equity business will further enhance the depth and breadth of our global business that we build over time throughout BlackRock.
As I said at the beginning we believe that BlackRock is a truly differentiated firm from any other firm in the world.
We are seeing a consistent result that this model can deliver quarter-after-quarter.
If you look at our growth on a year-over-year basis as adjusted you will see we grew assets under management by 19% we grew revenues by 12% we grew operating income by 15% and we grew earnings per share by 18%.
That double-digit growth demonstrates the benefits of our diverse platform and our ability to deliver strong financial results to our shareholders.
And I am confident that we not only have the platform but we also have the right leadership team in place to continue to drive growth in the future even as the environment continues to evolve as we know it will.
Constantly adapting to the changing environment and improving our performance is something we are intensely focused on.
That is how we intend to continue to unlock value for our clients and then ultimately our shareholders.
Finally I would like to thank our leadership team and our employees for delivering a very strong quarter and helping our clients build better financial futures.
With that operator lets open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of Glenn Schorr with ISI.
Please go ahead.
Hey Glenn.
Hey how are you? Good.
So I guess the first question I have is the cost of leverage on the street is kind of rising as banks get their houses in order and that pushes out the cost of leverage to various products that companies like yours run.
So Im just curious it certainly didnt seem to affect your flows in the current period but in things like long/short credit multi-strat products that youve had success growing does that factor in at all in terms of a) the growth and b) the profitability of those? Thats a good question.
There is no question youre seeing as youre referring to the cost of leverage I will just say the Basel III Volcker rule Dodd-Frank has forced many sell-side organizations to reduce their overall capital committing in the marketplace.
And two youre seeing obviously liquidity issues in some asset categories.
Glenn to date we have not seen a dramatic change in our ability to buy or sell for our hedge fund strategy.
But were mindful of that and indeed youre correct if we see a continuing amount of inability to navigate our trades and we are seeing larger bid/ask spreads theres no question that can minimize the opportunities that our alternative products have.
I should say though one other ways that investors are utilizing or trying to change their behaviors and this is a growth engine for us were seeing hedge funds utilizing ETFs as  instead of futures or single-stock or single-bond strategies theyre using ETFs as the mechanism to express a long or short type of exposure.
So in some respects if theres more liquidity in different products such as an ETF you may see that.
And so I think in some respects the changes in the world related to dealer behaviors is a benefit for the ETF market in itself and were benefitting from that and I tried to express one of the avenues in which people use ETFs.
But one of the big things we have seen is the utilization and the cost of using futures margins and all that has elevated and people are using ETFs as another example.
But youre absolutely correct that we have to be mindful of liquidity by market in terms of the exposures we have in some of the long/short products.
Okay.
And maybe just a follow-up I appreciate that is related to alternatives and I dont know if its a technical question but the platform across the board seems great.
Your retail penetration is clearly growing and yet the net flows into the total the alternatives bucket is pretty modest.
Yes.
Less than $300 million this quarter now I dont know if thats a  some are growing some are shrinking thing or is it  the technical part of the question is if you raised a lot but have not deployed the capital does it show up as a flow or does it show up as a flow when you get  my question is commitment versus funding? We do not put commitment in our AUM bucket some firms do.
So as Gary said in his speech we did raise a little over $1.3 billion in commitments.
Over the course of the year we raised about $8.5 billion of commitments and we funded approximately 1.8 of it.
That is a big change.
We also  and we mentioned this in the first quarter and were still doing it.
Were actually monetizing some of our alternative products.
So youre seeing our commitments grow but were not  but we havent invested in that and yet youre seeing on the same time we are monetizing some of our alternatives because of the success of the strategies and were giving back the capital.
So Glenn its Gary.
I would say one way to think about it is the return of capital hits the flows immediately and this quarter that was roughly $925 million thereabouts.
And we were basically able to raise new commitments of $1 billion.
So over the long-term the new $1 billion that weve raised will obviously replace the $900 million that we just paid out.
but unfortunately it takes some time to basically invest the money over the Well we take the more conservative approach the way we identify those with the asset raise.
So Larrys point is that of the $8 billion plus that weve raised since 2013 about $1.5 billion of that has effectively hit flows meaning it has been invested and the dry powder or the $6.5 billion or $6.7 billion will hit flows over time as its invested.
But we are probably in more dialogue with more clients on our alternative space than we ever have been in the history of the firm.
So we like where were positioned but also we like the fact that we can monetize good successful strategies for our clients.
Your next question will come from the line of Marc Irizarry with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey Marc.
Hey Larry.
Just following on the alternatives question the performance fee is always tough to get our arms around the alternatives performance.
But can you give us some sense maybe of what kind of embedded gains you have in some of the portfolios that youre harvesting and maybe what that means for the outlook? And then I guess just broadly across the alternatives platform how is performance holding up there? Thanks.
Ill let Gary answer that.
So Marc as you know we obviously dont take the approach to economic net income that some of the pure play alternative managers do.
so as we effectively see gains building up which trigger accruals of if you will embedded performance fees.
We fully reserve for that going forward until they become permanent and no longer subject They dont report us.
So thats not in our P&amp;L and frankly we dont really disclose those as a matter of course.
I think obviously you saw performance fees were up 29% year-over-year.
I think the important thing to note for us is very broad based.
So its not a single fund that is basically driving that it is a very deep.
The breadth of the platform is evident in the fact that its when you see the results its lots and lots and lots of different funds.
Though it was clear that this particular quarter we had a number of annual locks meaning that they lock annually as opposed to quarterly and we benefitted from a much stronger performance in this 12-month lock period than we did in the prior year.
But broadly speaking I think were feeling very happy with the performance of the alternatives platform and the performance fees are coming through.
And we are as I said Marc some great opportunities we have I mentioned in the speech in the infrastructure space where we think this is going to be a great driver in the future for us and our clients.
And so we have great opportunities in front of us across the alternative space Rob Kapito and team and Charlie have spent a lot of time in a quietly rebooting our whole alternative platform under Matt Botein and Andy Stewart and its been in the short-term were starting to see real tangible results.
Okay.
And then Larry just one follow-on can you give us some  an update if possible on any of the asset management regulation and maybe specifically any update around maybe the discourse on systemic importance for asset managers? I wish I had something to tell you that is factual I dont.
We dont know anything more than what youve been reading in the newspapers.
Under Dodd-Frank banks anybody related to Dodd-Frank whether its SIFI or anything.
were not allowed to have a dialogue it is called lobbying and it has to be publicly revealed that were lobbying.
So there is not there is  you dont have the transparency of the process at all.
this is very unusual.
Any other type of world creation in Washington theres always a process of dialogue and this was explicitly prohibited in the law of Dodd-Frank.
And so we dont know anything more than what we read and unfortunately what we read sometimes we believe there are leaks.
And so its a pretty inappropriate process from our perspective.
But our job is a constructive participant in this.
We have been occasionally asked to provide information to various different regulators worldwide on different things that they may be studying.
Its a one-directional approach.
we provide information and we get very little back and thats obviously what the laws say.
So I dont know anything more but what Id like to do is give you some of how we think about asset managers and regulatory oversight.
We calculated BlackRock theres $225 trillion in global financial assets.
Assets that are being managed by investment firms managed $62 trillion of the $225 trillion.
So over 70% of the financial assets are owned and managed directly by the owners.
And the other thing I would like to say as you know these are not our assets across the board.
We have a contract in what we invest in and how we invest with every client.
As you know at BlackRock we have hundreds of portfolio managers making decisions we dont have one CIO managing all the assets across all the spectrum going left or right or forward and were  so this isnt we dont take principal risk.
And the last thing I would just say related to BlackRock if you dissect our platform 62% of our assets or $2.8 trillion of our assets are index products.
And then we manage about 32% of our assets are in active and another 6% in cash and advisory.
So you think about the makeup of even as large as we look upon much of our activities are very different than a lot of other asset managers in itself.
So we believe that narrative that I just expressed is beginning to be more understood.
And there was a proposal in Congress yesterday to allow for greater transparency in the process deeper dialogues in the process and we welcome that type of activity.
And we want to be a constructive participant in this dialogue.
Your next question will come from the line of Luke Montgomery with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hey Luke.
Good morning.
thanks guys.
So a couple of questions on retail distribution.
You entered 2013 I think with a range of new strategic initiatives.
Then the results over the last year or so have been pretty impressive as indicated by net flows.
But aside from some of the key products that drove that growth youve touched on them multi-asset in the Core ETF series.
Could you give us a sense of how successful youve been with the goal of really broadening that penetration with the warehouses outside of that relationship you had historically with Merrill Lynch.
Well its  Im going to let Rob answer that.
Rob why dont you? Yes.
so we have grown significantly from being Merrill Lynch-centric on retail and in fact broadened the distribution to several others in a very significantly way.
And in fact our market share at some of the larger warehouses beyond Merrill Lynch has more than doubled over the last two years.
So we continue to penetrate because we are bringing products that a lot of them do not offer and especially in the ETF side weve seen a lot of growth in that particular area.
Theres other channels that have also been developed beyond just a typical warehouse which is the RIA channel of which a lot of financial advisors have moved from the large broker dealers into smaller channels and we have pretty significant penetration in the RIA channel.
We also as you know have read about our joint venture was fidelity and that has been more successful than we had originally planned.
So that broadens out our effort.
And one of the things that has really been successful for us is that rather than going out with individual sales forces for our ETF channel and for our mutual fund channel over the last year we have combined our sales force to have the largest sales force going out and talking to broaden the distribution and treating the FAs more holistically because they own in their portfolios both mutual funds active index and ETF.
So we can talk to them about a more holistic solution.
And I dont think that many of our competitors can claim to be able to do that.
And the last thing that has also helped to broaden out the channels is that we announced a core series and are specifically developing in the ETF channel specific ETFs for the buy-and-hold retail segment.
And again thats something that has also broadened out our retail network and has been very successful.
So many things are going from years ago when we were more Merrill Lynch-centric.
now we have a much broader and deeper retail penetration in our products.
Let me add one other thing Luke which I think is not fully understood by the investment community and that is the substantial growth in mutual fund sales in Europe.
As you know banks continue to deleverage more and more activities are going onto the capital markets greater confidence in Europe and the Europes future with a huge amount of savings in Europe.
And so were seeing much greater penetration across the board in European retail.
So there are two other macro trends that are going on in Europe.
one domestic managers are losing out to the global international managers.
And so across the board youre seeing the international investment managers picking up market share in Europe.
And the last thing I would say youre seeing a real consolidation in flows.
the top 10 managers in Europe are driving almost 90% plus maybe 110% I dont have the actual number in front of me of all the flows because with the smaller managers are actually having net outflows.
but if you look at the substantial growth of $9 billion in international retail this year-to-date thats a high component of our growth.
And I would  I should say international retail means Asia it means Europe it means South  Latin America.
So lets get back to my comments earlier about being in 30 countries being local in 30 different countries.
We are benefitting from that and we believe as the world begins to look for other alternatives away from bank deposits looking for the strategies for their retirement if you link in longevity and longevity issues investors worldwide are looking for global advice and were very well positioned across that.
Okay thanks.
And so my follow-up and I apologize Larry because I know you chafe at the comparison of your firm to Vanguards but a question on the distribution strategy in retail ETFs and index markets.
I think over the years (Indiscernible) say I chafe.
All right.
Maybe I missed characterized that but Ive heard some warehouse distribution executives over the years lament that Vanguard products basically free ride on the warehouse distributors who have to custody their products as a courtesy to FAs and clients.
So I wonder do you see any specific opportunity based on your willingness to partner more directly with those firms to pay channel access fees etc.
Does that give you an opportunity to supplant some of the market share theyve acquired [concurrently] (ph)? Ill let Rob answer that.
Yeah.
I dont think.
Bob do you chase? I dont chase that at all.
I view our strategies as quite different.
Were using; were going to expand by education the use of how ETFs are going to benefit clients portfolios both institutional and retial.
And I think in a product life cycle this is very typical that you have people come in at first and you want to just get involved and then you have all the other uses of this product.
Larry mentioned one for example where we have a notice that ETFs are cheaper to use than futures.
There is nobody better to go out into the marketplace and educate the community on a change like that than BlackRock is.
And this is something that many of the other issuers of ETFs really dont think about.
they are out selling products.
Were selling a solution.
An ETF is a part of that solution.
when it comes to people that are looking for large credit portfolios were able to talk to them about a holistic solution where they can get diversification liquidity and actually have a better structured portfolio by the use of iShares than just buying the individual assets itself.
We have so many different ways that we are developing the users of ETFs that a broker dealer community and the institutional community looks to us to use ETFs as part of an overall solution.
So were not out there just pushing one product versus another product because its half were using this as a full part of a portfolio allocation.
I think thats very important.
So its core investments its to get more precision exposures into the marketplace and we are treating this as a significant financial instrument not just a product that we hope to the garner more assets in.
Its a very different strategy than Vanguard is.
theyre a good firm.
So were glad to compete with them.
Your next question will come from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hi Bill.
Hi good morning everybody.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Larry just coming back to the regulatory front for a second maybe a two-part question one is what has been the sort of reaction from the institutional clients given the SEC discussion about possibly voting on a prime fund with a floating-rate NAV? And then a separate part of the question is in certain early days it looks like MiFID out of Europe is coming up with some pretty onerous shifts of views on how they are treating research versus trading sort of wondering how you might be thinking about that dynamic as it relates to your business? So we have continuously been a constructive organization working side-by-side with our regulators related to money market funds.
So weve been continuously engaged with the SEC throughout the process.
we have made a number of recommendations.
we have spoken to when asked about what we think about it weve had dialogues with many of the commissioners when asked and importantly were well positioned regardless of where the SEC comes out on the portfolio  on the proposal excuse me.
money is moving around and like were going to see how this all plays out for our clients that when you think about where we are as a firm in terms of money markets.
We have money market funds; we have separate accounts or money market accounts.
we have short duration bond funds.
we had ETF.
we have other vehicles.
Money will be in motion; money will change if clients find whatever the outcome is as very restrictive theyll move money elsewhere.
We will also see but most importantly were well positioned and I do believe the SEC has been  have been very open to conversation related to recommendations and all that.
Well see how this all plays out.
The one thing I cant say cant comment on because I dont  we dont know what this means related to bank deposits necessary bank deposits could be even a better alternative.
So obviously money market funds are  in some cases alternative to bank deposits and the flows of money market funds is a function of what bank rates are.
But a lot of people are very mindful of how much exposure they would have with any one single bank.
And so I think this is why money market funds are desired by clients and this is one thing that we try to express to regulators clients like money market funds.
And were well positioned.
We have many government funds as a separate account.
So well standby and hear how  what the outcome will be from the SEC related to their decision.
We know as much as you do.
In theory there is going to be some decision next week and well find out.
Related to MiFID and RDR in terms of regulatory changes youre going to see consolidation with managers.
Our risk management tools is a huge benefit.
And I do believe our index ETF platform efficient exposures.
I think youre going to see more movement towards ETFs as a result of the MiFID RDR type of regulatory changes.
So it may reduce some of our business in Europe but its going to enhance the other side of BlackRocks business.
And this is another example where by the diversity of our products our positioning globally really differentiates us.
So we are working with regulators; we are mindful of this.
We are telling regulators what clients want what they expect.
But were pretty well positioned one way or another related to whatever the outcome is related to MiFID and RDR.
Your next question will come from the line of Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Just one question from me.
I wanted to ask about the retirement business outside the U.S.
Weve seen changes to the UK Pension Plan this year which appears to benefit maybe asset managers over insurance companies.
The EU has been underway for pension reform for I think the last four years.
BlackRock has had some success in the U.S.
taking market share and driving growth in the U.S.
retirement business.
Maybe Larry you could discuss whats happening outside the U.S.
and maybe where the biggest opportunities lie for BlackRock? Well theres no question some of the rule changes in the UK is a big opening for firms like us especially related to the UK pension reform.
As you suggested it was really an insurance product and now its migrating to much more opportunities.
So the defined contribution savers will have now an option.
They can take and withdraw beyond the 25% tax-free lump sum.
So we believe this is a big opportunity for us yeah.
so especially in light of how we think about investment outcomes and solutions.
I mean retirement is something that we are spending a great deal of time trying to help savers and potential retirees in thinking about longevity and how their solutions are going to have to be more weighted towards equities less annuitized products.
Historically as you suggested Ken annuitized products were the prime driver of this and if you are going to be living a long time earning 2% on an annuitized product for 3% youre just going to have to be saving a lot more money to earn the necessary pool of money you want.
This is what were rolling out we rolled out CoRI overseas in the UK were going to continue to roll out our investment type of products to provide what I would say that solution based strategy.
So were encouraged we think were well positioned for these changes and as you suggested hopefully were in a good position to take share.
Your next question will come from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hey Craig.
Hey Larry.
Good morning guys.
First just on Target date can you talk about how the longer-term themes of open architecture and the adoption of passes are really progressing really both in the Target date funds in the U.S.? And Im really thinking your perspective here from both your LifePath and your GlidePath products.
Rob you want to answer that.
Yes I mean look it is the same trend on retirement.
People have not saved enough for retirement and they have lived through too much volatility in both the equity and fixed income markets.
So they are looking for an alternative for someone to manage the asset allocation and the process throughout their lifetime.
So to us the opportunity is to develop the tools to the technology and one that we have is called the CoRI Index Cost of Retirement Index of which we can manage through target date funds and LifePath funds a better way to do the asset allocation as a person gets closer to retirement.
Do you think there is going to be incredible opportunities for us in this way because the advice and asset allocation is something that we specialize in? The models that we have specifically target retirees and manage this process throughout their life.
And its something where we see a lot of the sponsors are moving towards and as Larry mentioned a lot of DB and DC plans changing that have someone else to manage this asset allocation throughout their life.
So we are the inventor of the target date and LifePath products Your next question will come from the line of Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Hi Dan.
Hi I just want to talk about fixed income.
I mean can you talk about the momentum you are seeing particularly on the institutional side? Performance was flagged as improving.
I just want to talk about just kind of client dialogue kind of outlook for growth and how that compares to in the recent periods.
Well having 90% of our fixed income products above their benchmarks for three years having a lot of products that are in the top decile if there is a conversation to be had firms are going to be talked assess what are the possibilities? That puts us into a very good position.
Were seeing very mix types of conversation across board we continue to see large-scale pension funds derisking as theyve taken profits in equities were seeing a lot of pension funds looking now towards looking now towards some form of immunization as they get closer to their liability or even in some cases above their liability are using bonds as a vehicle.
But probably the most important key for us is our fixed income platform is more than just one product.
Its across the board where we are seeing increased activities.
We are in more dialogue today than we have ever have been in fixed income in terms of new flows.
In the unconstrained area were just beginning to see public pension plans migrate out of index based products into unconstrained products.
So we are in some very large dialogues at this moment we do believe one or two conversations constitute some large wins in the third quarter.
We continue to be in deep dialogue with many clients related to credit and high yield and whether its an insurance company who is looking and in need of some form of income to us to assess their annuity liabilities.
And were still seeing a large scale international investors are looking to continue to invest in dollar-based assets and expressing those investments in the form of fixed income.
And so across the board we are seeing heightened interest in fixed income even in the low interest rate environment.
As I said some of it is because theyre de-risking in equities but some of it is because theyre seeing increased activity in their own business like an insurance company.
But I would say overall probably overall theme I can say related to BlackRocks future and future activities in fixed income having the performance that we have across our platform for our platform for five years for three years for one year is giving us a position where we are in dialogue with many clients worldwide.
Next question will come from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So just you referenced the JV with Fidelity before.
I was just curious about how much of the core ETF growth you've seen Rob? I dont know we are willing to breakdown what is coming from one place for another.
But I can also tell you that the growth that we expected is probably twice what we had anticipated.
For core series.
For a core series.
And we have high aspirations for this because there is a segment of the market that is really not looking for the liquidity theyre looking for the buy-and-hold.
And this is a particular segment of that Fidelity actually addresses so we have expectations of future growth for that but we dont rely especially in that just upon one distribution segment there are other distribution segments that also cater to the buy-and-hold segment.
That being said there is  the other segment which is the institutional or the trading segment they are looking more at the liquidity of this and the access for asset allocation in their portfolios.
So what we are trying to do is have products to appeal to the right segments and we'll price those appropriately and make sure the performance of those is appropriate for those particular targets.
I would just say also we are benefiting tremendously this year from the and Rob said it earlier from the integration of two sales forces.
And so you asked a question related to fidelity but were seeing in large activities across all the independent channels from all the major distributors and so I would say its pretty broad based but our relationship with Fidelity is strong growing and its a very good partnership.
Your next question will come from the line of Michael Carrier with Bank of America.
Hey Michael.
Hi Larry.
Larry just a question.
If I look at the growth that you guys have generated in iShares and on the retail side its been very consistent on retail big improvement over the past couple years.
And on the institutional side I feel like you guys have the relationships.
When I look at the solution products the alternatives it seems like the product offering is there but the flows just arent as strong as on the other channel.
So is it an allocation problem? I know you mentioned some on the performance side whether it is active equity or the (indiscernible) is just not there.
But just from an outlook standpoint do you guys feel like things are in place.
so over the next two years that we kind of see the same trend that we saw on the retail side or is there something else thats somewhat of a hindrance there? You are right in suggesting  in terms of iShares our rolling 12 months were growing 10%; in retail our rolling 12 months is about 13% growth and our rolling 12 months in institutional is flat.
And so those are actual facts.
What were witnessing in institutional though and if you look at our revenues are growing faster than our AUM we are seeing a mix change.
Were growing more in alts which is lower AUM higher fees.
And importantly we have seen some large scale clients derisking in equities saying going into cash.
A lot of that was international and so the net result is a flat type of growth rate over the last 12 months.
Ill be bold enough to say we believe we are well-positioned in institutional and that we are going to see opportunity for growth in institutional.
Whether it is in fixed income as I said earlier about all the unconstrained conversations were having with large pension plans in the fixed income space we continue to be driving more opportunities in alternatives and I hope I can comment in the future that were going to continue  were going to start seeing opportunities in their model based equity business because weve had exceptional return.
But we also have opportunities in the official institution business and corporate in the DC plans and in the financial institution group.
So among those different areas we are in more dialogue today than we have been.
But I am disappointed in the net results of AUM and Im not upset at the revenue growth that were seeing in the institutional side.
Your next question will come from the line of Chris Harris with Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
Hey guys.
So just a quick follow-up on fixed income.
You guys and others in the industry clearly benefiting from growth in unconstrained and youve highlighted that.
Im kind of curious if you guys think investors understand or fully understand the risks of these funds and then maybe how sticky do you think these assets will be if things get a little bit more volatile in the market? Well as things get more volatile in other words if you have more volatility which probably means higher interest rates youre going to be happier in an unconstrained product versus an intermediate duration target like a core product.
So that is what clients are looking for.
so they dont have a tethering to a benchmark that has no connection to their liability.
And that is one of the big issues thats confronting a lot of investors.
Investors are worried about those are in fixed income and if they are not in fixed income for immunization purposes they are worried about the eventuality of higher rates.
We are seeing growth in our global long/short credit products which have zero duration.
So do I think clients understand what theyre getting into one 100% clients were looking to immunize they are looking for as long a duration as they possibly can have.
So were not going worse we should be clear  were seeing movement across fixed income were seeing some people who are worried about being tethered to a benchmark that has no connection to a liability.
They are either looking more towards liability matching in fixed income or theyre seeing a movement towards unconstrained.
Were seeing some clients who remain steadfast in credit and are looking to add to credit whether it is in the form of a CLO or in the form of high yield.
There is not one single behavior but youd ask me specifically related unconstrained I believe our investors are investing in unconstrained for a reason for a purpose.
And the dialogues that weve had with clients year-to-date validate my view that they understand what theyre doing related to the associated risk and the volatility that you discussed I think would be attached the higher rates.
And that is one of the reasons why people are looking to unconstrained.
So obviously they have to perform in that environment and theyre going to perform much better than a tethered core product thats tethered to a four or five-year duration.
Ladies and gentlemen weve reached the allotted time for question.
Mr.
Fink if you have any closing remarks.
No I hope everyone has a decent summer.
Hopefully the volatility doesn't begin this summer so we can take this summer.
I just want to thank all our shareholders for your interest in our company.
And I would like to thank the employees of BlackRock for a good quarter.
Have a good quarter.
Thanks everyone.
This concludes todays teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Incorporated third quarter 2014 earnings teleconference.
Our host for todays call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Gary S.
Shedlin; President Robert S.
Kapito; and General Counsel Matthew Mallow.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question and answer period.
(Operator Instructions).
Mr.
Mallow you may begin your conference.
Im Matt Mallow the General Counsel of BlackRock and before Larry and Gary make their remarks as usual let me remind you that during the course of this call we may make a number of forward-looking statements and we call your attention to the fact that BlackRocks actual results may of course differ from these statements.
As you know BlackRock has filed reports with the FDC which lists some of the factors that may determine the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we say today and additionally as is also usual BlackRock assumes no duty and does not and will not undertake to update any such forward-looking statements.
With that let the call begin.
Its my pleasure to be here to present our third quarter as adjusted results.
Our roadmap for shareholder value creation is predicated on three main drivers: generating consistent organic growth; demonstrating the benefits of scale through operating leverage; and systematically returning excess cash flow to our shareholders.
We successfully navigated that roadmap again this quarter generating double digit earnings growth.
More importantly however and as youll hear in much more detail from Larry in a moment BlackRock has never been better positioned to meet the needs of our clients.
Our global reach unique blend of active and indexed offerings strong overall investment performance risk management and analytics capabilities and One BlackRock culture differentiate us today in the asset management industry.
BlackRock delivered third quarter earnings per share of $5.21 up 34% compared to a year ago.
Revenue rose 15% to $2.8 billion and operating income was $1.2 billion 24% higher on a year-over-year basis.
Non-operating results reflected a $43 million increase in the market value of our seed and co-investments largely driven by mortgage private equity and credit related investments.
Our GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 20.2% reflecting discreet benefits primarily due to the resolution of certain outstanding tax matters related to the acquisition of BGI.
In connection with that transaction BlackRock recorded a $50 million indemnification asset for unrecognized tax benefits.
Given the resolution of these matters we recorded $50 million of G&amp;A expense to reflect a reduction of the indemnification asset and an offsetting $50 million GAAP tax benefit.
Both the $50 million G&amp;A expense and the $50 million tax benefit have been excluded from our as adjusted results.
Our 26.2% as adjusted tax rate for the third quarter also benefited from $34 million of discreet tax benefits.
We continue to estimate that 29% is a reasonable tax run rate for the fourth quarter and based on what we know today 30% is a reasonable projected tax rate for 2015.
BlackRocks third quarter results were driven by $29 billion of long term net new flows representing an annualized organic growth rate of 3%.
Flows were positive across all client businesses and regions and despite a more volatile market environment we continue to demonstrate the stability of our highly diversified platform.
Over the last 12 months BlackRock generated $134 billion of long term net new business representing 4% organic asset growth and an even faster rate of organic based fee growth as we benefitted from positive mix change associated with our faster growing higher fee retail and iShares businesses.
Third quarter year-over-year revenue growth of 15% or $377 million was driven by continued growth in base fees performance fees and revenue from BlackRock Solutions.
We once again experienced year-over-year base free growth across all long dated asset classes.
Base fees increased $315 million or 15% from a year ago as average AUM increased due to organic growth market appreciation and the acquisition of the MGPA real estate business.
Base fees were up 1% compared to the second quarter due to higher average AUM levels and the impact of one additional revenue day partially offset by the seasonal decline in securities lending activity we typically see in the third quarter.
However we enter the fourth quarter with lower spot assets under management than our average AUM for the third quarter which will impact our fourth quarter entry rate base fee level.
This decline was primarily driven by the appreciation of the dollar against foreign currencies which given the global nature of our business led to an $89 billion decrease in total AUM during the quarter.
Performance fees for the third quarter increased $37 million or 39% from a year ago driven by continued strong performance across our broad suite of single strategy hedge funds real estate and hedge funds solution offerings.
As a reminder fourth quarter performance fees in 2012 and 2013 were elevated due to similarly sized one-time fees trigged by the wind down of opportunistic funds related to the financial crisis.
We do not anticipate any such fees during the fourth quarter of 2014.
BlackRock Solutions revenue of $165 million was up 6% year-over-year and 13% sequentially due to increases in both Aladdin and FMA revenue.
Our Aladdin business which represented 72% of BlackRocks solutions revenue in the quarter grew 6% year-over-year and 9% sequentially.
We continue to successfully execute on large global implementations associated with record new business wins in 2013.
Our Financial Markets Advisory business had a very strong revenue quarter driven by several large advisory assignments associated with ECB AQR Diagnostics.
Notwithstanding a more institutionalized post financial crisis advisory model future FMA results may be difficult to predict as a function of the transaction based fee structure associated with this business.
Total expense for the third quarter rose $141 million year-over-year driven primarily by revenue related items including compensation and direct fund expense.
Compensation and benefits increased $112 million from a year ago or 13% reflecting higher head count and higher incentive compensation driven by higher operating income.
While compensation as a percentage of revenue declined year-over-year partly as a function of the timing of certain accruals quarterly comparisons are less relevant as we manage compensation on a full year basis and our overall compensation policies have not changed.
G&amp;A expense decreased $8 million year-over-year or 2% driven primarily by beneficial non-recurring items including the positive FX impact of remeasuring dollar balances held overseas to their respective functional currencies.
Sequentially G&amp;A expense decreased $51 million reflecting the previously mentioned impact of positive FX remeasurement and lower legal and regulatory expense in the current quarter.
Excluding the positive impact of these items and taking into account a planned seasonal uptick in yearend marketing and promotional spend we expect to see higher G&amp;A expense in the fourth quarter relative to the first three quarters of the year.
Overall total expense increased 9% from a year ago compared to a 15% increase in revenue over the same period resulting in an as adjusted operating margin of 44.2%.
The year-over-year margin improvement of 300 basis points was positively impacted by the previously discussed lower level of G&amp;A and compensation accruals in the quarter.
We remain committed to a consistent and systematic capital management policy.
During the third quarter we repurchased an additional $250 million of stock and view that as a good planning rate for the remainder of the year.
As you are all aware we traditionally review our capital management strategy with our Board each December for implementation in January of the following year.
Our consistent earnings growth and stable financial results reflect the benefits of our diverse platform long term client relationships and commitment to alpha generation.
Quarterly net flows were positive in both our active an index franchises as well as each of our geographic regions with $11 billion from the Americas $7 billion from EMEA and $11 billion from APAC.
In global retail we saw long term net inflows of $5 billion during the third quarter bringing year-to-date inflows to $32 billion or 9% annualized organic growth.
Retail flows were positive at both the US and internationally but were limited by macro headwinds during the quarter that impacted our high yield and European equities franchises.
BlackRocks diverse platform was well positioned to weather this market volatility as we nonetheless delivered overall positive flows with strength in outcome oriented offerings including unconstrained fixed income multi asset and alternatives products.
US retail flows of $2.8 billion were driven by strength in our outcome oriented fixed income suite including our strategic income opportunities fund or SIO our strategic municipals opportunities and global long/short credit funds.
During the quarter SIO raised $2.9 billion in net new flows from a combination of retail and institutional clients and remains the number two bestselling active mutual fund in 2014.
Retail fixed income results were dampened by outflows from our high yield franchise which was impacted by investor rotation out of the sector in July.
Though our high yield bond fund has top decile performance the fund experienced quarterly outflows of $1.6 billion.
Our 40 Act Alternatives Funds raised nearly $600 million of net flows during the quarter and we continued to see significant opportunity associated with delivering institutional quality alternative solutions to the retail marketplace.
We recently expanded our retail illiquid alternatives suite with the launch of the Multimanager Alternatives Strategy Fund which allocate assets to a variety of affiliated and unaffiliated alternative investment managers and leverages the success of our hedge fund solutions platform BlackRock Alternative Advisors.
International retail net inflows of $2.1 billion were driven by our fixed income multi asset and index capabilities but were impacted by deteriorating market sentiment in Europe contributing to $3.8 billion in outflows from our European equities franchise.
Within fixed income we saw $1.2 billion of flows into our fixed income global opportunities fund which is the cross border version of SIO and $680 million of flows into our BGF Euro Short Duration Bond Fund.
International multi asset net inflows of $1.9 billion reflected demand for our BGF Global Allocation Fund as well as growing traction for the cross border version of our flagship Multi Asset Income Fund.
We also took advantage of strong three year performance track records in Asian equities to capitalized on increasing demand with our top cortile BGF Asian Dragon and BGF Asia Pacific Equity Income Fund and our top decile BGF China Fund generating more than $500 billion in aggregate flows during the quarter.
Globalized shares generating $18.2 billion of net new business in the quarter representing annualized organic growth of 7% driven by strong equity flows.
Equity flows of $3.8 billion were driven by flows into the Core Series as well as demand for emerging markets and Asian equity exposures which offset outflows in European equities.
The buy and hold segment remains an important growth challenge for iShares.
During the quarter we generated $7.3 billion of flows into US Core Series representing annualized organic growth of 23% and gathered $2.5 billion of flows into recently launched European Core Series representing annualized organic growth of 26%.
We continue to aggressively target growth in the fixed income ETF market.
iShares show fixed income flows of $3.7 billion [inaudible] by $1.3 billion of flows into our core bond product AGG as investors looked for options to maintain exposure to the broad fixed income market in the current environment.
Year-to-date iShares ranked number one in market share of fixed income net flows globally.
Our institutional business generated $5.6 billion in long term net inflows for the quarter primarily reflecting index net inflows.
We continue to see sizeable asset allocation driven flows both into and out of institutional index products as bar-belling continues to be a key [inaudible] among institutional clients with cost effective beta exposure being paired with alternative solutions to achieve uncorrelated returns.
Index fixed income inflows of $5.5 billion was driven by LDI activity including extensions of hedging or liability matching services.
Institutional active net inflows included $5.2 billion of net inflows into multi asset class products driven by continued demand for our LifePath Target Date suite and over $1 billion of flows into our Dynamic Diversified Growth strategy of DDG.
DDG is an unconstrained multi asset strategy that seeks to generate positive consistent returns in a range of market environments with significantly lower volatility than an equity portfolio.
Multi asset and scientific active equity inflows were offset by outflows from active fixed income and fundamental equities.
Despite strong performance across our active fixed income platform our institutional net flows were impacted by several client specific outflows driven by rebalancing and asset allocation decisions partially offset by continued strength in unconstrained fixed income strategies.
As youre going to hear from Larry shortly our broad fixed income platform and performance track record continued to position BlackRock extremely will to capture opportunities in the current environment.
In institutional core alternatives inflows into hedge fund solutions were offset by outflows from several single strategy hedge funds and return of capital.
However we had another strong quarter of fund raising in illiquid alternatives with nearly $1 billion in commitments reflecting ongoing momentum in hedge fund and private equity solutions and infrastructure.
As a result of strong fundraising in illiquid alternatives over the last two years that has brought in over $9 billion we still have approximately $7 billion of committed capital to deploy for clients.
While return of capital impacts our inflows immediately committed capital only translate into flows and assets under management as those dollars are invested.
In summary in a quarter marked by increased volatility our diversified business model delivered solid financial results and we are well positioned to take advantage of the numerous opportunities that lay ahead of us.
With that Ill turn it over to Larry.
Thank you Gary.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call.
Weve seen some meaningful shifts in market dynamics since we spoke last quarter.
Divergent monetary policy changes in global economic growth expectations and heightened geopolitical unrest all impacted the investment landscape and resulted in higher volatility in both asset prices and currencies in the past few weeks.
That volatility is likely to continue as conflicting central bank policies and questions about the timing and magnitude of US interest rates hikes led to an ongoing market uncertainty.
Investors are also questioning whether the ECBs recent efforts will be enough to reinvigorate the economy and stave off deflation.
I believe its going to take longer to stabilize Europe than many think and we are likely to see an aggressive ECB behavior for a long time.
It is in these times of volatility and uncertainty that clients turn to BlackRock for answers and were having more conversations with our clients that are deeper and more meaningful conversations than ever before.
Clients are turning to BlackRock because of our platform that we built over the past 26 years as a result of a comprehensive and deliberate process focused on culture technology and talent.
Our platform is built on the foundation of our One BlackRock culture a belief in putting our clients first in all that we do and managing risk better and more thoroughly than any other asset manager in the world.
We built Aladdin with this in mind to create a premier risk management and technology platform that allows everyone at BlackRock to speak a common language.
BlackRock doesnt eliminate risk but it helps us to create an environment where our team is constantly aware of the risks and we are connected across the firm worldwide to optimize these results.
Increased connectivity through Aladdin and other sources leads to improved communication and in the BlackRock investment institute we have a forum for investment teams to share knowledge to share insights with the idea that this will enhance Alpha generation across the firm.
This team based approach is a critical differentiator for BlackRock.
We do not and never had have a centralized CIO.
We dont have a house view or any one person setting a single investment strategy for our platform.
Our process enables our teams to make independent portfolio construction decisions to meet client objectives.
That may result in differing performance for our clients at times but it means we dont have an overwhelming bias towards one strategy or another and we minimize the risk that it entails.
We also believe that having a deliberate process to develop our people is critical for BlackRocks success and our connectivity with our clients.
At our most recent Board meeting in September we spent two days reviewing 320 individuals at BlackRock across the entire firm to identify BlackRocks best talent.
This is an annual exercise and includes a process to develop each of those individuals as global leaders as global investors and as global citizens.
This might mean moving into a new region of the world or into a new business and it helps to develop a team that will be deeper with broader and global experience which will enable us to have better investors and better leaders in the future.
The leadership changes we announced in the second quarter is an example of how we do this.
The move involved new roles for 10 senior leaders across the firm and those leaders are now in their new seats driving growth and enhancing our value proposition for our clients.
Finally BlackRocks global diversified platform is a critical component of our strategy.
BlackRock is the only asset manager to offer active and index capabilities globally across all asset classes on one platform and we are constantly looking to innovate to find new ways of meeting our clients needs.
When we combine our people our technology and risk management investment platform and wrap it all in the One BlackRock culture the totality of the firm comes together to serve our clients needs.
Nothing here is accidental.
BlackRock was built to highlight these strengths and to minimize the risk of getting it wrong.
While we will never compromise on our philosophy of building our culture sometimes we do get it wrong and when we do we will do whats necessary to rebuild.
We rebuilt our scientific active equity platform which now has 96% of its assets above benchmark or peer mediums for the last three years and while flows have not improved as quickly as we might have expected given the strength of the performance this quarter we saw inflows in scientific active equity for the first time since we did the merger with BGI.
We made changes in our Asian equity business several years ago and Andrew Swan today has a top cortile three year track record.
As you know were now in the process of rebuilding our US fundamental equities.
We are excited about the progress we are seeing from our new teams and remain committed to that effort.
Our confidence in our ability to rebuild the US equity platform stems in part from the success weve seen elsewhere highlighted by the rebuilding process we started over six years ago in our fixed income business.
The investments we made in that business are clearly paying off.
BlackRock saw $11.1 billion of net inflows in fixed income in the third quarter and now we have seen in total $48 billion year-to-date in fixed income across both active and index reflecting the stability the breadth and the strong performance of our fixed income franchise.
We have a deep bench of talented senior fixed income investors with more than 400 fixed income investment professionals including 150 sector specialists.
They manage $1.3 trillion in AUM across a full range of high performing active index and iShare strategies.
With 87% of BlackRocks active taxable fixed income assets above the benchmark or peer mediums for the three year period BlackRocks offerings are positioned to help clients achieve their desired investment outcomes regardless of their specific needs or macro expectations.
Our unconstrained fixed income strategies continue to be a core theme for clients and we saw nearly $5 billion in flows in the third quarter and nearly $20 billion in the last 12 months across our top cortile unconstrained bond franchise including SIO and strategic municipal opportunities in the US our fixed income global opportunities product in Europe as well as our flagship retail alternative fund global long/short credit.
We have seen continued momentum early in the fourth quarter as well as heightened client interest and we expect unconstrained strategies to remain a strong driver of growth for BlackRock going forward.
The breadth of BlackRocks fixed income franchises further highlighted by our top decile total return and high yield bond funds in total return weve seen a significant recent increase in flows and client interest and see a meaningful long term growth opportunity.
In high yield while we experienced some market headwinds in the quarter our performance continues to position us to win in this asset class.
As a result of BlackRocks strong active fixed income performance track record were increasingly being rewarded by retail and institutional gatekeepers with improved positioning on platforms and buy lists.
We see a sizeable opportunity in fixed income in the coming quarters and we believe BlackRock is the best positioned firm in the industry to capitalize on that opportunity both in active an in index.
On the index side more and more investors are recognizing iShare as an efficient tool for investors to manage market exposure to generate Alpha through asset allocation.
Investors have been increasingly turning to iShares as core component of their fixed income portfolios.
In the first few weeks of October weve seen more than $7 billion in net new flows into fixed income iShares including our Barclays Aggregate ETF AGG.
Weve seen a substantial uptick in secondary market trading volume as well exhibiting iShares ability to provide liquidity for our clients.
BlackRock believes fixed income ETFs represent a substantial growth opportunity given they only represent about 4/10ths of 1% of the global fixed income markets.
A fraction of the ETF penetration compared to the equity market where ETF represents about 3% of the global markets.
We believe iShares can offer an attractive solution to the needs for fixed income liquidity with nearly $200 billion of AUM across a 189 fixed income ETFs.
BlackRocks product breadth and depth are key differentiators.
I need to reflect for a moment because when BlackRock acquired BGI five years ago BlackRocks global iShares assets under management were $385 billion.
Im proud to say that BlackRocks iShares closed the third quarter with nearly a trillion of assets under management.
We continue to drive global expansion and grow our iShares market share by pursuing several areas of [inaudible] ETF usage including core investment precision exposures and financial instruments.
BlackRocks ability to combine active and index strategies and deliver the entire full firm to clients is critical as client demand for investment outcome and solutions increase.
One of the most common outcomes investors are targeting is to sustain a certain level of income leading up to and through retirement.
Just this month we launched an income campaign in Europe and the Middle East targeting advisors and consumers with a dual objective of raising brand awareness for BlackRock as well as educating clients on the importance of income investments as part of their portfolios.
Outcome oriented income focused products have been a significant driver of retail flows and products like SIO and multi asset income or MAI were significant contributors to our results in the third quarter.
Our global basis or our multi asset income franchise crossed over $10 billion in AUM and as seen $4.5 billion of net inflows so far in 201.
BlackRocks multi asset franchise is a key differentiator and our team based culture enables our multi asset managers to benefit from the best alpha engines and risk management capabilities BlackRock has to offer.
Id like to turn to a business through which we serve as a trusted advisor to some of the most sophisticated financial institutions in the world.
This is our financial markets advisory business or FMA business within BlackRock solutions.
Since BlackRock started FMA business in 2008 we have completed now more than 330 assignments for 185 clients in 30 countries generating more than $1 billion of revenues in BlackRock solutions.
In the third quarter we reached a significant milestone for the team and the firm.
With the substantial completion of FMAs crisis era liquidation assignments.
FMAs track record includes the risk control liquidation of long term wind down vehicles totaling more than $110 billion which resulted in strong performance for our clients.
That track record also includes supporting clients with execution advice on strategic transactions totaling more than $660 billion.
As a result of this track record of proven success and a more stable environment marked by heightened financial regulation we are now helping clients position their balance sheets to maximize value and thoroughly managing risk including numerous assignments as part of the Dodd-Frank Stress Test in the United States CCAR planning initiatives the ECB AQR and most recently in August the FMA business of BlackRock was selected to provide consultancy services to the European Central Bank on the design and implementation of their ABS purchase program.
This marks a real transition for the FMA business from a crisis oriented work to differentiated advisory and consultancy services.
In all our businesses BlackRock strives to be a trusted advisor to our clients from institutions to end consumers.
As a trusted advisor to our clients we also believe we have a responsibility to engage with regulators to promote a safe and sound financial system.
We know there is growing concern for many around about liquidity and markets.
We believe our success at BlackRock depends on investors continued confidence in the markets and so we have a shared interest in working with regulators on these issues.
In closing I want to share with you the reaction to BlackRock I witnessed during the last four days where I spent at the IMF Annual Meetings in Washington DC last week.
During that time I met with more than 30 clients.
In total BlackRock meet with 141 clients who are among the worlds leading financial institutions and I was struck by how BlackRocks reputation and position in the financial marketplace came through in each and every meeting.
Investors are turning to BlackRock for advice and for investment solutions and it was a very gratifying time for us to be as part of these exceptional discussions and to see the actions clients are looking to give to BlackRock to be a thought leader and to help them provide them with better financial futures.
I believe BlackRock has never been better positioned to meet the needs of our clients around the world.
We remain focused on performance we remain focused on strengthening our leadership team remain focused on developing our talent remain focused on enhancing our differentiating platform to unlock value for our clients and of course to our shareholders.
With that I want to thank our leadership team and all of our employees for delivering a strong quarter and continuing to work towards building better financial futures for our clients.
Before we take up your questions I wanted to mention that in addition to Gary Matt and myself here in New York we have Rob Kapito joining us on the line from Hong Kong where he and the BlackRock team there are hosting BlackRocks Second Annual Asia Wealth Symposium bringing together our clients across the region.
Rob is also leading our fourth Knowing BlackRock Event a series of internal events around the world that are part of an ongoing effort to foster a One BlackRock culture to foster driving better leadership and to foster driving better performance and better execution.
Let me open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question is from the line of Robert Lee with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I wanted to ask a question on the alternatives business and I think Gary you mentioned in your comments that you obviously had some realizations returned some capital and also had maybe some outflows from discreet hedge funds.
But if you look at that business its pretty sizeable its a hundred odd billion and thats one place that despite the success youve had across the firm where flows have continued to be kind of break-evenish despite the size.
Can you maybe give us a little bit more color on underneath the business kind of maybe which strategies are having kind of the flow issues or some of the puts and takes if you will that are going on behind it? Im going to open it up and then Ill let Gary really get into some of the details.
We are very excited about our flows and the situation we have in alternatives.
We have returned some large pools of money back to our investors.
We had huge [inaudible] mortgage strategies that we liquidated in July that were quite successful to our investors and so that is a decline in our assets.
But in our illiquid strategies we do not put those assets under AUM until those monies are invested.
So we have a firm commitment for those monies and thats now totaling $7 billion of flows over the last few years and they continue to grow and we put those monies to work over the course of the next several years.
So in reality we are recycling our alternatives strategy quite successfully and I believe the momentum is accelerating towards more opportunities for BlackRock in the hedge fund arena.
Ill let Gary go into some specifics but the macro number masks the successes weve been having.
Rob no one would like this to be a little cleaner and simpler to understand than I would and we spend a lot of time on it.
But weve got about $113 billion of total alts of which we classify $88 billion of those effectively as core and we strip out currency and commodities from that when we think about the core business.
I think obviously as Larry mentioned return on capital it does complicate the matter a little bit.
I mean obviously this quarter alone we had return on capital of a little over a billion which effectively matched about a little less than a billion of new commitments that we raised in the current quarter.
Year-to-date our return of capital is about $2.8 billion and that was again versus last year where it was close to $3 billion.
Its clear that over the last two years I guess since the beginning of 13 and Larry mentioned weve raised about $9 billion in commitments and I think you know candidly were looking for the right opportunities.
In a perfect world perhaps we would have invested some of that money a little quicker to basically match the timing better.
But you know obviously were not going to put client interests behind what happens in our core flows in terms of return on capital versus putting the assets in the ground.
It also is impacted by a lot of ins and outs which you know is frankly the same phenomena that impacts some of our institutional index business.
But if we basically look excluding the return on capital and I know this is a little unfair but if we effectively exclude kind of one larger hedge fund that has frankly been a little more challenged in the last year or so and the way we look at the core health of the business that would put up about $1.4 billion of core alts flows in the quarter with retail alts being about $400 million of that and institutional being about a billion.
On the retail side thats really again being driven as Larry has mentioned our flagship global longshore credit but were also now having good flows from global longshore equity.
I mentioned we recently launched the new multi manager fund which basically pulled in about $100 million this quarter already so thats off to a good start.
On the institutional side again excluding return of capital and this one challenged hedge fund we saw strong flows into BAA of close to $350 million our fund to private equity business invested about close to $275 million in the quarter real estate had about $200 million in the quarter.
Our alternative solutions which is a key growth area was close to $150 million.
So theres actually very strong pockets of momentum around it however it takes a little bit of commitment from you and us to make sure you can see all of that happiness.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> If I could maybe ask one follow up which Im sure is on a lot of peoples minds you know the turmoil from one of your competitors and the assets that may be kind of in play or in motion as a result of that.
I guess Im particularly interested in your thoughts as it relates to the DC world where you know certainly the total return fund has been pretty well entrenched and theres usually not a lot of fixed income options out there.
But how do you feel about if you look at the opportunity set how do you feel about your ability to kind of start capturing some share there and at the same time are you starting to see more DC plans thinking about a broader range of options within their fixed income selections.
I think youve identified a great growth opportunity for us.
A on the DC land managers are entrenched until theyre not.
We have had a historically very strong presence in the DC side in the index equity and target date products and so we have great relationships and now because of our strong performance and breadth in our fixed income we have an incredible chance now to leverage those relationships and indeed we are indeed winning more wins in the DC side and we do believe this is going to be a great opportunity.
In addition as people think about fixed income especially on the DC side we are seeing evidence of people moving out of a total return type of product into a more unconstrained strategies too so this is going to be an opportunity for us in the coming years.
Your next question is from the line of Ken Worthington with JP Morgan.
Topic de jour a lot of the intermediate term investment dollars in motion  so first to what extent do certain categories of institutional investors already have so much money managed by BlackRock that its hard for them to invest more with you? By following up with Rob in DC youre doing so well on iShares in the DC channel does that somehow constrain you on the fixed income side for example or are there other categories? Ken we have not seen one example where our scale and our presence with our clients are being impacted.
We actually won some business from one client already in the DC side where when we did the BGI merger they were concerned about our large presence within their plans.
Over the course of the years theyve become accustomed to our large presence and theyve indeed since then awarded us more business.
Well weve been awarded more business again from them.
So were not seeing any evidence of that at the moment.
I think importantly more and more clients are separating the amount of business we have in beta products versus alpha products so I think were in a very good position now to take on a larger share of wallet with more clients.
Then money in motion again it seems to be going into cash short term bond intermediate term bond currently what asset categories do you think are best positioned over the next year? So for example when capital had its issues you had money go out of equities actually go into PIMCO and into fixed income so there was a big switch.
What categories do you think are best positioned over the next year or plus? Where are you identifying the flows? Are you doing it in the mutual area? What people cant see is whats going on on the institutional side and let me just highlight the institutional side.
On the institutional side generally consultants determine how given managers are perceived and if theres changes in perception theres money in motion.
Thats a slow process in some cases its going to take quarters maybe even a year.
But we have had more buy recommendations added to BlackRock in the last few months mainly because of our five year success in performance.
So much of it had to do with the timing of our success.
There is not a single event that is stimulating some of this it is just because the consistency of our positioning in fixed income and obviously because the events that youre alluding to theres been more change.
We are seeing more opportunities over the next quarters and years of money in motion into various fixed income strategies.
What we are seeing more and more clients looking at theyre looking for outcomes theyre looking for solutions.
Theyre not moving money across asset categories so most of the money if it is being moved its being moved from one fixed income to another fixed income player and then youre seeing biases moving.
The one area where weve just been awarded a big assignment is a big institution that would have been awarding us something in the total return side of fixed income and they determined to award us a large assignment in the unconstrained fixed income.
So thats where were seeing the biases change but there is a lot of money in motion going from total return in one shop to another shop and I believe there is quite a bit of movement today in the institutional side that should show up worldwide in the next few quarters.
Your next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler  Credit Suisse.
First just to hit on the margin the adjusted result of 44.2 looked very strong.
Im just wondering if you can provide some color on the sustainability of this level and it also looks like G&amp;A expenses were a little light driven by FX and theres always the seasonal G&amp;A trends in 4Q which tends to be higher.
So maybe just provide us a little color there and maybe you can help us in terms of what a good go forward range is? So a couple of things on margins.
Obviously in the context of year-over-year comparisons you obviously have to look at the relevant quarters that youre comparing and so I think from Q3 to Q3 if you will a couple of things went on.
Obviously we had strong beta from that Q3 to Q3 period which obviously helps drive revenue growth and you saw not only in addition to our organic growth we actually put up 15% year-over-year revenue growth which is a pretty good number.
On the expense side really two things.
As youve mentioned one is our G&amp;A clearly was low in the quarter.
I think we highlighted sequentially that there was about a $51 million gap which was primarily attributable to the FX remeasurement and lower legal fees and expenses relative to the last quarter where we called them out as being somewhat high.
So beta driving one direction expense driving the other direction and then obviously as weve mentioned both this quarter and last quarter some changes in comp accruals that make quarter-over-quarter comparisons a little less relevant.
But mentioning that we really hadnt changed comp philosophies and so as you look at full year accruals I think thats a better indicator.
Then of course you take all of that and you go into the fourth quarter and I think theres no question that beta comparisons year-over-year will look much less muted.
It was a strong fourth quarter in beta last year.
Its not looking like a very strong fourth quarter this year so that will impact obviously year-over-year comparisons.
We mentioned the FX impact so were going in with lower spot AUM into the quarter than our average and as you correctly mentioned in addition to the seasonal uptick in our [MMP] spend which is actually also planned weve got some rougher comparisons on the performance fee because of the opportunistic fees that we booked last year.
I think if you take all of that into consideration I would suggest that the 44.2% in the quarter is probably not something wed be looking to repeat in the fourth quarter and I think as it relates to margin guidance I think our margin guidance hasnt changed as it relates to the overall business.
Just a follow up on the management turnover at one of your competitors.
Weve only had three business days in the third quarter result and we only have mutual fund data there but if you could size of the potential opportunity given your good performance wide product menu across 401k retail and then institutional which one are you more excited about in terms of growth in your active bond business? Its still too early to determine how much is going  its fair to say theres a sizeable opportunity.
Its in the 10s of billions of dollars.
Weve seen recent strong momentum but its going to play out over quarters and maybe a year and as I said its going to be  in the core fixed income strategies its going to be in the unconstrained fixed income strategies.
You may see people and I think there is evidence that youre seeing some people moving into ETFs and maybe this is as a holding pattern.
But I just want to underscore we are seeing this type of flows because of our five years of performance.
I just want to remind everybody that we had $48 billion of flows in the first nine months and so we continue to just think it is all about performance it is all about positioning it is also because of our strength in beta and alpha products and fixed income.
So it is our platform that has also differentiated and our global positioning.
But as I said this is a sizeable opportunity and there is increased momentum.
Your next question comes from Luke Montgomery  Sanford Bernstein.
Kind of a big picture question here youve got institutional index strategies contributing just 10% of your revenues but I think those AUM receive about a 40% weight in the conventional calculation for organic growth.
So if you exclude those assets I think the organic growth on what I think we might call revenue critical AUM has been ranging between 5% and 7% on a trailing year basis.
I dont know of many asset managers of any size that are flowing at that rate and perhaps Im wrong but it really doesnt seem like thats reflected in your multiple today.
The question is sort in terms of messaging whats it going to take how investors view your organic growth rate.
Hopefully you tell everybody.
I mean look its a great point its one that you know we have been trying to tell a little bit differently than the way you just stated it both at investor day and even today.
Were trying to basically point to a concept of organic based fee growth being in excess of organic asset growth which is by virtue of stronger growth in our retail and our iShares business or obviously relative to the institutional business and in particularly institutional index business.
I would say that we do give you ways to get there in terms of the disclosure.
Theres ways to back that out but Im mindful that its always easier if we do that for you and I think its fair that we are always thinking about ways to improve our disclosure and to help investors and analysis better understand our business and were actively considering whether or not we should make some changes going into next year.
I mean we do break out on the AUM tables exactly that component of flows and obviously the beginning balance of our institutional index business so you can actually go ahead and do that and I dont want to suggest that the institutional index business is not a very important component of the firm but youre right to suggest it has lower revenue characteristics than some of our other businesses and that in markets such as this the velocity of those assets tends to be a little bit greater so even though youre seeing $5 billion of net flows theres basically significantly more inflows and outflows that happen every quarter to get to that net number.
So we take your point we appreciate it and we are going to give it a lot more thought as we go into the end of the year.
I think the fee versus AUM basis for presenting organic growth is interesting but maybe its just as simple as showing organic growth figure excluding institutional index in your press release.
Thats what I might suggest.
I think thats one way to do it.
Though again that data is there for people who want to figure it out.
I would just also want to say that I dont want to dismiss the institutional index business and we love it we think its a growth area we think its a very important connector with our clients as I discussed earlier especially on the DC side which is really an institutional component and its a connector to so many of our other businesses.
Thats the opportunity of it.
Obviously Gary and team will look at how we can better account so you have a better understanding of our growth rates and our revenues.
But we dont want to dismiss a great component of our business.
Your next question comes from Marc Irizarry  Goldman Sachs.
Just following up on the organic growth you know you are out there with a forecast for 5% organic growth and I just want to get a sense of two things.
Youve constructed that view that you can get to that organic growth rate at some point in time and I think youve given us some of the building blocks.
Maybe you can just review that but also what kind of assumptions are embedded in a forecast like that in terms of manager replacement? Obviously there is a lot of money in motion some of which you would have expected to be on the fixed income side but Im curious also manager replacement and volatility how that sort of plays into that forecast and what we should expect? A great question.
Look 5% when we laid it out was viewed as a target.
Its an aspirational target.
Were very serious about making sure we have strategies business strategies and appropriate talent and making sure that we provide resources for those businesses to get there.
We very much still believe in the fact that that is a number we can achieve.
We are very much still focused on the three components of that growth with iShares being low double digit growth retail being high single digit growth and our institutional business being low single digit growth obviously with faster growing parts of that business offsetting some of the headwinds we face in DB.
So were continuing to prosecute the strategy and we still feel incredibly comfortable about that.
I would say that its not a quarter-to-quarter number for us.
Its basically getting there on a more long term stable basis.
We obviously  Ill come back to the discussion we just had with Luke which is actually if you strip out some of the more lower fee components which have been a little bit more volatile in recent quarters one might suggest that were already there on a trailing 12 basis for some of those businesses but Im mindful thats changing the goal post a little bit and I think in the context and Robs on the phone he may want to chime in obviously there are significant amounts of cash yet on the sidelines that when that gets deployed that will actually have an important element to our ability to attract some of those assets.
I think were still moving forward and were holding people accountable to get there and our sincere hope is that well be able to in the near term be able to talk about getting there very consistently.
Your next question is from the line of William Katz  Citigroup.
Just coming back to the money motion discussion [inaudible] very topical Larry you highlighted sort of the five year track record as being a key differentiating factor for you.
Just coming at scale the other way how important is scale and capacity as well as a consideration for all the consultants as they think about incremental opportunities maybe perhaps some PIMCO? As I said earlier Bill I dont think CL is a negative I think CL has proven to be a positive for us and we have plenty of growth opportunities in our unconstrained area.
Thats going to be the area where we will ultimately have capacity issues but we have measured that and we have a lot of bandwidth to continue to grow in our unconstrained strategies.
This is something we look at with our strategic product management group.
This is the group that is trying to design new products and trying to eliminate products that are underwhelming.
I think thats another reason why we are winning so much business in some many different fixed income strategies.
I think the highlight is its not just the active fixed.
We actually won some inactive fixed and unconstrained fixed and iShares fixed income.
Were seeing inquiry in our model based fixed.
It is the scale and breadth of our fixed income platform across the globe is the reason why were having so much dialog with the consultants worldwide and it is allowing us to be well positioned for that money that is moving.
Your next question comes from Michael Carrier  Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
You guys put a whitepaper out I think a few weeks back just on some of the issues in the fixed income markets and some of the longer term solutions.
Just given the recent volatility weve seen  I dont know if you want to call it hiccups but some new issues in terms of liquidity I just want to get your view I think a lot of the things you guys discuss in terms of the long term fixed makes a lot of sense.
Some of those things is just a lot tougher to do in the near term you know when we may fax increased volatility and given the amount of assets that have gone into fixed income and the reduced inventory on broker or dealer balance sheets I just want to get your sense what are you guys doing or what can you do to try to protect your investment returns in some of the lack of liquidity in the market which can impact the returns for investors.
I would say overall the markets are performing quite well.
There have only been a few circumstances where youve seen really [inaudible] type of trading behaviors in the last few months.
In any one single day or single week you may have seen some spreads widening but over a course of a two to three month period of time they narrow back.
I think theres been some great consistency across the fixed income market.
That said we are worried about the liquidity in the fixed income markets especially in the corporate bond area where there is just so many different [inaudible] and so many different issuances and theres no consistency and importantly this is a big role that the investment bankers and Wall Street play in terms of providing balance sheet and navigating your positioning within the fixed income universe and that balance sheet has been reduced significantly and so it does at times present liquidity issues.
This is why we have been so loud in stating that we need a more expedient adoption of electronic protocols and markets.
I do believe this is one of the areas where regulators need to focus.
I spoke about this at an [IMS] session this past weekend that I think its imperative that we focus on this.
As the regulators have put more capital demands on banks by definition the capital markets are playing a larger and larger role in terms of financing corporations and financing different organizations.
With that in mind now we need to be focusing on how to improve the capital markets in making sure they provide a stable a mechanism for buying and selling securities.
Were in this transition phase right now and the faster and sooner we have this adaptation of electronic trading the sooner we have standardization of some form of corporate bond issuance and then importantly we need behavioral changes across the board.
This is going to take time and so the worry we have is do we have enough time before theres a true liquidity event that really destabilizes the market.
This is why I said in my prepared statement we need to be working with regulators to make sure we have a more stable trading environment.
We are the biggest beneficiaries in the world as the largest asset manager.
We benefit when theres greater liquidity.
We need to make sure that our clients believe that investing is safe for them too so this is key.
Now in saying that though because we are a large client of all the different firms worldwide if theres balance sheet that is off or just because of our relationships we have an advantage but thats not a lasting type of thing and this is why we are so much in front whether its writing or working with regulators working with the street to build a more robust electronic market.
Your next question comes from Glenn Schorr of ISI.
Just a follow up question.
You mentioned a couple of things impacting on the retail side but the last 12 months your organic growth rates is in like 11% this quarter it was 4%.
Im curious how much you think of that as more environmental versus maybe talk about some of the successes youre pushing through on your distribution strategies.
As Gary suggested we had outflows in high yield that was environmental.
We had outflows in European equities that was environmental.
On the positive side we had inflows in other products.
I think it speaks very loudly to our platform.
Obviously we want to be beneficiaries of all the areas where theres going to be inflows but there are going to be periods of time where our client interests are going to be navigating out of those platforms.
We also saw even in iShares in the last few weeks of September we saw large movement out of some European iShares products European equity iShare products.
So this is all environmental.
We truly believe were penetrating more distribution channels more [RIA] channels a broader distribution channel in Europe than ever before and so I think we are in a very good position for whatever is money in motion in the retail channels we are going to continue to see some elevated growth.
We are strengthening our positions across the world.
As I talk about our strategic product group were evolving our product set so we are responding to the needs of clients and so I feel very good about how we are positioned in retail and iShares and importantly we are going to continue to build our brand and I think we have done a very good job at building brand awareness and now we need to continue to do that and be successful in that.
Gary do you have any more to add to that? I mean to put some numbers into perspective in terms of European equities I mean it happens again maintaining still good three five year performance there you know that cost us close to $4 billion in the quarter in retail in outflows and then high yield again top decile performance and rotation there cost about $1.7 billion $1.8 billion for the quarter.
So if you just think about the magnitude of those two products still with decent performance in fact some exceptional performance in some cases that [inaudible] the growth rate just in the quarter alone in those two areas.
So the good news is as Larry said we had continued strength in the EMEA index we had continued strength in fixed income continued strength in multi asset and I think without that thered be a very different story and thats part of the diversification and stability story were trying to tell.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions.
Mr.
Fink do you have any closing remarks? The last comment Gary just said I think is really key as you think about BlackRock.
I think we have a unique business model a unique culture that is differentiating us and once again allowing us to deliver a strong third quarter.
We have never been as well positioned to meet the needs of our clients worldwide and I think clients are turning to us more than ever before because of the consistency over 26 years of a comprehensive and deliberate process of focusing on our culture our team our technology and our talent and I think this is very critical.
As I said earlier in my prepared remarks when we combine our people and our technology and our risk management on top of our investment platform and wrap it up with one common BlackRock culture the totality of the firm comes together and it serves our clients well.
I can say in the fourth quarter and going forward were going to just be as intently focused on achieving our performance on strengthening our leadership relationships with our clients continuation of developing our talent.
As Gary said it really well our highly diversified platform allows our investors to have a greater stability with more consistent growth than any other asset manager and Ill leave it at that.
Thanks everyone.
Talk to you at the end of the fourth quarter.
This concludes todays teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Teleconference.
Our host for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Gary S.
Shedlin; President Robert S.
Kapito; and General Counsel Matthew Mallow.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question and answer period.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Mallow you may begin your conference.
Thanks very much.
Good morning everyone.
I'm Matt Mallow the General Counsel of BlackRock and before Larry and Gary make their remarks I want to remind you that during the course of this call we may make a number of forward-looking statements and call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual results may of course differ from these statements.
As you know BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC which lists some of the factors that may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we say today.
And additionally BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that let's begin the call.
Gary? Thank you Matt and good morning everyone.
My pleasure to be here to present our fourth quarter and full year 2014 as adjusted results.
Overall 2014 was another strong year for BlackRock's clients shareholders and employees.
We continue to drive shareholder value by generating consistent organic growth; demonstrating the benefits of scale through our operating leverage and systematically returning excess cash to our shareholders even in an increasingly volatile macro environment.
As Larry will discuss in more detail our 2014 results highlight the stability and diversification of our business model and evidence the significant investments we've made in recent years to enhance the depth and breadth of our global platform.
For the fourth quarter BlackRock delivered earnings per share of $4.82 and operating income of $1.2 billion.
Full year earnings per share of $19.34 was up 17% compared to 2013 and operating income of $4.6 billion was 13% higher.
Non-operating results for the quarter reflected a $2 million decrease in the market value of our seed and co-investments down $63 million year-over-year driven primarily by a reduced economic investment portfolio and lower gains from investments in our hedge funds and fund to funds vehicles.
Our 25.4% as adjusted tax rate for the fourth quarter benefited from $39 million of non recurring items.
While we continue to estimate that 30% remains a reasonable projected tax rate for 2015 the actual effective tax rate may differ as a consequence of additional non-recurring items that arise during the year.
BlackRock's fourth quarter results were driven by $88 billion of long term net new business our highest ever quarterly net flows representing an annualized organic growth rate of 8.3%.
For the full year 2014 BlackRock generated total long term net new business of $181 billion representing an organic growth rate of 4.5% together with net flows from our cash management business BlackRock generated over $200 billion of net inflows for the year.
During 2014 we achieved organic asset growth of 11% in iShares 11% in retail and 1% in institutional in line with the growth targets we outlined at our June Investor Day.
This resulted in organic based fee growth in excess of organic AUM growth as we benefited from positive mix change associated with our faster growing higher fee retail and iShares businesses.
Equally important net long term flows were diversified by asset class and region with positive flows across all categories for both the quarter and the full year.
Fourth quarter revenue was flat with a year ago as growth in base fees and revenue from BlackRock Solutions was offset by a decrease in performance fees.
Full year revenue grew 9% from 2013 driven by growth in base fees and revenue from BlackRock Solutions both of which reached record levels in 2014.
Fourth quarter base fees was 5% year-over-year as average AUM increased due to organic growth and market appreciation.
However base fees were down 3% compared to the third quarter due to a lower fourth quarter AUM entry rate the continued impact of divergent beta and ongoing dollar appreciation against foreign currencies.
While the S&amp;P 500 was up 2% on average during the fourth quarter the MSCI World was down 2% with emerging markets and natural resources indices lagging even further down 8% and 12% respectively.
Such divergent beta impacts our financial results as only 34% of our equity base fees are generated in U.S.
markets.
In addition ongoing dollar appreciation led to a $59 billion decline in long term AUM in the quarter.
Performance fees for the quarter were $144 million driven by a broader suite of single strategy hedge funds real estate and hedge fund solutions offerings.
Performance fee decreased $124 million from the fourth quarter of 2013 which included a large fee associated with the partial liquidation of a closed-end opportunistic fund.
The decline also reflected relatively weaker performance across a variety of hedge fund products in line with broader industry trends.
BlackRock Solutions revenue of $170 million for the quarter was up 8% year-over-year and 3% sequentially due to increases in both Aladdin and FMA revenue.
Our Aladdin business which represented 75% of BlackRock Solutions revenue in the quarter grew 9% year-over-year and 4% sequentially.
We completed a number of large global implementations in 2014 and expect continued business momentum from trends favoring global investment platform consolidation and multi asset risk solutions.
Our FMA business ended 2014 with $161 million in revenues.
While revenues benefited from meaningful transaction based disposition activity during the year our business model remains well positioned to help clients navigate and implement requirements attendant to CCAR and the new ECB single supervisory mechanism.
Total expense for the fourth quarter was flat year-over-year as increased direct fund expense was offset by decreased levels of G&amp;A expense.
Full year compensation expense increased $273 million or 8% reflecting higher headcount and higher incentive compensation driven by higher operating income.
Importantly our compensation to revenue ratio declined 30 basis points in 2014 to 34.2% driven by continued reshaping of our employee base and the benefits of scale across our platform.
Fourth quarter G&amp;A expense decreased $23 million year-over-year or 6% reflecting lower professional services and other G&amp;A expense and various leased exit costs included in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Sequentially quarterly G&amp;A expense increased $61 million primarily due to volatility in FX remeasurement the planned seasonal uptick in year end marketing and promotional spend and closed-end fund launch cost associated with the $437 million BlackRock Science and Technology Trust.
Overall total expense for 2014 increased 6% from a year ago compared to a 9% increase in revenue over the same period resulting in an as adjusted operating margin of 42.9% for the full year a 150 basis point increase over 2013 levels.
Since closing the BGI merger at the end of 2009 we have expanded our operating margin by over 450 basis points while also significantly reinvesting in our business.
In line with that commitment on November 5th BlackRock entered into an agreement to acquire certain assets of BlackRock Kelso Capital Advisors the external investment advisor to BlackRock Kelso Capital Corporation.
This transaction enhances our fixed income platform to the addition of a middle market private credit capability.
Pending BDC shareholder approval we expect the transaction to close in the first quarter of 2015.
During 2014 we were trying approximately $2.3 billion to shareholders through a combination of dividends and $1 billion in share repurchases representing a total payout ratio of 71%.
As we enter 2015 we remain committed to a predictable and balanced approach to capital management.
Consistent with this our Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $2.18 per share of common stock representing an increase of 13% over the 2014 level.
Since instituting a dividend in 2003 BlackRock has grown its dividend on a compounded annual growth rate of approximately 22%.
Our Board has also authorized the company to repurchase an additional $6 million shares under our existing share repurchase program giving us authorization to repurchase a total of $9.4 million shares including $3.4 million shares which are remaining under our prior program announced in January 2013.
Our consistent earnings growth and stable financial results reflect the benefits of our differentiated global business model.
Fourth quarter net flows were positive both our active and index franchise as well as in each of our geographic regions with $62 billion from the Americas $50 billion from EMEA and $11 billion from APAC.
BlackRock's global retail franchise saw long term net inflows of $23 million during the fourth quarter bringing full year inflows to $55 billion representing 11% organic growth for the full year.
As usual fourth quarter retail close reflect the seasonal impact of reinvested capital gains distributions.
Fourth quarter U.S.
retail flows of $21 billion were driven by strong fixed income flows across a diverse set of products including our top performing total return and high yield franchises and our flagship strategic income opportunities fund.
SIO was the leading unconstrained bond fund in the fourth quarter with nearly $5 billion of quarterly net inflows.
Our multi-asset income fund or MAI continued its momentum with nearly $2 billion of flows in the fourth quarter making it the top multi-asset income fund in the industry ranked by 2014 flows.
Fourth quarter international retail net inflows of $2 billion were driven by BlackRocks fixed income multi-asset and index capabilities which more than offset headwinds and ongoing outsource from our European equities franchise.
Globalized shares generated over $44 billion of net new business in the fourth quarter and approximately $101 billion for the year representing full year organic growth of 11%.
iShares once again captured the number one share of global ETF industry flows.
During the fourth quarter iShares record fixed income flows were broadly diversified by asset class duration and geography.
We continue to aggressively target growth in the fixed income ETF market and were the global leader in fixed income inflows in 2014.
Fourth quarter equity iShares flows of $24 billion were driven by flows into the core series with particularly demand for U.S.
equity exposures.
The core segment remains an important growth channel for iShares posting an organic growth rate of 30% in 2014.
Our institutional business generated approximately $21 billion in long term net inflows for the quarter and $25 billion of net inflows for the year representing the highest quarterly and annual institutional flows we've seen in the past five years.
The investments we've made in our diverse global platform position us well to meet the ever changing needs of a sophisticated institutional client base and we expect this momentum to continue in 2015.
Barbelling continues to be a key theme as institutional clients pair cost effective beta exposure with alternatives and other high conviction alpha solutions to achieve uncorrelated returns.
We continue to see sizeable asset allocations driven flows both into and out of institutional index products resulting in net inflows of $20 billion in the quarter.
Institutional index equity flows were driven by clients looking to increase risk exposure while fixed income inflows reflected asset allocation decisions and solutions based LDI activity.
Institutional active net inflows based by positive flows and for fixed income multi assets and alternatives fixed income net inflows of $3 billion were diversified across exposures and we continue to see institutional demand for our unconstrained strategies.
Multi asset net inflows of $2 billion were highlighted by solutions based wins as well as continued demand for our LifePath target-date suite.
Excluding approximately $600 million of return client capital institutional alternatives generated nearly $2 billion of net new business led by hedge fund solutions and private activity solutions.
In addition we had another strong fundraising quarter for illiquid alternatives raising nearly $3 billion in new commitments reflecting ongoing momentum infrastructure debt and renewable power.
Over the last two years we've raised more than $12 billion in commitments and have nearly $9 billion of committed capital to deploy for clients.
While return of capital impacts our net flows immediately committed capital only translates into flow and AUM as those dollars are invested.
Outflows from both scientific and fundamental active equities continued in the fourth quarter.
By its strong performance client demand for scientific active equity remains muted.
Fundamental active equity outflows continued in products with historical performance issues.
However these flows were partially offset by select wins and categories where our new managers are building strong track records including large cap growth.
In summary in the year marked by periods of increase volatility our diversified business continued to deliver solid and consistent financial results.
We've remained confident that our differentiated business model is well-positioned to meet the needs of our clients and shareholders in the year to come.
And with that I will turn it over to Laurence.
Thanks Gary.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call.
2014 closed with heightened volatility due to political and social instability.
And that volatility obviously is continuing today and in the New Year.
However markets proved resilient in 2014 and the fourth quarter marked the 8th straight quarterly rise for the S&amp;P 500 with data suggesting a rebound for the U.S.
economy.
As Gary discussed the U.S.
equity markets outperformed emerging European and Asian markets and certainly outperformed natural resource markets and the U.S.
dollar continued to appreciate relative to other currencies.
This market divergence is likely to persist in 2015 creating both large challenges and large opportunities for our investors.
Anemic global growth has led to an overdependence on politicians to implement reforms to rebuild the global economies.
But we have seen limited action globally from politicians and as a result we continue to rely on accommodative central bank policies whether were talking about Europe China Japan and even at this moment even the United States.
This will also put more pressure on the U.S.
dollar as it will rise higher as well as the mixture of regional policy successes and failures again increasing more global volatility.
The technology revolution that most people always underestimate is so evident in the oil industry and through this technology the growth and supply of oil is outpacing demand which has led to a period of volatile price discovery in the petroleum markets with greater than a 50% drop in oil prices.
This is leading to a global redistribution of wealth which people underestimate how this is going to transform the world.
With the high cost of energy production economies experiencing major headwinds countries like the U.S.
like China like India will be seeing huge benefits in stimulus.
In countries that have seen currency devaluation such as Europe in recent months will experience only modest and moderate gains.
We see more shocks as production decisions and the demand side equilibrium but overall this oil price movement should be a great benefit for the global economy.
With a back drop at divergent market performance volatility regulatory reform persistent low rates our clients near long term investment challenges are becoming more complex but our goals at BlackRock steadfastly remain the same.
We are a fiduciaria and BlackRock is well positioned to address our client's needs and deliver return for shareholders in all market environments.
The combination of our global multi-asset platform our insight and thought leadership and Aladdin our unified technology and risk management platform has resulted in a more deeper client interactions than we have ever seen before.
It has also enabled our investment team to collaborate ahead of key macro events to both protect the assets and in most cases generate alpha for our clients.
In the fourth quarter BlackRock generated $88 billion of long-term net inflows the strongest quarterly long-term flows in our history.
And for the whole year BlackRock saw a long-term net inflows of $141 billion and together with the net flows from our cash management business we generated more than $200 billion in net inflows in 2014.
But I want to emphasize one important thing it's not about the magnitude or the scale of the assets that we raised but I want to emphasize the composition of the flows which we believe is much more important.
For the year we saw a $35 billion in active and $146 billion in index flows.
We saw $52 billion in equities.
We saw $96 billion in fixed income $29 billion of flows in multi-asset and $4 billion in alternatives where we put the money to use.
We saw $55 billion of flows in retail $101 billion of flows in iShares and $25 billion of flows institutionally.
And we saw these flows in all regions from all investor types and importantly in the face of wide range of economic and investment conditions.
What we like to highlight is there were 13 countries where we had net inflows of excess of $1 billion in 2014.
We now manage assets in excess of the billion dollars for clients domiciled in 41 countries demonstrating the increasingly global and differentiating nature of the BlackRock platform.
In addition we added our first Aladdin client based in Latin America and now have clients actively using the Aladdin system in 47 countries around the world.
As the nature of our client's investment challenges change so does the nature of the solutions they require.
More and more a single investment product asset class or style does not provide a sufficient long-term solution.
BlackRock's business model which was deliberately built to deliver a multifaceted solution to clients and BlackRock's ability to leverage these capabilities across are truly diverse global platform of active and index equities fixed income multi-asset and alternative strategies all backed by Aladdin analytics and risk management has resulted in continued organic growth and revenue growth for the firm.
BlackRock saw 27 distinct retail in iShare products each generating more than $1 billion net flows in the fourth quarter.
For the year 56 individual retail in iShare products generated more than $1 billion in net flows compared to 43 such products in 2013.
The breadth of our platform is resonating with clients as they continue to seek a diverse set of global investment solutions.
As Gary mentioned we made significant long-term investments over the past few years in our people our process and our platform and those dividends and those investments have paid off in 2014 and I strongly believe this will continue to differentiate BlackRock overtime in an increasingly competitive industry.
The strength of BlackRock's fixed income business is an area where past investments are translating into differentiating results for our clients and for our firm.
BlackRock was built on a foundation of superior fixed income performance and now we have 91% of our active taxable fixed income platform outperforming the benchmark or peers for the three year period and no single category was a primary driver of the $96 billion inflows we gathered this year.
Active index flows were diversified across high yield unconstrained and core bond offerings and positive across all client businesses and we saw several key buy list ads across categories in 2014.
Our flagships strategic income opportunity fund or SIO raised more than $13 billion in 2014 and we now manage more than $31 billion across or unconstraint fixed income franchise for both retail and institutional clients.
BlackRock saw increased client interest in our total return fund which is in the top 3% of our peer group for one year for three years and for five years.
Total return generated $2 billion of net inflows in the quarter and represents the meaningful long-term opportunity for us.
Fixed income is also a core strategic priority for BlackRock iShares which led the industry in fixed income ETF flows for the quarter and for the year driven by iShares constituting 15 of the top 25 fixed income ETFs by net flows in 2014.
Assets across classes BlackRock's iShare franchise as I said earlier generated more than $100 billion in net flow this year and was the industry leader inflows in the United States inflows in Europe and inflows globally.
We continue to focus on growing global iShare market share and driving global market expansion and we expect client and product segmentation to drive the next wave of our iShare's growth.
We saw $32 billion inflows in our global core series in 2014 as by-and-hold investors are increasingly turning to iShare for efficiently constructing larger portions of their portfolio.
IShare's are used as financial instruments where ETFs are providing a compelling alternative to individual securities to swaps the futures and we are seeing a strong initial progress in this newly formed area of the marketplace.
And clients are also using iShare as precision exposures to express targeted investment viewpoints to generate alpha with efficiency.
In the fourth quarter BlackRock kicked off some high iThinking an innovative new initiative design to help distill market insight into clear actionable ideas for our client and matching them with different iShare solutions.
We continue to be product innovation - was evident in December when we launched our CRBN or our low carbon targeted ETF design for individuals and institutions we're focusing on environmental sustainable activity.
The United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund and the University System of Maryland Foundation provided the initial funding for this ETF and BlackRock now managed more than $250 billion in socially responsible strategies across our platform.
2014 was a turning point for our institutional business and as we entered 2015 with substantial momentum.
Our scale and our global presence enables BlackRock to interact with our increasingly sophisticated client base in a highly specialized manner and our financial institution group businesses are great example.
In 2014 BlackRock was selected to manage mandates spanning multi-asset fixed income infrastructure debt and its whole balance sheet outsourcing for global insurance clients driven by regulatory changes by M&amp;A and investors are looking for better ways to navigate in this low interest rate environment.
In conjunction with asset management mandates many of these clients also chose to partner with BlackRock and Aladdin on evaluation on risk and advisory services and even acquisition support to our BlackRock Solutions business.
BlackRock is the only firm in the industry that can bring all of these components together to meet the needs of our clients and we do this with dedicated relationships and with investment teams who speak with our clients in their own language we understand their industry and we can partner with them to create their needs to provide the most proper solutions to their issues.
Another area where we are creating tailored outcome is in the alternative space particularly in the emerging alternative solution business where BlackRock is building a holistic multidimensional solution portfolio leverages our full global platform.
Weve seen strong fund raising across our illiquid alternative product set as the target of strategy we laid out on Investor Day unfolds.
BlackRock raised nearly $6 billion in new commitments in 2014 across a variety of strategies including private equity hedge fund solutions opportunistic credit renewable power and infrastructure debt.
We've recently completed our annual institutional clients rebalancing survey which indicated that institutions are looking to significantly increase allocations to real estate including infrastructure.
In the fourth quarter BlackRock closed our second renewal power infrastructure fund positioning us as one of the leading global renewable platforms in the industry.
2014 BlackRock rates commitments of nearly $800 million in renewable power and $1 billion in infrastructure debt.
Momentum in this space demonstrates BlackRock's proprietary transaction source and capabilities and abilities to act as an extension of our clients internal teams.
The tangible impact of the investments made to-date in our renewable power fund is also being felt by providing energy and electricity to more than a 100 000 households.
We continue to make progress on the reinvigoration and globalization of our fundamental act of equity business and have seen meaningful impact on performance for some of our clients.
Weve seen a major improvement in the performance of our U.K.
equity strategies we generated top cortile performances as we had our three year anniversary and our new management team in Asian equities and our European equity strategies as posted in leading market share and solid broad based three and five year investment performance.
The most recent leg of our investments in this area was focus on U.S.
equities.
We hired a world-class group of investors with strong processes and track record for generating alpha we are now in our second year of the investment and seeing good progress and hopefully we will improve on our investment performance.
Although we have a lot of work to do and quite frankly were not at the space where I would like to be at this moment.
2014 was a challenging year for our active managers with only 20% of the industry U.S.
active equity funds outperformed their benchmarks.
We saw a significant rise in volatility in the fourth quarter but it was encouraging to see many of our active teams deliver stronger performances in the environment especially in December.
Our basic value strategy achieved top quintile performance since the new manager inception our large cap series the strategy has improved from a second - to a second cortile from a fourth cortile and our U.S.
opportunity strategy is in the top quintile over three years.
While our active business continues to feel the impact of plans balancing high conviction alpha strategies now with index exposures the breath and diversity of our platform and the presence of the only skilled player in both active and index around the world will differentiate us in the ability to give our clients the full menu of solutions they need.
We expect investor preference to vary over time and BlackRock stability to evolve alongside our clients is critical in the future for our success.
Before I open it up for questions Id like to take a moment to thank our employees for their hard work incredible dedication in 2014 in helping our clients in the most complex investment challenges in the world by helping them to provide solutions.
Id like to thank my entire management team many of them who are thriving in their new role following successful organizational changes earlier this year.
And Id like to recognize some of the milestones that BlackRock achieved in 2014.
In retail we crossed over $500 billion in assets under management.
In iShares in 2014 we closed with more than $1 trillion in assets under management.
In institutional we garnered the best floors that weve seen in over five years.
Since the financial crisis or essentially since the end of 2007 the final year of the pre-crisis earnings BlackRock has grown EPS by 142% versus the S&amp;P 500 growing at 76% and the S&amp;P financial index growing at only 9% highlighting both the differentiation of our business model and our ability to execute on key growth strategies.
All of the areas Ive spoken about whether its fixed income iShares or financial institution group alternatives infrastructure our active equity platform all are areas where we made significant strategic investments over time and well be seeing the impact of those investments over time to our shareholders and to our clients.
We will continue to make investments in BlackRock's future and keep very high margins and utilize the full scale of our Aladdin risk management and technology capabilities to meet our fiduciary duties to our clients and to deliver returns for shareholders in 2015.
With that operator let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Luke Montgomery with Bernstein.
I think obviously some unusual dynamics have been helping the institutional fixed-income ETF usage but it is a question really about the long-term opportunity.
You have been adding talent to the sales force there.
I think given the need for customized portfolios and immunization of specific liabilities in that context how do you envision fixed-income ETF shares fitting into institutional portfolio construction? I think it's a question about how you characterize the value proposition rather than any liquidity challenge they might help address in the fixed-income market.
That's a good question.
I'm going to let Rob Kapito answer that.
So the fixed income ETFs have been in increased demand as people are learning about the product.
We're still in the early stages not only of institutions using the product but retail using the product as well.
So there are three segments - there are the buy and hold segment where people are using ETFs as a part of their fixed income portfolio for the beta and fixed income and we have products that are focused on that.
The second thing is that as the financial markets change ETFs are a surrogate for many financial instruments that have because of regulatory reasons and liquidity reasons become very expensive and they are surrogates for example in swaps and futures where ETFs are now being used in fact more than futures are being used.
And as people learn about that they add that into their portfolios.
On the other side of that there also being used as we call it precision instruments where people are looking for a specific allocation and ETFs provide that specific precision tool for them to be investing it.
So this is just a beginning of where fixed income ETFs go and as you know that the fixed income markets are much larger than the equity markets are.
So we just see continued growth in that.
So for retail were attacking that by adding on to our core series where we are adding products that can offer the full suite to what our retail investor would need over the long term in ETFs whether that be in high yield in corporates in treasuries or just generic fixed income.
And then on institutions because theyre looking for more of a trading vehicle and theyre looking for the transparency and theyre looking for the liquidity were adding more specific type of precision instruments for them.
So I would tell you that the demand to learn about ETFs grows and grows and were just - we just think this is a market that we're very positive on going forward.
And also for portfolio managers that are managing large portfolios getting the beta exposure from ETFs is cheaper its more diversified and its more liquid than the alternative and I might add that's really important when youre in a low interest rate environment like we're in.
So we look forward to more growth in the fixed income and to be the leader in the ETFs in that area.
And one other point fixing ETF utilization is far less than equity utilization and the opportunity for that to converge quite a bit.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Good morning.
I guess kind of building upon that and just thinking about your comment about substantial momentum in the institutional business heading into 2015 outside of what we just talked about there with the fixed-income ETF can you get a little more specific about where you see that demand and kind of maybe a way to characterize it versus previous periods in terms of either size or opportunity? Well the momentum is as I said carrying on into 2015.
Were seeing  I think much of it has to do with the continuation of performance that we have generated with some top decile performance in our core business our leading performance in our unconstrained fixed income our top quartile maybe top decile performance in high yield.
So across the board the performance in all the different fixed income products continues to be quite large and were seeing more and more clients are just also using beta products for fixed income.
So across the board we're seeing that but in terms of where were seeing clients looking to put more money to work we're seeing increased activity in the client contribution area where weve had some rather substantial wins.
We continue to see in terms of insurance companies always at the beginning of the year they get big infusions of cash this is one of the fundamental reasons why we thought that rates would be going down in the first part of the year obviously we didnt expect some of the activities that occurred but fundamentally you always see some very large activities from insurance companies because of the beginning of the year.
So it's across the board and its geographically diverse too.
So we think this is going to continue but I must say with where rates are at this moment more and more clients are going to be looking for different types of expressions of exposure that I do believe with where rates are it's going to lead to more and more clients searching things like infrastructure debt other activities like that and this is one of the reasons why were so heavily invested in our infrastructure teams.
We will continue to see clients reaching for yield and high yield whether that's a good strategy or a bad strategy.
I specifically believe rates are going to stay lower longer and I think the activities that youre seeing in Europe whether the court's approval of the OMT for the ECB and the greater possibility of QE from the ECB but continual easing in Japan and importantly as Chairwoman Yellen has said she's going to be very data-dependent related to what the Federal Reserve does.
So I actually believe this just creates more money in motion and more opportunity for BlackRock especially with our flows.
Great.
That's helpful.
And then Gary if you could please just characterize the budget and how your outlook for 2015 with regards to kind of core expense growth.
I would say lets break it down.
I think that in terms of G&amp;A I think when we look at the fourth quarter on G&amp;A obviously it was slightly elevated by virtue of some closed end fund launch cost and obviously some FX measurement.
But I think once you kind of exclude those two items I think the fourth quarter is generally a decent run rate for the year in terms of G&amp;A.
And then more broadly as we think about margins obviously notwithstanding some of the seasonality that we have in our own margins especially in the first quarter margins more broadly are dependent on lots of things especially the beta environment the future business mix the various reinvestment opportunities that we see in our business and obviously the competitive compensation environment.
So I dont - our margin guidance really hasnt changed as you know we dont manage the business to a specific margin target and we remain ever committed to generating operating leverage were also reinvesting in the business.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
First I was wondering if you could provide a quick update on SIFI? Found new commentary from both the SEC and FSOC especially related to some of the activities that it seems like they are targeting like ETFs alternatives derivatives securities lending with those being pretty relevant for you guys.
I dont think theyre targeting any one product.
I think youre investigating products where there is obviously large growth and where there is areas where you may have mismatches of liquidity and or you may have need for greater disclosure.
So there is nothing new from our point.
We are - if a regulator asks us to provide information we do that worldwide.
We are embracing in a very positive way the movement towards the review of activities.
We will be the largest beneficiary if the market is perceived to be stronger or transparent easier to understand by more investors we will be one of the largest beneficiaries of that event and so we are embracing the concept of better financial ecosystem for our clients and if that means greater disclosure greater transparency we will embrace that.
But I think its incorrect to say they are targeting because I dont think they are targeting at all the conversations were having - there are open dialogues theyre expressive.
We are providing information as asked.
Obviously the dialogues are one dimensional asked why cant we provide information - and thats all we know.
We presume these questions are being asked by dozens of dozens of different managers and - but were up in this process and we will all wait and see alongside with you what the outcomes will be.
And I think this will be quite granular I think we will see how this plays out and - but unquestionably youre going to see probably different disclosure requirements or different liquidity issues in some products and by enlarge we're into more of that.
Thanks Larry.
Very clear.
Second question 2014 was a year where we saw big pickup in pension risk transfers pension closeouts.
I was wondering if you have any thoughts on how this could trend in 2015 given some of the drivers like the change in the mortality tables? And given that BlackRock is a large manager of assets for clients on both sides of the aisle pension plans insurance companies really maybe share some perspective here.
I dont know how this is going to play out with where rates are today going forward.
I think its very hard in most cases to be closing up pension funds but lets step back and why have we seen elevated pension closeouts because youve had significant rallies in U.S.
equities over the last five years.
Companies have been closer to meeting their liabilities and they have a desire to minimize income statement volatility because of the issues related to the pension fund.
So we are in dialogues with many people.
Some of the firms have used annuities and working with insurance companies.
As you said we are in dialogue with many organization some of the organizations are transforming the DB plans to DC.
As I said were seeing elevated growth in our DC business in the fourth quarter and we expect that in the first quarter and we are having dialogues with many many institutions worldwide about the possibility.
But I would just caution that with rates being so low unless you see significant equity rallies it becomes a little harder to do that or the companies are going to have to infuse some type of money to making sure that theyre matched.
But I would say unquestionably BlackRocks global platform the ability of having our strength in target date and in terms of DC plans and having like path on the DC side we have a lot of components working with our clients whether its LDI products which obviously will create a derisking and obviously we could help quite a bit in helping them think about how can a pension fund ultimately transfer some of the risks.
But I don't want to call it unified across the board I do believe depending on where each company is related to the liability.
And as you suggested quite correctly about the elongation of age these are all big issues.
We've actually had conversations with organizations that did LDI years ago and now how do they factor in this elongated aging process and are they properly matched.
So but one thing is very clear to companies that have done the derisking it is not a static one time event they have to be constantly monitoring as depended on how the liabilities are changing.
And as I said earlier we are very involved in these dialogues and I do believe this plays really well with our global platform of having great analytics and helping company think about it.
We have long period of time of being involved with insurance companies and doing a lot of liability matching type of products for insurance companies that plays really well into LDI and other areas for us.
Thanks Larry.
You next question comes from Robert Lee with KBW.
I guess my first question is I am just going to capital management.
You guys have certainly been very clear on how you think about capital management and you had the dividend increase that you just announced.
But I'm just curious if we look at the 250 commitment to share repurchase per quarter that has been in place since the beginning of 2013 and I think since the end of 2012 GAAP earnings are up maybe about 35% or so.
So is it reasonable to be thinking that that kind of 250 base commitment may be subject to some upward revision too as you continue to scale the Company? Let see if Gary can answer this question.
So I think broadly we remain committed to consisting capital management.
I think that we spoke last year a little bit about some of the uncertainty in the environment which I think clearly still out there I think Larry commented more broadly on it.
So consistent with that and as we've seen the earnings trajectory increase we did obviously increase the dividend at our Board meeting yesterday by 13% to $2.18.
Our buyback program is clearly a function of a number of things.
We've already mentioned beta and other reinvestment opportunities that we see as Larry likes to say it's data-dependent I think you mentioned that earlier.
But our expectation more broadly is for the year of the buyback program would be greater than the billion dollars that we repurchased last year obviously were going to watch markets as they evolve during the year and plan accordingly.
Great.
Thank you.
And maybe just a follow-up and Larry I know you did mention you've had some nice wins in the DC space and this is the inevitable question about money in motion and fixed-income but where do you think we are in the DC replacement cycle? I know you had talked about that in the past given strong performance you guys have had and how well entrenched or ubiquitous maybe one of your competitors has been.
Do you feel that that is still in the early stages of that 401(k) replacement cycle or is that kind of well underway? Well I truly believe the successes we had in 2014 will continue in 2015.
The composition of our successes in fixed income across so many different products whether its unconstrained high yield total return MIA is a great indication of the rest of our platform and importantly where we believe continue flows will be.
On DC specifically I think we're in the early component of that.
We're in dialogue with many different contribution platforms and I do believe in the DC side one of the reasons why we have the dialogue is there to strengthen our data products in fixed income our strength in our index equities our target date products and because of the large and in depth conversations we have with our clients its giving us a great avenue to help them think about how theyre going to be thinking about the DC business.
As I said our total return business - total return product in DC is in the top 3% for one three and five.
So you come across whether as I said target date or other products were in a very good position to win or clients pull the money as that money remains in motion.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions guys.
Your next question comes from Bill Katz with Citi.
Larry you went through just a ton of things that are working very well for BlackRock.
But one area that seemed to not get that much attention was active equity.
I am sort of curious just stepping back maybe for BlackRock and for the industry at large where are we in terms of investor appetite for coming back into that type of product versus as you mentioned earlier the barbell dynamic? Well the one area that I had a large amount of dialogue most recently is in factor based equity investing.
Thats the biggest most recent type of dialogue.
So the one area where weve done quite well is in the model base equities and were still not seeing really any flows but weve had now five years of great success there.
I do believe the traditional fundamental equity business is alive its not well it had poor performance as an industry I think thats where youre alluding to.
Weve seen great movement as an industry movement out of maybe more of the fundamental investing into index.
But I would say now Bill if you believe in a greater divergent market a more volatile market - I've been asked many times questions related should I be in an indexed product with a great divergence because I can't capture some of the great opportunities that are going to be masked by the great failures.
So when you think about the energy market if you think about an emerging market world context China India is going to be hugely benefited by this.
Countries like Russia Nigeria potentially Brazil are going to be harmed by this how do you play that.
And so this is why more and more of our clients are asking about things about smart beta factors and I do believe we're going to need to capture different ways of finding alpha but importantly in our actions related to fundamental equities weve always said this is a five year project 2015 begins the third year.
We are committed to this and if you do believe in the world of great divergence if you believe in a world that one day you will have - whenever that day will be higher rates it generally means - historically you would think this is a better environment for stock picking in fundamental equities.
So our model is purposely built and positioned to benefit on this active and passive world but the one thing that I am going to be pretty loud about I do believe the most neglected component of the equity investing is basically model or factor based investing where we have a great platform weve had great returns specially overseas.
And I am very bullish on building this out as a component of our active equity area and I am quite frustrated to be frank that we havent seen the momentum that I thought we would but this is an area where in my most recent meetings last week in Asia every client asked about factor based investing in a divergent world.
So well see how that plays out Bill.
But I do believe in this divergent world and the way we are built the model of BlackRock will be a beneficiary of that.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from Brian Bedell with Deutsche Bank.
Larry if you can just comment on the inflow situation from the money in motion and PIMCO and other competitors in terms of your fixed-income franchise and do you think a lot of that went into the ETF component and might shift over as those investors reallocate throughout the year? And do you still see that as a tens of billions opportunity next year? We see because of where rates are and the expectation where rates might go I think people are focused on having a higher allocation to a fixed income ETFs and the R&amp;D generics.
And there is a lot of money in motion because of people's plans for fixed income and rate of use for fixed income this year.
And certainly because some money is flowing from various competitors and I think thats money because of the rates are because of the fees are in general in the asset management business that EPS will see a larger percentage of [indiscernible].
I just had one thing.
There is so much noise about our West Coast friend and competitor.
Much of the money in motion is totally in related to what's going on there.
I think there is more dialogue going on because of this low rate environment and how should that be played out.
And I think that's the compelling story.
How does an income oriented investor whether its an insurance company a retiree who is struggling to meet the income needs of the  this is where we are in much greater dialogue.
I have had great dialogue on where interest rates are and what does it mean for some of the largest suburban wealth funds.
So I think the dialogue start with the macro environment and how to play it.
And that is the most forceful reason why there is so much money in motion.
Obviously you have cyclical changes in one manager versus another but that's always evident in the marketplace.
And I think it is just weighing too much commentary related to that and its masking what lower rates are doing related to client's needs.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions.
Mr.
Fink do you have any closing remarks? Yeah let me just touch on one more thing.
Our fourth quarter and full year results as I think we have kind of expressed in our formatted speeches and in the Q&amp;A truly highlight the diversity and the differentiated platform of BlackRock.
We are seeing the impact of our large scale investing that we made over a year and we are continuing to make those large scale investing in infrastructure and equities.
We're going to continue to make these investments and those investments are going to pay-off in the next few years.
And I think its vital to understand that we believe this differentiated platform is the key component of what is been delivering this type of compounded growth that we have had on behalf of our clients for our shareholders.
And I think that will continue and most importantly what I'm proud of as an organization we were able to deliver these investments and I'm not here to tell you all investments paid off but weve been to continue to deliver these investments.
And at the same time as Gary discussed we saw a consistent increase in our margins over the course of the last five year.
I think this is what differentiates BlackRock and I'm certainly not suggesting that well continue forever.
But I do believe that continual investment in people I have to remind people three years ago we only had  we had less than 10 000 employees.
Today we have 12 000 employees.
This is just an investing in our platform investing in our client connectivity and investing in products and in most cases we're delivering.
And this is something that really has given us that differentiated business model.
And I do believe it's going to continue to drive our future at BlackRock.
So I just want to thank you everyone for taking the time this morning.
And thank you for your interest at BlackRock.
Have a good quarter and hopefully the next few weeks are going to be little less volatile than the last few weeks.
So enjoy.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Incorporated First Quarter 2015 Earnings Teleconference.
Our host for todays call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Gary S.
Shedlin; President Robert S.
Kapito; and General Counsel Matthew Mallow.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question and answer period.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mallow you may begin your conference.
Thanks very much.
Good morning everyone.
I am Matt Mallow the General Counsel of BlackRock and before Larry and Gary make their remarks let me remind you that during the course of this call we may make a number of forward-looking statements.
We call your attention to the fact that BlackRocks actual results may and most likely will of course differ from these statements.
As you know BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC which lists some of the factors that may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we say today and additionally BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that lets begin the call.
Gary? Thanks Matt and good morning everyone.
Its my pleasure to be here to present results for the first quarter of 2015.
Before I turn it over to Larry to offer his comments I will review our quarterly financial performance and business results.
As usual I will be focusing primarily on as adjusted results.
We are committed to generating strong organic growth demonstrating operating leverage and maintaining a consistent capital management policy as a framework for generating long-term shareholder value.
Our first quarter results once again highlight the value of the investments weve made to assemble the industrys broadest suite of active and index investment offerings and to deliver differentiated customized investment solutions to our clients.
BlackRock delivered first quarter earnings per share of $4.89 up 10% compared to a year ago.
Revenue rose 2% to $2.7 billion despite the negative FX impacts on our non-dollar denominated base fees and over $70 million of transaction-related revenue in last years first quarter.
Operating income was $1.1 billion 1% higher on a year-over-year basis.
Non-operating results for the quarter reflected $58 million of net investment gains including a one-time gain of $40 million related to the fair value of our pre-existing interest in BlackRock Kelso Capital Advisors.
Our 23.7% as adjusted tax rate for the first quarter benefited from $69 million of non-recurring items.
We currently estimate that 30% remains a reasonable projected tax rate for the remainder of 2015.
BlackRocks first quarter results were driven by $70 billion of long-term net new flows representing an annualized organic growth rate of 6.5%.
Flows were positive across all asset classes investment styles client types and regions and organic revenue growth once again outpaced organic asset growth.
Over the last 12 months despite an increasingly volatile macro environment BlackRock generated over $250 billion in total net new business representing a 5% long-term organic growth rate evidencing this fidelity of our highly diversified platform.
First quarter base fees rose 4% year-over-year as average AUM increased due to organic growth and market appreciation despite almost $220 billion of negative FX impacts associated with dollar appreciation against foreign currencies over the last 12 months.
On a constant currency basis we estimate that base fees grew approximately 8% year-over-year.
Base fees were roughly flat compared to the fourth quarter primarily driven by a lower day count in the first quarter entry rate headwinds and the continued impact of divergent beta and FX.
Performance fees of $108 million were broad based but nonetheless decreased $50 million from a year ago due to the impact of a large fee associated with the liquidation of an opportunistic mortgage fund.
BlackRock Solutions revenue of $147 million was down 5% year-over-year due primarily to declines in FMA transaction-related revenue and 14% sequentially due primarily to the timing of completed advisory assignments.
Our Aladdin business which represented 86% to the BlackRock Solutions revenue in the quarter grew 13% year-over-year but was flat sequentially.
The year-over-year increase was driven by several sizable clients going live on the Aladdin platform in 2014 while sequential results were impacted by the timing and recognition of certain revenues as well as FX movements we continue to see strong market demand for global investment platform consolidation and multi-asset risk solutions.
The year-over-year revenue decline in our FMA business resulted from meaningful transaction-based disposition activity during 2014.
We continue to believe that our FMA business model is well positioned to benefit from partnering with sophisticated financial institutions and governmental entities to address the most complex balance sheet risk and governance challenges in the ever changing political and regulatory climate.
Total expense rose $38 million year-over-year or 2% driven primarily by increased G&amp;A AUM-related and direct fund expense.
Employee compensation and benefit expense was roughly flat year-over-year as the combination of a stronger dollar and a global employee base offset and increase in headcount.
As we have previously noted the first quarter adjusted compensation-to-revenue ratio generally runs higher than the full year due to the seasonality of payroll taxes.
G&amp;A expense increased $26 million year-over-year primarily reflecting higher marketing and promotional expense and the impact of a one-time real estate-related benefit in last years first quarter.
Sequentially G&amp;A expense decreased $48 million primarily reflecting seasonally lower marketing and promotional expense lower foreign exchange remeasurement expense and closed-end fund launch costs incurred in the fourth quarter of 2014 consistent with last year aggregate G&amp;A expense in the first quarter benefited from a delay in the timing of certain expense items which will be incurred in the remainder of 2015.
We remain committed to using our cash flow to optimize shareholder value by first reinvesting in our business and then returning excess cash to shareholders.
In line with that commitment on March 6 we acquired certain assets of BlackRock Kelso Capital Advisors enhancing our credit platform to the addition of a middle-market private credit capability.
We previously announced a 13% increase in our quarterly dividend to $2.18 per share of common stock and also repurchased an additional $275 million worth of shares during the first quarter.
Based on what we know today this increased level of quarterly share repurchases represents a reasonable run rate for the remainder of 2015.
Our consistent earnings growth and stable financial results reflect the benefits of our diverse platform long-term client partnerships and commitment to investment performance.
First quarter long-term net inflows were nearly evenly split between our active and index franchises and were positive in each of our geographic regions.
BlackRocks global retail franchise saw long-term net inflows of $14 billion representing at 11% annualized organic growth rate.
Flows were driven by continued strength and outcome-oriented offerings including unconstrained fixed income and multi-asset strategy.
Despite slower net flows in the US mutual fund industry during the quarter the diversity of our franchise and strong performance in active fixed income positioned BlackRock to continue to enhance its market share position.
US retail flows of $7 billion reflected strong fixed income flows across a diverse set of props including our top defile total return and high yield franchises and our flagship strategic income opportunities fund which was again the industry-leading unconstrained bond fund during the quarter.
International retail net inflows of $7 billion replaced by strong flows into our global unconstrained fixed income and multi-asset franchises.
In addition our leading European equities franchise benefited from a return to a risk-on environment and our top quartile Asian equity funds gathered more than $800 million in average inflows during the quarter.
Global iShares generated over $35 million of net new business in the first quarter representing 14% annualized organic growth.
iShares retained the number one market share position of flows globally with strong flows in each of our product segments core precision exposures including our minimum volatility factor and currency head suites and financial instruments where we saw ongoing momentum in replacing swaps and futures with ETFs.
iShares results were led by fixed income net inflows of $19 billion and we again captured the number one global market share of the industrys fixed income ETF flows.
Equity flows of $17 billion were driven by flows into the core series and demand for international developed market and European exposures.
iShares flows were also diverse quite globally with particularly strong growth in Europe where we are seeing broad based acceleration in ETF adoption across all segments and all asset classes.
European iShares flows of $15 billion in the quarter represented annualized organic growth of over 25%.
Our institutional business generated approximately $21 billion in long-term net inflows for the quarter the highest institutional flows we have seen since the BGI acquisition.
Institutional index net inflows were led by strength in index equity driven by defined contribution flows offsetting outflows in our traditional defined benefit business.
Institutional active net inflows of $18 billion reflected BlackRocks strong multi-asset capabilities and top performing fixed income platform.
Multi-asset inflows reflected significant solutions-based funding particularly in the insurance outsourcing space and strong demand for our dynamic diversified growth strategy and our LifePath target-date series.
During the quarter we also saw the funding of a $2 billion unconstrained fixed income separate account.
While institutional active equity flows were flat for the quarter we saw inflows of nearly $2 billion into our scientific active equity business where 96% of assets are performing above benchmark over a five year period.
Bar-belling continues to be a key strength as institutional clients pair cost effective beta exposure with alternative and other high conviction alpha solutions to achieve uncorrelated returns net of approximately $700 million of capital success in return to clients institutional alternatives generated $1 billion of net new business led by infrastructure and hedge fund solutions.
In addition we had another strong fund raise in quarter for liquid alternatives raising more than $2 billion in new commitments and now have over $10 billion in committed capital to deployed for clients.
$800 million of net new flows from the recently announced ABR re-transaction funded in April and are not included in first quarter results.
In connection with this funding we will incur a product placement fee of approximately $5 million in the second quarter.
In summary in the quarter marked by continued volatility and divergent macro trends our diversified business continue to deliver stable financial results.
With that Ill turn it over to Larry.
Thanks Gary.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call.
Our strong performance over the last quarters result of the significant investments we made in our firm over the last few years.
The investments we made in our people the investments we made in our process and importantly the investments we made in our technology all of which have been driven by our efforts to continually adapt to our changing market environments the changing world environments and to meet the needs of our clients.
BlackRock is focused on helping our clients navigate an increasingly difficult unpredictable and divergent financial and economic landscape.
Investors today are faced with volatility in currencies and commodity markets; they are faced with sustained low and even negative interest rates and shifting long-term macro trends including longevity and the significant impact on technology on jobs.
Divergent economic conditions and Central Bank actions have sent currency markets into one of the most volatile periods on record affecting both developed economies such as Japan and the Eurozone as well as the emerging markets.
The relative value of the US dollar and associated currency volatility is obviously having a rapid and material impact on large multinational companies.
But its also affecting smaller US companies and consumers whereas a result of advancements in technology are increasingly buying and selling products in a virtual global economy.
Historic low rates have been having a tremendous impact on how investors save for the future.
The flow of funds in search of returns to meet future liabilities is growing larger everyday.
This mix of growing assets of shirking supply of low rates is creating a dangerous imbalance and the increasingly desperate search for yields is now the greatest single source of prudential risk in the financial system.
At the same time we are seeing a powerful changes in longevity and retirements and the investments in technology making the global economy and the way capital flows throw up flow through it and this is having a major impact in how we and our clients are living how our clients work and how we invest.
At BlackRock we are constantly looking at the world and at ourselves to assess whether our platform our services our strategies can help our clients meet the challenges of evolving investment landscape.
The need to anticipate changes and develop solutions is why we have deliberately equipped BlackRocks business model with such a wide range of capabilities a capability of no other asset manager possesses.
The issue impacting financial markets are beyond our ability to control but what we can control at BlackRock is how we respond to these issues how we build out our platform how we execute our strategies weve set forth for our business and how we deliver investment solutions to our clients.
BlackRocks first quarter results demonstrate the investments we made to differentiate our platform over time are driving value for our clients and most certainly are driving value for our shareholders.
In the first quarter BlackRock generated $70 billion of long-term net inflows representing a 6.5% quarterly annualized organic growth rate and a 5.5% organic growth rate over the last 12 months.
Similar to our fourth quarter in 2014 we had a diverse composition of flows something that was very very important for me as I think about our business.
This composition flows is positive across our client base positive across asset classes regions and investment styles.
Particularly we are seeing a significant momentum in our active business where we experienced the highest total active flows weve seen since 2007 at $32 billion representing a 9% organic - annualized organic growth rate in the first quarter.
Roughly two-thirds of the assets BlackRock manages are related to retirement.
So core of what we do? And particularly we are focused on helping investors shift their focus away from the next day and towards an annual income and retirement.
This is a difficult adjustment for many investors but a critical one for helping our clients achieve their goals.
They face significant challenges in a narrow zero rate environment or by allocations of loans are insufficient to meet the liability burdens of pension funds to meet the needs of insurers and to meet the needs of our individual investors.
The diversity and strength of BlackRocks fixed income business is helping investors in all types to navigate that environment and drove $36 billion of net inflows across our global platforms.
We continue to benefit from strong performance across our fixed income business where 91% of our active taxable fixed income AUM is above benchmark or per medium for a three year period.
SIO is in the 14th percentile.
High yield bond is in the 10th percentile and total return is in the second percentile and the first percentile over one year.
Clients also continue to adopt iShares fixed income ETFs as an efficient asset allocation and exposure tool.
And iShares remains the global leader in fixed income in the first quarter capturing the never won market share of flows of 53% with $19 billion of net inflows.
Today investors are increasingly focused on outcome-oriented strategies that target specific goals while they are generating an income stream preserving capital or growing assets within a certain risk profile and they are moving beyond the balance of traditional fixed income strategies into global unconstrained or multi-asset strategies to achieve those objectives.
BlackRocks multi-asset platform the combination of our investment management expertise a robust portfolio of construction business and superior risk management is all leveraging or unifying the Aladdin platform enabling us to provide investment strategies that will help our clients achieve the investment outcome inline with their needs and their objectives.
To counter low yields retail investors are leveraging our multi-asset income fund which has a wide net across asset classes to tap into income opportunities both within and beyond bonds and has a dynamic approach to balancing risk return and income while seeking to mitigate volatility.
Institutional investors are similar trained to our dynamic diversified growth fund for diversification for stable returns and also manage volatility.
Our ability to have deep and robust dialogue with our clients and to work closely with them and to provide some thought leaderships is what is allowing us to provide more tailored customized strategies and this is a very important component of what is transforming BlackRock with our clients the breadth of products as I said earlier our risk management capabilities and you dovetail it altogether we have a more and deeper dialogue with more clients than weve ever had in our 27 year history.
We saw more than $9 billion of solution-based funding for insurance clients in the quarter as they continue to search for holistic solutions to navigate a low-yield environment the transformational partnerships with the combination of a true One BlackRock effort and the resulting mandates span the best of our firm from active to passive to alternatives all powered by risk management and Aladdin capabilities.
These custom solution assignments leveraged our complete platform they build deeper and more robust relationships with our clients and clients are finding out that no other firm in our industry has the capabilities to create this type of partnership and to replicate these types of capabilities.
One key area where we are continuing to build out those capabilities even further is in infrastructure.
Infrastructure investments help our clients access an alternative asset class that provides inflation protection diversification and the potential of our capital appreciation and importantly for so many of our clients a long duration returns.
A key aspect of our work has been to promote improved public private partnerships which jointly increase opportunities for investors and to help governments access much needed sources of capital to drive economic growth to create countries to have a better economic future to improve the quality and life of countries and to create job creation.
This is a perfect marriage of building a base of clients and their capital with the needs of countries and building a better economic future and this is one of the strong reasons why we are emphasizing infrastructure over the next coming years as a major component of our positioning at BlackRock our positioning with the client and our positioning with various countries of the world.
In March we teamed with PEMEX Mexicos national oil company to finance two natural pipelines gas pipelines critical to Mexicos continued economic growth.
The partnership builds upon the well established track record of our existing infrastructure business and by extending our infrastructure footprint in Mexico will offer BlackRocks local and international clients access to a previously untapped investment opportunity.
Another area where we continue to invest is technology which is always been central to our business model.
Our Aladdin platform which we transformed from an internal risk and investment management system to a revenue generating business providing a unique competitive advantage for BlackRock.
Aladdin revenues grew 13% year-over-year and increasing value as third parties operating platforms position BlackRock to consistently invest a growing stream of revenues into improving our technology into expanding our technological offerings to powering a constant upgrade cycle for the Aladdin community and driving a network effect benefits for our clients and for our shareholders.
Technology has not only shaped the way BlackRock serves clients through Aladdin and how we view risk management it also drives the way we build investment solutions.
Technology and data science are enabling BlackRock to bind our fundamental investment expertise with the best of our scientific and index investing to create innovative investment strategies.
And we are investing in people with exceptional strong backgrounds in data technology to drive this effort.
Another area where we have been building out our capabilities is to meet the growing demand from investment offerings that have a measurable positive social impact; I would infrastructure as one of those capabilities.
In the first quarter we announced the launch of our new BlackRock impact platform which will truly unify the firms approach to impact investing where we currently manage more than $225 billion in assets.
As a fiduciary BlackRock thinks seriously our responsibilities not only to provide the investment performance and the solutions our clients need but we also are taking a leadership role in advocating for the best  for our clients best interest and those of the broader market and economy when it comes to long-term investment by the companies we invest on behalf of our clients.
These efforts are led by our corporate governance team which engages extensively with thousands of companies in order to help foster the best long-term outcomes for those companies and by doing so increasing value for our clients.
Our corporate governance team has a gold standard for the industry and is another key differentiating factor for BlackRock and our responsibilities with all our clients.
As part of our engagement effort earlier this week I sent a letter to CEOs globally including those of every company in the S&amp;P 500 urging them to engage on key governance matters then in our experience supports long-term and sustainable financial performance.
We recognize that some of the market dynamics that I described earlier present an overwhelming challenge for companies working to reset short-term pressures but companies can help diminish these pressures and improve their own positioning by developing and articulating a clear convincing and creating a long-term strategy and long-term value.
These efforts will help them attract long-term stakeholders and lay the foundations for a stronger a more sustainable and more stable economic growth for our country and other countries around the world.
Once again in the first quarter we initiated some truly innovative and unique mandates that will drive our long-term value for our clients and our investors.
Our PEMEX partnership is the first of its kind since Mexico passed its historical energy reform since 2013.
We announced several highly customized solution mandates to help our global insurance clients navigate a historical challenging interest rate environment.
We partnered with Ace to launch a new vehicle that pairs the strength of their insurance businesses with our ability to provide best-in-class investment returns.
And in Asia we are expanding our relationships with some of the worlds largest asset owners in new ways in one big case using Aladdin to better understand risk and enhancing the quality of returns and clients portfolio and a second case employing our transition management team to both implement a lion mark asset allocation changes that a client is undertaking in an effort to stimulate their nations economy.
Individually and collectively these mandates demonstrate the BlackRock creativity BlackRocks innovation and the breadth that BlackRock provide for solution-oriented offerings.
And more importantly through that process this creates and fosters deeper and more meaningful relationship with our clients which will then allow us to have and working with them a larger share of their wallet.
It is the strengthening of these relationships our relentless focus on improving the firm that will drive our future growth and will drive and create long-term value for our shareholders.
Once again I want to thank our employees for the continued unwavering dedication in creating a better financial future for our clients.
I want to thank the employees for being excellent students of the financial market to be prepared to answer questions for all our clients and with that Id like to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Hi Glenn Hi thanks very much.
I guess Ill focus on the retail side of the house.
You continue to make progress you made a lot of investments its paying dividends $14 billion in this quarter $11 billion last quarter and youve changed some of the way that you comp your people there.
So I consider BlackRock a big winner and some of the fiduciary changes the Department of Labor is suggesting but I am just curious how you think about it on both the iShares side of the house but also the traditional retail distribution because it impacts you guys in a lot of ways.
The DOL proposal? Correct correct.
First of all there is a 75 day common period and we have to recognize this is just a proposal and it may evolve and change.
I said all along we are a huge supporter of regulatory efforts in the protection of clients interest.
I think as you just suggested if clients feel more secure in their investments and they believe that their investments will indeed produce the outcomes that they are looking for no firm is a better winner on having more participation in financial markets than BlackRock.
So on a macro basis we are a huge supporter of making the investment world somewhat better for the investors so the investors feel that they have a equal opportunity to win over the long run.
As proposed there is certainly going to be changes in how people navigate their interest.
As you suggested we are  in some categories some people have said this is going to benefit indexing more than active.
We are not 100% certain there but obviously we will be a big beneficiary of this.
We have benefited and are proven in retail and iShares has to do with as you said we have built a bigger and a more robust team working with our client base.
We combined our retail and iShare sales force to provide what we call a client-centric approach.
We are agnostic about beta products versus alpha products.
We are trying to help and achieve outcomes and I dont think we are harmed in anyway related to whatever thats proposed in the DOL but this  what DOL is doing is actually playing into our approach of how we are trying to navigate beta products and alpha products mutual fund products with index and ETF products.
So we are well positioned for that but I do believe we are well positioned because how we organize ourselves for related to client-centric approach.
Fair enough.
I guess the only follow-up I had is is at the highest level couldnt agree with you more $70 billion of flows very broad based.
It underscores all the points you made.
At the end of the day when I look at it and I see flat operating leverage and flat margins albeit at very high levels it just took me back a drop and I just dont know if they are just a bunch of moving parts with some of the year-on-year stuff and the FX impacts.
So wonder if you could I am going to let Gary talk about it.
I think Gary could give you a little more color on the FX.
I appreciate.
Thanks.
Well I think your question is specific to the operating leverage and margin point.
So I would say the following Glenn.
I think first of all lets break it down.
If we look at the revenue side obviously the revenue was impacted as we said by about $70 million and in the year ago quarter that we would deem more opportunistic.
So obviously thats a big chunk of that came from the performance fee and then we had some significant transaction-related revenue in our FMA business.
Obviously then we got the FX impact and we noted that on a constant currency basis we think that base fees alone would have been probably up closer to 8% year-over-year.
Then we look at the expense side and I think on the expense side we are obviously benefiting to a certain extent from significant non-dollar expense that we have.
We have about 5800 employees that sit outside of the Americas that represents close to  I think 47% or 48% of our total employee base.
But obviously notwithstanding that there is still margin associated with our non-dollar sources of profitability.
So I think what I would suggest to you I hate these start to get into a so-called normalization because who knows what the definition of normalization is and thats a difficult concept.
But I would say that on a more recurring basis if we thought about our  both our revenues and expenses there is obviously been some timing differences that we also noted on the expense side versus last year in terms of the real estate credit and taking into account FX more broadly we look at our own business on a more normalized basis and wed suggest that we see positive year-over-year margin improvement and operating leverage.
Okay.
I appreciate that guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Katz with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi Bill.
Hey good morning guys.
Thanks so much for the update.
First question I have is maybe we stand the expense side for a second Gary you mentioned you expect to see a bit of a seasonal pick up in G&amp;A as you go forward.
Just sort of wondering where the growth might be and how we might be able to frame it out in absolute dollars? Im sorry Bill you are talking about expense more broadly or? Well I think you mentioned G&amp;A was seasonally low timing was little bit delayed for some of the initiatives.
So I was curious of what  where you focus on in terms of the initiatives and then absolute dollar size what kind of rate of increase are we talking about? Yes I mean we obviously try not to give a whole lot of guidance on that.
But I do think that we tend to see a little bit of a lower ramp up in our G&amp;A spend at the beginning of any part of the year.
And I think as we mentioned on a sequential basis versus the fourth quarter we obviously had  we basically benefited from the fact that we didnt have a closed-in funds launch in this quarter that we did mentioned that well be having about $5 million of product placement fees associated with AVR RE.
There is obviously some FX re-measurement stuff that also goes on that creates some noise quarter  quarter-to-quarter.
But I think generally speaking we havent really changed our estimate for run rate G&amp;A over the course of the year.
It just means that a lot of its going to be pushed into the latter part of the year as it was last year.
Okay and as a follow-up question I may have Larry or yourself scientific turned around a little bit this quarter you have great performance.
How much of that is market share gain versus sort of a step-up of demand and the broader question is you mentioned both passive and alternatives or high concentration alpha where is the market in terms of more generic long only relative value you mandate these days? Well we are seeing increased flows as you suggested in our scientific equity offerings.
We are seeing more  we have more dialogue on our model-based factor-based products and we have had now in five years.
I was frustrated as you know in other calls over the years that we have not seen as much flows in that area.
I think as some fundamental products have underperformed and people are starting to recognize that 96% of our SAE products are above our peer medium over five years.
And I think there is more interest today than weve seen in over five years for some type of model-based factor-based investment strategies.
You are seeing more and more in the mutual fund even in some cases ETFs more smart beta type of products.
And I believe this is going to finally begin a period of substantial momentum in these areas.
And so I do believe you are going to see shifts in that area as an industry more towards smart beta factor-based investing.
And I am not suggesting fundamental is going away its not.
And so but I believe we are positioned at BlackRock to benefit from that re-looking at the scientific or model-based equity.
We intend to be announcing some very substantial hires in this area.
I talked about data management.
We believe other sources of information like big dad is going to be an important component to how one looks at investing and so we are investing in these areas to  for the fundamental and our scientific side.
And this is probably one of  this is going to be one of our more exciting offerings in the coming years and this is an area that I believe is going to finally start to seeing accelerated growth.
So its not a matter of share Bill as you ask its a function of the world is re-focusing on these products.
Both on the retail side and the institutional side.
Okay its helpful.
Thanks so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi Craig.
Hey thanks.
Good morning everyone.
With many large prime money market funds converting to government funds now and now the LCR also requiring banks to hold more short-term government paper.
How do you think the demand supply dynamic will impact T-bill yields and accordingly the yields for government money market funds here? I will let Rob talk about that.
So obviously [Indiscernible] changes and where rates are going to go over the next year are going to have a pretty big impact than where we are going to see flows in the money market arena.
So right now we are seeing more flows internationally than domestic.
We are seeing more clients than in government and if rates change that will reverse.
So we are taking an approach where we have gone out to our clients and talking about the future regulation and preparing products for them that will make sense depending upon where rates are.
So some of those things sort be for example.
We are going to be going with constant net asset value government money market funds and those will be without redemption gates or liquidity fees.
We have the floating net asset value of institutional prime money market funds and we plan to maintain our largest prime fund which we have about $66.5 billion and thats the temp fund and that will be our private institutional fund.
And then we have others that were preparing a floating rate short maturity institutional prime money market fund and a constant NAV government money market fund and short maturity national and state-specific muni funds.
We are also prepared to do separate accounts.
So it really is going to depend upon where the regulation ends.
Of course you know that the implementation date of all of these new products are around October of 2016.
So I think working together with our clients to make sure that we are prepared no matter where rates go is important for us and year-over-year we have about $39 billion thats been added into the cash fund.
Thats about a 15% year-over-year growth.
So there is still a lot of demand for money market type products and it will just change some of the nuances to be able to apply with the regulatory issues.
But this is a big business for us and we also see some of the smaller money market groups approaching us as well because scale and size is also going to be very important to be able to satisfy our clients needs.
Thanks Rob.
Just as my follow-up here.
I was wondering if you guys can provide some background of flow trends between the retail focus core series and also your higher fee generating equity EPS and you know what while its positive to see growth it seems like there maybe a little bit of a mix shift undergoing in the equity business.
So maybe you can just provide some color here.
So certainly there is a big change in mix depending upon performance and also depending upon what areas clients are focused on.
So there is two-parts to that question.
One is people looking on an institutional basis for precision exposures in particular areas like emerging markets which would have a higher fee versus buy and hold segments that are looking to supplement what they own with ETFs and what they call a core series.
Now there is a difference in fee between the precision instruments like in emerging markets and the core series which is more of a buy and hold segment.
So quite frankly we are seeing growth in both of those right now.
But this is an area that is starting to gain attention.
Its starting to mature and what we are trying to do is develop a core set of products that is going to be for the buy and hold segment.
We continue to round that out.
We had over $12 billion thats going into that core segment.
In the quarter weve had about a 25% organic growth in this global core segment versus just a 14% overall market share in the iShares business.
But the point here is that there is a somewhat of a fee shift but its not that dramatic and its not the overriding factor in people buying these iShares.
Its segmentation is spilling out their portfolios and what they want and then of course you have to be competitive in what they are buying.
But we dont see an overall dramatic change in the pricing and this removing from high fee to lower fee particularly where you need.
Craig I would also add in terms of the fees and fee mix as I emphasize we saw strong flows in fixed income and so some of that you are just saying the fee mix change because of great flows into fixed income ETFs.
So as Rob discussed its not necessarily moving from one product in equity to another.
So I would tell you there is a constant amount of pressure to making sure we are competitive related to fees.
We are going to continue to have that pressure and we want to be a leader in that.
And so we are very comfortable with the mix of business and how business is evolving.
But more we are winning new clients that we did not have or more buy and hold where this was not where BlackRock had great market share and as we penetrate more and more of the independent advisors that historically was more the landscape of a vanguard where we are starting to see increased flows in our core series.
So its not that we are seeing a substitution with some of our clients we are penetrating more in different clients.
As Rob said we are penetrating more buy and hold clients too.
So we look at this as our broadening of our platform not necessarily an outright fee mix change.
Thanks Larry.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Lee with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hi Robert.
Hi thanks.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
I have a question really on the  I wanted to on the DC business.
I guess first question is you certainly have had very strong fixed income flows but just curious in your perspective have you seen the replacement activity in the 401(k) market that has been talked about for a while.
I think you guys expected and kind of maybe how do you feel like if thats happening if you are kind of getting your fair share of that activity? We grew in the first quarter defined contribution business by $20 billion so I am not sure if thats a fair share.
I believe it is I think we had a very good quarter of defined contribution.
We are investing quite a bit which then represents about 14% organic growth.
So we are well positioned in it.
We are increasingly working on more trends that are impacting in a favorable way for us.
So keep in mind what are the trends in DC.
There is a greater trend towards open architecture really good for us in BlackRock.
I mean historically we were harmed by close architecture more open architecture allows us to provide our products.
Two in DC there is a greater demand for indexation that obviously plays into our strength.
Three as a innovator in target date we are benefiting from that.
So do you add those three combinations plus we have witnessed in lot of the $20 billion of flows because our strong active fixed income performance we are seeing accelerated flows in those DC plans that are consistent and staying with the active strategies.
So across the board I would tell you we have  probably as large of opportunities in DC than weve had in years and years and years and much of it has to do as I discussed earlier our positioning our strength in performance in fixed income our strength in designing target date products and moving towards indexation and much of it has to do with DC market not growing as a whole.
In fact there is a belief that DC can slowly start decreasing as the men and women are getting closer to retirement are spending what they accrued.
But I believe BlackRock has a great opportunity in front of us to gain market share and we are very well positioned in product and we are well positioned to take advantage of this because our positioning in the index and in active fixed income.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then maybe just one follow-up on the ETF business I mean obviously business is going gangbusters in the US outside the US and I am just curious I mean you guys have come up with different ETF product structures and I am thinking of particularly of kind of some of the term date fixed income strategies youve come up with developed.
And it doesnt feel like those particularly have taken off.
I am just kind of curious to know your thoughts on that just it would seem to be a kind of ideal structure for these low rate environment if investors are nervous about higher rates to kind of turn things out.
But just kind of your thoughts on why maybe that hasnt taken hold as much as you would have  maybe should have  would have expected? So your guess is as good as ours.
We try to have different products in the pipeline to satisfy what we think our clients should be looking at.
But there is a whole product process here of awareness going on a socking to clients that will take them a while to understand what the product is they like to see its performance a bit before they invest in it.
So I cant tell you exactly why we think that it makes sense as you do.
But we like to have different products in the pipeline and actually we have pretty high aspirations for these.
One of the ones that I am a little disappointed in is is the iBonds that we have because it really fits a clients portfolio so much better than buying individual bonds and taking to risk of the bid offer spread and having more liquidity and pricing diversification and look through treatment.
So I am a little disappointed but if I axe on that and not propose the fund I can tell you took about ten years to get our emerging markets fund off the ground and see real money come into it.
So we are just going to go out there if we think its a good product talk to our clients make sure we have the awareness show them the positives of it.
Be able to evaluate the performance and then I hope that it catches on.
This is very different than some others and you tell me what they caught on.
We have our mid ball strategy the currency hedge.
It also is a matter of when you produce the product and whats happening in the market at that particular time.
So I think for us our growth strategy is to continue that come out with innovative ideas.
Have a pipeline of these.
Make sure we are in the markets and then over time depending upon those environments the factors and awareness that will ground.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Worthington with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi Ken.
Hi good morning.
Just one question on the regulatory front for me really looking at FSOC and SIFIs so how is the conversation evolving with regulators on systemic risk today? I guess to what extent is the conversation still moving for of the corporate risk to the product risk? And then how effectively do you think the asset management industry is at kind of regulator education and is it really effectively making its case? I think the dialogue at the FSOC in the United States is principally activity-based.
In Europe it was going towards activity-based it has migrated a little bit to more corporate-based and activity-based.
It is in a common period that we are sending comments to the FSB related to that.
I think there is going to be a long dialogue.
There was a meeting earlier this week at the  I think thats our reports related to it related to the FSB meetings in New York with large investment management companies.
I would say from BlackRocks perspective a year ago year-and-a-half ago its was pretty lonely for us that we were one of the few firms having those meetings and educating regulators related to the risk associated with asset managers.
We always note importantly that the asset management industry represents less than 20% of the capital markets.
Asset owners are principally the largest players.
They manage their own money and they play a significant role too.
So if you want to effect the ecosystem and making sure the ecosystem is safe and protected for society and for investors as we said publicly and we continue to try to educate it has to be activity-based.
And today now because of the efforts of the FSB tens of asset mangers are now working alongside us.
Industry groups are working alongside with us.
So I am actually pretty thrilled that there is more companies more people hoping spending time educating.
I dont know what the solution or the outcome will be but we look at this as a long-based process.
We want to be constructive that its our number one responsibility in making sure that in the end it leads to a better sounder financial system.
If we have that as I talked about other issues related to long-term I think BlackRock is a biggest beneficiary of more participation by more people because they believe its a safer environment to invest will be all I am all in favor of it.
However there are difference of opinions and we are trying to push our opinions.
Its going to be a long process.
Its going to be very public about how the process plays out.
I dont feel any  I actually believe the process is more robust now with more conversation that weve had in a long time and well see how this all plays our Ken.
I dont I cant give you any degree of where this is moving internationally.
I would be kind of odd as the FSOC is moving towards outcome activities that therefore becomes in a different way I would then question is this a Europe versus US phenomenon.
Its interesting to know what Europe is doing with Google and other issues in technology attacking US technology companies.
So I am  we are participating this.
We are going to be good corporate citizens and we are trying to do our best in education.
Great that was very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Our final question will come from the line will come from the line of Michael Carrier with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi Mike.
Thanks guys.
Hi.
Hey Gary maybe just a follow-up on the margins and I understand a year ago like the elevated BRS and performance fees if I just take the second quarter going forward and thinking about the year-over-year trends organic growth coming in above 5% markets up and obviously got the FX hurdle.
As we start to looking at second quarter third quarter going forward assuming these trends are similar.
Should we still see that year-over-year ability to generate operating leverage or is there something changing on the expense front? And I know there is a lot of moving parts but just wanted to get a sense relative to the first quarter year-over-year trend.
Michael I am going to go back to something Larry said in his comments.
Its about what we can control and what we cant control.
So I think we feel incredibly comfortable with our ability to grow organically and we feel incredibly comfortable with the ability to manage our expenses as we have over the last four plus years and as you know notwithstanding reinvesting over $1 billion back into the business through the P&amp;L we have expanded the margin over 350 basis points during that time.
But there is certain things we cant control I mean which obviously is beta and FX and notwithstanding all of those things which clearly is impacting our fee rates year-over-year.
We still think if we have kind of stable markets we are very much committed to the original margin guidance weve ever  weve always given people which is that we think that our business has obviously benefits from scale in a bunch of areas and we see no reason that we wont be able to continue to evidence margin improvement that we have over the last three plus years.
Okay thats helpful and then just quick follow-up this is two quarters I think in a row that you guys have commented above like a 6% organic growth rate.
And Larry I think when you talk about all the trends and the products that you offer what you guys are doing on the distribution front.
It makes sense that new clients are gravitating towards lot of the offerings.
I think when you guys look at investments being made currently for the outlook do you  like what ending do you feel like you are in in terms of still being able to either launch new products or gain additional share in certain distribution channels to be able to be in this whether its a 5% organic growth rate but obviously its been higher than what weve been used to? Sure.
So I think we are now starting to witness the impact of having better performance in our active products especially fixed income.
Two our expansion in the RIA channels and the buy and hold channel is now being exhibited in their mutual funds.
Its been exhibited in our core series ETF products and I can underscore and thats how we are building on and expanding our global platform and I am using infrastructure also as a mechanism to get stronger within these areas countries side-by-side building our brand in those countries building our opportunities in those countries.
Obviously thats a long-term strategy Michael thats not something that we are going to witness and see significant changes.
Thats a good example of a five seven year investment where we see on behalf of our clients but it also has a very significant impact on our positioning in the various countries as a leader in the investment business.
So you think about those investments.
We are  I think we are going to continue to build market share in retail.
We witness that for four straight years.
Two I think its fair to say that ETFs are in a secular growth period that is not over yet.
We are the biggest beneficiary of that secular growth and then three which I said for many years if we can begin to build a stronger relationship institutionally with more clients and building not a product-based relationship but cross-selling of end solutions we are going to start benefiting on the institutional side.
So you add those together it does allow us to have above industry and I want to underscore above industry organic growth trends.
And then if you add the amount of investments we are making not just in alternate  not just in infrastructure but across the board in alternatives where its not really shown up in the organic growth area because as I said we won $10 billion commitment.
We dont  unlike lot of the private equity firms we dont show that in our AUM but we identify the unfunded commitments.
Thats another good example of the power and the growth of the opportunity.
So you tie this together cross-selling products with institutions with better performance by providing solutions by having even more market share opportunities in our Aladdin business our iShare secular growth and our positioning in retail worldwide plus better positioning country-by-country I think we are in a very good position to be leading above industry trend market share.
Ladies and gentlemen And market growth  let me I am sorry operator.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions.
Mr.
Fink do you have any closing remarks? Well I think its just that some of that  first of all thank you for taking your time.
I know there are lot of other people institutions that you are going to run to because of all the first quarter results today.
Let me just reiterate we believe that our first quarter results really highlights the diversity of our product platform the global nature of our platform that truly differentiates us versus from every player in the world.
As I said just earlier we are seeing that impact of those investments.
We are seeing a continued positioning.
I truly believe as a firm if we continue to talk about long-term issues try to be helpful in the narrative in the world of investing a more balanced long-term approach and if we continue to execute those strategies on behalf of our clients and our clients needs we will be positioned quite well for our clients worldwide our institutional clients our retail clients.
And I would just underscore these are very exciting times for BlackRock and all the citizens of BlackRock.
And so I feel very good about where we are where we are going and the opportunities in front of us.
With that I would like to just thank everybody for joining us this morning and your continued interest in our organization.
Have a good quarter.
This concludes todays teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Incorporated Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Teleconference.
Our hosts for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Gary S.
Shedlin; President Robert S.
Kapito; and General Counsel Matthew Mallow.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
Thank you.
Mr.
Mallow you may begin your conference.
Thanks very much.
Good morning everyone.
I'm Matt Mallow the General Counsel of BlackRock.
Before Larry and Gary make their remarks let me remind you that during the course of this call we may make a number of forward-looking statements and call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual results may of course differ from those statements.
As you know BlackRock has filed and will file reports with the SEC which lists some of the factors that may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we say today.
And BlackRock assumes no duty and will not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that let's begin the call.
Gary? Thank you Matt and good morning everyone.
It's my pleasure to be here to present results for the second quarter of 2015.
Before I turn it over to Larry to offer his comments I'll review our quarterly financial performance and business results.
As usual I will be focusing primarily on our as adjusted results.
Our second quarter results again demonstrate the value of the investments we've made to assemble the industry's broadest and most global suite of active and investment investment  index investment offerings and to deliver differentiated customized investment solutions to our clients.
Our business model was purposely designed to deliver differentiated results in the current viable market environment.
Second quarter revenue of $2.9 billion was 5% higher than a year ago while operating income of $1.2 billion was 10% higher on a year-over-year basis.
Earnings per share of $4.96 were up 1% compared to a year ago reflecting lower non-operating results and a higher normalized tax rate in the current quarter.
Non-operating results for the quarter reflected $3 million of net investment losses largely driven by net losses on unhedged or partially hedged multi-asset and fixed income seed investments.
Recall that our first quarter non-operating results included a one-time gain of $40 million related to the fair value of our pre-existing interest in BlackRock Kelso Capital Advisors.
Our as-adjusted tax rate for the quarter was 30.1% compared to an as-adjusted tax rate of 24.8% in last year's second quarter that benefited from several favorable non-recurring items.
We currently estimate that 30% remains a reasonable projected tax run rate for the remainder of 2015.
Second quarter long-term net outflows of $7 billion reflected elevated market volatility as $24 billion of net new business from active and iShares products was more than offset by $31 billion of low fee institutional index outflows.
While this resulted in an organic asset growth rate significantly less than our target for the quarter our annualized long-term organic base fee growth rate was in excess of 5% as each of our retail and iShares businesses along with the active component of our institutional business generated positive organic growth in the second quarter.
Over the last twelve months notwithstanding the increasingly unsettled macroenvironment BlackRock's highly diversified platform generated approximately $180 billion of long-term net new business representing a 4% long-term organic AUM growth rate and a 6% organic base fee growth rate as faster growth in our higher fee channels continues to contribute to a favorable overall change in our base fee mix.
We previously discussed the importance of organic-based fee growth rate to our business and we're always thinking about ways to improve our disclosure to help investors and analysts better understand our business.
As you will note on Page 2 of our earnings supplement we have now expanded our financial disclosure to include organic base fee growth on a trailing 12-month basis to better reflect this positive mix change over time.
Second quarter base fees rose 4% year-over-year as the average AUM increased due to organic growth and market appreciation despite $191 billion of negative FX impact associated with dollar appreciation against foreign currencies over the last 12 months.
On a constant currency basis we estimate that quarterly base fees grew approximately 8% year-over-year.
Sequentially base fees were up 6% reflecting organic base fee growth the effective one additional day in the quarter and seasonally higher securities lending fees.
Performance fees of $136 million were up 18% from a year ago reflecting strong alpha generation in certain equity products that lock annually in the second quarter.
BlackRock Solutions' revenue of $161 million was up 10% both year-over-year and sequentially.
Our Aladdin business which represented 80% of BRS revenue in the quarter grew 14% year-over-year and 2% sequentially the year-over-year increase driven by several sizable clients going live on the Aladdin platform over the last 12 months.
We continue to see strong market demand for global investment platform consolidation and multi-risk solutions.
Revenue in our financial markets advisory business was flat year-over-year reflecting the positive impact of residual disposition activity in last year's second quarter but up $11 million sequentially driven by increased revenue from several advisory assignments associated with Fed CCAR diagnostics.
Other income declined $9 million from a year ago reflecting lower 12b-1 fees and the impact of real estate-related disposition fees a year ago.
Total expense rose $12 million year-over-year or 1% driven primarily by revenue-related items including incentive compensation AUM-related expense which were largely offset by a decline in G&amp;A expense.
Compensation and benefits increased $65 million year-over-year or 7% due to higher head count and incentive compensation partially offset by the impact of a stronger dollar.
G&amp;A expense decreased $65 million year-over-year as a result of lower levels of marketing spend in the current quarter and the impact of elevated legal and regulatory expense in last year's second quarter.
Sequentially G&amp;A expense decreased $27 million from the first quarter driven by lower levels of marketing spend.
Second quarter G&amp;A expense also included a previously disclosed $4 million product placement fee associated with the recently announced ABR Refunding.
Our second quarter as-adjusted operating margin of 44.9% was positively impacted by the lower level of quarterly G&amp;A spend.
Looking forward we continue to anticipate a higher and more normalized level of G&amp;A spend during the second half of 2015.
We remain committed to using our cash flow to optimize shareholder value by first reinvesting in our business and then returning excess cash to shareholders.
In line with that commitment on June 12 BlackRock announced the acquisition of Infraestructura the leading independently managed infrastructure investment business in Mexico.
We expect to close this acquisition in the fourth quarter of this year.
During the second quarter we also repurchased an additional $275 million worth of shares and refinanced $750 million of debt with a 10-year 700 million denominated note bearing a 1.25% coupon.
This represented our first euro-denominated debt issuance better aligning our capital structure with our global business.
Our consistent earnings growth and stable financial results reflect the benefits of our diverse platform long-term client partnerships and commitment to investment performance.
Second quarter long-term net flows were impacted by over $30 billion of low fee institutional index outflows which masked almost $13 billion of active inflows driven by our improving fundamental equity performance top tier fixed income performance and strength in our multi-asset and alternatives businesses.
BlackRock's global retail franchise saw long-term net inflows of $11 billion representing 8% annualized organic growth for the quarter and 10% organic assets growth over the last 12 months.
Flows were driven by continued strength and outcome-oriented offerings including unconstrained fixed income and multi-asset strategies.
International retail net inflows of more than $3 billion were paced by strong flows into global unconstrained fixed income and international equities.
For the quarter our leading European equities franchise generated nearly $2 billion of net inflows while our top quartile Asian equity franchise gathered more than $1 billion in new assets.
Leadership in these areas contributed to BlackRock maintaining its year-to-date number one ranking in cross-border mutual fund flows and its market leading position in the United Kingdom.
U.S.
retail inflows of more $7 billion reflected strong fixed income flows (9:33) broad-based even in a period of rising rates.
Despite a challenging quarter for industry flows in U.S.
active mutual funds the depth and breadth of our franchise positioned BlackRock to continue to grow market share as we rank in the top five in U.S.
retail industry flows for the quarter and saw a strong demand for iShares from U.S.
retail clients.
Global iShares generated $11 billion of net new flows representing 4% annualized organic growth for the quarter and 11% organic growth over the last 12 months.
While the ETF industry experienced quarterly volatility amid uncertainty in global economic growth and central bank policies year-to-date flows for both iShares and the ETF industry remain in record territory.
iShares retained its number one global market share position for the first half of the year and remains well ahead of the competition in global fixed income flows.
iShares equity inflows of $9 billion were led by flows into non-U.S.
equity exposures including our EAFE and Japan funds.
We continue to see heightened investor focus on risk management as our currency hedge funds gathered nearly $4 billion and our minimum volatility funds raised more than $2 billion during the quarter.
iShares fixed income inflows of approximately $2 billion reflected flows into investment grade corporate and emerging markets bonds offset by outflows from treasuries and high-yield as investors repositioned portfolios amidst global rate movements.
Our institutional business experienced $29 billion in quarterly long-term net outflows primarily driven by $35 billion of low fee index equity outflows from several large clients looking to reallocate rebalance or meet their cash needs.
As previously mentioned these low fee index outflows had a limited impact on organic base fee growth for the quarter.
Institutional active net inflows of more than $2 billion reflected BlackRock's strong multi-asset and alternatives capabilities offset by outflows in active equities.
Multi-asset inflows of more than $4 billion were driven by solutions-based funding particularly in the insurance outsourcing space and continued strong demand (11:37).
Excluding return of capital of approximately $1 billion net inflows of $2.3 billion into core institutional alternatives were broad-based including alternative solutions hedge funds real asset and fund-to-fund offerings.
Fund raising momentum continued with an additional $1 billion of illiquid alternative commitments raised in the second quarter bringing total unfunded commitments a source of future net inflows to approximately $11 billion.
Active equity outflows of nearly $2 billion resulted from a single sub-advisory redemption.
Overall BlackRock's second quarter reflected continued growth and stability in a more volatile environment and once again demonstrated the value of our highly differentiated and diversified platform.
With that I'll turn it over to Larry.
Thank you Gary and good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call.
Our second quarter results were driven by clients' continued trust in BlackRock to help them navigate an increasingly unpredictable financial and economic landscape.
Uncertainty and anticipation around the first Fed rate hike in nine years and concern related to the possible impact of a Greek Eurozone exit has led to persistent volatility in currencies in risk asset prices and global interest rates.
Turmoil in China's equity market has reached unprecedented levels and the impact of intervention is yet to be fully understood by our markets.
Falling commodity prices continue to put pressure on commodity exporting economies and both governments and corporations are being meaningful impacted by a relative currency valuations.
Constrained liquidity conditions are further magnifying market stress and volatility and I believe this elevated volatility will be going forward and I believe are part of the market.
Both asset allocation to beta and alpha products in active management will be material drivers of returns for investors as they look to stay ahead of the changing market dynamics.
Each of those drivers impacted client behavior in the second quarter.
As we saw a shift inflows from a range of high-performing active products and iShares precision exposures while experiencing redemptions in low-fee broad market index accounts.
The investments we made in our platform over time once again has enabled BlackRock to create this highly differentiated investment solutions across asset classes investment styles and geographies for our clients.
At BlackRock we are focused on delivering our best thinking and resources to our clients and our portfolio management teams.
The BlackRock Investment Institute continues to lead that discussion as evidenced by a recent client call in Greece which was attended by nearly 3 000 clients.
This level of engagement by our clients is translating into increased partnership with BlackRock to meet their investment needs.
And more clients throughout the world are looking for BlackRock and BlackRock's ideas which we believe over a long cycle will lead to more share of wallet with these clients.
Our internal culture of information sharing and our relentless focus on risk management and performance in our active businesses is also enhancing BlackRock's ability to generate alpha on behalf of our clients and has resulted in strength across our active platform in performance and inflows.
We've been very vocal about addressing the performance challenges in our active equity business.
More than three years ago we began upgrading our portfolio management teams in our Asian and U.S.
fundamental active equity franchises.
While we knew these changes will result in a near-term outflows and it would take our teams many years to build the performance track records we have the conviction based on past successes in revamping our active fixed income business and we kept our focus on the long term for our clients.
We brought in new portfolio managers who are currently responsible for more than $50 billion in assets and those managers are delivering on their objectives of generating high quality risk adjusted returns.
We not only hired new talent we invested in technology we elevated young talent from organic growth internally and linked the global equity platform together to more effectively leverage the benefits of BlackRock.
Since the respective start dates those managers have generated more than $2 billion in alpha for the BlackRock clients.
As a global firm our objective is constantly outperform across our fundamental active equity platform and we've seen top performance in a range of products and regions.
For the three-year period in the United States our basic value fund is at 11th percentile.
In Europe our European value fund is in the fourth percentile.
And in Asia our Asian dragon fund is in the 16th percentile.
In the second quarter BlackRock saw improvement in our overall fundamental active equity performance figures with 78% and 61% of our AUM is above market or peer medium for the one- and three-year period.
And strong long-term track records for our European and Asian equity franchises as Gary discussed is translated into flows raising more than $3 billion collectively in the second quarter.
We still have work to do with our fundamental active team but we remain highly confident in the enhancements we made with the team that we have onboard and we are very encouraged by the direction the business is headed.
We also saw continued strength in generation of strong performance across our model or scientific active equity platform.
With 85% and 95% of our assets above benchmark or peer medium for one- and three-year period.
And in our active fixed income performance remained strong across the platform with 89% of our assets above benchmark or peer medium for the three-year period translating into continued momentum and flows.
Against the divergent and volatile backdrop and a challenged quarter for industry flows BlackRock saw a total of net long-term outflows of $7 billion as $24 billion of net inflows into active and iShare strategies was offset by a $31 billion net outflows in these low-fee institutional index strategies.
Importantly from a regional perspective we saw $18 billion of net inflows in the Americas offset by a net outflows of $25 billion from international clients who were more directly exposed to all the macro challenges that I discussed.
As Gary discussed focusing solely on organic asset flows misses a critical component of our story.
BlackRock generated long-term organic base fee growth of 5% in the second quarter reflecting the effectiveness of our differentiated business model and the combination of active and index on a single platform as higher fee active flows drove robust revenue growth more than offsetting any revenue loss from our index outflows.
In the second quarter we saw sizable institutional index equity outflows driven by redemptions from international and official institutional clients due to a variety of cash needs and asset allocation decisions.
A number of those outflows from institution clients however have been offset by inflows by the same clients into BlackRock's active strategies.
This is a very important component that we all should be focusing on because as we discussed how we are building our unique business model having the ability to have clients internally move assets around whether it's from beta to active or active to beta this allows us to continue to build deeper and more elongated relationships with our clients.
Year-to-date a desire to reallocate or address cash needs drove ten of our largest clients to redeem over $40 billion in institutional index assets.
However those same clients reinvested across BlackRock's active equity and fixed income multi-asset and also alternative strategies resulting in a positive net revenue impact for the firm.
This demonstrates the value as I said earlier of a deep strategic relationship we remain with our clients and validate strongly the strength of our solution-oriented business model.
Second quarter active net inflows of $13 billion was driven by fixed income multi-asset and alternatives.
We remain bullish on the opportunities in active fixed income as investors stuck to a prolonged low rate environment searching for both yield and capital preservation.
BlackRock generated $9 billion of active fixed income net flows across unconstrained high-yield and total return strategies.
The breadth and diversity of BlackRock's fixed-income platform resonated in the second quarter as clients reposition assets to achieve their investment goals.
For example our iShares high-yield range saw net outflows of $1.8 billion in the quarter.
The top performance we have in our active high-yield franchise positioned us to capture $2.4 billion of net inflows.
Alternatives was also a contributor to inflows in organic base fee growth in the quarter with $2 billion of net inflows.
Alternative flows were led by alternative solutions where BlackRock is leveraging our differentiated model and our market position to construct outcome-oriented multi-alternative portfolios for our clients.
BlackRock continues to build out our capabilities and infrastructure which is an important asset class that provides long-term returns for our clients.
In the second quarter BlackRock announced the acquisition of Mexico's leading independent managed infrastructure investment firm.
This acquisition advanced to BlackRock's growth strategy all throughout Latin America obviously and including Mexico and demonstrates our firm  strong commitment of being a leader in infrastructure investments.
This is a continuation of the expansion of our infrastructure footprint in Mexico following the partnership with Pemex we announced in March.
We also believe that building out our infrastructure platforms throughout the globe will make us a stronger and a more meaningful leading player in each local market.
And I believe it's very imperative to understand infrastructure investing for BlackRock will lead us to have a stronger mutual footprint as we grow out our businesses worldwide.
And as I said repeatedly over years and years we need to be a local firm in every country to build the trust and the strength as we become much more of a global platform firm.
Technology remains a key area of focus and investment for BlackRock across all aspects of our business to enhance our investment process client service operational efficiencies and our unifying Aladdin technology platform.
Aladdin generated 14% revenue growth year-over-year and Aladdin's growing value as a third-party platform positions BlackRock to invest a consistent and growing stream of revenues into improving our technology and expanding our offerings.
And indeed more and more clients are looking for risk management platforms as more investors need to go more global the need for a more robust capital market focused technology platform is more imperative today than any other time and BlackRock Solutions' Aladdin is becoming the driving risk management platform and that more and more clients are looking to take on.
The next step into the evolution of our business and ability to generate alpha is a further harnessing technology to create innovative investment strategies for our clients.
Over the last few years we have become increasingly focused on becoming a data-driven company.
Available data is exploding for the financial services industry and the true winners will be the firms that can extract information and package it into innovative solutions that generate alpha and outcomes for our clients.
We recently hired Dr.
Andrew Ang to be our head of our new factor-based strategy group.
Andrew joins us from Columbia Business School and is an innovator in factor-based investing and portfolio construction.
Technology is also going to become a more important part of our  adapting to our evolving fixed income landscape.
Throughout the quarter there has been elevated focus on the state of the fixed-income markets.
There are a variety of dynamics at play including extraordinary monetary policy increased bond issuance and regulatory reform which has contributed to reduced dealer inventories and lower turnover.
While media attention has only spiked in recent months BlackRock has been focusing on the issues for several years how to enhance our trading capabilities how to enhance our portfolio construction and risk management as well as being a thought leader on the topic.
Going forward it is important for all market participants to recognize that we can't turn back the clock.
We need to shift the dialogue to look forward and focus on solutions.
BlackRock hopes to play a constructive role in helping our clients meet the challenges of today's market environment.
We are also making recommendations on what the regulators and market participants can do to help improve the market ecosystem using a three-pronged approach including modernizing the market structure addressing liquidity challenges at the product level and embracing product innovation like fixed-income ETFs.
As our client investment challenges evolve so does the nature of the solutions they require.
BlackRock's business model was deliberately built to deliver a multi-facet solution to our clients.
And I don't believe any other investment firm can provide this multifaceted solution.
BlackRock's ability to leverage these capabilities across a diverse global platform of active and index equities fixed income multi-asset and alternative strategies all backed by Aladdin analytics risk management and advisor capabilities leading investment performance and client service  big sentence here  continues to result in improved outcomes for our clients and our shareholders.
As always I want to thank our employees for the continued dedication to working and to create a better financial future for our clients.
With that I'll open it up for questions.
your first question comes from Luke Montgomery with Bernstein.
Hey Luke.
Good morning.
Thanks.
I really appreciate the addition of the organic revenue growth disclosure in the supplement so thanks for that.
I was hoping you might provide a little context  just a little more context around the various drivers of revenue yield and base fee growth between FX translation AUM inflow mix shift and anything around the anterior rates of AUM and revenue yield as you head into Q3? That feels like a half an hour answers though.
Okay Gary.
Well Luke we appreciate that you recognize that we are trying to add to a more appropriate disclosure for you guys.
I think as we've talked about at length with you guys the fee rates are constantly changing for us.
It's a function of not only the organic component which I think we're now demonstrating to everybody that is in our control.
And as we continue to see stronger growth in our higher fee retail and iShares businesses which carry higher fee rates on an organic basis.
If nothing else changes in the world we would expect the overall fee rate to be accretive for us.
In other words obviously organic revenue growth in excess of organic AUM growth obviously helps that over time.
However we can't control things like divergent beta and FX.
And obviously as we've talked about over time that will have an impact depending on where we go.
In this quarter it happened to help us but in other quarters it has hurt us over time.
As you know U.S.
equities rose about 5% over the last year in terms of U.S.
benchmark AUM that's about 32% of our equity base fees but in fact is the lowest fee geography for us at around 13 basis points.
On an FX adjusted basis year-over-year we saw EM in Europe down between 10% and 12% each commodities down close to 30% and those buckets are about another third of our equity base fees and have average fee rates significantly higher around 46 basis points.
So in this case year-over-year the overall fee rate was down about 0.6 points or roughly to about 22 basis points due to that.
But we benefited from some of that.
In the current quarter also we had better mix and we had an additional day which basically helped the sequential fee rate up close to 0.9 basis points.
Look I would also add a little more color to what Gary just said.
Three four years ago if we saw outflows in index funds we may not have seen the active flows.
What I think what is really illustrative of all the hard work we've done over the last few years is we are now part of that dialogue and more and more clients that we are able to do this.
As we suggested a lot of money that was in terms of the outflows was more cash need driven by our clients for rainy day issues and it's raining in some of the commodity-based economies and so they're utilizing some of that.
I think one of the things that is important to understand.
I don't think the market understood how much flows that were generated by these large institutions internationally into the equity markets and in some cases it's turned because they have needs for domestic needs but we are seeing we have more increased dialogue on multi-assets in European equities Asian equities alternatives than we've ever had in the history of the firm.
So the dialog is more robust and certainly a lot more complete and I think that's a component of the story.
As Gary said we can't control FX we can't control divergent beta.
As Gary suggested there has been quite a bit of divergent beta in the commodity-based stuff even in the last few weeks of June or first few weeks of July we've seen more divergent beta again.
And so we can't control that but we certainly have and probably the key issue that we can control deeper more robust conversation with more clients worldwide.
Okay thanks.
And then separately now that IOSCO has filed the FSOC impact off the approach of indentifying specific asset managers as SIFIs in favor of a focus more on products and activities.
Do you think that change in the odds of how the FSB will ultimately approach regulation of the industry and if we reached a favorable tipping point or it's not time to relax yet? I would not relax.
I won't  I don't think we should ever relax.
Obviously let me just step back and say A if the market is a safer stronger market and more people believe that the market is a great place if regulation does add greater safety and soundness in the minds of more and more investors we'll be the biggest beneficiary.
So our whole approach to regulatory conversation is somewhat different than with some of the other leaders in the industry.
We are  we have traditionally  and I continue to believe we will continue to do that tradition of having a deep dialog with regulators using our international knowledge of what's going on and helping them try to understand what would be the best way to make a safer and sounder dialog.
So I don't want to say the conversation is going to be more relaxed in the future because we need to still work with the regulators understanding what are the potential issues as the world becomes more dependent on capital markets.
And that's happening now as the ecosystem change with higher capital standards with banks and more and more enterprises whether it's companies or individuals are using capital markets for raising capital both debt and equity.
We need a safe and sound ecosystem.
And if it means that having more supervision in some of the activities we may be in favor of that.
So we are going to work towards building a safer and sounder capital markets and we have enjoyed deep relationships with the regulators.
And obviously they don't have to listen to us they are our regulators.
But by having what I would call a constructive dialog I believe it allows us to be part of that conversation and hopefully this will lead to a better outcome.
Your next question comes from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Hi Alex.
Hey good morning everyone.
Larry first question on fixed income markets for you guys.
Obviously we saw a pretty big move in the ten year and the quarter BlackRock's overall fixed income franchise did a pretty good job obviously handling this move.
When you look out with respect to client's response to prospect of higher rate announcing the move we've seen so far what are you hearing with respect to the overall allocations and just kind of the remix...
So I find this a humorous narrative.
There is a big article a couple of days ago I think even Barron had a big article about oh what's going to happen in fixed income.
Hey higher rates will lead to more players in fixed income not less and I'll get into that in a minute.
Secondarily 70% of our fixed income investors are pension and insurance companies.
They're not influenced by market moves.
They're trying to match a liability and that's the problem with the narrative they're not the players who're going to whip around the interest rates.
But the true component is so many pension funds and insurance companies were so harmed by lower interest rates.
In some cases we know many insurance companies have actually a wide gap  their liabilities are longer than their assets.
So if we actually saw a rising rate environment this is actually quite additive to the balance sheets of insurance companies.
If we saw a rise in interest rates especially in the short end the pension funds liabilities will look less onerous because it's all based on their funding rate and the capital rate they used for their short-term rates.
In fact many pension funds if we saw a real spike in interest rates would (36:39) a lot of their pension liabilities.
So higher rates actually is good for most long-term investors and they're not particularly concerned about rising rates and they're going to have money because their liability  they bought these fixed interest items against certain fixed-based liabilities.
And so they're not going to be that harmed on that.
Now they may have some accounting treatment differentials but it's not going to be a big issue.
And for those who believe they want to navigate around the potentiality of higher rates they're going to navigate from a long-dated asset  longer duration fixed-income product to a shorter duration one.
And for those who still need to be in more long duration but they're going to go into more the unconstrained products that we are the leading driver in flows.
So I think people just forget they're implying that everybody is a hedge fund when higher rates means everybody's going to be abandoning bond funds.
Now some individuals were in fixed income because of safety and soundness.
They don't generally whip them around either.
They're going to hold them to maturity.
But another thing Alex that I think we are miscalculating too more and more money is going in defined contribution plans.
More and more defined contribution plans are using target date types of structures.
And last I checked we're living longer but more importantly we're all aging at least I am.
And as you age you're going to have a higher component of fixed income.
So I would tell you fundamentally demographically and all the things that we're structurally seeing the way people are positioned higher rate is not a bad thing for the fixed income market for the core investors.
Got it.
All makes sense.
And just a follow up I guess around the regulatory discussion.
Given what it looks like more of an increased focus on liquidity and risk management on a product base as opposed to the hopefully a firm basis.
Can you talk a little bit about the opportunity set to monetize Aladdin's capabilities of your sales or licensing the product to other asset managers since it seems like that's going to be the area of focus for a lot of your peers? We are  we probably have increased dialogue for Aladdin than ever before.
Unquestionably higher regulatory supervision for activities would lead to more need for risk management.
Aladdin is one of the  obviously one of the risk management participants in the marketplace.
Fiduciary standards are increasing  people want to have better understanding of their risk embedded.
As more and more managers embark in more  in a larger more robust global portfolio they need better risk analytics.
And so all this is leading to greater utilization for platforms like Aladdin.
Obviously we have many great competitors so I'm not trying to suggest we're the only player but we are in a very good position to have deeper longer and probably more numerous conversations.
Your next question comes from Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Hey Dan.
Can you discuss a little bit more detail about some of the rebalancing that is occurring in the index products.
Maybe the type of customers are the kind of discussions something you anticipate ongoing and it does seem I think you referenced most of it coming from the EMEA region but just a little more color that would be helpful? No I don't think I referenced what region.
It's international what I said.
We've had times if you go back six quarters or eight quarters and we had big rebalancing then.
People use beta as a place holder of a tactical allocation I mean that's one thing that people still don't understand how much beta products are being utilized now for alpha.
And there are many enterprises are tactically allocating whether overweighting or underweighting using beta products.
And we see this more increasingly every day and in some  and in the second quarter and part of the first quarter we saw some of the big utilizers who had beta as an alpha component of their tactical allocation for  in some cases they were taking profits and then they  because of domestic issues they are sitting with higher cash balances some of them may have been a little more frightened of what's going on in some components to the world and are putting more and more money in cash.
But more importantly I would say most of the tactical allocation was out of investment products more into cash for domestic issues.
And this was not a performance issue this was not moving money from BlackRock to another manager in most cases.
It was moving from BlackRock to another BlackRock product and in most cases the money was used for domestic needs work needs.
Okay thank you.
And then Gary a question on just the G&amp;A outlook.
It's been a volatile for you last few quarters I guess.
Are we still expecting a ramp into the back half of the year and if you could help kind of think of  help us with some quantification around that? Sure.
Look I think as we look at the quarter I think there's no question that our second quarter margin benefited from a lower level of G&amp;A spend.
If you recall last quarter where many of you've pointed out a year-over-year decline in our operating margin we communicated to you that we felt our reported year-over-year margin comparison really understated the operating leverage in the business.
And I think this quarter frankly we had the opposite.
I think that our 250 basis points of year-over-year margin expansion is overstated by a lower level of G&amp;A spend that frankly is not likely sustainable.
Look part of the lower level of G&amp;A spend in the quarter is better financial discipline in the current environment but part of it is frankly simply expenses that came in lower than we expected and I wouldn't  I really wouldn't read too much into it on a trend basis.
It was simply a low G&amp;A quarter relative to historical spend levels.
Looking forward I think I would say we continue to anticipate a higher more normalized level of G&amp;A spend in the second half of the year and at this time we're not intending to "push out " I think the words that you may have used that reduce second quarter spend into the back half of the year.
Your next question comes from Brian Bedell with Deutsche Bank Hi Brian.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
A question on ETF and maybe if you could dissect the flows between core series and what you're seeing in the institutional usage.
May be Larry if you can comment on.
I will let Rob.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm sorry.
I will let Rob comment on that one.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay sure.
Yeah.
Just a comment on the traction that you're getting in the financial advisory community on the core series and then also a commentary on institutional usage including hedging and may be as you mentioned as a substitute for fixed income both cash trading and derivatives increasing usage of ETF.
So the exciting part of the ETF business is that as people become more aware of the benefits of ETFs they're coming up with other uses for ETF.
So it's become not only a way to express your view in the market but you can express it in a much more precise way.
So a lot of the flows that we're seeing are coming from this new usage.
One of the new usage is as you cite is that ETFs became cheaper to use than futures.
So we've seen a lot of institutions now as they become aware of that and we know how to talk about it they are coming to us and asking us how they can use ETFs to better express their views in the marketplace.
So we're seeing flows coming in from that as well as just a generic core.
And as you know the two segments are certainly the buy and hold segment and we have introduced the core ETFs for that and we're seeing growths in  growth in that to the tune of $3.8 billion which is a 7% organic growth in the quarter.
So we're very excited as that continues to grow.
But at the same time we're seeing those who are utilizing those for trading activities to express their views continue to grow as well.
And a lot of that is in the high yield area where they're expressing their views positive or negative so you see flows in that.
And then you just see people that are actually looking at ETFs as a replacement also for their mutual fund business as well.
So I think there is lots of opportunities in this.
We're just beginning to scratch the surface and new uses for this.
We continue to think that it's going to continue to grow going forward and we want to be the innovator using ETFs to innovate and to solve people's issues in their portfolios.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And just in the quarter I guess the lower flows on the institutional side is more of a beta issue than anything structural that you're seeing? Well we actually had good flows in the active side and obviously institutional side was all related to those beta stories that I discussed previously.
Inc.</span></strong> Right great.
And then just a follow-up Larry maybe on the Department of Labor proposed rules on how do you think that might impact allocations in the 401(k) plans longer-term and what it might mean for your target-date business if that's another catalyst for that business? We shared the Department of Labor's goals in promoting better retirement and security.
This is one of the big issues and we've been stressing.
I do believe our retirement  our inadequacy in retirement is going to be the big story in the coming years.
I do believe the elevated savings rates that we're just seeing so far in the first six months possibly could be related to people starting to become more aware that they have an inadequate retirement plan.
So we will be vigilant and outspoken on retirement issues.
Look related to specifically your question the need of investors are going to be differing we all want good investment outcomes and we need to make sure that we as an industry provide client choice  hopefully client choice with low cost.
Cost is  it can't be primary because we have to be outcome-focused obviously outcome-focused with cost is the emphasis not the other way around.
So the DoL's indicated interest for our comments we submitted the commentary we're going to have to see wait and see how this all plays out.
I think  I don't believe we understand or have enough information to know how this will all play out.
I think this will be evolving but we are working constructively with the DoL and whatever they determine we'll  I'll be able to tell you in the coming quarters how that will play out for BlackRock and the impact.
On the surface it's going to have  it has impact on BlackRock if it is as it is today because it has impact on some of our distribution platforms but we'll be able to navigate that.
Your next question comes from Chris Harris with Wells Fargo.
Hi Chris.
Quick question on your retail business.
Clearly it's been a great performer for you guys for quite a long while now your top five.
Just wondering at this point what additional opportunities do you see for that part of your business? And really I'm wondering due to the fact that your share has seemingly gone up quite a lot just wondering if incremental gains at this point might be a little bit harder to come by? Three years ago four years ago we started talking about our building out of retail.
Three years and four years ago we started talking about building a stronger brand in retail.
Two years ago we integrated our retail and our iShares teams to be  to offer more outcome-oriented solutions that are  instead of just product pushing.
And I think this has all created a more elevated position with our distribution platform.
And I believe we have much more to go.
We are still way behind other firms related to the RIAs.
We still have deeper penetration to go with some of the big distribution platforms.
And importantly I believe because of our technology  because of Aladdin I think we can provide better models from  to assisting our distribution partners in creating better models better advice and if we can continue to help our distribution platforms to be better at what they do combination of beta products and alpha products maybe with liquid alts we should enjoy higher penetration of wallet and I believe we're just beginning on that path.
Great thank you.
And your final question comes from Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Hey Craig  operator we have time  we have 10 more minutes.
So if there is no one behind Craig we could carry on.
I think so I will get started here.
So...
Okay.
First just on active ETFs.
I'm wondering do you guys have plans to launch some of your active products into a transparent ETF structure? And also do you think your competition will more aggressively pursue this option just given the lack of non-transparent ETF options today? Yeah so we've looked at this we continue to look at this and right now collectively we're not sure that this is going to be a big opportunity in the marketplace.
One of the benefits of the ETFs is the transparency the diversification and that enhances the trading and the liquidity of these.
So we're not sure that this is an opportunity we're going to pursue.
We're thinking about it and we'll just see how the market continues to evolve.
So we're not ruling it out but right now we're not looking at that and we view that as something that will compete more directly with mutual funds than it will with the normal ETFs.
I would  once again I think I've said in the past.
I think there's way too much emphasis on this product.
We have said that we believe the ETF industry is going to go from a $3 trillion to $6 trillion industry.
Active ETFs will be a component of it but it will be dwarfed by the industry's growth in traditional beta products.
Where you may see ETFs grow is really more based on model or smart beta products so where you're going to have tilts but I still don't see active ETF playing a large role in the totality of the market and I agree with Rob.
If there is growth in it it's going to be growth that's going to be taking away more growth from traditional mutual funds.
And if I can just squeeze one follow-up here.
I heard your commentary on the RIA market and how you'd like to increase market share there but as demographics increasingly become difficult for 401(k) plans what is your plan to increase your market share in the RIA segment? I said the RIA  they were independents not the  not IRIS but I was talking about the independent advisor.
So Craig I'm not sure  I did not make a statement related that define (54:37) contribution on IRIS...
I think he's talking about RIAs.
But RIAs we had very weak penetration three years four years ago.
We had very little visibility with many of the RIAs and these are  we have to become a trusted partner.
There are some other firms that have had a long-standing trusted relationship with these independent channels and I  we are very pleased with the growth that we have in our RIA channel in 2015.
And I expect as I said earlier that we're going to build more share because I do believe we can become another trusted advisor to their channels.
And your next question comes from Ken Hill with Barclays.
Hey Ken? Inc.</span></strong> So I wanted to follow up on one of the earlier questions.
You guys have a really nice story to tell on the fixed income market as ETFs play a greater role in supplying liquidity in what has otherwise been a pretty illiquid corporate bond market.
When you think about the dynamics of ETFs playing a larger role longer-term is there anything in there that you're particularly concerned about as these passive products grow as a percentage of the market? Do you think that really increases your regulatory bullseye here? And while it's still a relatively small piece of the market now do you think there's a natural cap on how much of the market ETFs can make up? So our view of ETFs is a bit different.
We think it actually enhances the liquidity of the markets because of the transparency.
So you know what the underlying securities are.
So there is a market in those.
And then there's a market of those as a whole.
And in periods of volatility we've actually seen very little creation or redemption of any of those assets.
We've actually seen the ETFs trade themselves.
So we think it enhances the liquidity.
And therefore we think this market could continue to grow.
So we don't really  I wouldn't agree with you on illiquidity in the corporate bond market.
It's just that it's been more one-sided because there's more demand right now.
So there really isn't a large secondary market.
I don't call that illiquid I call that overdemand for yield securities because of the environment.
So if interest rates rise that will change a bit but we think that this has been providing good opportunity in the marketplace and just think of how large the fixed income market is and when you take a look at that any percentage any small percentage increase in ETF so the fixed income market is going to be very substantial and very large.
So we're very bullish on the future of ETFs and how large they can grow relative to the fixed income market.
But let's just talk about market dynamics a little bit.
So ETFs are far more liquid and constructive versus a mutual fund.
An ETF throughout the day has a buyer that matches with a seller.
So every time you have a buyer matching a seller during the time the underlying assets are not traded.
And so this is one of the  people don't understand  when they talk about this they just not talk about the market dynamics.
So for every buyer there's a seller.
You are not creating or redeeming the underlying assets.
So for  during the market opening the ETF is providing more liquidity.
When you think about a mutual fund a mutual fund in bonds is accumulating buys and sells throughout the day and at the final  end of the day they find out if they have to sell the underlying stocks or  excuse me bonds at the end of the day or the next morning to get the cash.
So the ETF actually is as Rob suggested a provider of liquidity.
It also creates a transparency of where the markets are and it's  this is another surprise to me on the narrative the narrative that you are able to transact bond sales and purchases in mass by utilizing one stock  you're able to reduce the underlying assets and the need for a lot of sales bonds a lot of purchases bonds intra-day and that's a major component of why ETFs are additive to the liquidity and more importantly they create transparency.
And we've been telling this story for years we witnessed it.
The Federal Reserve actually came out with a research report  this is more related to emerging market equities on the same construct that it provided liquidity.
So we're still dismayed at the narrative.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
I'm sorry.
I wasn't trying to imply that ETFs were part of the problem.
I was just talking about dealer inventory levels and a relatively illiquid corporate bond market.
Well keep in mind I don't know how dealers report because this is a stock.
More and more dealers are big market makers in ETFs.
And if it's under the equity desk a bond ETF because it's an equity that's a major component of the business today.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Okay.
I appreciate all the color there.
Thanks very much.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions.
Mr.
Fink do you have any closing remarks? I just want to thank everyone for joining us this morning and for your continued interest at BlackRock.
Once again our second quarter highlighted the investments we made over many years to enhance the differentiated platform that we have  a platform that's diverse a platform that's global a platform that can work in both alpha and beta products.
And I believe the second quarter was a good testimony to all that buildup.
We continue to take a long-term view and hopefully we're staying ahead of our clients' needs.
And most importantly as I suggested when we have 3 000 clients calling in to  BlackRock Institute call we're winning more and more hearts and minds of our clients which in my  our deepest hope that leads to larger share of their wallet.
And if we continue to do that we'll continue to drive performance for our shareholders in a landscape that is obviously very volatile.
Everyone have a good quarter and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Incorporated Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Teleconference.
Our hosts for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Gary S.
Shedlin; President Robert S.
Kapito; and General Counsel Matthew Mallow.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Mallow you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I'm Chris Meade the General Counsel of BlackRock.
Before we begin let me remind you that during the course of this call we may make a number of forward-looking statements.
We call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual results may of course differ from these statements.
As you know BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC which lists some of the factors that may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we see today.
BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that let's begin.
Thank you Chris.
Good morning everyone.
This is Gary Shedlin.
It's my pleasure to be here to present results for the third quarter of 2015.
Before I turn it over to Larry to offer his comments I'll review our quarterly financial performance and business results.
And as usual I will be focusing primarily on our as adjusted results.
Against a challenging market backdrop BlackRocks third quarter results demonstrate the stability of our diverse global platform highlighted by continued organic growth stable operating margins and systematic capital return.
Third quarter revenue of $2.9 billion was 2% higher than a year ago while operating income of $1.2 billion was up 1%.
Earnings per share of $5 were down 4% compared to a year ago reflecting lower non-operating results and a higher tax rate in the current quarter.
Non-operating results for the quarter reflected $6 million of net investment gains largely driven by gains on private equity and real estate investments which offset market driven losses on certain hedge funds and unhedged or partially hedged Multi-Asset and fixed income seed investments.
Our as-adjusted tax rate for the third quarter was 29.3% compared to 26.2% a year ago reflecting several favorable non-recurring items.
We currently estimate that 30% remains a reasonable projected tax run rate for the fourth quarter of 2015 and based on what we know today reflecting changes in our geographic business mix estimate that 31% is a reasonable projected tax rate for 2016.
BlackRock generated $35 billion of quarterly long term net flows representing an annualized organic growth rate of 3%.
Flows were positive across investments styles and client types reinforcing the value of our broad based diversified business model.
In a volatile market characterized by double digit quarterly declines in a number of global equity industries and significant FX movements clients continued to look to BlackRock for strong risk management and long term investment solutions.
In total market depreciation and FX impact reduced the value of our assets under management by approximately $265 billion during the quarter.
Over the last 12 months BlackRock generated approximately $186 billion of long term net new business representing a 4% long term organic AUM growth rate and a 6% organic base fee growth rate as faster growth in our higher fee channels contributed a favorable overall change in our base fee mix.
Third quarter base fees were approximately flat year-over-year despite over $200 billion of negative FX impact to market depreciation over the last 12 months.
On a constant currency basis we estimate that quarterly base fees grew approximately 3% year-over-year.
Sequentially base fees were down 3% due to lower quarterly average AUM a seasonal decline in securitys lending activity and the impact of divergent data on our fee rate as emerging and commodities market underperformed developed market.
Going forward our fourth quarter entry base fee level will be impacted as we enter the quarter with lower spot AUM than our average AUM for the third quarter.
Performance fees of $208 million were up 56% from a year ago and while broad based benefitted from a single European hedge fund that delivered exceptional full year performance unlocked in the third quarter.
BlackRock Solutions revenue of $167 million was up 1% year-over-year and 4% sequentially.
Aladdin revenue which represented 81% of BRS revenue in the quarter grew 11% year-over-year driven by several sizable client implementation and has now more than doubled since 2009.
Strong connectivity between our BRS and institutional client teams is facilitating improved dialogue with our more sophisticated clients as we continue to see increased demand for global investment platform consolidation and multi risk solutions.
Revenue in our financial markets advisory business was down $11 million from a year ago though flat sequentially as revenue in the third quarter of 2014 reflected the impact of several large ECB AQR advisor assignments.
Despite lower levels of opportunistic revenue post financial crisis FMA is benefitting from a more stable revenue profile driven by an increased number of mandates and more repeat engagements in the current market environment.
Total expense rose $48 million year-over-year or 3% driven primarily by compensation expense which increased $52 million from a year ago due to higher headcount higher levels of performance fees and increased deferred compensation expense partially offset by the impact of a stronger dollar.
G&amp;A expense decreased $7 million from a year ago due to lower levels of marketing spend offset by a lower benefit from the FX impact re-measuring dollar exposures held overseas to their respective functional currencies.
Recall that our GAAP G&amp;A expense a year ago reflected an additional $50 million charge related to the reduction of an indemnification asset which has been excluded from our asset adjusted results.
Sequentially G&amp;A expense increased $7 million primarily due to higher levels of professional fees in the third quarter.
Our third quarter as adjusted operating margin of 43.9% reflecting expense awareness in the current market environment.
Looking forward we continue to be mindful of our discretionary level of spend as markets evolve but currently anticipate the higher level of G&amp;A spend during the fourth quarter driven by seasonal factors and transaction related expense associated with the recently consummated acquisitions.
As we stated in the past we do not manage the business to a specific margin target.
We do remain keenly focused on delivering long term value to our shareholders and will work to strike an appropriate balance between strategic investment needs and prudent discretionary expense management.
We remain committed to using our cash flow to optimize shareholder value by first reinvesting in our business and then returning excess cash to shareholders in a consistent systematic manner.
In line with that commitment we closed the acquisitions of Cuadrada the leading independently managed infrastructure investment business in Mexico and Future Advisor a leader in digital wealth management earlier this month.
We do not expect these transactions to have a material impact on BlackRocks consolidated financial results.
During the third quarter we also repurchased an additional $275 million worth of shares and view that as a good planning rate for the remainder of the year.
In the quarter while our clients faced significant market volatility BlackRock generated $50 billion of total net flows including $35 billion of long term net inflows reflecting the benefits of a diverse investment and distribution platform and a commitment to alpha generation.
BlackRocks global retail franchise saw long-term net inflows of $7 billion; positive across all asset classes representing 5% annualized organic growth for the quarter and 10% organic growth over the last 12 months.
International retail net flows of $5 billion were paced by strong flows into international equities and unconstrained fixed income highlighting the global nature of our platform.
BlackRocks U.S.
retail business generated long term inflows of $2 billion demonstrating resilience from what was a challenging quarter for the U.S.
mutual fund industry.
BlackRocks flows were led by broad based fixed income activity or strong and consistent performance across the platform continues to differentiate us despite industry outflows in a number of product categories including unconstrained fees income and high yields.
Global iShares generated $23 billion of net new flows; representing 9% annualized organic growth for the quarter and 12% organic growth over the last 12 months.
iShares value proposition especially with respect to liquidity and transparency was extremely evident in a market characterized by heightened volatility and year-to-date flows remained in record territory.
iShares fixed income inflows of $18 billion reflected ongoing adoption of ETFs as a means of rapidly accessing and investing in fixed income markets.
iShares equity inflows of $5 billion were led by flows into developed market exposures including our Japan and Euro zone funds.
We saw increased investor focus on risk aware smart data products with our minimum volatility funds raising more than $2 billion during the quarter and gaining the number one ranking within the domestic product category.
Our institutional client business saw over $5 billion in quarterly long-term net outflows driven by higher fee active offering as clients increasingly partnered with BlackRock to generate alpha across active solution and alternative mandates.
Institutional active net inflows of $6 billion reflected over $4 billion across fixed income strategies and nearly $2 billion into core alternatives and marked our sixth consecutive quarter of active institutional inflows.
Alternatives flows were broad based including infrastructure private equity real estate fund-to-fund and alternative solutions offerings in addition strong fund raising momentum continued with an addition of $1 billion of illiquid alternative commitments raised in the third quarter bringing total unfunded commitments a source of future inflows to approximately $11 billion.
Overall our third quarter results reflect the benefits of the investments weve made to build a differentiated global business model.
Diversification across investment styles distribution channels products and geographies enables us to serve clients irrespective of market environment or investment preference.
Our goal remains to deliver consistent and differentiated growth overtime.
With that Ill turn it over to Larry.
Thanks Gary good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call.
Our third quarter results were driven by clients' continued trust in BlackRocks ability to manage risk and deliver holistic investment solutions as we look to achieve long term goals and navigate uncertainty and increasingly volatile economic environment.
A slowing economy in China persistence weakness in commodity prices uncertainty around the Feds decision on rates and continued fluctuation in currency evaluations has contributed to significant declines in global markets.
Emerging market equities were down 19% natural resources stocks were down 23% and European and U.S.
indexes fell 9% and 7% respectively in just the last quarter.
Government actions continue to influence markets as Central banks policies have caused imbalances in interest rates and currencies.
Emerging market currencies have experienced significant volatility following nearly 9% in the third quarter before rallying over the past several days.
More than ever our clients value the model we built at BlackRock.
BlackRocks global multi product platform our market leading risk management capabilities through Aladdin and our focus on long term solutions enables us to have a more robust conversation with more clients as they address portfolio composition and asset allocation.
These conversations are not just focused on what products BlackRock can sell they are focused on outcomes our clients are looking for and how we could bring together capabilities across our global platform to help our clients achieve their goals.
This approach has resulted in a stronger longer lasting relationships with our clients than ever before which truly contributed to more than the $50 billion of net inflows this quarter.
Clients not only turn to BlackRock to manage assets but to help them to understand the longer term impact on developments in the financial landscape.
The BlackRock investment institute continues to lead that discussion and hosted several client calls in the third quarter to address market volatility.
The BIIs [ph] most widely attended call reaching more than 4000 client participants.
This heightened level of client engagement is translating into consistent growth and BlackRocks $35 billion of long term net flows in the quarter positive across as Gary suggested in investment styles and client types.
The fact that we are seeing such diverse inflows in a volatile market speaks to the power of our platform that we built overtime at BlackRock and the differentiated experience we provide to our clients.
We continue to grow our global distribution footprint and a product set to serve a diverse set of clients with a holistic range of outcome oriented solutions as clients are looking for income and uncorrelated returns in the current investment environment.
In the U.S.
we anticipate client demand for income focused products and since they were launched our strategic Income Opportunity and Multi-Asset Income funds have garnered more flows through the third quarter than any fund in these categories.
With more than $35 billion of total inflows.
Building upon the strength to these funds in the U.S.
our global versions of BlackRock unconstrained fixed income and multi-asset income funds are gaining momentum with clients internationally.
Year-to-date FIGO our global unconstrained offering saw net inflows to $3.8 million and our global multi-asset income funds our net inflows were more than $1.4 billion.
On the institutional side client demand for active fixed income and alternative strategies continues to drive positive organic base fee growth.
For example while official institutional clients have generally been environmentally driven net sellers and low fee index equity exposures we have seen enhanced demand from the same clients for our active and alternative products and solutions which have driven positive overall revenue growth among these clients this year.
And this is some focus that we've talked about over years having client navigate from index into active and back in forth.
And the biggest differentiating feature BlackRock today versus few years ago we have both active and fixed and passive products.
BlackRock recognizes that even the most comprehensive and global set of solutions will be insufficient without strong investment performance.
As a global firm our objective is to outperform consistently while our entire  throughout our entire investment platform.
We remain focus on embracing a team oriented approach leveraging our connectivity our knowledge showing firms and translating all this information into insights from technology and big data to drive top tier performance across all assets categories and investment strategies.
We're seeing consistency in areas where we were strong and improvement in areas where we've been reinvesting in talent.
And our scientific active equity business 97% of the AUM performed above benchmark our peer medium for the three-year period and in our active taxable fixed income business 90% of assets performed above benchmark or peer medium for three-year period.
Over the last few years we've invested in our fundamental equity business in hiring new talent in technology and in unifying this global equity platform to be more effective to tap the resources entirely through our BlackRock.
We're seeing the benefit of this investment and our fundamental active equity business 80% and 58% of our AUM is now above benchmark our peer medium for the one year and three-year respectively.
And importantly our global platform continues to deliver results.
BlackRock's European and BlackRock's Asian Fundamental Equities platform have 99% and 91% of their assets respectively above benchmarks or peer medium for the three-year period.
Investors continue to turn the iShares amidst heighten volatility to gain market exposures and enhanced portfolio construction.
And iShares show as Gary discussed $23 billion in net total inflows.
iShares captured the number one market share of the net new business globally in the U.S.
and in Europe and in the third quarter year-to-date.
iShares flows were driven by fixed income as investors utilized fixed income ETF as an effective tool for diversification and liquidity.
Equity flows were driven by $5 billion into European listed iShares and we saw positive inflows in Canada and Asia Pacific as well.
Extreme market volatility resulted in a disjointed market open on August 24.
Lack of pricing clarity widespread delayed in stock openings and an unprecedented number of trading halts impacted a large number of both U.S.
listed single name stocks and equity ETF.
We've spoken with many different market participants and based on our own experience and these conversations we have made several recommendation with respect to U.S.
equity market structure in a viewpoint article titled "U.S.
Equity Market Structure Lessons from August 24th" which we published on our website last week.
Demand of iShares has remained strong and net iShares flows following August 24th has been robust at nearly $25 billion through yesterday.
Despite near term market fluctuation we continue to focus on the long run by investing in areas that we believe will resolve in a more complete offering for our clients and delivering value for our shareholders.
Over the last two years our institutional clients rebalancing survey indicated that institutes plan to increase allocations to real assets.
We continue to expand our real assets offering including BlackRock's infrastructure platform.
We've provide clients with current income diversification income protection and potential for capital appreciation while helping to drive economic growth and job creation.
As Gary mentioned earlier this month we closed on the acquisition I Cuadrada Mexico's leading infrastructure firm and BlackRock now manages nearly $7 billion in infrastructure investments on behalf of clients worldwide.
Technology is another area where we built on our existing strength to recent investments to enhance a way we serve our clients.
We continue to enhance our Aladdin platform by building out our multi-asset capabilities driving 11% revenue growth year-over-year and we're seeing growing demand as investor become more focus on risk management in the evolving financial and regulatory landscape.
Earlier this month we completed the acquisition of Future Advisor a leading digital wealth management platform.
As consumers increasing engaged with technology to invest BlackRock and Future Advisor are positioned to empower our distribution partners to better serve their clients by combining Future Advisor's high quality technology enabled advise with BlackRock's multi-asset investment capabilities our proprietary technology and most importantly our risk analytics.
We built and continue to invest in our platform and our people so that we can have a deeper dialogue with the clients and deliver consistent results for shareholders especially through times of heighten uncertainty.
On a very personal note as many of you know Charlie Hallac who was named our Co-President last year passed away in September following a lengthy battle against cancer.
Charlie has missed by many of his friends across BlackRock.
Our greatest tribute to him will be the carry forward his life work by continuing to deliver excellence to our clients to consistently innovate and more importantly to look relentlessly for ways to evolve as Charlie always did.
Finally I want to thank our employees for their continue focus and dedication in creating better financial futures for our clients.
So let's now open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Robert Lee with KBW.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hey Robert.
How are you? Great thanks.
Just maybe question starting with the iShares business.
And clearly flows there have been strong across a variety of products.
One of the things it feels like you're seeing or start to see like a surge of firms kind of crowding into I guess what I'll call the smart beta space.
Just curious if you're seeing any impact from this in terms of price competition or kind of your thoughts about how that may or may not evolve particularly as it relates to price competition? Let me tell Rob Kapito to answer that.
So most recently we haven't seen the price structure that we had seen in asset.
That has settled down.
Certainly [Indiscernible] in the market look to use price as one of the ways to enter the market but I haven't seen that really in the last quarter.
Going forward I think smart beta is one of the areas that going to continue to be a successful product than a necessary product.
We currently have about $125 billion in client assets across a variety of factor based products and smart beta products.
We actually recently hired Dr.
Andrew Ang and he is going to lead our factor-based strategies group so that we can lead in the factor-based investing on portfolio construction.
And we're going to combine our skill set and his systematic investments skill set along with Aladdin to focus on the factor in the smart beta area.
So I think you are still seeing that something that clients are going to look for.
We already have a number of these one as our minimum volatility fund.
We've raised about $2 billion.
And we are the leader in U.S.
ETF in the smart beta area.
But just to step back on the price please keep in mind that prices are only one reason why people buy ETF.
They are looking for precision or what you're discussing a new approach in smart beta or factored investing they're certainly looking for liquidity which means you have to have a fund and have some sort of size depending upon the type investor they could get core investor which we call it buy and hold or they are looking to be more active.
So price is important but its only one aspect and I just haven't seen the price pressure that we've seen a year ago and up to the first half of this year.
All right great.
And maybe the follow-up just looking at the multi-asset class products I mean that actually had a little bit of outflow it wasn't too much but little bit but you mean that's a category that for years now has been pretty consistent solid inflows quarter after quarter.
So I'm just curious was there anything unusual that quarter that may have driven that or anything we should be looking at net product line product set? I don't think there's anything unusual.
The multi-asset product segment is a segment that clients have felt very comfortable on the long-term performance of that and they sometimes use those products as a cash alternative.
And so when there are movements in and out of the markets risk on risk off they use that particular product.
And in the last quarter we've seen a lot of risks off trades and that product has been used for that but there's nothing out of the ordinary.
We're seeing inflows now in that area the performance is good so it's really just an aberration over the core.
And I would say one of thing Robert and specific in the third quarter we had one client move from multi-asset into an alpha product so as Rob said people are utilizing that but one client actually had greater conviction and went into a totally oriented market exposure alpha product.
Your next question comes from Bill Katz with Citigroup.
Hi Bill.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you very much for taking my questions.
Obviously a very good flow story for the quarter maybe to pick on one of the areas that was a bit weak just to get your perspective on what might be going on underneath that.
Could you talk a little bit about Asia-Pac? Is this just risk on risk off for the market and what do you think might reverse some of that recent attrition? Well there are some very large  without getting into client detail or any clients there are some very large movements from some clients that are actively moving out of government securities into more risk oriented securities that's pretty well advertise without me going into the specifics of that.
We have seen some clients because of cash needs have been selling products.
So I think Asia-Pac has been dominated more by three or four large institutions moving around.
I think I'm talking about the whole ecosystem of the markets.
And then while we saw more consistent flows in Asia-Pac iShares.
We are seeing actually more utilization of dollar assets today related to our institutional clients.
And I would say in some parts of Asia as Rob suggested in the fourth quarter there is more and more movements towards multi-asset.
So I don't see any major change in specific to BlackRock in the third quarter.
We did have index outflows in APAC and however as I suggested in my formal speech some of these clients moved into more active products and so we had actually positive overall revenue growth in that region.
So I would say nothing that was extraordinary just some large actions.
And I think you're going to see a consistent growth on Asia-Pac overall as some of the major clients are looking to investing more global products away from their host products or host country products so we feel good about Asia Pacific and Australia right now.
That's helpful.
And then just a follow-up and this might be a little too early but I'm sort of curious there's been some recent rule changes promulgated by the SEC around mutual fund liquidity.
Can you talk about how you see that playing out? Obviously nothing is in written form quite yet in terms of where the industry has to go.
But might some of the pros and cons of that regulatory change might be for the business? So obviously this is a proposed comment proposed liquidity risk management role.
And also they are focusing on stress testing funds.
I think it's very important that we have better disclosure on liquidity for all funds.
We have better disclosures on stressing funds.
There are certainly more and more dialogue about one directional trades worldwide from the regulators.
And so I actually believe the SEC is leading this effort and trying to come up with the appropriate analysis to help guide investors understand the embedded issues risks or opportunities in mutual fund.
So we look at this as a net positive that and we are always in favor of better disclosure.
The one cautionary thing we would say to any regulator.
Let's not make retail products less competitive than institutional products.
So for instance if they suggested that a mutual fund product should have a higher cash buffer and that would probably mean most institutional clients would move to a separate account we may not achieve what we're trying to achieve.
So we are in favor of better disclosures.
I think few better disclosures going to have better processes possibly stress testing of fund depending on the methodologies that may work too.
So we have an open mind and I don't know Bill exactly where it's going but we want to play a constructive role globally on these issues if I would say as we talked about over the last few years regulators worldwide have gone from analysis of firms related to SIFI designation to activities.
And we were a big supporter of that as a firm and these are the type of activities that most certainly the regulators is going to be focusing on and as I said we have constructive positive dialogue with the regulators throughout the world on this.
So we'll wait and see.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Your next question is from Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Hi Ken.
Hi good morning.
First on iShares you highlighted about a year ago the opportunities for ETFs in Europe given changing regulations.
Today you highlighted European iShares as one of the reasons that equity iShares sales were so strong.
So I guess things kind of coming together with regulation in European ETFs and is this really the beginning of the beginning for European ETFs? I'm going to let Rob answer.
Let me just start off in saying and then Rob will because he has much more texture on it.
Regulation has evolve in Europe regulation in terms of the inability to pass on fees have led to obviously more opportunities with ETFs.
And we are beginning to see that I would say specific about European ETFs and the equities.
We are seeing more interested investors in equity exposures in Europe so I think that is a single -- that's a trend as a market exposure trend but I think distribution trends are going to lead to much greater reliance by distribution platform utilizing ETFs.
We actually have also you saw Ken that we had positive inflows in our mutual fund platform and we had consistent mutual fund flows in our EMEA operation.
So I think the third point that I would make and then Rob will go into this specifics.
I think our positioning in Europe is just getting stronger in both mutual funds and ETFs.
Okay.
So I would just say there is two movements.
One in Europe certainly with the RDR rules people are moving more towards advice and asset allocation.
And when you look at that the best product to achieve that is iShares or EPFs.
And so we're seeing continued demand because of those rules being so important.
But we are also seeing the same thing in the U.S.
where our clients are using iShares for asset allocation purposes and that bodes very well for EPFs going forward.
And the last trend is the products are trending to be more global products rather than just U.S.
and just European.
The global products are also seeing some demand.
So some of it from changes and regulations but a lot of it is due to education and people are having knowledge that iShares can actually play a big role in achieving the results that people want in their portfolios.
Great.
Thank you.
And then sovereign wealth funds have been in the media again.
Maybe discuss how diversified BlackRock's exposure is between commodity-related sovereign wealth funds and maybe non-commodity related funds.
And is exposure of BlackRock weighted to any particular size or asset class? I was thinking active versus passive and/or fixed income versus equity.
Thanks Ken that's a great question and it is a question I'm not going to answer because I don't talk about my clients.
I just  it just something we have never made even any reference to any specific sovereign wealth funds or anything so I'm going to leave it that.
Worth a try.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Hi Craig how are you? Good morning.
So maybe first you just hit on fixed income here.
Very good results across all three of your fixed income bases and it looks like [Indiscernible] was a large driver for retail but are there any underlying themes that really surprised you in fixed income in this quarter? Well I think the narrative about high rates and what does it mean for fixed income flows is just an entirely incorrect viewpoint.
And this is one of the key elements of what I think is differentiating BlackRock.
We're focusing on helping clients meet the needs of their liabilities.
Many clients have liabilities that are very long dated many clients have under invested and so they actually have a gap between their during of their liability versus the duration of their funds.
As interest rates rise if they rise I think they will rise one day.
We are actually going to see an accelerated movement towards clients buying longer duration assets.
And that's I mean I'm not talking about trading strategies but clients that are pension fund oriented or long dated insurance type of products they're going to use this as an opportunity to buy different long dated assets.
Clients who are more interested in any trade obviously they're going to get out of the long duration and moving to the low duration or something like our strategic income opportunity fund where they are not going to be constrain to a duration it will be unconstrained products.
So what the third quarter saw? We saw lots of moment.
We saw some clients were adding duration.
We saw some clients were reducing duration.
We saw some clients taking advantage and this is one thing that I haven't seen in the narrative.
We saw we have clients who are taking advantages of the rising high yield market because high yield underperformed in the third quarter and we saw clients are moving back into high yields because the coupon and risk adjusted basis in the categories are achieving their needs to match their liability.
So this is an important component of why I believe we have differentiated ourselves because we are working with our clients trying to keep the narrative on what is their outcome that they are seeking.
It's not about trading in and out it is about how can they best achieve and composition of assets to meet their liabilities.
And by continuing to drive home this concept of long termism and outcomes instead of the noise of the moment has allowed us to have deeper dialogue and I think the flows and fixed income shown the results of having deeper dialogues and focus on outcomes.
Got it.
And then I just have a follow-up here on multi-asset.
Just given the softer results in 3Q in this one product set could you give us an update on kind of the three main funds here Global All LifePath and also Multi-Asset Income? Gary.
Absolutely correct.
So I think that there has been as Rob talked about and making Larry has on further on we're seeing some movements in the multi-asset category.
MAI and keep in mind also one other additional point is that when we talk about multi-asset that you're looking at in the context that our reporting we're really talking about the bundled outcome products that I think you're talking about.
There's lots of other multi-asset discussion and solutions that are going on around the firm that frankly fit into lots of other categories.
But as you talk about bundled products like LifePath and Global All which obviously two of our flagship products they did see flattish flows in the quarter.
And I think while we would say that MAI's flows were not as strong as prior quarters it still was positive t the tune of 500 million and its still remains a top selling or the top selling multi-asset income funds since launch about three years ago.
Larry talked about SIO and other similar products which is a fixed income products and obviously that and in addition to that with LDI and some other things we've seen very positive flows there.
But there is no question that as we saw some slow inflows where there was MAI DDG or even LifePath we did see some slows some slowing of the flows.
I think it's early for us to figure out whether in particular around target date that was an industry phenomenon or not obviously we did see unprecedented volatility.
I think that if we actually look across a lot of those products with respect to different dates we definitely did see more flows in so called near term maturity dates as oppose to the long-term which may suggest that has people who are looking to basically approach retirement more quickly they saw volatility and we're deciding to eliminate some of the equity exposure in the near term but I think we'll be watching that very closely and see to what extend those change direction in the next few quarters.
Thanks Gary.
And your next question comes from Michael Cyprys with Morgan Stanley.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Could you talk a little bit about the opportunity for ETFs being used as an alternative to futures contracts and then also ETFs being used as a form of collateral? How do you see those opportunity sets progressing today and how much would you say of your book is in that capacity right now? And then just maybe if you could touch upon some of the longer term opportunity sets there? Thanks.
So this is the beauty of ETFs that we constantly have been finding new uses for the products so as futures becomes more expensive to use than ETFs had opened up a whole new world that we didn't even think about because of the collateral cost behind futures contracts.
So when we are going into the capital markets and we are meeting lots of fixed income and equity clients and having discussions and talking about to them about uses most of the time we walk away with some other ideas that we didn't think about that they have needs for.
So as you know now ETFs are being use as a surrogate for futures across many institutional accounts so we think that's going to continue how big that can be just think about the size of the futures markets and certainly regulation is going to play a big role in that as well.
So as capital costs are going up or lots of institutions ETFs are starting to play a bigger role.
So that's sort of where we're adding and I would tell you in the fixed income side fixed income really let the equity market when it came to new uses and we have added a bunch of people in our capital markets group for iShares to go out and to really work with different institutions in both education and also both learning what some of the needs are so that we could innovate those products for.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then shifting to the institutional index side could you talk about some of the opportunity sets they are converting some of the lower fee institutional index mandates to higher margin or higher fee oriented mandates so basically increasing the share of wallet or moving upstream and shifting the share of wallet? How big of an opportunity set is that and is there any low hanging fruit left? Any color around that would be helpful.
I think the opportunity remains to be quite large as we saw in our investment survey that the clients were looking to add more alternatives.
And this is worldwide across the globe.
We are  this is one of the big reasons why we are building our infrastructure platform continue to build out our hedge fund platform our real estate platform.
So as I said earlier we are in deeper conversation with clients than we are ever been before.
Much of it has to do with the quality of our relationships our focus on risk management and our ability to deliver solutions I mean that sounds like a lot of talk but that positioning is now transformed us to have those dialogues five years ago when we in many relation where we strictly had a beta relationship we were not  we did not have ability to provide the products or have the dialogue with many more clients.
I believe today we have more dialogue.
We have deeper dialogues with clients worldwide that is going to allow us.
If the opportunity prevails when a client is looking to reduced beta exposures to go into other forms of outlet exposures whether it is active equity management active fixed income of alternatives we have those dialogues and I  once again I do believe the third quarter is starting to show that evidence that we are able to navigate.
Rob and I spend a great deal of time on the road.
We have  we are constantly reminded that if we could provide the holistic solution to our clients that we can provide a deeper analysis what the needs of our clients we have seen consistently that we are able then to have a broader product range solution for our clients.
And as we continue to drive that and build these relations I think you are going to see that navigation and interflows in our business.
If you look specifically in the third quarter we grew many different types of alternatives we had $2 billion in positive flows we had another $1 billion in forward commitments and the most positive thing I could tell you related to those flows those flows principally came in six different products which is another statement of the growing product breadth that we are developing for our clients.
Great.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Hi Alex how are you? Hi Larry good morning.
So sticking with the regulatory line of questions I guess you know weve gone through a bunch of comments from the industry and the [Indiscernible] proposal it looks like we are getting a little bit closer to some sort of a final ruling and it looks like a lot of these you know a lot of things will kind of come through as they were written.
So maybe hoping to get your perspective from one what risk and opportunities does that create for BlackRock against the ruling about the rules set today [ph] I dont know I dont know how the rules are going to be coming out.
On the surface it will change the relationships with the distribution partners with their clients we have to adapt our business with our distribution partners on that business.
I think one thing is very clear how this outplays that it means greater emphasis on beta products and ETFs.
But until we see how this has rolled out and weve had comments on it that are very public about our opinions related to the DOL.
I would also say that if investors feel more confident because of however the DOL [ph] plays out that if investors feel more confident that they can invest fairly securely we are all benefited by that.
Now Im not sure how that will play out but weve always believed that we could have a market place where our clients feel more secure that they have an opportunity to earn a fair return over a long cycle everyone will be benefited by that.
The Clients obviously our distribution partners and the investment management team.
So we once again we have tried to take a constructive approach to the SEC mindful that some of the SEC Fiduciary rules would change the relationship with our distribution partners and weve tried to work with the regulators in terms of finding a sensible solution that meets the challenges of our distribution partners the asset manager that importantly giving the end client the trust that they need in terms of investing for the future.
Okay thanks for that.
And then on the product side of things I was hoping to get a little bit more color on the active equity business.
Nice to see flows turning positive here I guess its one of the better quarters weve seen in a little while so any granularity here in terms of where the strength has been coming from whether its scientific I think you guys highlighted that in the press release or the fundamental equities where we are starting to see some turnaround? So where we are starting to see the biggest turnaround is from the fundamental equity business.
We spent a lot of time and money I should know in trying to rebuild our efforts there and the teams.
And I feel very good about this certainly in Europe our team there has been together longer.
Their record across the board is now very strong and now we are starting to see the same efforts in the U.S.
through our capital appreciation fund our equity dividend fund.
So the performance is actually really good.
Now on top of that the scientific act of equity grew to more quantitatively driven and manual driven portfolios.
The three here a record which had left a lot of the consultants look at the 98% of the assets are above the benchmark or appear immediate.
We had work to do domestically and today the fundamental act of equity business 81% of the assets are above the benchmark for the one year period.
So as time goes on the performance is really really much better.
So when you see better performance it translates directly into flow and we are starting to see those flows or having much better dialogue with our consultants who are now putting us in the mix for proposals and were also internally very focused on building out the equity effort and you are going to hear a lot more from us from our marketing teams and the rest of the teams across the firm because we are going to be much bigger in the active equity space and we are very happy to have the performance to back that up so very important part and were still adding people but we are getting results at the same time good positive feedback from our clients.
Let me just add one more thing.
As I said in my prepared remarks the strength of our performance 98% are for Asian equities and European equities.
We are seeing close and within those categories and we continue to be differentiated and I truly believe as the market settles down we believe the category where many investors will be seeking market exposures and thats going to be in Asian equities.
And with our performance I would think over the next few years we are going to see accelerated flows there.
And just  just drill down as you have asked just a couple of notes for you our equity dividends our product was now in the 37 percentile.
Our basic value has come from the 51st percentile to the 20th percentile and our large cap core has risen from 76 to the 29th percentile.
Those are big loans and I believe those are sustainable its just the beginning of what we could do when we combine the knowledge and the communication across the platform.
Got it.
Thanks for all the color there.
Appreciate it.
And your next question comes from Brian Bedell with Deutsche Bank.
Hey Brian.
Good morning folks.
Hi good morning.
Just to go back on the SEC liquidity rule proposals I guess first of all I know its very early but as they are proposed do you think its generally workable for investments in less liquid areas in high yields in small cap emerging markets.
Absolutely.
Thats right.
Im sorry go on And then on the counter side of that how do you think Aladdin can play a role in this for fund companies if it owns? So different products have different liquidity sets.
This is one of the reasons why I think liquidity disclosure is a good thing.
We have mentioned high yields.
High yields have somewhat less liquidity than an investment grade product a treasury fund has more liquidity than an investment grade corporate product.
You are paid a higher income for those types of returns and I do believe having a measurement hopefully a dynamic measurement a dynamic measurement will allow investors and we are talking mostly retail investors having a better understanding and so if we can come up with a metrics that is dynamic that is informative about of liquidity of anyone product and differentiating that liquidity amongst different funds because some funds some mutual funds have systematically always even in the asset categories of lets say high yield have been consistently invested in the lower grade of high yield with less liquidity and some mutual funds have invested in the higher grade high yield that had more liquidity and so some form of dynamic measurement is probably good.
I dont  I actually believe once again as investors are becoming more informed and they better understand the risks and the returns I actually believe it will lead to greater investments in different asset categories.
This is something we should all embrace.
So I dont  as I said I look at this as a positive.
Its a constructive way of analyzing we just need to make sure that we dont cause so much problems at all institutions run out of mutual funds and go to separate accounts and we may not be achieving everything that is necessary.
But  we want smart investors smart investors is better for the entire asset management industry.
We should not run away from markets that are opaque we should always be trying to find ways of making more transparency in terms of risk.
In terms of Aladdin greater risk analytics whether its liquidity analytics or stress test analytics is a very large positive for the future direction and needs of clients utilizing Aladdin.
As I said in my prepared remarks Aladdin is growing 11% a year.
We are in deep dialogue with many clients right now and I feel very good about how Aladdin is the risk management platform of choice by so many investors worldwide.
Okay great.
Thanks and then just a follow up on the retail distribution strategy especially as it relates to ETF.
Can you talk about the role of Future Advisor as youve I guess the stages of planning that out and integrating with your RIA efforts and also your plans for sales force built to better penetrate your RIA segment? So we  we are very excited about what Future Advisor will bring for us.
We believe having better technology to interface with our distribution partners will give us a real opportunity.
It is too early for me to really go into detail how we are navigating it but in the early weeks weve had a refreshingly large amount of interest with our distribution partners in the utilization of this technology.
Once again through this technology if we could increase the knowledge base of products increase the knowledge base of information through this technology we will have deeper and more robust conversations.
If we can our hope is to and our intentions is to link our Future Advisor technology with our Aladdin technology to help our distribution partners to have both better risk analytics and better client interphase information so they could be providing better guidance to their clients.
This is a long term investment for us we are more excited about the investment today than we were as we thought about making the investment.
And as I said earlier we are thrilled with the response by our distribution partners to have more engagement utilizing this technology.
So its too early to really get into any details but our management team of Future Advisors are running around the country right now having many dialogues and conversations alongside our BlackRock solution team.
So it is very important to note that we never really talked about it putting Future Advisor into our BlackRock solution platform really gives us this ability to really create a third party platform to provide independence information for our clients that is very similar to what BlackRock Aladdin does for our clients independent risk management.
So we look at this as a great stepping stone for a deeper connection with our RIAs and our all our distribution platforms.
And ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions.
Mr.
Fink do you have any closing remarks? Once again I thank all of you for joining this morning and your interest in BlackRock.
Our third quarter results once again highlighted the investments we made to enhance a differentiated platform a more diverse platform a global platform a risk management platform.
We continue to differentiate ourselves by taking a consistent long term view while staying ahead and navigating the near term developments in the financial markets.
I think we help our clients by having this diverse multi product platform to help them navigate and I think the third quarter results speak loudly with those results.
Have a good quarter and well talk to you in the New Year.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Britney and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the BlackRock Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2015 Earnings Teleconference.
Our hosts for today's call will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D.
Fink; Chief Financial Officer Gary S.
Shedlin; President Robert S.
Kapito; and General Counsel Christopher J.
Meade.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Meade you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I'm Chris Meade the General Counsel of BlackRock.
Before we begin Id like to remind you that during the course of this call we may make a number of forward-looking statements.
We call your attention to the fact that BlackRock's actual results may of course differ from these statements.
As you know BlackRock has filed reports with the SEC which lists some of the factors that may cause the results of BlackRock to differ materially from what we see today.
BlackRock assumes no duty and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that let's begin.
Good morning.
Thanks Chris.
Happy New Year to everybody.
Its my pleasure to be here to present our fourth quarter and full-year 2015 results.
Before I turn it over to Larry to offer his comments I'll review our quarterly financial performance and business results.
As usual I will be focusing primarily on as adjusted results.
In a year characterized by significant market and FX volatility 2015 was another strong year for BlackRock as we generated industry leading organic growth maintain stable operating margins while continuing to invest in our business and return to approximately $2.6 billion of capital to our shareholders representing a total payout ratio of 77%.
The differentiation and strength of BlackRocks diverse global investment platform once again enabled us to generate consistent and stable financial results allowing us to continue playing offense despite global macro uncertainty.
We saw strong results from our core business areas and remain committed to investing in a variety of strategic initiatives that will further enhance our client value proposition and generate long-term value for our shareholders.
In the fourth quarter BlackRock generated operating income of $1.1 billion and earnings per share of $4.75.
Full-year operating income of $4.7 billion increased 3% versus a year-ago and earnings per share of $19.60 were up 1% which included the impact of a higher tax rate in 2015.
Non-operating results for the quarter included $46 million of net investment gains primarily driven by $35 million unrealized gain on a strategic private equity investment.
Our as-adjusted tax rate for the fourth quarter was 30% compared to a tax rate of 25.4% a year-ago that reflected $39 million of non-recurring discrete tax benefits.
We continue to estimate that 31% remains a reasonable projected tax rate for 2016 reflecting changes in our geographic business mix though the actual effect of tax rate may differ as a consequence of non-recurring items that could arise during the year.
BlackRocks fourth quarter results were driven by $54 billion of long-term net new business representing an annualized organic growth rate of 5% and the third highest low quarter in BlackRocks history and reflects resilience of our differentiated business model.
For the full-year of 2016 BlackRock generated long-term net new business of $152 billion representing a 4% long-term organic AUM growth rate and a 6% organic base fee growth rate as faster growth in our higher fee retail and iShares businesses contributed to a favorable overall change in our base fee mix.
Long-term net inflows were diversified by asset class and investment style with positive flows across these categories for the full-year.
BlackRock continue to deliver top line growth despite the challenging market.
As fourth quarter revenue of $2.9 billion and full-year revenue of $11.4 billion were both 3% higher than a year-ago.
Organic growth and improved investment performance drove increases in base fees performance fees and Aladdin revenue all of which reached record levels in 2015.
Fourth quarter and full-year base fee each grows 3% year-over-year primarily driven by organic growth despite over a $150 billion of negative FX impact and market depreciation on our AUM over the last 12 months.
FX was a significant drag in 2015 and we estimate that full-year base fees grew 6% versus 2014 levels on a constant currency basis.
Sequentially quarterly base fees were essentially flat despite positive organic growth due to a lower fourth quarter AUM entry rate the continued impact of divergent data on our fee rate as emerging and commodities markets once again underperform developed markets and ongoing dollar appreciation against foreign currencies.
Performance fees for the fourth quarter were $169 million up 17% from a year-ago driven by our broad suite of active offerings but down $39 million sequentially due to a single hedge fund that delivered exceptional full-year performance and locked in the third quarter.
Full-year performance fees of $621 million rose 13% versus 2014 evidencing strong alpha generation across our diverse investment platform.
Fourth quarter of BlackRock Solutions revenue of $171 million was up 1% year-over-year and 2% sequentially.
Full-year 2015 Aladdin revenue were $528 million which represented 82% of BRS revenue grew 11% year-over-year driven by several sizable client implementations and has more than doubled since 2009.
We expect continued business momentum in Aladdin driven by trends favoring global investment platform consolidation and multi asset risk solutions.
Our financial markets advisory business ended 2015 with a $118 million in revenue.
Despite lower levels of opportunistic revenue post financial crisis FMA is benefiting from a more stable revenue profile driven by an increased number of mandates and more repeat engagements in the current market environment.
Total expense for the fourth quarter rose $90 million year-over-year driven primarily by an increase in compensation and G&amp;A expense.
For the full-year of 2015 compensation expense increased $184 million or 5% due to higher headcount associated with our growth initiatives higher incentive and deferred compensation partly offset by the impact of the stronger dollar.
Recall that year-over-year comparisons of fourth quarter compensation expense are less relevant because we determine compensation on a full-year basis.
Fourth quarter G&amp;A expense increased $23 million year-over-year or 6% primarily driven by $23 million of deal related expense associated with strategic transactions executed in the quarter.
Sequentially quarterly G&amp;A expense increased $91 million primarily reflected a planned uptick in year-end marketing and promotional spend higher technology expense and the previously mentioned $23 million in deal related expense.
Full-year G&amp;A expense of $1.4 billion was 2% below 2014 levels reflecting expense awareness in a volatile market environment not withstanding the G&amp;A spend in the fourth quarter.
If markets stabilize and given the impact of recent acquisitions on our run rate we would anticipate a higher level -- higher annual level of G&amp;A spend during 2016.
Overall total expense for 2015 increased 3% from a year-ago compared to a similar increase in revenue over the same period resulting in an as-adjusted operating margin of 42.9% for the full-year flat to our 2014 level.
We remain committed to generating operating leverage in our business and have expanded our operating margin by over 450 basis point since closing the BGI acquisition at the end of 2009.
However as we stated in the past we also do not manage the business to a specific margin target either quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year.
The diversification and stability of our business model affords us the option of investing through a market cycle to grow share.
We remain keenly focused on delivering long-term value to our shareholders by striking an appropriate balance between organically investing for future growth and practical discretionary expense management.
At times our strategic investments will also begin organic.
During 2015 BlackRock closed several transactions including BlackRock Kelso Capital Advisors a domestic middle market lending platform I Cuadrada a Latin American infrastructure investor and Future Advisor a digital wealth manager.
In addition on November 3 BlackRock announced an agreement to assume investment management responsibilities for approximately $87 billion of cash and liquidity AUM currently managed by Bank of America Global Capital Management.
We expect that transaction to close in the first half of 2016.
During 2015 we also returned approximately $2.6 billion to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
As we enter 2016 our Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $2.29 per share of common stock representing an increase of 5% over the prior level.
Since instituting a dividend in 2003 BlackRock has grown its dividend on a compound annual growth rate of approximately 22%.
We repurchased $1.1 billion of our shares in 2015 and have now repurchased approximately 10 million shares since we instituted a consistent and predictable approach to capital management in 2013.
We remain committed to this approach and a similar level of share repurchase in 2016 but could increase such amounts based on potential changes to the relative valuation of our stock price.
Our 2015 financial results reflect the benefits of our differentiated global business model.
Fourth quarter and full-year net inflows of $54 billion and $152 billion respectively were positive in both our active and index franchises and benefited from significant flows into iShares.
Global iShares generated $60 billion of net new business in the fourth quarter and record flows of $130 billion for the year; representing full-year organic growth of 13%.
iShares captured the number one share of global U.S.
and European ETF industry flows for both the fourth quarter and the full-year.
Record fourth quarter equity iShares inflows of $48 billion were driven by demand for U.S equities and a broad array of developed market exposures.
Fourth quarter fixed income iShares inflows of $12 billion reflected flows into core high yield and investment grade corporate bond funds.
BlackRocks global retail franchise saw a fourth quarter inflows of $7 billion reflecting the seasonal impact of capital gains distributions.
Full-year of 2015 net flows of $38 billion representing 7% organic asset growth were driven by diversified flows across our top performing fixed income platform.
International retail net inflows totaled $20 billion in 2015 and were paced by strong flows into international equities and unconstrained fixed income allowing BlackRock to maintain its year-to-date number one ranking in cross-border mutual fund flows.
U.S.
retail net flows of $19 billion in 2015 demonstrated resilience in a challenging year for the U.S mutual fund industry.
BlackRocks institutional franchise had long-term net outflows of $13 billion for the quarter and $16 billion for the year as we continue to see sizeable asset allocation driven flows both into and out of low fee institutional index products.
However we also continue to benefit from demand for higher fee active offerings as clients recognize the value added alpha generating platform weve built across traditional and alternative active strategies.
The positive fee impact of this mixed shift is in line with our growth strategy and enabled BlackRocks institutional business to deliver organic based fee growth of 4% in 2015.
We generated $4 billion of institutional flows into core alternatives during the year.
Flows were broad based across a diverse alternatives platform including infrastructure fund of hedge funds fund of private equity funds and alternative solutions offerings.
We ended 2015 with another strong fund raising quarter for liquid alternatives raising $1 billion in new commitments.
Over the last three years weve raised more than $17 billion in commitments and have nearly $11 billion of committed capital to deploy for our clients.
Committed capital translate into flows and AUM as those dollars are invested and will be a source of future revenue growth.
In summary in a year marked by periods of increased market volatility divergent data and significant currency movements our diversified business model delivered consistent financial results and allowed us to continue investing for future growth.
We remain confident that BlackRocks differentiated platform is well positioned to meet the needs of our client and shareholders in the years to come.
With that Ill turn it over to Larry.
Good morning everyone and thanks Gary.
Our fourth quarter and full-year results demonstrated that in times of rapid change and market volatility BlackRocks diverse business model can consistently generate strong results.
Over the last year energy prices have deteriorated significantly with the price of oil dropping to levels not seen in more than a decade.
Growth in China remains sluggish so will emerging markets including Brazil face significant political and economic challenges and divergence of developed market monetary policies driving heightened volatility and rates currency and equity markets.
The Federal Reserves action to raise interest rates for the first time in nearly 10 years marked a end of a historical period of monetary policy a combination in the U.S and the beginning of an extended gradual tightening cycle.
All of these factors are leading to a much more divergent world in 2016 while higher levels of volatility ahead as already witnessed in the first few weeks of the year.
And as the investment landscape changes our clients need change as well.
The differentiation of BlackRocks core business model drives consistency and resilience in our results.
This positions BlackRock to invest in a platform investing in technology investing in people even in the most challenging and volatile times and to anticipate and adapt ahead of change so that were positioned to provide our clients with investment solutions to meet their evolving needs.
In a more fragmented investment landscape impacted by continual low rate modest beta driven returns investors will search for income they will search for capital appreciation through a combination of both active and alternative investments factors smart beta strategies and hybrid solutions.
No other firm in the world can provide all of these capabilities on a single platform supported by superior risk management technology and investment performance.
And this is whats driving a deeper connectivity with our clients than ever before and once again drove BlackRocks fourth quarter and our full-year results.
BlackRock generated $54 billion of long-term net flows in the fourth quarter and a $152 billion for the year representing annualized organic growth of 5% and 4% respectively.
Flows were driven by client demand for both active and index solutions across asset categories asset classes across regions.
We saw $61 billion in growth in a year when most people talked about there is not demand for active strategies we saw $61 billion in growth in our active strategies and $92 billion of growth in index and iShares flows.
We generated flows of $53 billion in equities $77 billion in fixed income $17 billion in multi asset and $5 billion in alternatives.
We raised $38 billion in our retail platform $130 billion in our iShares platforms and in our institutional platform we raised $27 billion of active strategies that was offset by $43 billion of low fee institutional index of flows.
What Im particularly very pleased with is the platform and how broad it is and its evident in 2015 there were 13 countries where we had net inflows in excess of $1 billion.
In addition in 2015 we had a record amount of 65 different retail and iShares products generating more than $1 billion in net inflows.
The industry leading organic growth story at BlackRock that we delivered in 2015 is in addition that we raised a 11% growth rates in our Aladdin product.
Alpha driven performance fees and expense awareness translated into positive results in both the top and bottom line even in the face of tremendous headwinds that we saw in global equity markets and FX.
BlackRock is committed in having a deep and broad understanding of the world in which we and our clients operate and invest in.
Our commitment in being truly local in more than 30 countries that we operate in worldwide completely positions BlackRock to understand our clients needs and a specific investment requirements to better help them navigate these markets.
And were in a better position I believe than any other firm in the world to do that.
The BlackRock investment institute provides a platform across regions across asset classes across investment styles for our investors to exchange the knowledge they built in local market debate investment topics share expertise with the goal of generating better alpha and managing risk for our clients.
This connectivity this worldwide connectivity also has enabled us to have a deeper dialogue and level of trust with clients around the world.
This year the BlackRock investment institute touched nearly 20 000 clients globally through in person meetings hosted conference calls and critical market events and in in-depth publications.
This knowledge and the connected tissue combined with the talent of our investment teams has contributed to a strong performance across our active platform.
As of the end of the fourth quarter 91% of our active taxable fixed income assets and 90% of our scientific active equity assets are above benchmarks or peer medium for the last three years.
Throughout 2015 we continue to make progress on the revigorization and globalization of our fundamental active equity business generating strong result for our clients with 76% of our fundamental active equity assets above benchmark or peer medium for the one-year period highlighted by the strong turnaround we seen in the performance in our flagship equity dividend fund.
The strength of our active performance has translated into flows as I said early in -- we saw $61 billion of flows in 2015 in our active strategies despite a challenging year for active fund flows across our industry.
We continue to diversify our institutional active platform and deepen existing client relationships by creating hybrid solution based strategies to solve our clients most complex investment needs.
Institutional active net flows of $27 billion in 2015 were primarily driven by fixed income and multi asset solutions as institution look to BlackRock to solve their most complex investment challenges.
On the retail side the diversification of our EMEA retail business was a significant driver of results in 2015.
And BlackRock saw active net inflows from retail clients led by our European equity and income our unconstrained fixed income products our high yield products and our Multi Asset income products.
in the United States the breadth of BlackRocks product suite across active index and iShares resonated with our retail clients.
We remain focused on growing global iShare market share and driving market -- global market expansion which translated into strong flows in 2015.
The fourth quarter was a record quarter for iShares as investors continue to turn the BlackRock iShares franchise which generated $60 billion in net inflows across asset classes.
For the quarter and for the year iShares captured the number one share of flows in the U.S.
Europe globally with 37% global market share for the full-year.
2015 iShares flows was a $130 billion primarily driven by developed market equities and fixed income.
The global core series saw flows of $46 billion representing a 23% organic growth and record fixed income flows of $50 billion was concentrated in our high yield products including investment grade corporate bonds and our high yield funds.
Fixed income is a strategic priority for iShares which led the industry and fixed income ETF flows for the quarter and for the year driven by iShares consistency of having 15 of the top 25 fixed income ETFs by net flows in 2015.
Fixed income market volatility rose in December and during this time the market stressed BlackRocks flagship high yield ETF HYG enabled clients to transact directly with one another at known transparent minute-by-minute pricing with ample liquidity.
More than $20 billion of HYG traded in the two weeks ending December 18 were less than $1 billion of net redemptions providing our markets and our clients substantial liquidity with limited impact on the underlying markets.
As we look back in 2015 despite these spikes in market volatility ETF and specifically iShares are increasingly being relied upon by clients for transparent liquid cost effective investment solutions.
We continue to find opportunity to learn from market events to educate investors and focus on the long-term needs of our clients and iShares and across BlackRocks platform by investing in areas that we believe will result in a more complete solutions offering for our clients and deliver value for our shareholders.
Being aware of what is going on in the world around us anticipating change and having the willingness to adapt is a critical part of our responsibility as a fiduciary to our clients.
Throughout the year BlackRock has made significant enhancements to our platform through a combination of investment for organic growth for acquisitions and the evolution of our talent.
Technology is increasingly impacting our clients and our business.
In 2015 we made investments to utilize technology to gain new investment insights and to reach our clients more effectively.
We are investing in big data and tax analysis to make better portfolio management decision across our broad platform of quantitative and fundamental investment style.
Factor based analysis will become more prevalent as market dispersion increases.
We made significant enhancements to our smart beta and factor based investing platform including the hiring of Andrew Young and BlackRock generated nearly $10 billion of smart beta net inflows in 2015 driven by iShares minimum vol funds.
We are investing in retail technology to empower our intermediary partner for a high quality technological enabled advice capabilities to improve our clients investment experiences.
We close on the acquisition of Future Advisor in the fourth quarter and we recently signed our first two clients representing the first B2B contracts of their kind in the U.S digital wealth management space.
We continue to see strong demand for alternative solutions as investors move beyond the boundaries of traditional strategies to investments and real estate infrastructure other forms of real assets across the liquid platform.
Our hedge fund platform has grown 9% annually over the past five years and now stands at $31 billion in AUM and we continue to invest to broaden our platform and leveraging our top performing internal talent to develop products organically as well as bringing in new managers.
We remain focused on our responsibility to partner with clients and simultaneously generating long-term returns and create positive social outcomes.
Over the past several years weve grown our infrastructure platform to more than $7 billion.
This includes the industry leading renewable power franchise a strong infrastructure debt capability and meaningful investments in Latin America like our acquisition and our partnership with PEMEX.
These activities offer long-term benefits to both investors and the economies where they contribute to economic growth contributes to the countrys job creation and most importantly it contributes to a positive environmental impact.
In 2015 we continue to invest in the BlackRock impact platform which manages now more than $200 billion to provide investors with the opportunity to generate long-term competitive financial returns and positively impact society.
At BlackRock embracing change has always been a core part of who were.
Nearly every year we take a fresh look at the organization and reflect on ways to improve it.
We then evolve the organization in anticipation of changes of our clients needs in anticipation of the global markets.
Together with our Board of Directors we undertake a deliberate process and effort to continually position our leaders in roles that can broaden their experience and maximize their potential both for BlackRock and our clients.
This is critical in building a truly global firm.
We did this in 2012 and 2014 with very positive benefits.
This week again we announced a number of enhancements to our leadership team that are part of this consistent process of developing our people and evolving our organizations to meet these challenging needs.
Looking at the quality of the leaders taking on new or expanded roles Im incredibly proud of the depth of the talent that weve and I believe today we have the strongest leadership team weve ever had in the history of BlackRock.
And it is the quality and talent of this team that allows BlackRock to deliver the performance we did in 2015 despite the vol of the markets and positions us very well for 2016.
It is this team; theyre the reason that weve forged such a trusting relationship with our clients and why our clients are increasingly turning to BlackRock to solve their biggest financial challenges.
As we head into 2016 we will continue to make investments in our future.
We will continue to develop our talent and seeking ways to leverage and grow our diverse platform to meet our fiduciary responsibilities to our clients our fiduciary responsibilities to our societies where we operate and to deliver the returns for our shareholders.
With that lets open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Good morning Craig.
Thanks.
Good morning Larry.
So first question on active bond flows.
Im just wondering given the improvement in yields over the last six months what are you seeing across your institutional client base and how is this compared to retail where there has been a historic reaction already to high yield bond prices bank loan prices and global bond prices where there has been a decline? Well the widening in spreads is a blessing for our insurance clients.
Thats first and foremost.
Insurance companies are adding to their fixed income exposures now.
As Ive commented in the past the whole insurance industry or a good part of it is short-term liability duration and are hoping for higher rates.
We havent seen higher rates; obviously we are sitting here with a very low 10-year Treasury rate but we most certainly have seen a widening in credit spreads.
And I think as evidence of a few large bond issues that went public this week we saw huge demand.
And so as spreads widen we expect to see more demand institutionally.
And as you suggested some of the widening of spreads are the fears if higher rates are going to produce some selling possibly from retail but we havent seen anything dramatic yet.
We havent seen really any dramatic outflows on iShares yet.
So I dont think there is any real massive change yet.
And I think one thing you should be aware Craig at this time this is when you have the institution sitting down on their net this years asset allocation.
Youre going to start seeing behavior changes probably in February and March when they start doing their reallocations maybe.
And so most recently one would think in some cases some pension funds because of the decline in equities theyll rebalance out of fixed income back in the equities as they if they want to have consistent asset allocations.
But our performance in fixed income I think you know we had 91% of our products above peer medium over the last three years and so -- and thats across all our European fixed income our U.S.
fixed income our unconstrained products our low duration products mortgage products high yield.
And so were in a pretty good position to have broad based conversations with our clients.
Thanks Larry.
Just as my follow-up I had an expense question here for Gary.
Gary G&amp;A expenses have trended down two years in a row now.
I heard your color that I think theyre likely going to be up in 16.
But can you help us in terms of magnitude and also given the revenue headwinds in the first quarter just from beta.
Do you have any wiggle room that if things get worse you can actually maybe cut a little bit into G&amp;A too? Thanks Craig.
So I think -- yes I think first of all we wanted to make sure that people understand kind of some of what went on in the fourth quarter.
And as you recall during the year we told you weve been under spending versus our original expectation going into the -- into 2015.
And I would say that was a function initially of timing.
And as the markets became more volatile during the year frankly overall expense awareness.
The fourth quarter G&amp;A was clearly higher and in fact we booked roughly a third of our annual M&amp;P spend in the quarter alone.
And as you saw we incurred about $23 million of onetime deal expenses.
Given that elevated level of G&amp;A the fourth quarter is clearly not representative of a good run rate for next year.
Not withstanding that -- not withstanding as you saw G&amp;A expense was 2% below last year and I think that reflects our ability to manage the discretionary portion of our G&amp;A expense in an uncertain market environment.
And we continue to remain conscious of the tradeoff between growth and margin especially as we think about that discretionary portion of our spending in the current markets.
That being said I think that if markets stabilize and given the impact of recent acquisitions on our run rate we would anticipate a higher level of G&amp;A spend during the year but there is obviously some discretion tied to that and well be watching it very carefully.
And Craig every year during the financial crisis and after we do pay attention to our margins and we navigate our expenses accordingly.
And I would say that would be consistent going into 2016.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from Michael Carrier with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Good morning Michael.
Thanks guys.
Hi.
How are you doing? Maybe just a question on it seems like there was some more regulatory items on the agenda with the most recent one maybe the SEC liquidity proposal.
And I know you guys just submitted a comment letter.
I just wanted to get your sense on for the industry particularly given like the market dynamics like maybe what are the pros what are the cons? You guys mentioned the nuances between EPS and funds.
And I guess the hard part like I think for a lot of you who are in the industry is how to calculate some of these things based on different environments.
So just given your guidance positioning I wanted to get your thoughts on how you think this plays out and what are some of the challenges for it? This is a real difficult issue that I dont -- I think the SEC is going to have be broad in how they think about this issue.
I think it is appropriate as an industry that we identify the risk associated to liquidity of every product.
I think there should be an appropriate measurement that its consistent.
And there should be probably different variants by product as how you think about liquidity.
And I think its important for our investors worldwide to have some form of measurement tool so they could access the liquidity risk associated with any one product.
And then you could see if there is a sharp divergence between one fund and another in terms of liquidity.
I think we learned that with the Third Avenue episode earlier this late last year with their divergence and related to liquidity and their product.
So to me that is a great example where you can -- if we had some form of measurement tool the investors who invested in products like that or funds like that could have accessed is it am I getting the returns necessary to offset the illiquidity that is a component of that investment strategy.
So were pretty sympathetic to all these things.
And the dilemma really arises for the SEC because if there is some assessment of some sort of a large liquidity for every product it really then will reduce investment dollars into the markets.
Its going to put -- it will degrade returns for retail investors.
The last thing you would want is having retail investors having degradation in their returns because we are all going to be assessing some type of liquidity threshold.
And then all the institutional managers will go to a separate account that may have only a 30 day redemption features.
So the last thing I want to do is hurt retail.
So I think a measurement tool of some sort is probably correct beyond some type of a measurement tool of having some type of cash holding I am kind of -- I dont have a hard fast opinion on that but I do believe it represents some risk.
And then I think there are different characteristics between liquidity of an ETF and liquidity of an open end fund.
I think our application that is asked that they access and look at the characteristics differences between ETF and open end mutual funds.
And weve recommended to the SEC to develop a separate and comprehensive rule addressing those different investment product types and their associated risks.
So this is going to be addressed probably sometime in 2016.
I think theres going to be quite a bit of time for a common period into discussion and well see where this goes.
But I think this is -- we are in favor of this.
I mean the one thing is important especially in an environment where markets are really unpleasant like what were experiencing now.
One of the big issues is whatever America is doing now with their big energy savings are they investing for retirement? Are they sitting with more of their cash in cash? If we could have more and more investors feel comfortable that they could invest safely and soundly and they have a better understanding of the risk and characteristics of investing and understanding the liquidity of all the products.
If that can then translate into more clients feeling good about investing for the outcome of the retirement this is all good.
So this is why were in favor of this type of narrative and dialogue.
Obviously well have opinions on how that will play out.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then Gary just a quick follow-up on the expenses.
The transaction cost I know you said $23 million thats very clear.
Just in terms of the normal seasonality in terms of what you see in fourth quarter versus the first -- fourth versus the first; what's that normal like maybe drop off unlike the marketing spend just so we you kind of understand and you guys do that every year meaning from the first to the fourth but I just want to make sure we get that.
And then if the markets do remain volatile and pretty challenging is there any way of guiding in terms of the expense base whether its G&amp;A or overall what's more variable meaning you have more discretion there? Yes I mean I wish I could give you a better answer than youre probably looking for here Michael.
But I think we obviously are from an M&amp;P standpoint we plan a spend level during the year.
But frankly we react during the year and maintain appropriate flexibility to make sure that we can get the biggest bang for our dollar and make sure that were not simply spending money in a time period where we dont think people are going to be receptive to a lot of the messages.
I think Larry has talked about in volatility a lot of investors basically may sit on the sidelines almost nothing youre going to tell them or communicate to them is really going to change their mind.
So there is an element of kind of managing it real time and were going to continue to do that.
So I can't really give you a whole lot of guidance there.
But I think important in terms of thinking about broader margin trends.
I know youre tired of hearing me say this but we really arent managing the business to a margin target either quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year.
We are absolutely committed as part of our financial framework to growing and delivering operating leverage.
And I think weve shown you that weve done that right? Ill go back; Ive said this in my opening remarks.
But weve expanded the margin by 450 plus basis points since BGI.
Weve reinvested probably $1 billion back into the business and were going to continue to commit to striking the right balance between strategic investments and managing our spent.
Its a lot easier for everyone sitting around this table candidly to cut cost than it is to invest for growth thats the hard part.
And I think that the diversification of our model at the moment gives us the option to continue to invest through a market cycle when may others are maybe forced to pull back.
But were not going to be blind to that.
I think the key is obviously kind of watching what's going on here and trying to determine at what point it really becomes more of a near-term item and more of a mid to long-term and then obviously well react appropriately.
But let me add one more thing.
Our success in 2015 was directly related to the investments we made in the last few years.
I think our differentiated business model has much to do with these investments and were going to -- Im not suggesting we have five or six investments in mind for 2016 or 17 or 18.
But I do believe we have to have the mindset of growing revenues through investments.
And however as we -- as you witnessed when shareholders in 2008 and 09 we managed expenses quite extraordinarily at times when you had to do that.
So its going to be a mix.
But we do have a mindset of growing the business and thats the differentiating factor.
As Gary said its a lot easier to just in cutting expenses or cutting headcount its a lot more bold to make the investments at the time when everybody is running away from investments and well continue to look at both.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from Luke Montgomery with Bernstein Research.
Good morning.
Hi Luke.
Good morning.
Thanks.
So organic base fee growth has been tracking steadily and I think quite robustly at 6%.
One of the key dynamics though is the fairly rapid growth of your core ETF theories and youve been reducing fees there.
I know youre targeting a different kind of investor with those products but wondered whether you expect those products to eventually get enough liquidity that maybe theyll attract more institutional interest and whether you see that as a longer term challenge to maintaining the current level of organic base fee growth? Rob? So were going to respond to what we think investors needs are and certainly for the retail or buy and hold customer.
Theyre looking for the core series to get more specific allocations to the generic product and were going to respond and well respond as far as the fees go as well.
But we see that continuing to grow as it gives the client much better access to that precision instrument that theyre looking for.
Institutions on the other hand I think well see.
Were seeing theyre expressing first in the high yield because theyre yield hogs and theyre looking for yield.
But as we expand out the product set I think they will be looking to invest in a core series as well.
But I dont really think thats going to put pressure on our fees quite frankly because the institutional set looks differently at the ETF market than the buy and hold set.
Theyre looking for liquidity.
So its important that we grow these particular products so they have the liquidity and theyre willing to pay for the liquidity and access into those sectors.
So it started out the global core series which has been very successful for us this year and weve raised a significant amount of assets about $46 billion.
I think that is going to expand institutionally.
And were going to also buffer that with other products that institutions are looking at to get that precision investment.
And Luke I might just add just to put into perspective not withstanding the growth in core.
Today iShares is a trillion one franchise and the aggregate of the core on a global basis is just -- is a little over $200 billion.
So today it represents probably a little less than 20% of the overall business.
And keep in mind that the average fee rate for our overall iShares business today is still in the low 30s with that 20% obviously reflecting in much lower fee rate.
So it just gives you a sense of the fee rate is still in the overall book of business.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then as a follow-up just touching on the leadership changes you made recently I was hoping perhaps you could expand on the decision to combine leadership for active equity and scientific active equity and if you anticipate whether that could have a meaningful effect on how youre seeking to managing active equity products? Yes so there is less distinction between the active equity business than we were getting credit for.
And the scientific active equity business its a business that we use signals data and lot of quantitative screens for.
And in the fundamental business we relied more upon our long-term views of the market management the product et cetera.
And we find that there is a tremendous amount of crossover between the two and overlap.
And so rather than let our own internal bureaucracy get in the way of the returns for the clients we have these groups now working very closely together and understanding where the overlap is and utilizing that overlap to add additional alpha into the portfolios.
So I think by having these two teams really merged together youll see better results and better alpha from the active equity business.
And it will be much less confusing to our clients as to when they come in.
How we are driving alpha and I think that will add to also increased interest in the BlackRock portfolio.
And my goal is to make sure that we are considered a very formidable manager of active equities.
So there will be no one that will have the span of equity products that we have across both the quantitative and the fundamental offerings.
So yes Im very excited about it and I think having this group work together has already shown us some very good results and this year our equity performance is better than its ever been.
So were going to continue working on coming up with new ways in the market to hit alpha.
So very very positive on this change that we made.
Okay.
Thanks a lot for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning Alex.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
I wanted to start with a question around capital management.
It looks the dividend increase this quarter was maybe a little bit lower than what weve seen in prior several years.
Is that a reflection of just the markets being a little bit choppier? Is it the way you guys are kind of looking to cash flow stream over the next 12 months or just alternative uses of capital? And I guess within the same question Gary your comments on a kind of flattish buyback but relative to value issuance of stock I wonder if you could flush it out for us a little bit more.
Sure Alex.
So on the dividend as you know our stated policies to target a 40% to 50% dividend payout ratio.
That has migrated somewhere between 40% back in 2013 and about 44% last year.
And based on what we know today we think a 5% increase in the dividend is prudent and aligned with that philosophy.
As it relates to the buyback I think in the current market as I mentioned we continue to repurchase -- we are going to continue repurchasing stock in an amount no less than last year.
However theres been a lot of market dislocation and were certainly not trying to target or signal any type of beta call on this.
But we will be watching the relative valuation of our stock to see if its prudent for our shareholders to potential increase as markets evolve over the coming months.
Got it.
And then Larry  Alex let me just add one more thing related to our dividend.
I think in the volatile years especially if you look at some of the high paying dividend stocks today I think youre going to see quite a few companies are going to have to lower their dividends.
One of the histories of our platform we never lowered our dividends ever even in the financial crisis.
And so to me its about a discipline its a commitment.
As Gary said we are always committed of having a proposed dividend rate of somewhere between the 40% and 50% level.
And weve stuck to that level and we never had -- at some years we had it a little more elevated when we especially after the 08 crisis above that range.
But we know obviously with the market turnaround and our business growth it became more normalized again.
But importantly when we look at capital management as Gary said we do look at the combination of dividend and stock repurchases and I think we have quite a bit of flexibility in 2016.
Right.
Understood.
And then Larry just a question for you on the Futures Advisor platform and the two relationships that you managed if you guys were able to lock in? Can you spend a minute I guess; on the type of services youll be providing the economics of that business to BlackRock as a whole? And then I guess just more importantly the opportunity that you see for yourself in that market place? Were very pleasant at least surprised how well our the reception from our distribution partners were leaded to the desire of using Future Advisor.
The business proposition is the user technology it is their name on the platform powered by BlackRock Solutions Future Advisor not unlike how we use Aladdin.
The business proposition is that uses technology on behalf -- to empower their advisors ultimately to empower their clients with better digital information.
Many of our products -- all the products are from our iShares platform.
And we believe this will enhance our connectivity and the utilization of iShares to many of these platforms and that is the key business proposition.
Probably the most encouraging thing I would not be surprised over the next coming months we announced a number of other licensing and an agreement.
So it is very clear more than ever before our distribution partners are in need of digital advice and theyre looking for different ways of connecting with their clients.
And we believe the combination of the Aladdin services that we can provide plus the digital advice through Future Advisor.
No organization has that combination -- no organization has that combination.
So it is actually allowing us to possibly expand our Aladdin business on top of the digital advice.
But let me be clear we are paid through the utilization of our products and possibly the licensing of Aladdin products.
So its -- but it sets us up to have deeper connectivity with our distribution partners and thats what were trying to do.
Yes.
That makes sense.
Thanks so much.
Your final question comes from Bill Katz at Citi.
Good morning Bill.
Good morning everyone.
Maybe points of clarification because a lot of my questions are already asked.
Just on the relative valuation dynamic Gary you had mentioned.
Is that relative to your historical multiple or relative to the group relative to the S&amp;P? Im just trying to get a sense or sensitivity about what we should be watching for there? Yes yes and yes.
All right.
That was a good question Bill.
Yes I mean were -- again as I said were not trying to make -- it's not to me a call on whether beta is going to go up or down.
Its a call as to whether or not we think the market is valuing our stock consistent with our growth.
And I think thats -- I think consistency is incredibly important.
Weve been buying the stock all the way up from the low 200s to where we are and we havent been looking for moments of beta weakness and were going to basically continue with that along and just and be mindful if we see there is a disconnect.
We have a lot of flexibility Bill.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions.
Mr.
Fink do you have any closing remarks? First of all I want to thank everybody.
I felt the questions were quite good this morning and sorry that we didnt have time to reach everybody.
But Im sure Gary and Tom will spend the time with all of you related to further questions.
Our fourth quarter 2015 results reflect the strength in a differentiated business model.
And I think hopefully this is what resonates with all of you.
It is those investments we made.
It is our ability to execute and manage expenses accordingly grow accordingly especially in these challenging business environments.
Were going to continue to invest to meet the demands of our clients to meet the demands of society and hopefully to deliver the long-term returns to our clients so they have a better future also.
It is incredibly important in these vulnerable times that everybody all of us focus on the long-term needs of our clients not to short-term noise that were experiencing everyday but focusing on outcomes for our investors.
I do believe BlackRock is the firm that clients are looking for that outcome conversation.
And I do believe we will have later dialogue with our clients in 2016 than we did in 2015.
With that everyone hopefully lets enjoy 2016 a little more and lets hopefully we have -- we can enjoy our day to day job in a better environment.
Have a good quarter.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect.